31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||5 militants killed in 2 Kashmir encounters||Five militants were killed in two separate operations by the police and the Army in Kashmir on Sunday. Zahid Ahmad Wani, alias Uzair, a “top commander” of the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), and the son of the owner of the house where the militants were hiding are among the dead. “Four terrorists were killed in Pulwama’s Naira area. The hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately on the joint search parties [on Saturday evening],” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The police identified the slain militants as Kafeel Bhari, alias Chotu, a Pakistani; Waheed Ahmad Reshi from Khadermoh-Kakapora in Pulwama; and Inayat Ahmad Mir from Naira; apart from Wani, who was from Karimabad in Pulwama. Wani was a categorised terrorist active since May 2017. His brother is in jail “for his role in militancy activities”, the police said. “Wani was one of the masterminds behind various improvised explosive device (IED) explosions and attacks on patrolling parties of the Army. He was also instrumental in motivating the gullible youth to join the terror fold,” Mr. Kumar said. He said Kafeel was operating in the Pulwama-Shopian belt and was involved in a series of terror crime cases. Family to be booked One M-4 rifle, two AK series rifles and two pistols were recovered from them, the police said. “Waheed has been active since 2021. Inayat, who is the son of the owner of the house where militants were hiding, was offered an opportunity to surrender, but instead he opened fire and was killed,” Mr. Kumar said. He said Inayat would accompany the militants. His family would now face charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). However, Inayat’s family members and relatives claimed he was “innocent and had no such links”. “We vouch for Inayat’s innocence. He is a shepherd. He has been home for the past two days. His brother has also been arrested now. We appeal to the authorities to return the body of Inayat and release his brother,” a relative said. In another counter-militancy operation in Charar-e-Sharief that began on Saturday evening, a fifth militant, Bilal Ahmad Khan from Chill Brass Khan Sahab area in Budgam, was killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-militants-killed-in-2-kashmir-encounters/article64990416.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Pegasus issue to roil Budget session||The Budget session of Parliament, which begins on Monday, is expected to start on a stormy note as the Opposition is all set to corner the Narendra Modi government over the latest revelations on the Pegasus spyware issue.  On Sunday, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla to demand a privilege motion against Information Technology (IT) Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for “deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue”. Mr. Chowdhury cited a report in the New York Times that claimed that the Modi government had purchased the Pegasus spyware from the Israeli group, NSO, in July 2017.  In July last year, making a statement on the Pegasus issue, the IT Minister had told Parliament that “no unauthorised surveillance can occur”. President’s Address On Monday, the Budget session will formally get under way with President Ram Nath Kovind addressing a joint sitting of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha at the Central Hall. However, in view of the Omicron wave, members will be seated in the chambers of both the Houses. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will return to separate sittings in shifts with members seated across both chambers of Parliament to ensure distancing norms.  The first part of the Budget session will be held from January 31 to February 11 after which it will go into recess to examine the budgetary allocations for different departments. The session will resume on March 14 and conclude on April 8. In all, there will be 29 sittings, with 10 of them being planned for the first part of the Budget session . Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Economic Survey 2021-22 on Monday and the Union Budget on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pegasus-issue-to-roil-budget-session/article64990415.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Salary bills for month of January not prepared||Notwithstanding the State government cracking the whip, the agitating employees, particularly the Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs), seem to have not responded positively. According to information, the DDOs in the State have not prepared the salary bills for the month of January. Treasury Offices were opened on Sunday as per the directions of the government. But, the Sub Treasury Officers (STOs) did not receive any salary bill till evening. Some of the STOs received bills pertaining to pensions. They began processing the same to make the payment of pensions by February 1. There are about 100 DDOs in the State. They prepare, on an average, about 120 to 130 salary bills per month. Each officer processes one salary bill, while a few prepare two also. The Bills have to be presented before the 25th of every month. This is to ensure that the treasury has ample time to check and verify the Bills. Now that the salary Bills were not prepared even by January 30, it might be a difficult task for the treasury Staff to meet the deadlines set by the government. “We have been sitting in the office since morning. We haven’t received any salary Bill,” says an official, who didn’t want to be quoted. Even if the DDOs prepare the Bills on Monday, which happens to be the last day of the month, it would be a near impossible task for the treasury offices to approve the same and credit salaries by February 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salary-bills-for-month-of-january-not-prepared/article38351391.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||EPFO to appoint auditor to track fund managers||Nearly seven years after starting to deploy a part of its corpus in the stock market through professional fund managers, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has now decided to appoint an independent auditor to keep an eye on their investment transactions and report any deviations. An official said the decision to appoint an external concurrent auditor who could “scrutinise day-to-day transactions by the portfolio managers” was taken prior to the current volatility in the stock markets, and was aimed at ensuring that the investment pattern and norms specified for EPF savings were followed strictly. In 2020-21, the fund managers invested nearly Rs. 1.82 lakh crore, which includes equity investments of at least 5% of the incremental EPF inflows into members’ accounts. The EPFO had begun equity investments in 2015-16, with a ceiling of 15% of fresh inflows. A minimum of 45% and a maximum of 65% of inflows are invested in government securities. Entrusted with retirement savings of formal sector employees worth over Rs. 15.7 lakh crore, the EPFO has been using multiple portfolio managers to manage its investments since 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/epfo-to-appoint-auditor-to-track-fund-managers/article64990414.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:17 IST,||No BJP MLA will join Congress, says Yatnal||No BJP MLA will join the Congress. But Congress leaders Siddaramaiah or D.K. Shivakumar may join the BJP instead, and BJP leader and MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said in Vijayapura on Sunday. The two Congress leaders are fighting among themselves. It is likely that one of them will join the BJP. The fight is so severe that Mr. Siddaramaiah will quit the Congress for sure, he told journalists. “Mr. Siddaramaiah is counting his last days in the Congress. His condition in that party is not stable. He will soon quit,’’ he said. Asked if he was joking, he said that he is very serious about what he is saying as he has inside information. “But if these leaders want to join the BJP, then senior party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, will take a decision, he said. “Why do you think Mr. Shivakumar oragnised the Mekedatu padayatra? It is to cement his position as the next chief minister candidate. Participants in the padayatra raised slogans like ‘Shivakumar will be the next chief minister’ and Mr. Siddarmaiah had to keep quiet. This is the real reason why the march was organised,’’ he said. He denied as baseless rumours reports that BJP leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi will join the Congress. He is not such a low-level leader. He is a man of dignity. The party made him Deputy Chief Minister, though he had lost the Assembly polls. He remembers that, Mr. Yatnal said. He said he has no idea about MLC Lakhan Jarkiholi’s claim that Mr. Savadi is in touch with Mr. Shivakumar. Such rumours are common before elections, he said. Asked if he is planning to build a new party along with the former Minister and BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, he said that he has neither the intention nor money to do so. “I am an original BJP leader. Why will I quit?’’ he asked. “Moreover, we don’t have the funds for it. What have we done to make money? Have we looted someone? Had we done so, we could have formed a new party. It is not easy to run a regional party. When H.D. Deve Gowda’s party has collapsed, how can you expect a new regional party to succeed?’’ he said. He said that he is not afraid of leaders like Murugesh Nirani. “My politics is different. I am not afraid of people like Mr. Nirani. I brought him into the BJP and ensured that he got party ticket,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bjp-mla-will-join-congress-says-yatnal/article38351757.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:05 IST,||Police stop oath naming Godse as Gandhi assassin||The Coimbatore city police on Sunday intervened and stopped CPI(M) polit bureau member G. Ramakrishnan from administering an oath at a multi-party event to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi after he recited that the father of the nation “was shot dead by Godse” and RSS “terrorists”. The police argued that the organisers had not obtained permission for such an event and the references to Godse and the RSS could lead to “law and order issues”. Mr. Ramakrishnan was heard asking the police whether they were implying that Gandhi was not shot dead by Godse. “Trial was conducted and he [Godse] was hanged to death. I am speaking the truth,” he said, while those around him were heard questioning whether the police were equating the “RSS with a religion”. A senior police officer later said the organisers had given a photocopy of an application to the Rathinapuri police for conducting an event to pay homage to Gandhi. It did not mention Mr. Ramakrishnan’s participation or his administering an oath. “We are not giving permission for any public event in view of COVID-19. An organiser contacted us and said it would be a simple event where a photo of Gandhi would be garlanded. The organiser was asked to get a proper consent from the station concerned,” the officer said. The organisers initially brought a flex board of Gandhi, captioned “Symbol of secularism who was assassinated by Hindu fanatics”, to Gandhipuram. The Kattoor inspector objected to this, stating that they had applied for permission to conduct the event to the Rathinapuri station. The organisers later installed the flex board at Sivananda Colony where the police asked them to remove the word, ‘Hindu’, which was masked with an adhesive tape. “The police allowed them to go thus far, thinking that the event would be over with the garlanding of Gandhi’s photo. However, the pledge had words that might lead to law and order issues,” the officer said. Kovai Makkal Ottrumai Medai, which organised the event, said the banner had the words denoting that on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, “who was murdered by Hindu religious fanatics”, we will work for unity and religious harmony. Since the police objected, the organiser agreed to remove the word ‘Hindu’. The police later removed the audio system and the vehicle from the venue. They were returned to the organisers. City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar said he would check whether there was anything wrong with the police intervention. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan demanded an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-stop-oath-naming-godse-as-gandhi-assassin/article38351588.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:55 IST,||Govt. to build 1,400 vented dams under Paschima Vahini||Minister for Minor Irrigation, Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy said on Sunday that the State Government has identified 1,400 places to construct as many vented dams under Paschima Vahini Scheme in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. It has reserved Rs. 500 crore during 2021-22 for building them, he said. The Minister was speaking at a function after inaugurating four vented dams constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 5.60 crore in the jurisdiction of Shivapura Gram Panchayat, Hebri taluk in Udupi district. Mr. Madhuswamy said that the dams are being constructed in phases, while 1,400 places have been identified under the scheme. The projects will help recharge groundwater and arrange water for drinking and farming. The State Government will also chalk out plans for dredging in dams and other water bodies. The Minister said that the State Government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court requesting it to drop 7.70 lakh hectares of land classified as deemed forest. If the court takes a decision in the matter, then, the State Government can allot the land to eligible landless people. Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar, who presided over the function, said that it has been planned to build 100 vented dams under the scheme in Udupi district by 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-build-1400-vented-dams-under-paschima-vahini/article38351910.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:41 IST,||10 COVID-19 deaths in Mysuru on Sunday||Even though the daily COVID-19 cases in Mysuru have come down, the number of deaths owing to the infection have increased sharply during the last four days. According to the media bulletin released by the district administration, 10 persons died due to COVID-19 on Sunday. Nine had died on Saturday, eight on Friday, and five persons on Thursday, taking the total people who died of the infection during the last four days to 32. The cumulative deaths due to COVID-19 in Mysuru reached 2,492 on Sunday. However, the number of positive COVID-19 cases reported in the district on Sunday was 2,322 against the 6,929 samples that were tested. Though the number of positive cases had shown a decline from a record high of 4,601 reported about a week ago, the number of daily deaths due to COVID-19 had increased in the district. Though health officials refused to comment on the reasons for the increased deaths, an official said the number of daily positive cases had come down sharply in Mysuru city compared to the rural areas of the district. Mysuru city accounted for 1,436 cases out of 2,322 cases reported on Sunday. H.D. Kote reported 75, Hunsur 137, K.R. Nagar 107, Mysuru taluk 73, Nanjangud 143, Periyapatna 209, Saligrama 37, Sargur 10, and T. Narsipura recorded 95 cases. Meanwhile, the total active cases in Mysuru district were 11,947 out of which as many as 11,459 were isolated at home. On Sunday, a total of 1,615 were discharged. The cumulative positive cases in Mysuru were 2,20,643 out of which 2,06,204 had been discharged so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-covid-19-deaths-in-mysuru-on-sunday/article38351925.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:17 IST,||Seven COVID-19 deaths in Ballari, Vijayanagara||Ballari and Vijayanagara jointly reported seven COVID-19 deaths and 964 new cases on Sunday. The twin districts also saw 786 patients discharged leaving the number of active cases at 5,873, in all. Ballari district reported 540 new cases and 606 patients discharged taking the number of active cases to 3,502. In Vijayanagara district, which reported 423 new cases and 180 patients discharged, there were 2,366 active cases. And, Kalaburagi reported two COVID-19 deaths and 564 new cases. With 1,025 patients discharged, the district has 5,095 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-covid-19-deaths-in-ballari-vijayanagara/article38351760.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:12 IST,||Tikait calls for observing ‘Betrayal Day’ today||Alleging betrayal by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday announced a countrywide observance of ‘Betrayal Day’ on Monday over farm issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tikait-calls-for-observing-betrayal-day-today/article64990586.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:07 IST,||Tikait calls for observing ‘Betrayal Day’ today||Alleging betrayal by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday announced a countrywide observance of ‘Betrayal Day’ on Monday over farm issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tikait-calls-for-observing-betrayal-day-today/article64990662.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:07 IST,||Social media trolls irk Supreme Court judges||While some Supreme Court judges believe an attack on them on social media is an attack on the institution itself, others feel shoulders of judges are ‘broad’ enough to bear barbs shot at them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/social-media-trolls-irk-supreme-court-judges/article38351658.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:12 IST,||Social media trolls irk Supreme Court judges||While some Supreme Court judges believe personal attacks on social media and trolling them for their work are an attack on the institution itself, others feel shoulders of judges are “broad” enough to bear barbs shot at them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/social-media-trolls-irk-supreme-court-judges/article38351833.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:12 IST,||Gujarat ATS arrests Delhi-based cleric||The Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad on Sunday arrested a cleric from New Delhi in connection with the killing of a 30-year-old man in Dhandhuka town of Ahmedabad district on Tuesday reportedly over an offensive social media post. The cleric was identified as Qamar Gani Usmani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-ats-arrests-delhi-based-cleric/article38351834.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:07 IST,||Gujarat ATS arrests Delhi-based cleric||The Gujarat ATS on Sunday arrested a cleric from New Delhi in connection with the killing of a 30-year-old man in Ahmedabad district on Tuesday, reportedly over an offensive social media post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-ats-arrests-delhi-based-cleric/article38351657.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:55 IST,||‘Amendments proposed to Cooperatives Act’||The State has proposed eight amendments to Cooperative Societies Act, including barring a person, who is defaulter of a loan given by a cooperative institution, from contesting elections, said Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amendments-proposed-to-cooperatives-act/article38351908.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:50 IST,||Many shunning COVID-19 tests||A growing number of people coming down with fever and other symptoms similar to COVID-19 are opting out of getting tested. This trend is distorting the actual rate of infection, say civic officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-shunning-covid-19-tests/article38351559.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:51 IST,||Anchepalya residents to get road to metro station||Last year, residents of Anchepalya and other villages off Tumakuru Road had staged multiple protests demanding that the authorities build a road that will allow them access to the planned Chikkabidarakallu station on the Nagasandra–BIEC metro line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anchepalya-residents-to-get-road-to-metro-station/article64990703.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:50 IST,||Khader is Deputy Leader of Congress in Assembly||Close on the heels of senior leader C.M. Ibrahim announcing his departure from the party, the Congress on Sunday appointed U.T. Khader as Deputy Leader of the party in the Legislative Assembly. His appointment comes in the light of internal rumblings among the Muslim legislators that their leaders were being ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/khader-is-deputy-leader-of-congress-in-assembly/article38351558.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:17 IST,||20 HESCOM staff in Athani suspended||HESCOM has begun an investigation in what is said to be financial irregularities amounting to an estimated Rs. 85 crore by the company staff in the Athani taluk unit of Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/20-hescom-staff-in-athani-suspended/article64990568.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:55 IST,||NMPT achieves energy self-sufficiency||New Mangalore Port has met 100% of its power requirement from solar energy by generating 34.95 million kWH of solar energy in the last five years till December 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nmpt-achieves-energy-self-sufficiency/article38351909.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Probe sought into Pegasus case||Supreme Court advocate Manohar Lal Sharma has circulated in the media a signed online copy of a plea he claims to have filed in the Supreme Court for an investigation into an allegation made n a New York Times report that India bought Pegasus spyware from NSO of Israel.  “This Hon’ble Court be pleased to allow present application to issue necessary direction to register FIR for investigation to recover public money paid for the impugned deal and prosecute persons concerned, including Nagendra [Narendra] D. Modi, in accordance of law as prayed in the interest of justice,” the application circulated by Mr. Sharma said. The advocate is one of petitioners who had earlier approached the Supreme Court seeking a probe into whether the Indian government possessed the spyware and had used it to snoop on citizens, including parliamentarians, journalists, activists, court staffers and even its own Ministers. SC panel A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had, in a 46-page order on October 27, set up an expert technical committee monitored by a retired judge of the Supreme Court, Justice R.V. Raveendran, to inquire into the allegations of spying and file a report. The order came after the Union government did not file a “detailed affidavit” in the court in response to the petitions, citing national security reasons, among others. The Justice Raveendran committee recently invited persons who suspect themselves of being snooped on to come forward and hand over their electronic equipment for technical examination to detect the presence of the spyware. ‘Breach of trust’ Mr. Sharma alleged the “deal was not placed in the House for approval and breach of trust for personal political interest by the Prime Minister and BJP party is illegal, attract criminal breach of trust embezzling of public money...” The application further said the “petitioner has also filed application to issue letter of rogatory to Israeli court for securing necessary evidence secured by the government during its raid upon NSO office and other places. Which is still pending”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-sought-into-pegasus-case/article64990409.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Congress releases Punjab third list; Channi to contest two seats||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will contest from two constituencies in the Assembly election, according to the Congress. The party on Sunday released its third list of eight candidates in which Mr. Channi has been fielded from the Bhadaur constituency, reserved for the Scheduled Castes. The Congress had earlier announced his candidature from Chamkaur Sahib, his home constituency which he has represented thrice in the Assembly. The Bhadaur seat falls in the Sangrur Lok Sabha constituency, represented by Bhagwant Mann of the Aam Aadmi Party. Mr. Mann, who is the AAP’s chief ministerial candidate, is contesting from Dhuri in Sangrur district. With its latest list, the Congress has announced candidates for all the 117 constituencies of Punjab, where the voting is slated for February 20. Kejriwal’s poser Taking a dig at Mr. Channi for contesting in two seats, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “I had stated that according to our survey, Channi ji is losing from Chamkaur Sahib. Today Congress has announced that he will contest from two seats. Does this mean the survey is true?” In Patiala, where former Chief Minister and chief of the Punjab Lok Congress, Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), is in fray, the Congress has decided to field former Mayor Vishnu Sharma. The candidates of the Congress include Manish Bansal from Barnala. He is the son of former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal.  Fight against Sukhbir From Jalalabad, the party has fielded Mohan Singh Phalianwala against Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The Congress has named Sukhpal Singh Bhullar as its candidate from Khem Karan and Tarsem Singh Siala from Attari (SC) seat. Satbir Singh Saini Balichiki is the candidate for the Nawanshahr seat. Notably, the party has dropped its sitting MLA from Nawanshahr, Angad Saini. Mr. Saini is married to Rae Bareli MLA Aditi Singh, who recently quit the Congress to join the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress has fielded Ishwarjot Singh Cheema from Ludhiana South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-releases-punjab-third-list-channi-to-contest-two-seats/article64990393.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,||India records a spike with 404 COVID-19 deaths||Two years since India recorded its first novel coronavirus case from Kerala on January 30, 2020, the country has recorded over 4.1 crore infections. On Sunday, 404 deaths were recorded across the country, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,94,131. New cases The country recorded 1,48,080 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The number of active cases has crossed the 18.9 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Sunday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Karnataka’s tally Karnataka recorded 28,264 infections on Sunday, followed by Maharashtra (22,444) and Tamil Nadu (22,238). Fatalities echoed the trend with Karnataka reporting 68 fatalities, followed by Maharashtra (50) and Tamil Nadu (38). On Saturday, 16.1 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Sunday). The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 9.1%. As of Sunday, 92.4% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 69.4% have received both doses. Vaccination figures In the 15-17 age cohort, 62.1% has received the first dose. Altogether, 94,16,13,123 first doses, 70,69,00,347 second doses, and 1,13,19,297 booster doses have been administered across India. There has been a slight decline in the number of fresh COVID-19 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, but the number of deaths due to the virus infection has gone up. The State reported 10,310 fresh positive cases against 11,573 cases on the previous day (Saturday). Decline in A.P. The State also witnessed nine deaths — three in Kadapa and Visakhapatnam, two in Nellore and one each in Chittoor, Guntur, Prakasam and Srikakulam districts. As many as 39,296 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested in the State so far to 3,24,45,428 and 9,692 people afflicted with the virus recovered during the past day. The cumulative toll and tally of the pandemic in the State has increased to 14606 and 22,67,596 respectively and the number of active cases touched 116031. The districts of YSR Kadapa, Kurnool and Guntur maintained their top position in terms of reporting highest number of fresh positive cases in the past day. Split-up of districts Kadapa reported 1,697 positive cases, Kurnool 1,379 and Guntur 1,249, followed closely by Krishna that logged in 1,008 positive cases, Nellore 927, East Godavari 910, Visakhapatnam 853, Prakasam 700, Chittoor 411, Srikakulam 229, Vizianagaram 222 and Anantapur recording 99 positive cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-a-spike-with-404-covid-19-deaths/article64990387.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,||Govt. moots plan to link digital IDs||The government has invited stakeholder comments on a proposal that seeks to establish ‘Federated Digital Identities’ to optimise the number of digital identities that a citizen needs to have, by linking various consumer identification data into a single unique ID for digital transactions such as authentication and eKYC services. The proposal is part of the Electronics and IT Ministry’s India Enterprise Architecture 2.0 (IndEA 2.0) framework that aims to enable the governments and the private sector enterprises to design IT architectures that can span beyond organisational boundaries for delivery of integrated services. “As various government platforms across domains are being digitised, there is a tendency to create more IDs each with its own ID card, ID management, and effort to make it unique, etc,” the Ministry has said in the draft, on which stakeholder comments have been invited till February 27. Cumbersome process “Having a multitude [of] IDs, especially to interact with the government, makes it harder for common man for whom these are created! Especially given the diversity in education, awareness and capabilities, this also has a potential to further create exclusion scenarios,” it said. Noting that digital identity is fundamental to enabling the citizen to answer the first question asked in any interaction with a public or private organisation, ‘who I am’, it pointed out that Aadhaar seems to have answered this question at population scale in respect of all publicly funded schemes. However, the Ministries and the States are required to create several identities for the same citizen acting in different capacities like student, teacher, farmer, land owner, entrepreneur, customer of a bank, driver, owner of a vehicle, pensioner and so on. Optimising identities “InDEA 2.0 proposes a model of Federated Digital Identities that seeks to optimise the number of digital identities that a citizen needs to have. The model empowers the citizen by putting her in control of these identities and providing her the option of choosing which one to use for what purpose. It gives the agency to the citizens and protects privacy-by-design,” it said. It explained that electronic registries can be linked via the IDs to allow easy, paperless onboarding of citizens and also avoid repeated data verification needs. For example, when a beneficiary is registered for the PDS scheme, that record will be linked to Aadhaar by the PDS system storing the Aadhaar number (or a tokenised version of it). Similarly, when someone obtains a PAN, that record gets linked to Aadhaar where the Aadhaar number becomes the linking ID. Then when that person obtains a mutual fund account, the PAN, in turn, gets linked to the mutual fund record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-moots-plan-to-link-digital-ids/article38351512.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Manipur BJP offices attacked after party releases list||More than a dozen defectors from the Congress and other political parties have been accommodated in the list of 60 candidates announced by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday for the Manipur Assembly elections. The polls in the north-eastern State are scheduled in two phases — February 27 and March 3. The list is topped by Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren, fielded from his pocket Heingang seat, Speaker Yumnam Khemchand (Singjamei) and senior Minister Thongam Biswajit (Thongju). Declaring the list in New Delhi, Union Minister and Manipur election in-charge Bhupender Yadav claimed the BJP will retain power with more than a two-thirds majority. The BJP had won 21 seats in 2017. “Most of the ticket have been given to those who have had a long association with the party. Only two sitting MLAs have been replaced,” Mr. Yadav said. But an analysis of the list shows 11 of the candidates had won the 2017 polls on Congress ticket. They include former Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar from Andro, former State Congress chief Konthoujam Govindas from Bishnupur and Okram Henry, nephew of Congress heavyweight and former Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh, from Wangkhei. Among the other turncoat candidates are Tongbram Robindro (Thanga), Letpao Haokip (Tengnoupal) and Karam Shyam (Langthabal) who were elected in 2017 as Trinamool Congress, National People’s Party and Lok Janshakti Party candidates. Among the 60 candidates are three former IAS officers — Dinganglung Gangmei from Nungba, Yengkhom Surchandra from Kakching and Raghumani Singh from Uripok. Mr. Surchandra won the 2017 polls on Congress ticket. Widespread violence Supporters of many BJP aspirants who missed the bus vandalised party offices and set party flags on fire in various parts of Manipur soon after the list was declared. There were reports of violence in some areas of Imphal West, Tamenglong and some other districts. The State BJP headquarters had been turned into a fortress in apprehension of attacks by those denied the ticket, with police forces deployed around the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-bjp-offices-attacked-after-party-releases-list/article64990398.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Gehri dosti, says Israel PM about ties with India||Israel and India have a “ gehri dosti ” (deep friendship), Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has said and thanked his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi, for his “deep commitment” to the “strong and robust friendship”.  Describing the opportunities of collaboration between the two countries as “endless”, Mr. Bennett, in a special video message released on Saturday evening, stressed that “the ties between Israel and India are strong and together they will only grow stronger”, as the two nations celebrated 30 years of establishment of diplomatic relations. “There is something I wanted to tell to all of the people of India,” Mr. Bennett said. Wonderful partnership  “Israel and India have a “ gehri dosti ”, Deep Friendship. Today we honour 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel and India. Thirty years of a wonderful partnership, a deep cultural connection, and military and economic cooperation,” he said.  Though India had recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, full-fledged diplomatic relations between the countries were established on January 29, 1992. “I would like to thank my dear friend, Prime Minister Modi, for his leadership and deep commitment to this strong and robust friendship,” Mr. Bennett added. “Our countries may be different in size but we share much in common — our rich history, the inherent warmth of our peoples, and our cutting edge innovation and technology”, the Israeli Prime Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehri-dosti-says-israel-pm-about-ties-with-india/article64990412.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Firm seeks booster nod for Sputnik Light||Of the three COVID vaccines available to eligible Indian adult population, Sputnik V from Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has managed to contribute only a minuscule percentage to India’s vaccination programme, show data on the government’s CoWin platform. Now in what seems to be a bid to capture lost grounds, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, which in 2020 partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik vaccines to India, has approached the Drugs Controller General of India for approval of Sputnik Light as a precautionary dose (booster dose) to Sputnik V. Dr. Reddy’s is the sole distributor of the Sputnik vaccines in India. The company has several manufacturing partners in India. The company has in fact a series of proposals pending with the DCGI, including clearance for Sputnik Light as a standalone vaccine and clearance for starting trials for its use as a mix-match booster dose. After having partnered with private hospital chains initially, Dr. Reddy’s claims that it is now keen on working with the government to enable greater participation in the vaccination programme. The firm confirmed the development stating that currently they have sufficient stocks of Sputnik V and continue to supply to partners. It also refuted any allegations of vaccine shortage. For Sputnik Light, the company said that Phase 3 clinical trial data had been submitted to the regulator, along with additional data from clinical trials in Russia and other countries. Sputnik V was soft-launched in India in May 2021 after receiving Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in April 2021. Addressing delays Meanwhile, the two-dose Sputnik V vaccine was rolled out commercially from July 2021 based on imported consignments from the RDIF. “In the June-August period, there were challenges with regard to the supply of the second dose component as imports were affected by the surge of COVID-19 cases in Russia,” the company spokesperson said in response to a question about the low coverage of the vaccine in the ongoing vaccination programme in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/firm-seeks-booster-nod-for-sputnik-light/article64990390.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||BJP candidates face hostility in villages of western U.P.||As the Bharatiya Janata Party candidates in western Uttar Pradesh have begun reaching out to the electorate, they are feeling the impact of the farmers’ agitation on the election. Over a dozen incidents of contestants being shown black flags or not being allowed to enter a village have been reported in the region. While the BJP supporters described them as sponsored protests organised by rivals and disgruntled ticket seekers, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said it was a natural expression of anger against the ruling dispensation. The convoy of Maninder Pal Singh, the BJP candidate from Siwalkhas, came under attack at Chur village on January 24. A First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against 85 people out of which 20 have been named. Mr. Singh clarified that he didn’t lodge the complaint, it is the police who had taken note of the incident in which seven cars of this convoy were damaged because of stone-pelting. His aide Gaurav Singh said such minor protests were organised by rival candidates by paying local youth. He reminded that the FIR said the youth were carrying RLD flags. The BJP candidate from Chhaprauli in Baghpat, Sahendra Ramala, was shown black flags on Friday and was not allowed to enter Nirupada village. BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said the anger against the BJP was real but the Opposition had not been able to channelise it fully. “Flags are being shown but not all candidates of the ruling are being stopped from entering the villages. Only those who had been vocal against farmers’ agitation or were facing local issues are being targeted.” He said the BJP was trying hard to make farmers “forget the recent past by scratching wounds that have almost healed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-candidates-face-hostility-in-villages-of-western-up/article64990399.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Another BrahMos deal in the pipeline||While the Philippines signed a $375 million deal for BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles last week to be operated by the Philippines Marines, there is another long-pending deal under discussion for BrahMos missiles for the Philippines Army, which could see progress in the near future, according to defence and diplomatic sources. In an ironic situation, while India has signed its biggest defence export contract with the Philippines, it does not have a full-fledged Defence Attaché (DA) at its embassy in Manila. The proposal for increasing the number of DAs at several Indian missions abroad, including the Philippines, has been pending for some time, at least two officials independently said. “The Marines deal is done, next will be of the Philippines Army. The Philippines Army (PA) will push through with the project,” two diplomatic sources stated. Acquisition of BrahMos by the PA is programmed in the Horizon 3 Modernization programme of Philippines (Year 2023-2027), one of the sources stated. This deal was in the works before the Philippines Marines, which is under the Navy, initiated its project but got delayed and was held in abeyance. Philippines Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana had stated in December 2019 that the PA was looking to procure two BrahMos missile batteries. Earlier, in 2019 the PA had activated its first land-based missile unit under the its Army Artillery Regiment in preparation to induct the BrahMos. In the absence of a full-fledged DA at the embassy in Manila, the DA at the Indian mission in Singapore currently functions as a non-resident DA to the Philippines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-brahmos-deal-in-the-pipeline/article64990403.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||SC judges irked by the use of social media to troll their work||Supreme Court judges seem to have a mixed view about what is said on social media. They have often faulted social media of being a pliant tool at the hands of forces who want to “villainise” judges, launch personal attacks and troll them for their work. There are some who believe that an attack on judges is an attack on the institution itself. The government has rushed to support the court. In his Constitution Day speech in November 2021, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana drew attention on the “attacks on the judiciary in the media, particularly social media”. “Physical attacks on judicial officers are on the rise. Then there are attacks on the judiciary in the media, particularly social media. The law enforcing agencies, particularly the Central agencies, need to deal with such malicious attacks effectively,” the CJI exhorted. The very next month, in December 2021, the Chief Justice, speaking at the RedInk Awards in the Mumbai Press Club, emphasised that “the judiciary is a robust pillar”. But the top judge said the “recent trend to sermonise about judgments and villainise judges needs to be checked”. The refrain about the use of social media to attack judiciary can be found in the annals of 2019 when Justice (retired) Arun Mishra said a concerted campaign was on in the social media to “malign” him. He was at the time heading a Bench which was re-examining Justice Mishra’s own judgment on the grant of compensation under Section 24 of the land acquisition law of 2013. ‘Bid to sway opinion’ Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had at the time noted that “a pattern has emerged whereby articles and social media posts appear a couple of days before an important hearing is due in the Supreme Court in a bid to influence opinion outside the court about the issue at stake... Your Lordships should consider this”. Concerted campaigns In March 2021, the then Minister of Law and Information Technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, flagged the government’s concern about “social media campaigns” conducted against individual judges for their judicial opinions and judgments. However, apex court judges like Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, as witnessed in a recent hearing, offers a counter view. He observed that the shoulders of the judges are “broad” enough to bear the barbs shot at them. The judge does his duty and remains faithful to the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/social-media-trolls-irk-sc-judges/article64990391.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Delhi-based cleric arrested by Gujarat ATS||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad on Sunday arrested a cleric from New Delhi in connection with the killing of a 30-year-old man in Dhandhuka town of Ahmedabad district on Tuesday allegedly over an offensive social media post. The arrest comes days after four persons, including a local cleric, were arrested for the murder of Kishan Boliya. The ATS had been tasked by the government with probing the “larger conspiracy” behind the case. The cleric arrested on Sunday was identified as Qamar Gani Usmani. “After questioning, he has been placed under arrest. So far, five persons have been arrested in connection with the case,” a top ATS official said. Officials said the cleric ran an organisation named the Tahreek Farogh-e-Islami. However, they did not divulge any details about his role in the murder of Kishan, which has triggered Statewide reactions from Hindu outfits. Officials maintained that the cleric used to circulate videos of speeches to instigate youth from the minority community to target those who insult Islam. Usmani is also said to have prepared a list of people who allegedly wrote blasphemous posts on social media and instigated youth to target them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-based-cleric-arrested-by-gujarat-ats/article38351313.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Rahul, Priyanka pay tributes to Mahatma||Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 74th death anniversary, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said a Hindutvavadi had shot dead the Father of the Nation but “Gandhiji continues to be there where truth is alive.”   “A Hindutvavadi had shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive there,” the former Congress chief tweeted with the hashtag ‘Forever Gandhi’.  The Congress leader visited Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial at Raj Ghat to offer floral tributes. On January 30, 1948, Nathuram Godse shot dead the Father of the Nation and since then the day is observed as Martyrs’ Day. The former Congress chief also shared a quote of Mahatma Gandhi on his Twitter handle: “When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible but in the end, they always fall. Think of it always.”  Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid tributes by posting a quote on ahimsa (non-violence) being the quality of a brave man.  “Our beloved Bapu may not be amongst us today to lead us through these tough times but his ways of fighting fearlessly & relentlessly against tyranny, apathy, injustice & falsehood continue to guide us in our quest for a prosperous & progressive India,” the official handle of the Congress tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-priyanka-pay-tributes-to-mahatma/article64990397.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||EPFO to appoint auditor to track fund managers||It currently relies on UTI Asset Management Company and SBI Mutual Fund to allocate members’ monthly contributions into different securities. “Based on a decision of the EPFO’s Central Board of Trustees chaired by Union Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav, we are in the process of selecting an external concurrent auditor to verify the portfolio managers’ compliance with our terms of agreement,” the official said. Apart from procedural lapses and challenges in the investment process, the auditor would be tasked with undertaking a detailed analysis of instances of downgrades and defaults in EPFO’s holdings each quarter. Credit ratings of securities would, however, be reviewed on a daily basis with any downgrades or ‘negative outlook’ reports flagged immediately to the PF body. “In fact, any exceptions or deviations would have to be reported to us immediately. The auditor will not only have to verify daily transaction details to assess whether the fund managers are investing EPF money promptly, but also to assess if the investments that are made offer the highest available yield at the time and have been carried out on an ‘optimal market rate’. We also want to know if each investment decision is backed by a rationale,” the official explained. If EPF funds remain uninvested for a significant period, for instance, the auditor shall assess the ‘opportunity cost due to delayed investments’, and keep an eye out for any potential conflict of interest in fund managers’ decision-making processes. While the EPFO reviews its portfolio managers’ performance periodically, the auditor would be required to check if issues highlighted in previous reviews have been addressed. Better returns At a broader level, the EPFO also expects the auditor to opine on regulatory and procedural bottlenecks in the investment process as well as keep it abreast of emerging policy issues in India and around the world that may help provide better returns and identify risks for its large investment corpus. The PF office hopes to conclude the auditor’s appointment in this financial year itself. Along with a monthly audit report, the auditor would submit an annual report certifying investment holdings after a physical verification, and could be asked to undertake other ad hoc audits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-to-appoint-auditor-to-track-fund-managers/article38351303.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Jinnah was responsible for violence: Sena leader||A true “ Hindutvavadi ” would have shot Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah and not Mahatma Gandhi, said Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s 74th death anniversary or Martyrs’ Day.   Mr. Raut was responding to a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in which the latter had said a Hindutvavadi shot Mahatma Gandhi dead but that “Bapu is still alive today wherever the truth prevails”.  “The demand for Pakistan was Jinnah’s… he was responsible for the violence that followed Partition…if the killers [Godse and others in the conspiracy to kill Mahatma Gandhi] were real men, they would have shot him [Jinnah] and not Gandhi. That would have been an act of patriotism,” Mr. Raut said. The Sena leader’s remarks against Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse were a thinly veiled swipe at its former saffron ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as a few of its leaders have openly hailed Godse on occasion. Mr. Raut’s remarks reflect the Sena’s affinity towards the Congress and Mr. Gandhi, which has steadily grown post the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh. More importantly, ever since the Sena’s alliance with the Congress and the NCP to deprive the BJP of power in Maharashtra, the party’s relationship with ‘Hindutva’ and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has been markedly ambivalent, with the BJP losing no chance to criticise Mr. Thackeray’s party of having forsaken ‘Hindutva’s’ ideals.  In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut quashed speculation of an “under the table deal” for a BJP-Shiv Sena reunion, remarking that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Mr. Thackeray was Maharashtra’s “political future”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jinnah-was-responsible-for-violence-sena-leader/article38351327.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,||60% of eligible youth vaccinated, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said about 60% of the youth in the age group of 15 to 18 had got vaccinated against COVID-19 within three or four weeks. It would help them continue their studies. Till now, close to 4.5 crore children had been inoculated.  “Another good thing is that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose as well... now the cases of corona infection have also started decreasing, this is a very positive sign. People should be safe, the pace of economic activities of the country should be maintained,” said Mr. Modi, during his Mann Ki Baat address to the nation.  Paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary, the Prime Minister said now the Republic Day functions would start from January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, and continue till January 30. Astro-turf stadium Mr. Modi said Ladakh would soon get an open synthetic track and astro-turf football stadium, certified by the Fédération Internationale de Football Association. Being built at a height of more than 10,000 feet, the stadium — with a capacity of 30,000 spectators — would have a synthetic track with eight lanes and a hostel with one thousand beds. Stating that as part of Amrit Mahotsav, many national awards were given away, Mr. Modi said the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Baal Puraskaar were conferred on the children who rendered courageous and inspirational work. Many of the Padma awardees this year were “unsung heroes”. They included Basanti Devi (Uttarakhand), who worked for environment protection and women empowerment; Lorembam Beino Devi (Manipur), who had been conserving the Liba textile art of Manipur; Arjun Singh (Madhya Pradesh), who promoted the art of Baiga tribal dance; and Amai Mahalinga Naik, the “tunnel man” from Karnataka who made innovations in agriculture. Mr. Modi pointed out the Rs. 1-lakh donation by Taimmal from Udumalpet in Tiruppur district of Tamil Nadu, to the school where her children were enrolled. Her family sells tender coconut for a living. Stating that love for nature and compassion for every living being was India’s culture, the Prime Minister said when a tigress recently passed away in Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve, people bid her an emotional farewell.He also mentioned about the charger mount of the President’s Bodyguard, Virat, who took part in his last Republic Day parade this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-of-eligible-youth-vaccinated-says-modi/article64990386.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Take note of NYT report, Guild urges probe panel||The Editors Guild of India has urged retired Supreme Court judge R.V. Raveendran, who is overseeing the expert committee probe into the Pegasus issue, to take cognisance of a New York Times report which claimed that the Indian government bought the spyware in 2017.   “We are writing this letter with reference to an investigative report that has been published by the New York Times on January 28, 2022, titled ‘The Battle for the World’s Most Powerful Cyberweapon’, in which serious allegations have been raised with respect to purchase and use of the Pegasus spyware by the Government of India,” it said.  The letter quoted an excerpt from the report which said: “The combination of Israel’s search for influence and NSO’s drive for profits has also led to the powerful spying tool ending up in the hands of a new generation of nationalist leaders worldwide. Though the Israeli government’s oversight was meant to prevent the powerful spyware from being used in repressive ways, Pegasus has been sold to Poland, Hungary and India, despite those countries’ questionable records on human rights.” The Guild requested the committee to take cognisance and call the Central government, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and Secretaries of the Ministries that might have been involved in the claimed purchase of the spyware, including the Ministries of Finance, Defence and Home, as witnesses to the inquiry. Their responses must be sought on affidavit, it said. The Guild reiterated its suggestion that the committee proceedings be kept open to public to ensure transparency with respect to the witnesses being called as well as their responses.  Keep proceedings open to public to ensure complete transparency Editors Guild of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-note-of-nyt-report-guild-urges-probe-panel/article38351310.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Telcos told to store call details for two years||The government has mandated storage of data on international calls, satellite phone calls, conference calls and messages over normal networks and on the Internet for a period of at least two years, according to circulars issued by the Department of Telecom (DoT). The move follows an amendment made in the unified licence (UL) in December which extended storage of call data records as well as Internet logs to two years from one year. UL holders are telecom companies such as Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea and BSNL for providing all kinds of telecom services, except satellite phone services. “The licensee shall maintain all commercial records, call data record, exchange detail record, IP detail record with regard to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons and may be destroyed thereafter unless directed otherwise directed by the licensor,” the circular dated January 27 for voice mail, audiotex and unified messaging service licence said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telcos-told-to-store-isd-call-details-for-two-years/article38351302.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Pegasus issue set to roil Budget session||Soon after the President’s Address, both Houses will take up a discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the address. According to a statement from the Lok Sabha secretariat, the government has tentatively fixed four days — February 2, 3, 4 and 7 — for the discussion on the Motion of Thanks. The Prime Minister will reply to the debate in both the Houses, once the debate gets over. Rajya Sabha too is expected to take up the Motion of Thanks simultaneously. The other major business in the first part will be a general discussion on the Budget, added the LS secretariat statement. To ensure smooth functioning of both the Houses, separate meetings have been lined up by Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and the Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday. Mr. Birla will also preside over the Lok Sabha’s Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting in the afternoon to decide on the House’s agenda for the week. The principal Opposition party, the Congress, had declared that it will reach out to like-minded parties to raise key issues such as alleged Chinese incursions, sale of Air India, relief package for the families of COVID-19 victims, the recent incidents of hate speeches, among others. However, the Pegasus snooping row, that had washed out the Monsoon session last year, could now derail other issues. Stepping up the attack on the Prime Minister and the government, on Saturday, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had accused Mr Modi of ‘committing treason”. Mr. Gandhi’s phone is said to be among a list of numbers that were said to be potential targets of hacking by using the spyware. “PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware. The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion,” tweeted former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Sunday. The Budget session also comes right in the middle of election campaign for five states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa, and Manipur — that will go to polls from February 10 until March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pegasus-issue-set-to-roil-budget-session/article38351306.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Hindu Mahasabha pays homage to Godse, Apte||On a day the nation observed Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, the Hindu Mahasabha on Sunday paid tribute to his assassin Nathuram Godse and a co-accused in the Gandhi murder trial, Narayan Apte, in Gwalior by observing “Godse-Apte Smriti Divas”. The right-wing organisation also bestowed “Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna” in Gwalior on jailed religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, who was arrested last December for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Gandhiji during a Dharma Sansad held in the Chhattisgarh capital of Raipur, and four leaders of the Mahasabha.  “We performed aarti of Bharat Mata with a resolve to integrate India with Pakistan to make it Akhand Bharat . We are observing January 30 as ‘Godse-Apte Smriti Divas’ to express our anger over their arrest on January 30, 1948,” Hindu Mahasabha’s national vice-president Jaiveer Bharadwaj said over the phone from Gwalior.  Mr. Bharadwaj blamed Mahatma Gandhi for the Partition of India in 1947, which he said led to the killing and displacement of lakhs of Hindus. Talking to reporters after attending the programme in the Mahasabha’s office in the Daulatganj area of Gwalior, Mr. Bharadwaj claimed the Hindu Mahasabha had made a huge contribution to the freedom struggle.  “People should not be misled into believing that India got independence due to charkha (spinning wheel popularised by Mahatma Gandhi),” he said.  He also alleged that the Congress and the BJP did not inform the people about the sacrifice made by seers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindu-mahasabha-pays-homage-to-godse-apte/article38351318.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||5 militants killed in 2 Kashmir encounters||“One AK-56 rifle, two AK magazines and five AK rounds have been recovered from the encounter site,” the police said. Twenty-one militants, including eight foreigners, have been killed in 11 encounters in Kashmir in January 2022 so far. Mr. Kumar said foreign militants, who were hiding in forests, were coming and settling down in civilian areas. “All efforts are in place to bring down local militant recruitment. A strategy is being followed to bring the number of active militants to less than 100 this year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-militants-killed-in-2-kashmir-encounters/article38351317.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Support is essential||When one wages war, it is best to ensure the support of many others. To be isolated or friendless is a sure route to defeat, said Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. The Pandavas, despite being in exile, were able to get the support of many armies. And when this happened, Dhritarashtra knew that Pandava victory was certain. Dhritarashtra says that he had had many such indications of a Pandava victory, and yet he had not warned his sons. Abimanyu married Uttara, gaining for the Pandavas the support of the Matsya king. The Panchala king was with the Pandavas. When Duroydhana tried to kill the Pandavas in the palace made of lacquer, Vidura warned them to escape. When Dhritarashtra heard that Vidura had helped the Pandavas, he knew his sons would lose if war broke out. Bhishma and Drona blessed the Pandavas, and it was clear to Dhritarashtra that his sons would not succeed. When learned men and men of determination like Drona and Bhishma support someone, then it is clear that there is justice in their cause. When Duroydhana accused Bhishma of not doing his best on the battlefield, Dhritarashtra knew that his sons would lose. To suspect one of Bhishma’s integrity was unforgivable. Above all, the Pandavas had the backing of Krishna, and their victory was thus confirmed. When Dhritarashtra heard that Krishna had spoken words of comfort to Kunti, Dhritarashtra knew that his sons would lose. When Krishna became Arjuna’s charioteer, Dhritarashtra knew the Pandavas would win. A charioteer does not merely drive according to the commands he receives, but he also steers the warrior out of danger. With Krishna playing such an important role in the Pandava army, it was clear that the Kauravas stood no chance at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/support-is-essential/article38351336.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:07 IST,||Civil service aspirant fails to get HC relief||A Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh dismissed the plea filed by Ms. Aashima Goyal, who had applied under the EWS category for CSE 2019, noting that “there is a perceptible and a real doubt as to the petitioner fulfilling the family income eligibility criteria”. Ms. Goyal had taken the CSE 2019 and cleared both the preliminary and the main examination as well as the interview. After the result for the main examination was declared, UPSC informed her that a discrepancy had been noticed in her detailed application form (DAF) concerning the Income and Asset Certificate (I&A) Certificate submitted by her. To take the benefit of reservation under the EWS category, a candidate would have had to demonstrate that his/her family had a gross annual income below Rs. 8 lakhs. The High Court noted that in the relevant period, financial year 2017-18, Ms Goyal had earned an income of Rs. 5.75 lakh. Her father, in the first instance, had filed his ITR for same financial year disclosing that he had earned an income of Rs. 3.81 lakh. “If this return of the petitioner’s father is taken into account, and the ITR of the petitioner for the same period was factored in, the combined income of the family would be Rs. 9,57,157,” the court said. However, Ms Goyal’s father revised his return for same year disclosing an income of Rs. 1.04 lakh, which the High Court termed as doubtful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civil-service-aspirant-fails-to-get-hc-relief/article38351342.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Industry seeks Budget sops for jobs||Ahead of the Union Budget 2022-23, Indian industry has urged the government to offer incentives for creating jobs, including special sops under the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes already announced. The plea assumes significance amid growing concerns about high unemployment levels in the country, even as a FICCI survey of manufacturing firms showed that 75% of firms don’t plan to hire in this quarter despite a marked increase in business volumes and orders in the October to December 2021 quarter. “With the imperative to support jobs and create new employment as the country recovers from the pandemic, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) suggests that the Budget add a job-creation component to the PLI incentives for 13 sectors,” the industry chamber’s director general Chandrajit Banerjee said. CII has also argued for raising outlays on the MGNREGS to help rural unemployed workers hit by the COVID-19 pandemic and spur consumption. It has also mooted a hike in the Rs. 25,000 monthly wages ceiling under the Income Tax Act for granting benefits to firms hiring new workers. Separately, FICCI’s latest quarterly survey of the manufacturing sector revealed that average capacity utilisation was in the range of 65%-70% in the third quarter of 2021-22, but firms’ outlook towards hiring remained ‘subdued’ with three of four firms not looking to hire in the current quarter. “The cost of doing business remains a cause for concern (with) high raw material prices, cost of finance, uncertainty of demand, shortage of working capital and logistics costs, combined with low domestic and global demand due to supply chain disruptions,” the survey found, adding that large volumes of cheap imports and high power tariffs are further constraining business expansion plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-inc-seeks-budget-sops-from-govt-for-creating-jobs/article38351343.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||‘Ed-Tech firms should follow norms’||The government is not against Ed-Tech companies but they cannot be allowed to delve into areas that are not their domain like offering diploma and degree courses, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe said. The comments come after the technical education regulator and the University Grants Commission war- ned universities and colleges against offering courses in distance learning and online mode in association with Ed-Tech companies, saying no “franchise” agreement is permissible as per norms. “We are not against Ed-Tech companies, but they cannot be allowed to delve into areas that are not their domain. Norms are norms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-tech-firms-should-follow-norms/article38351299.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||Photos of only two leaders in offices: AAP||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said if his party comes to power in Punjab, the pictures of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh will be installed in all government offices, instead of any political leaders. He said the paths of the two leaders were different but their destination was the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/photos-of-only-two-leaders-in-offices-aap/article38351328.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Strong winds disrupt Netaji hologram||Less than a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the hologram of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, it was switched off on January 28 and 29 due to wind, government officials said on Sunday. While a drone show and projections lit up one end of the Central Vista during the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, the canopy near India Gate at the other end was dark. A Culture Ministry official said wind had knocked down the equipment projecting the hologram, leading to a temporary disruption. Another official said the stand fell down due to strong winds on January 28, after which it was repaired. The same happened on January 29 and the equipment was repaired again. Both officials termed the repairs minor, and said the hologram was working on Sunday evening. While inaugurating the hologram on January 23, Mr. Modi said it would remain in place till a granite statue of Netaji was installed at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strong-winds-disrupt-netaji-hologram/article38351309.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article64990407.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:19 IST,||In Goa, Shah praises work of Parrikar||The late Manohar Parrikar was a leader who made Goa’s name famous not only in India but in the world as well, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Mr. Shah, on a day-long tour of the poll-bound coastal State, was addressing a pre-election public meeting in Ponda where he paid rich tributes to the former BJP stalwart and Chief Minister. “Former Defence Minister and ex-Goa CM Manohar Parrikar was such a leader who made Goa known not just in India, but across the world…It was he who had sown the seeds of development, on which present Goa CM Pramod Sawant is building a sturdy edifice. The BJP’s aim to realise Mr. Parrikar’s dream of a ‘golden Goa’,” Mr. Shah said. Mr. Shah’s remarks were indicative of the saffron party’s ‘fire-fighting’ after the BJP top brass recently denied Manohar Parrikar’s son, Utpal, ticket from Panaji, causing the younger Parrikar to raise a banner of revolt and contest as an Independent. Without naming the Trinamool or the AAP, Mr. Shah also said that the sole aim of some parties in contesting the Goa election seems to be wanting to be recognised as an ‘all-India’ party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-goa-shah-praises-work-of-parrikar/article64990396.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:18 IST,||Webinar on education system on Feb. 2||A webinar on ‘Vision 2035 – Overcoming Limitations and supporting change in the Indian Education Ecosystem’, presented by Blackboard and The HinduEducationPlu s, will be held on February 2 at 3 p.m.  The webinar will touch upon how technology can contribute to the success of the education system in India and the changes and challenges in making National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 a reality in 2035. The session will also focus onEducation 4.0 and how technology can assist and aid while meeting the challenges experienced during the pandemic.  S.S. Mantha, former Chairman, AICTE, and adjunct professor NIAS, Bengaluru, and emeritus professor VJTI (AI & Robotics); Janat Shah, Director, IIM Udaipur; Philip Murray, regional vice-president, Asia, Blackboard; and Vivek Iyer, vice-president Asia Pacific, Antology, will speak at the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Soma Basu, deputy editor, The Hindu .   To register for the webinar, visit: https://bit.ly/BLTHEP or scan the QR Code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-education-system-on-feb-2/article64990402.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Haphazard parking continues to be rampant in T. Nagar||It is a year since the multi-level car parking was commissioned at Pondy Bazaar in T. Nagar. But its aim of eliminating haphazard parking on Thyagaraya Road and facilitating easy movement of pedestrians is yet to be achieved. People continue to park along the kerb; two-wheelers are often parked on the pedestrian plaza. In front of some shops, especially trendy shops and eateries, across the multi-level car parking, three rows of scooters and motorbikes occupy the precious walking space. The multi-level car parking charges Rs. 20 an hour for cars and Rs. 5 for two-wheelers. “There is no drive to create awareness of the parking lot among people,” said Prakash Galada, owner of Galada Agencies, a shop on Thyagaraya Road. “People are not aware that their car or motorcycle will be safe in the parking lot, and there will be no theft of or scratch to their vehicles. Every day, 20% of the visitors are new and at weekends, the proportion goes up to 50%. These people do not know how to enter the multi-level car parking,” he said. The shop owners, Greater Chennai Corporation officials and the multi-level car parking contractor had discussions on reducing the cost of parking for shop assistants. But nothing has emerged. As a result, those using vehicles tend to park on the by-lanes. “I hadn’t walked at Pondy Bazaar until now. It was pleasant to walk on the pedestrian plaza as it is a long unbroken stretch. In other places, such as Usman Road, sometimes we have to get off the footpath,” said M. Ganesh, a Velachery resident, who visits his relatives in T. Nagar. On-street parking has also left lanes adjacent to the plaza difficult to navigate. The elderly are unable to use the footpath. “I cannot walk on these roads as I am afraid of falling,” said a 79-year-old woman visiting her daughter in. Nagar. She routinely walked on the lanes off the plaza but gave up after the monsoon as the roads are damaged and uneven. Until before the monsoon, she could walk on the road, though the footpaths were occupied. Lack of maintenance of the footpath, along with encroachment by vehicles, has left the bicycle docking slot a parking spot for autorickshaws on Sivagnanam Street. Across the road, the wide footpath is occupied by motorcycles and scooters. However, shop owners are quick to appreciate some facilities. The rest room across Thanikachalam Road, near the Aavin parlour, has been maintained well, they say. “It would help to have more such facilities for people on the other end of the road and visitors,” Mr. Galada said. There is no relief yet from the hawker menace on Sivaprakasam Street or Masilamani Street. A ‘no hawker zone’ sign board went missing a few days after it was installed. The hawkers have taken over the entire stretch, and shops along the southern end of the road have occupied the footpath. A hospital uses the footpath as a car parking lot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haphazard-parking-continues-to-be-rampant-in-t-nagar/article64990680.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Government updating museum manual after five decades||After over five decades, the Tamil Nadu government is updating its museum manual, which guides the management of all its museums. The last version, published in 1966, does not reflect the ground reality any more. The update is aimed at reflecting the contemporary set-up in the administration of museums. The 1966 version was only for the then Madras Government Museum and the National Art Gallery at Egmore and the Government Museum at Pudukottai, the first district museum in the State. “Other district museums were guided by the manual that was issued for these two museums. Many museums have been established since, but the manual does not reflect the reality any more,” a source pointed out. In December 2021, the government constituted a committee to update the manual. The decision was made after a panel from the office of Accountant-General pointed out that the manual had not been updated for over five decades. The manual lays down the procedures to be followed in the Department of Museums, the mandate of each post and the registers and other documents to be maintained by the Department.  An official told The Hindu that the committee should emphasise the administration of the Treasure Trove Act, 1878, and the procedure for acquiring treasure trove articles.  Different scenarion “Though the existing manual mentions that the Revenue Department should bear the expenses towards shifting a trove from the site to the museum, quite often the Revenue Department rejects the responsibility.” The official hoped the updated manual would mandate filling of posts being managed with the existing staff members. Besides the headquarters museum in Chennai, there are 23 district museums across the State, and at least seven of them are additionally held by curators. “Seven curators are given the additional charge of seven district museums. This should be avoided,” he also said. The 23 district museums are located in Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Kancheepuram, Kanniyakumari, Karur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Palani, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Sivaganga, the Nilgiris, Theni, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Vellore and Virudhunagar. Of them, the museums in Cuddalore, Pudukkottai, the Nilgiris, Tiruchi and Tirunelveli are functioning at heritage buildings. There is also a fossil museum in Ariyalur. Besides the 24 museums under the control of the Department of Museums, the Department of Archaeology maintains 14 archaeological site museums. Meanwhile, a new site museum at Kondagai in Sivaganga is being constructed to showcase the artefacts excavated at Keeladi.  The manual lays down procedures to be followed in the Department of Museums, the mandate of each post and the registers and other documents to be maintained by the Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-updating-museum-manual-after-five-decades/article64990677.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mudskippers spotted at Ennore estuary||Almost every weekend, two youth in the city spend their evenings ‘herping’ at Ennore estuary. More than its interest in the usual reptiles, the duo found a new amphibious fish more interesting since last year — Mudskippers. They are found only in a few estuaries and mangroves unlike other fish and amphibious species, says Aravind Manoj, a techie. He and his his friend Sudharshan Kuselan are attempting to document mudskippers and their habitats and the duo has been in touch with academicians researching on the species. “We were actually looking for the dog-faced water snake in Ennore and that was when we chanced upon mudskippers. Initially, we were surprised to see this species and had several questions about them. So, I looked for more information about mudskippers and got to know they are rare and are found only in estuaries and mangroves.” They have taken images and are comparing notes with academicians researching mudskippers. Mr. Kuselan, who accompanies Mr. Aravind almost every time he goes ‘herping’, says they found only three mudskipper species in Ennore initially but later they found two more in the surrounding areas. Mr. Sudharshan into wildlife photography and he visits forest areas in and around the city. G. Mahadevan, Research Associate in Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology in Parangipettai, part of Annamalai University, says 13 mudskipper species are found in India. “My doctorate was in mudskippers and I have surveyed mudskippers in estuaries along with entire east coast upto the Sunderbans. In Tamil Nadu, they are found near Ennore, Pichavaram and Muthupettai.” Mudskippers are said to be ‘pollution indicators,’ he says: “When the pollution level in that locality rises, some studies suggest that the mudskippers move elsewhere. Since they burrow, they are believed to benefit the entire mangrove ecosystem.” He said he has read reports of mudskippers located from Gujarat in the north up to Karnataka in the South on the west coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mudskippers-spotted-at-ennore-estuary/article64990675.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demands of government doctors remain unfulfilled||The Legal Coordination Committee for Government Doctors has alleged that the Health and Family Welfare (HFW) Department of Tamil Nadu has been indifferent to its long-pending demands. In a statement issued on Sunday, S. Perumal Pillai, president of the committee, blamed the government and the HFW Department in particular for not fulfilling the demands of the doctors in spite of assurances. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, when he was the Leader of the Opposition, had promised that the Government Order 354 would be reviewed and implemented when the DMK came to power, he pointed out. Key issue The key demand of the doctors was to address pay disparity between them and their counterparts in the Central government and grant pay band 4 on completion of 12 years of service. Dr. Pillai said the Karnataka government accepted the demands of the doctors even before they launched a protest during the first wave of COVID-19. He asked why the Health Minister of Tamil Nadu was unable to understand the problem of government doctors. He said the Health Minister had failed to fulfil his promise of taking the representatives of doctors post Deepavali to meet the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demands-of-government-doctors-remain-unfulfilled/article38351622.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dropping baggage to become hassle-free for flyers||In a few months, international passengers leaving Chennai airport can walk through without feeling exhausted after waiting in serpentine queues to check-in and drop off their baggage. The new integrated terminal being built now as part of phase II modernisation project is getting ready for opening mid-year. It will have baggage drop kiosks and self check-in counters. While self check-in counters are functioning in the terminals, the baggage drop kiosks is a much-needed facility at the new terminal. At present, passengers have to spend a long time standing in queue to finish the check-in and drop the baggage. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said there would be 5-6 baggage kiosks in the international terminal. “Usually, the queues in the international terminal take some time to get cleared and passengers have to stand for long. One of the primary reasons is those who travel abroad have quite a lot of baggage and this process becomes a time-consuming one at the check-in counters,” an official said. Congestion to go When the drop in facility is introduced, passengers can finish the check-in and drop the baggage quickly and leave for the remaining security and immigration procedures. This will reduce congestion in the terminal to a great extent,” the official said. To assist passengers, there will be staff near the counters as well. As a precursor, the AAI started self-baggage tagging and drop on a pilot basis early this month. The construction of the Rs. 2,000-crore terminal has been on for a few years now and passengers can get a glimpse of the exterior work now. Officials said apart from the main focus on improving passenger amenities, design too has assumed importance now with the aim of giving passengers a view of the State’s art and culture. While the lighting in the ceiling has kolam motifs, gold clad pillars are installed in the arrival hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dropping-baggage-to-become-hassle-free-for-flyers/article64990681.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Academics call for doing away with NEET||Former chairman of the University Grants Commission Sukhadeo Thorat on Sunday called for dispensing with the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and said the National Education Policy-2020 went against inclusiveness as it envisaged a similar entrance test for all courses. He was virtually inaugurating a day-long hunger strike organised by the State Platform for Common School System-Tamil Nadu in Chennai against NEET. Mr. Thorat said the National Education Policy did not detail measures to provide opportunities to the socio-economically backward population. “The measures it has suggested for improving the quality of education will end up denying opportunities to the disadvantaged sections.” Anil Sadgopal, a former member of the Central Advisory Board of Education, lauded Tamil Nadu for being at the forefront of a struggle against NEET. He said NEET must be seen in the context of the National Education Policy that encouraged commercialisation of education and denial of opportunities to the disadvantaged. The State Platform for Common School System organised the fast, urging Governor R.N. Ravi to immediately forward to the President the Bill passed by the Assembly to dispense with the NEET-based admission to undergraduate medical courses in the State. V. Vasanthi Devi, former Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, said the protest was also about many other questions, including the power of the State government, saffronisation and corporatisation of education. Tamil Nadu must form an alliance with other States on the issue. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said that while former Governor Banwarilal Purohit gave assent to the Vanniyar reservation Bill within a day, there was no reason for his successor to delay forwarding the Bill against NEET to the President. VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan said the fundamental issue was the consolidation of power by the Union government. All items that were moved to the Concurrent List of the Constitution during the Emergency were brought back to the State list, but education remained in the Concurrent List. R. Mutharasan, CPI State secretary, urged the Governor to discharge his duty in accordance with the Constitution and swiftly forward the Bill to the President. DMK Rajya Sabha member T.K.S. Elangovan said that even when the diarchy system of governance that was in effect before Independence, the legislature in Madras had the power to legislate on education. That was how the Justice Party was able to bring in several reforms. D. Hariparanthaman, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, said the delay on the part of the Raj Bhavan was unjustified as the Governor did not have any power to decide on the legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/academics-call-for-doing-away-with-neet/article64990466.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Expose the ‘destructive politics’ of BJP, Stalin tells partymen||DMK president and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday called upon his party cadre to expose the “destructive politics” of the BJP, which he said was in a hurry to gain political mileage by sowing seeds of communalism in the minds of the people of a peaceful and harmonious Tamil Nadu. “Explain to the people of Tamil Nadu that the alliance between the BJP and the AIADMK is against the interest of the people. Remind them they [people] have never allowed a space for communal politics in the past,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the DMK government’s Dravidian model of development, which included social justice, self-respect, communal harmony without caste differences and integrated development, was the conduct certificate for the party in the urban local bodies election. “Work tirelessly to harvest the yield of good governance in the elections,” he added. Pointing out that the DMK won the rural local body election even when the AIADMK was in power, Mr. Stalin said people had retained the faith in the party. Nation-wide attention According to him, the achievements of the DMK government in the last eight months had drawn attention across the country, and the achievements would be complete only after extending them to all levels of the local bodies. “We have to field candidates who are capable of achieving the mission. Priority should be given to candidates committed to party principles and growth and those who never projected their personal interest. Tickets should not be given to candidates against whom cases have been filed till they come clean legally,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expose-destructive-politics-of-bjp-stalin-tells-partymen/article64990464.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Action plan to protect Chennai from climate change under preparation||Chennai’s trysts with monsoon are often volatile and determine the abundance or scarcity of resources the following year. In a concerted effort to protect the city from the vicious cycle of flood and drought, the Water Resources Department is preparing a comprehensive action plan for better water management and reducing the impact of climate change-related natural calamities on the city. Last year, nearly 32 tmcft of surplus water was released from the Poondi reservoir alone following heavy inflow and only 15-20% of the resources were conserved due to lack of sufficient storage facilities. In 2020, 20 tmcft of water was discharged from the reservoir during monsoon. “We are chalking out project proposals under the ‘Chennai City Water Supply Augmentation, Flood Mitigation and Resilient to Climate Change’. We are considering about 900 proposals. This will be an attempt to address different challenges in making the city self-reliant in water supply and provide nature-based long-term solutions in the city’s river basins, including the Adyar, the Kovalam and the Kosathalaiyar,” said an official. If the projects are executed, nearly 22 tmcft of additional water can be conserved. Among the various strategies are conservation of floodwater runoff with new reservoirs and revival of nearly extinct or long neglected waterbodies and climate adaptive measures. Given the change in weather pattern, including increase in intense rain in short spells, the department plans to revive waterbodies in the Chennai metropolitan area. “Many of these are affected by encroachments and rapid urbanisation. We plan to identify such lakes that act as an ecological balance in boosting groundwater and reduce localised waterlogging,” the official said. Kolathur lake is a fine example of highly encroached and exploited waterbody that had scope for rejuvenation. Similarly, lakes in Rajakilpakkam, Arabatheri near Avadi and Puthagaram near Ambattur, are not used for irrigation or drinking water needs. In a bid to conserve runoff water, there are plans to create new reservoirs in the catchment areas of the city’s basins. For instance, Ramanjeri, upstream of Poondi, and Nemam, above Chembarambakkam reservoir, are being considered to be developed as storage facilities. Besides deepening the lakes in Thiruninravur, Sriperumbudur and Pillaipakkam, feasibility study would have to be initiated for intra-Basin transfer of floodwater. Transfer of surplus water from catchment areas near Oragadam in the Adyar Basin to the Palar through Neenjal Maduvu and feed surrounding lakes is one of the proposals. Flood regulators would be constructed in lakes such as Porur to transfer or discharge existing water to prepare the waterbodies for sudden and heavy inflow during rain. The department plans to submit the proposals to the government for taking up feasibility study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-plan-to-protect-chennai-from-climate-change-under-preparation/article64990501.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||State reports 22,238 new COVID-19 cases||The number of daily COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu continued to fall for the eighth consecutive day on Sunday, with 22,238 fresh infections. The number of recoveries exceeded new infections for the fourth day in a row as 26,624 were reported on Sunday. The number of deaths also came down marginally on Sunday with 38. This took the toll to 37,544. Chennai reported 3,998 cases, the highest in the State. It was followed by Coimbatore, which reported 2,865. Four other districts — Chengalpattu (1,534), Tiruppur (1,497), Salem (1,181) and Erode (1,127) — reported more than 1,000 cases. Another six districts reported more than 500 cases. Mayiladuthurai (98) and Perambalur (52) were the only two districts to report less than 100 cases. All 38 districts reported a marginal to noticeable decline on Sunday compared to the day before. Among the 38 deaths, 10 happened in Chennai. Chengalpattu, Tiruchi, and Madurai reported six, five and three deaths respectively. Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Tiruvallur reported two deaths each. Another eight districts reported one death each. According to the bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department, 37 of the 38 who died had co-morbidities. The one person who did not have any co-morbidity was a 54-year-old woman from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday after testing positive for COVID-19. Of the remaining 37 people, 36 were aged over 60.The State tested a total of 1,28,077 persons in the 24-hour period ending on Sunday. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 17.4%. The TPR continued to decline in the State for the past five days even as the number of tests also declined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-22238-new-covid-19-cases/article64990465.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK adopts tough posture in seat-sharing negotiations||The AIADMK is in no mood to concede the BJP’s demand to allot it at least 20% of the wards across urban local bodies (ULBs). However, the party is willing to set apart 7% to 9% of seats for its ally, the proportion of which will, again, not be uniform for all the ULBs, according to sources in the AIADMK. Depending on the local conditions, the share of wards to be provided to the BJP may vary. Pointing out that his party contested 9% of the seats in the rural local bodies’ elections held in October 2020, a source in the BJP claims that the AIADMK is ready to give 10% of the seats. “But, our demand is for at least 20% of seats. We are awaiting the advice of the high command, which is expected shortly.” Likewise, the principal Opposition party cannot apply the yardstick of uniform quantum of wards in all the areas. “For instance, in Salem and Cuddalore Corporations, where the BJP is perceived to be not strong, the AIADMK may allot fewer number of seats,” the latter’s sources say. The national party has conveyed its desire to contest a significant number of seats in corporations such as Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Hosur and Tirunelveli. If the two parties arrive at an understanding, the quantum will be fixed in relation to the overall numbers of wards of the three types of ULBs (1,374 wards of 21 municipal corporations, 3,843 wards of 138 municipalities and 7,621 wards of 490 town panchayats). Acknowledging that uniformly, the same proportion of seats cannot be applied across all the local bodies, a senior functionary of the State unit of the BJP, however, claims that his party has grown in strength in recent months, and the present president of the State unit, K. Annamalai, has “energised” the party. “The ground situation has to be recognised, and we have to be provided with the number of wards accordingly,” the leader said. Another senior leader of the BJP says, “In some places, our party has sought even 30% of wards.” He added that the AIADMK has suggested to his party to take a greater number of seats in municipalities and town panchayats than in municipal corporations. Meanwhile, there are reports that many members of the core committee and a large number of district secretaries of the BJP are for the party going it alone. Where the two parties seem to be on the same page is to confine the ongoing discussion only to sharing of the wards. Depending on the election outcome, sharing of Mayor or chairperson posts will be decided. A day after it held a four-hour discussion with the BJP’s delegation, the AIADMK had an internal meeting on Sunday to discuss strategies and preparations for the elections to the ULBs. The party’s coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami were among those who participated. D. Jayakumar, in a chat with journalists, maintained that the interests of his party would be kept in mind while working out a seat sharing arrangement. As the last date for filing of nominations is February 4, the parties say that there will be clarity over the seat sharing arrangements in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-adopts-tough-posture-in-seat-sharing-negotiations/article38351590.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGO installs biogas plants in Krishnagiri village||Koodugal, a city-based voluntary organisation working towards sparrow conservation, is now engaged in developing energy self-sufficiency in rural areas. The organisation recently started an initiative to install biogas plants to provide fuel in rural areas apart from creating awareness against plastic waste and benefits of solar as alternative energy source. Trust founder D. Ganesan said, to start with, 10 biogas plants were being installed in Thaliyur village in Krishnagiri district along with Lennox International. “This will help the village residents cope up with the rising LPG price. We plan to extend it to Chennai households and also other rural areas to popularise renewable and sustainable energy from waste,” he said. The organisation is also involved in energy audit to gather data on energy consumption in the village. There are plans to provide energy saving devices and install solar panels for energy efficiency. “We want to develop Thaliyur as a model village and replicate the initiatives in other places as well. We are also engaged in distributing nest boxes in places other than Chennai too. Government schools are also being targeted for the initiative,” he said. Nearly 3,000 nest boxes for sparrow conservation have been distributed in places, including Tenkasi, Thanjavur and Krishnagiri with the support of a few faculty members of SRM Institute of Science and Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-installs-biogas-plants-in-krishnagiri-village/article38351638.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pandya period inscriptions found||Tamil and Vattezhuthu inscriptions, belonging to the late 9th century period, have been found in a Vishnu temple in Velankudi village in Sivaganga district. “The Tamil inscriptions belong to the period of early Pandyas. It could be the late 9th century or the beginning of the 10th century. The Tamil words are deeply engraved,” said P. Murugan, a research scholar of the Department of Archaeology, who found the inscriptions.  He said the beginning of the Tamil inscriptions was incomplete since the granite slab on which they were written had been broken to be paved on the floor of the temple. The inscription talks about ‘ Poonguntra Naatu Poongunrathu Kaatanpalli Aivar ’.  “Kaatanpalli could be a Jain school. The message of the inscriptions is that a person, named Thennavan Santhan, from the village made a contribution of ‘Avi Kinaru’. ‘Avi’ is the food offered to god. A well had been dug to supply water to the kitchen of the Jain school,” Mr. Murugan said. The vattezhuthu inscriptions, comprising 16 lines, explain the donation of a lamp and goats made by Sree Valluvan Kuntrakizhavanaana Anukkan. The ghee produced from the milk of the goats was used for lighting the lamp. “It says the shepherds met the local leader and handed over the contribution,” Mr. Murugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandya-period-inscriptions-found/article38351727.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation hopes for behavioural change||The Greater Chennai Corporation has been monitoring the continuous violation of the parking rules along the pedestrian plaza at T. Nagar, says an official. “There is not much difference in the rents charged for on-street parking and the multi-level car parking. So people tend to park on the street. We have increased the rate to Rs. 30 for cars and Rs. 10 for two-wheelers on a trial basis. But it is not having much of an impact,” he said. “We have to look at increasing the amount to bring about a behavioural change. It is by trial and error that we have to find out at what amount the multi-level car parking will reach its optimum capacity of 80%,” the official said. Battery cars The battery-operated cars, which were run by a sponsor and taken off the plaza owing to COVID-19 and rain, will return as there is no money involved. “It is set to return, perhaps within a week or 10 days,” he said. As for hawkers and street-vendors, the Corporation has hired a consultant who would come up with a street-vending plan. With regard to autorickshaws taking over the bicycle docking space, the official said the police would have to look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-hopes-for-behavioural-change/article38351605.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven highway robbers held in Acharapakkam||A gang of seven robbers, which used to target houses near national highways, has been arrested in Acharapakkam police station limits in Chengalpattu district. On January 12, Jagannathan of Kadamalaiputhur, near Maduranthakam, lodged a complaint withthe police alleging that a masked gang entered his house and brandished knives at them. After tying them, the gang took away gold and silver articles. Three special teams were formed under Bharath, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Maduranthakam, to trace the suspects. The teams analysed30 criminals who had similar modus operandi. The police arrested seven persons and recovered 12 sovereigns of gold jewellery, 10 mobile phones and a car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-highway-robbers-held-in-acharapakkam/article38351626.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Couple arrested for trafficking minor girls||Two persons were arrested for allegedly trafficking four minor girls and forcing them into prostitution here. The main accused, Chalema Khatun, 41, of Sunamugi village, Tripura, and herhusband Anwar Hussain allegedly brought the minor girls aged 17, 16, 15 and 14 to Chennai, on the promise of getting them jobs in massage parloursand a hospital. After reaching here on January 17, the minors were lodged in a rented house in Padur and forced into prostitution. Chalema’s associates — Alauddin, Moinudeen and Alamgir Hussain — allegedly sexually assaulted the girls and filmed them. They blackmailed them and forced the girls into prostitution. On Friday, the accused brought the girls to the city and made them stay in a lodge in Flower Bazaar. The gang wasplanning to take thegirls to Bengaluru by train on January27. However, a 14-year-old escaped from the lodge at night and approached the police patrol team. Immediately, the police rushed to the lodge and rescued all the minor girls. However, the accused were not present at the lodge. After the victims were sent to a home, Child Welfare Committee members conducted inquiries with them and lodged a complaint with Flower Bazaar police. Police have launched a search for the others involved in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-arrested-for-trafficking-minor-girls/article38351606.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parts of south T.N., Western Ghats to get light rain today||Some parts of south Tamil Nadu and districts along the Western Ghats may experience light to moderate rain on Monday. Dry weather may set in during February over most parts of the State. Officials of the India Meteorological Department said only isolated rain is possible over some southern parts and Western Ghats districts on Monday. Variations in wind speed of easterlies prevailing over the State would result in light rainfall over a few places. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m., Thirupoondi in Nagapattinam district received the highest amount of 5cm of rainfall in the State. A few other places like Nagapattinam, Vedaranyam and Kodiyakarai in Nagapattinam district and Karaikal recorded light rain during the same period. According to the IMD, Chennai may experience a partly cloudy sky and the maximum temperature is likely to be around 31 degree Celsius. Nights may be relatively warm at 25 degree Celsius due to easterly winds. On Sunday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a day temperature of 29.7 degree Celsius and 30.3 degree Celsius respectively. This month could end as the second rainiest January of the decade in Chennai. The city has received nearly 9.3 cm of rainfall so far this month, which is the second highest January rainfall recorded in the decade. Record rain Chennai had recorded the decade’s highest January rainfall with 16.6 cm last year. January 1915 still holds the all-time record of 24.4 cm of rainfall in the city. Chennai Meenambakkkam too has received 5.3 cm, which is excess rain for the month by nearly 2.6 cm. Tamil Nadu has also registered excess rain with nearly 3.5 cm, which is 128% more than its normal share for January, according to the data of the Meteorological Department.  Variations in wind speed of easterlies prevailing over the State will result in light rainfall over a few places IMD officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parts-of-south-tn-to-get-light-rain-today/article64990482.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||IGNOU sets up training centre||The Indira Gandhi National Open University has set up an extension centre to impart skill training and education to ITI trainees. The centre was inaugurated virtually by Vice-Chancellor Nageshwar Rao and Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Rajesh Agrawal. In Chennai, it will be housed at National Skill Training Institute, Guindy. Degree programme Candidates eligible under the initiative can also join the University’s three-year degree programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ignou-training-centre-for-iti-students/article38351617.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident||Three persons, including two children aged 10 and 8, died after the two-wheeler they were riding rammed a stationary lorry in Mannivakkam, near Vandalur. The victims were identified as Gopi, 42, a private firm employee in Gandhi Nagar, Nagalkeni and his children — Sabri, 10 and Monica, 8. They were returning home on a two-wheeler after visiting Kovalam beach on Sunday evening. The Chromepet Traffic Investigation registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident/article38351601.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK releases first list||The AIADMK on Sunday released its first list of 298 candidates for nine urban local bodies in Cuddalore, Villupuram and Dharmapuri districts. In the municipalities of Tindivanam, Villupuram, Thittakudi, Virudhachalam and Chidambaram, the party decided to field candidates in all the wards. In the Cuddalore municipal corporation, the list covered 43 out of a total of 45 wards; in the Dharmapuri municipality, 31 out of 33 wards; in Panruti, 30 out of 33 wards; and in Nellikuppam, 29 out of 30 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-releases-first-list/article38351589.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two more arrested in mask scam||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) have arrested two more persons who allegedly colluded with a former Deputy General Manager of the Indian Telephone Industries (ITI) Ltd. to cheat a fertilizer company of Rs. 3.20 crore. The city police, last August, arrested K.V.N. Rajan of Ambattur, former DGM of ITI Ltd (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry), who allegedly approached ICMC Pvt. Ltd., a fertilizer company, claiming they had bagged the order to procure masks and nitrile gloves to be supplied to government hospitals to fight COVID-19. Rajan reportedly told the proprietor of ICMC, Kannan, that ITI Ltd. did not have the provision to invest money in advance. He requested Mr. Kannan to make the investment required with the promise of huge profits. Trusting him, the company sent Rs. 3.20 crore to three companies. . The police arrested B.Gnanaprakasam, 52, of Alandur and M. Sivakumar, 56, of Anna Nagar West, who have been running private firms. They were hand-in-glove with the ex-DGM, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-arrested-in-mask-scam/article38351627.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three ganja peddlers nabbed||Three persons were arrested in Royapuram police station limits on Sunday for allegedly smuggling ganja from Andhra Pradesh and seized 112 kg ganja. Following a tip-off, a special team of police led by the inspector mounted surveillance near the railway station early morning and intercepted a group of persons. While one person fled, the police searched the bags of the others and found ganja. The police arrested Thadi Senthil, 45, of Kasimedu, Aerobilly, 32, and Raju Babu, 41, of East Godavari, Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-ganja-peddlers-nabbed/article38351614.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two children drown in sea, one missing||Two children drowned and one child was missing in the sea at Thalankuppam beach on Sunday afternoon. According to police, the victims were identified as D. Alex, 12, of Mettukuppam and Rudra, 16, of Neelankarai. Since the beaches are open for public entry on Sunday, seven children were playing together on the shore. Suddenly they were dragged inside by a strong wave and fishermen came to their rescue. Four boys were quickly rescued by them. Fire and Rescue Service personnel retrieved the bodies of Alex and Rudra. A search is on to trace Vignesh who was feared drowned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-drown-in-sea-one-missing/article38351602.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two camp elephants of ATR rebel, to remain in kraal for a month||The Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) administration on Saturday lodged two of its camp elephants in kraal (wooden enclosure) as they had been exhibiting reluctance to obey commands of mahouts and kavadis (assistant to mahout). ATR officials said Suyambu, 23, a kumki (trained elephant) that is now showing reluctance to follow commands, and Ashok, a 12-year-old elephant that trampled its kavadi to death earlier this month, were lodged in kraal. The two elephants will remain in kraal for at least a month and new mahouts and kavadis will teach them commands. After obtaining consent from senior officials of the Forest Department, ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian and Deputy Field Director (Pollachi division) M.G. Ganesan issued instructions to shift the two male elephants from Kozhikamuthi elephant camp to separate kraals at Varagaliar elephant camp based on the opinion of forest veterinarian A. Sukumar and elephant experts. Both elephant camps are located near Top Slip. A kavadi, V. Arumugam, was killed in an unexpected attack from Ashok at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp on January 16 when the elephant was being escorted for open grazing. The elephant had started showing reluctance to follow commands, according to ATR officials. Following the incident, residents of Kozhikamuthi tribal settlement who work as mahouts and kavadis for the Forest Department, expressed apprehensions in taking care of the elephant that was brought from Vandalur Zoo to ATR four years ago. “Ashok had never been trained in a kraal as the department had rescued it as a calf. Now two persons, Manikandan and Kannan, have come forward to take care of the elephant. Training in kraal was recommended for Ashok so that the duo will get familiarised with the elephant and they can teach the elephant basic commands,” said Dr. Sukumar. Suyambu had been into kraal before and the department had used the tusker as a kumki for various operations. Suyambu was stationed at Chadivayal elephant camp of Coimbatore Forest Division for a brief period and later called back to the parent camp at Kozhikamuthi. Prasath and Suresh will take care of Suyambu and train him once again .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-camp-elephants-of-atr-rebel-to-remain-in-kraal-for-a-month/article64990650.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Political parties face challenge in reaching out to voters||As political parties gear up for the election to 100 wards in the city, door-to-door campaign is expected to be a challenge as over 7,000 people are in home isolation due to COVID-19. The campaign will begin in the next few days once the political parties finalise candidates. As of Sunday, there are 7,915 persons in home isolation. Of those, 1,476 are in North Zone, 1,265 in South, 2,936 in East, 1,374 in West, and 864 in Central Zone. The houses where the positive persons are in isolation are difficult to identify as the Corporation has stopped pasting stickers or barricading the neighbourhood, and therefore, avoiding those will be challenge, say political party representatives. SEC guidelines The State Election Commission guidelines on campaign says that candidates cannot take more than three persons for door-to-door campaign, should maintain physical distance and compulsorily wear mask and gloves while seeking votes. It also says that at all times the candidates or their campaigners should maintain physical distance and warns of action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. It is, however, silent on campaigning near houses where persons are in home isolation, admit Corporation officials adding that the civic body will take the State Election Commission’s advice before issuing separate guidelines, if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-face-challenge-in-reaching-out-to-voters/article38351646.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Naval Command chief visits INS Agrani||Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief of Staff of the Southern Naval Command (SNC), visited INS Agrani, Coimbatore, the leadership and management training establishment of the Indian Navy, on Saturday. During the visit, Rear Admiral George inspected the guard of honour and reviewed the progress of development of training infrastructure in INS Agrani. He inaugurated a wastewater treatment plant in the sailors’ residential area on the campus.He also visited the Madukkarai camp site where he attended a campfire. He interacted with sailor trainees where he highlighted the important role played by the unit in imparting leadership and management skills to the sailors of the Indian Navy, said a release issued by INS Agrani. Rear Admiral George was accompanied by Kavita Antony, vice-president of the Navy Wives’ Welfare Association, Southern Region. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naval-command-chief-visits-ins-agrani/article64990667.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Students oppose water tank construction on school ground||Students and alumni of the Ramanathapuram Higher Secondary School staged a protest on Sunday opposing the civic body for constructing an overhead water tank on the school ground. The students claimed that their play area was encroached upon by construction of the tank. Ramanathapurm police rushed to the spot and held negotiation with the protesters. P. Balasundaramoorthy, an alumni said, the Corporation could have constructed the tank anywhere in the vicinity. The students used the ground during weekdays and on Sundays the Corporation allowed the youth of the area to play on the ground. The Corporation sources clarified that it was a tank that was being built as a part of the 24x7 drinking water supply improvement project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-oppose-water-tank-construction-on-school-ground/article64990666.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.83 lakh cash seized during vehicle check||A flying squad in North Zone on Sunday seized Rs. 1.83 lakh from a person on Sunday morning. According to a note from the Coimbatore Corporation, the team led by Block Development Officer A. Dhanalakshmi, during a routine vehicle check near Thanneerpandal stopped a vehicle and during the check found the cash. The currency was in the denominations of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500 and Rs. 200 and was being taken by the area resident Prabhakaran. The officials took the cash to the Corporation office to be deposited in a sub treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-183-lakh-cash-seized-during-vehicle-check/article38351641.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caseload drops below 3,000 in Coimbatore||In a relief to Coimbatore district, the daily caseload of COVID-19 infections dropped below the 3,000-mark on Sunday. The Health Department said that 3,917 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 26,044 active cases on Sunday. Two more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,565. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 26.2 % on Saturday when 12,648 swab samples were subjected to tests and 3,309 new infections were reported. A total of 1,497 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district on Sunday. There were 11,862 active cases of the disease in the district on Sunday while 1,027 persons recovered. The district’s toll increased to 1,040 after two more COVID-19 patients died. The TPR of Tiruppur district stood at 29.1 % on Saturday when 1,649 persons tested positive. Nilgiris district In the Nilgiris district, 210 people tested positive, bringing the total case count to 40,212. The number of deaths from so far in the district stood at 223 on Sunday, while 2,350 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caseload-drops-below-3000-in-coimbatore/article38351640.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||Alstom, in association with NGO partner United Way Bengaluru (UWBe), has launched its CSR activity called Rural Rising– an integrated rural development programme. The initiative at Selakarachal panchayat in Sultanpet block is toimprove sanitation, education facilities, and environment at the panchayat. A press release saidAlstomhanded over a tractor to the panchayat to strengthen the Solid Waste Management (SWM) system and door-to-door collection of domestic waste. The gram panchayat has been trying to implement a proper solid waste management system. This tractor support will help to put in place a systematic door to door collection process. Further, works have started to construct a community toilet construction.   Yanmar Engine Manufacturing India has commenced production at its new industrial engine manufacturing plant at the Origins Industrial Estate. A press release said the new plant will produce 80,000 units of 15 kW to 37 kW class industrial engines annually with production capacity planned to increase to 1,60,000 units. The engines will be for domestic and export markets. Exports will be to Europe, the United States and Asian countries. The plant will first produce engines for Yanmar brand tractors manufactured by International Tractors Ltd (a joint venture company of Yanmar).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article38351639.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK gives four wards to Congress, signs deal for alliance in Dindigul Corporation||The DMK on Sunday announced that the party had allotted four wards to the Congress, a key ally, in the election to Dindigul Corporation to be held on February 19. Making the announcement to media persons, party functionaries said that an agreement had been reached between the DMK and the Congress. There are 48 wards in Dindigul Corporation and the Congress demanded 10 seats. However, after continuous talks, representatives from both parties said they had reached at an agreement. The Congress would contest from wards 17, 21, 27 and 41. The DMK was represented by two ministers, I. Periasami and R Sakkarapani. DMK functionaries said the party, which was elected to power in the State after almost a decade, was performing well under the dynamic leadership of Chief Minister M K Stalin. Hence, they were confident that the party would sweep the civic polls. However, the Congress members was upset and claimed that they expected 10 wards from the DMK. It was a raw deal and the District Congress Committee had not consulted with the functionaries about it. The DMK maintained that it had to allot seats to other allies as well and, hence, they expected the Congress to go to the wards and work for the victory of their candidates. SDPI to go alone SDPI state vice-president Rafiq Ahmed in a press conference said his party would go it alone in the election to Dindigul Corporation and in the Municipal and Town Panchayat polls at Vedasandur and Nilakottai. Speaking to reporters, he introduced the candidates for eight wards in Dindigul Corporation. “Wherever, the SDPI did not contest, it will not support any other party or candidates...” Rafiq Ahmed said to a query. To another question, he said the BJP’s recent actions over the suicide of a girl in Thanjavur district reflected its determination to create a rift among the different castes and communities in society. Political outfits should allow the investigators to do their job and ensure that the laws were strictly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-gives-four-wards-to-congress-in-civic-poll-deal/article38351730.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of classrooms hits students at govt. school in Erode||The Government Higher Secondary School at Nanjappa Goundan Valasu in Surampatti in the city, which was upgraded last year, lacks sufficient classrooms and parents wanted steps taken on a war-footing to construct new classrooms to accommodate all the students. Started as an elementary school in 1963, the school was upgraded as a middle school in 1985, as a high school in 2011 and as a higher secondary school in January 2021. At present, the school has 673 students in Classes VI to XI, in both Tamil and English mediums, and 30 teachers. After the school was upgraded as a high school, seven classrooms were constructed on the premises of the Corporation Middle School at Teachers Colony in 2019 and classes for VIII to XI were conducted there. In the old building that is located one km away from the new building, classes for VI and XII were conducted However, as against the total requirement of 21 classrooms, only 12 are available in both the buildings for the higher secondary school. The assistant headmaster monitors the classrooms at the old building while the headmaster monitors the classrooms in the new building. The present strength of Plus One is 113 and except for a RMSA laboratory, the school has no laboratory for science or computer science. Students have to visit nearby schools for their practical examinations and for the Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School for writing their board examinations. Though the Public Works Department had demolished a dilapidated building on the old school premises, construction of classrooms is yet to begin. Parents wanted adequate classrooms constructed until which temporary structures were erected for conducting classes. “Since physical classes will resume from February 1, how can they follow COVID-19 norms and accommodate all the students in the available classrooms,” a parent questioned. Proposals submitted Sources in the Education Department said proposals were submitted last year seeking adequate classrooms at the earliest as all the students could not be accommodated in compliance with the standard operating procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortage-of-classrooms-hits-students-at-govt-school-in-erode/article64990639.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI against banning vehicle movement on Bannari-Dhimbam stretch during night||Stating that any move to ban vehicle movement on Bannari-Dhimbam stretch during night hours would affect livelihood of lakh of people in both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the authorities concerned to focus on preventing accidents. Vehicle ban The Madras High Court had on Friday asked the Erode Collector, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Forest Department and authorities concerned to convene a meeting with stakeholders before February 18 to implement vehicle ban at nights on the stretch of the Coimbatore–Bengaluru National Highway 959 that passes through the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). On Saturday, former Bhavanisagar MLA P.L. Sundaram chaired a meeting in Sathyamangalam in which office-bearers from Talavadi, Bhavanisagar and Sathyamangalam took part. Members said the issue of banning night traffic should not be confined just to wildlife protection, but should be seen in a wider perspective. It was related to the livelihood of people, economic activities, education and health care of over a lakh people in two States. “But the view of government officials is not so,” they said. It was not appropriate to compare the vehicle movement on the Mysore–Kozhikode highway with that of Dhimbam Ghat Road where vehicles moved slowly to cross the 27 hairpin bends. The district administration had imposed a night ban in 2019 that led to traffic congestion for nine hours affecting farmers, common public, patients and travellers between the two States. “When businesses suffered huge losses and government services were paralysed, vehicles were allowed later,” they added. The road from Bannari to Dhimbam was 15 km, including the 2-km stretch to the foothills. Vehicles could move fast only on the 2-km stretch on the plains where animal crossing was frequent. The Forest Department had installed seven speed bumps in the stretch. “The death of 152 wild animals in the road had taken place before speed bumps were installed,” they added. Identifying the animal crossing zones in the ghat road and installing speed breakers at the spots, increasing the height of speed breakers, monitoring the speed of vehicles and taking steps to prevent animal feedings would prevent accidents, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-against-banning-vehicle-movement-on-bannari-dhimbam-stretch-during-night/article64990645.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former MP passes away||Former MP belonging to the Congress S.K. Paramashivam died at his residence here on Sunday. He was 103 years old. Paramashivam hailed from Chinniyampalayam in Erode district and served as Member of Parliament from Tiruchengode from 1962 to 67. Paramashivam also served as founding president of Erode Aavin and Erode Agri Co-operative Marketing Association. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri condoled the death of Paramashivam. He recalled that Paramashivam had served as president of Combined Coimbatore District Congress Committee and his death was an irreplaceable loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mp-passes-away/article38351748.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The Minister, who was involved in local body election works, had mild fever and cough for the past few days. According to sources, Mr. Muthusamy underwent swab test for COVID-19 and the results returned positive. The Minister is under isolation at his residence in Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38351750.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||600 kg PDS rice seized||The Civil Supplies CID seized 600 kg of smuggled ration rice during vehicle checks conducted near Bhavani. According to the police, personnel from Civil Supplies CID intercepted a vehicle that was moving towards Namakkal and found 600 kg of PDS rice. The police said that the rice was being smuggled from Erode to Namakkal. The police arrested the driver of the vehicle, Vimal Kumar, from Namakkal. The accused was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-kg-pds-rice-seized/article38351741.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||24 flying squads formed to check poll violations||The district administration has deployed 24 flying squads to check violations ahead of elections to urban local bodies in Kallakurichi district. According to Collector P.N. Sridhar, each team will be headed by an official of the rank of executive magistrate and comprise a videographer and police personnel. The team will videograph all their inspections and track poll code violations. If the candidate, his agent or people are found carrying cash exceeding Rs. 50,000 without proper records, or if any candidate or party representative is found with posters, election materials, drugs or liquor, arms or gift items, having a value of over Rs. 10,000, the team will file a case against the persons concerned. The flying squads will function in three shifts round-the-clock in Kallakurichi, Ulundurpet, and Thirukoilur municipalities and town panchayats of Chinna Salem, Vadakkanandal, Thiyagadurgam, Sankarapuram and Manalurpet.  Each team will be headed by an official of the rank of executive magistrate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-flying-squads-formed-to-check-poll-violations/article38351964.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi remembered||Mahatma Gandhi’s 75th death anniversary was observed at the Gandhi Mandapam in Kanniyakumari on Sunday. Collector M. Arvind and visitors paid homage and floral tributes to the portrait of the Mahatma. As a symbolic gesture, on behalf of Sarvodaya Sangh, women spun thread using charkha. This exercise will go on for two weeks till the day when Gandhi’s ashes were immersed in the sea here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-remembered/article38351726.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||GH dean warns against imposters promising jobs||The Dean of Krishnagiri Government Medical College Hospital, B. Ashokan has cautioned the public not to fall for fake advertisements about jobs at the hospital and warned of stern action against miscreants who dupe the public promising jobs. The Dean said that vacancies at the hospital are filled as per State government ‘s guidelines and through MRB, TNPSC, District Health Society, State and District Employment Offices. Dr. Ashokan cautioned the public not to trust imposters who make false promises of getting jobs at the hospital. He warned that stern legal action would be taken against such miscreants. He also advised the public to lodge complaint with the police or district administration if they are approached by such imposters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-dean-warns-against-imposters-promising-jobs/article38351749.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation cleans up defaced walls||With the model code of conduct in place ahead of the civic polls scheduled to be held on February 19, the civic authorities have been removing posters and graffiti on public walls over the last three days. The walls, which were defaced by political outfits and private commercial undertakings with advertisements and other messages were all erased in the 100 wards, officials said here on Sunday. The State Election Commission had announced the conduct of elections to the urban local body three days ago. From the time of release of the schedule, the model code of conduct has come into force. Apart from flying squads, special surveillance teams have also been formed to keep a vigil on movement of unauthorised goods including cash. According to an official in zone 3, there were plenty of birthday messages, cine posters and obituary announcements on public walls and all these were removed.  When contacted, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan told The Hindu that over the last three days, they have been removing graffiti and posters. From here onwards, any defacement of public walls, the authorities concerned would lodge complaints with the police for necessary legal action as per the laws, he added.  Three nominations The officials said that till Saturday three nominations had been received which included one for the Town Panchayat ward member, one Municipal councillor and one for the Corporation councillor post. There are 322 vacancies in all the above three categories, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-corporation-cleans-up-defaced-walls/article64990601.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Miraculous escape for four youths||Four youths had a miraculous escape after their speeding car dashed against an electric pole on the North Veli Street in the early hours of Sunday. The local loadmen pulled them out to safety just minutes before the vehicle went up in flames. The police identified the victims as M. Ijaz Ahmed (25) of P and T Nagar and his friends, A. Saban Ahmed (25), S. Sugan (25) and M. Abu (25). The police said that the incident occurred around 1.05 a.m. when the four youth in the speeding car were proceeding towards the railway junction from Simmakkal. The driver lost control of the vehicle and it hit a boulder on the pavement. In the impact, the car flew few metres high in the air before it hit a traffic signal pole and an electric pole near the North Veli Street-West Masi Street junction. The vehicle got stuck between the shutter of a mobile phone shop and the traffic pole with its rear wheels up in air. Hearing the loud thud, few loadmen who were sleeping a few metres ahead on the platform rushed to their help. They broke open the car door and with much difficulty pulled out the youths who were stuck inside. They were then rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital and within minutes, the car went up in flames. A passer-by seeing this rushed to the nearby Madurai Fire Station and alerted the firemen. Firemen, led by Assistant District Officer T. Pandi and Station Fire Officer R. Venkatesan fought for nearly 30 minutes to put out the flames. The swift action of the firemen prevented the flames from spreading to the mobile phone showroom. However, in the impact of the collision, the glass partition in the shop was shattered. Based on a complaint from the showroom owner, N. Vijayakumar, Traffic Investigation Wing III of Madurai City Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miraculous-escape-for-four-youths/article64990476.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Manamadurai-Ramanathapuram section’s electrification inspected||Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) Abhay Kumar Rai on Sunday inspected the electrification work on the Manamadurai-Ramanathapuram section along with a speed trial. During the day, the CRS inaugurated the railway substations setup at Soodiyur and Chatrakudi. The electrification on this 60-km-stretch is part of the Madurai-Mandapam electrification for 143.64 km. The CRS inspected the mandatory safety precautions set up for the 400 KW overhead electric cables, under the railway over bridge at Kamudhakudi and at the railway gates in Paramakudi and Sakkaraikottai. He also verified whether caution boards about the high voltage power supply had been installed to keep people away from the railway line in the section. The inspection special train was stopped midway between Manamadurai and Soodiyur railway stations at 11 a.m. and the officials, including Principal Chief Electrical Engineer (Southern Railway) R. K. Mehta and Divisional Railway Manager, P. Ananth, observed a two-minute silence inside the coach on the occasion of Martyrs Day. After completing the inspection by afternoon, the CRS conducted the speed trial. The special train that started at 3.55 pm at Ramanathapuram railway station reached Manamadurai at 4.45 pm. Electrification on Madurai-Manamadurai section has already been commissioned and electric trains were being operated on the section. The remaining portion of work between Ramanathapuram-Mandapam would be taken after finalising the diversion route away from INS Parundu, the Indian Naval Air Station at Uchipuli. Meanwhile, the CRS inspection of the 17-km-stretch of Andipatti-Theni newly-laid broadgauge section scheduled for Monday has been postponed due to unavoidable circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crs-inspects-manamadurai-ramanathapuram-electrified-railway-line-holds-speed-trial/article64990483.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai man ends life blaming it on two persons in a video clip||Unable to stomach the disappointment caused by a woman who had cheated his wife of 23 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 70,000 in cash on the promise of giving interest, R. Arumugam, 37, of Valandur committing suicide on Thursday. The police said that the deceased had made a video clipping accusing J. Sonia Gandhi of Chokkathevanpatti and her associate G. Pandi responsible for his suicide. The accused woman befriended Arumugam’s wife Simikala, 36, by taking her to different temples. She promised Simikala that she could give her interest every month, if she could give her valuables. She handed over her jewels and Rs. 70,000 to the woman six months back without the knowledge of Arumugam. However Arumugam came to know about the issue recently and the couple asked Sonia Gandhi to return the valuables. When she refused to give them immediately, Arumugam was disappointed. He attempted to end his life. He was rushed to the Government Hospital in Usilampatti where he was declared brought dead. Valandur police have registered a case of criminal breach of trust against both the accused. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-blaming-it-on-two-persons-in-a-video-clip/article38351905.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Artist’s work is hot and happening||A clear sky and a ray of sunshine are enough for R. Vignesh, 30, to get started on his artwork. Though the self-taught artist from Mayiladuthurai is talented in 3-D hyperrealist imagery and oil painting, it is pyrography that has caught his attention of late. Pyrography is the freehand art of decorating wooden and other surfaces with burn marks from the controlled application of a heat source. In Mr. Vignesh’s case, the heat comes from the sun. On any given day, he ventures out at 9 a.m. into the broad daylight with his art supplies - wooden plaque, magnifying glasses, protective gloves and a broad-rimmed hat – and literally burns out designs by focusing the sun’s rays on specific parts of the plaque.  “I became interested in drawing, especially portraiture, when I was bed-ridden with a back complaint in 2017. Art was a way for me to forget my problems and also perhaps earn a little money,” Mr. Vignesh, a diploma holder in electrical and electronic engineering, told The Hindu . Financial constraints and family responsibilities brought Mr. Vignesh back to his maternal hometown of Mayiladuthurai from Chennai six years ago.  Teaching himself how to draw with the help of online video tutorials, Mr. Vignesh didn’t realise his true potential until the lockdown. “I started putting out portraits of celebrities, especially south Indian film stars, on social media, which got a good response. During lockdown, a private cable channel bought 25 video drawing tutorials from me for its children’s section. For the first time, my art earned me Rs. 12,500. I was thrilled,” he said.  His foray into pyrography, inspired by American artist Michael Papadakis, has been eventful too. He was one of 11 artists chosen to create promotional material in the form of an NFT (non-fungible token) for the Tamil film Rocky , directed by Arun Matheswaran.  NFTs are cryptographic assets on a blockchain with unique identification codes and metadata. The digital artwork titled ‘Hours of Shade’ shows Mr. Vignesh creating a poster for the movie. Shot with the help of a friend’s mobile camera, and listed on the Foundation app, it was auctioned for 0.35 ethereum (approximately Rs. 64,000) earlier this month. “Instead of using a pencil outline to guide me, I had to brand the lines of the poster directly on to the wood, as this adds value to the artwork. I nearly gave up after the first try because the cameraman had used the wrong angle, but the second attempt turned out to be lucky for me,” said Mr. Vignesh. The digital foray will help artists to earn royalties in the long term, said Govan Charan, the Chennai-based technology enthusiast, beatboxer and art collector who has introduced Vignesh and other local artists to NFT. “Existing social media platforms are getting saturated. NFT has opened doors for artists like Vignesh to reach out to a wider audience and more collaborative projects, beyond movie-centric promotions,” Mr. Charan said. For Mr. Vignesh, though, pyrography will remain a passion along with all the other techniques he has picked up. “I hope to be able to support my folks through my art, and also to find a phone that will not get too hot in the sun,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artists-work-is-hot-and-happening/article64990502.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tourism centres reopened||With the relaxation in total lockdown on Sunday, places of worship and tourism centres in Kannniyakumari district were thrown open. The Beach Road, point of confluence of the seas and park were bereft of visitors during the total lockdown on Sunday in the past few weeks. With the relaxation in lockdown, these places saw visitors, though comparatively low because of the hot climate. Moreover, the boat services operated by Poompuhar Shipping Corporation to Vivekiananda Rock and Tiruvalluvar Statue remain suspended even after the relaxation. So visitors were disappointed. There was some crowd in Thirparappu falls, Thotti Paalam and other places in the district. Devotees are expecting permission from the authorities to take a holy dip in the confluence of the seas at Kanniyakumari on Monday, the Thai Amavasai day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-centres-reopen-in-kanniyakumari/article38351728.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Raj Nivas: Views differ on demolition||Opinion is divided among heritage enthusiasts and the Public Works Department (PWD) on the issue of demolishing the more than 250-year-old Raj Nivas, the office-cum-residence of the Lieutenant Governor in Puducherry. One group says that the building is structurally unsafe and needs to be reconstructed. The other view is that heritage buildings should not be disturbed and must be retained for posterity. According to a PWD official, the building has suffered structural damage and cracks have developed on the first floor and other portions. “The building is very old and beyond the limits of restoration work. Even if restoration works are carried out, there is no guarantee that the building’s existence could be extended. We have submitted our recommendations to the government to demolish the structure and reconstruct it with the same architectural design,” he said. ‘Leaking patches’ Sources said the wooden rafters in the building had deteriorated due to excess retention of moisture. There are clearly visible patches on the terrace, which apparently had been leaking. “A patchwork can be done, but an entire demolition is totally unjustified. The government should find an alternative place for the incumbent to have the office and residence, and retain the Raj Nivas as a building of great tribute to the architectural beauty of the French,” say heritage enthusiasts. Sources said the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) had also submitted a letter to the government, offering suggestions for restoration. “The PWD has taken up restoration of two government schools that functioned out of heritage buildings. Both these buildings were in a far worse condition than the Raj Nivas. When these two buildings could be restored, what prevents the government from restoring the Raj Nivas, maintained by the PWD,” said an urban planner. According to founder-member of the residents’ collective People for Pondicherry’s Heritage (PPH), Kakoli Banerjee, “Puducherry’s biggest source of income is tourism and at present, people are drawn to it because of its architectural, spiritual, cultural or natural heritage. Why does the government fail to realise and acknowledge this simple fact. The PWD wants to demolish Raj Nivas because it is unsafe. But we have taken the opinion of experts like Arun Menon, Associate Professor of Structural Engineering, IIT-Madras, and other restoration architects who are of the opinion that the building can be easily restored at a fraction of the cost of rebuilding the whole structure.” “Raj Nivas is a category I heritage building, classified by INTACH, and the question of demolition should never arise. It should be restored and used as a public building and not as the Lieutenant Governor’s residence because security factors cause a lot of inconvenience to the locals.” he added. ‘Many redundancies’ According to Sunaina Mandeen, co-founder of PondyCan, a civil society organisation and member of the PPH, “INTACH was called months ago to give their opinion on the building. They had submitted their suggestions and were ready to do a proper study of the structure. However, nothing was heard from the government after that.” “The Raj Nivas is more than 250-year-old and it has so much redundancy built in it. But the PWD has taken the stand that the building should be rebuilt and it will last for the next 50 years. Heritage is the prime factor for Smart City and if the government goes on demolishing old buildings and rebuilding in their place, Puducherry won’t be left with any heritage. Demolishing a heritage structure and constructing a new one in the original style is not heritage preservation.” If the government starts doing this, Puducherry would only be a replica of buildings. The government should get expert opinion before demolishing the structure, she added. Centuries-old history Built in 1766-1768, the Raj Nivas, a Grade I A heritage structure, has a history that dates back to more than two-and-a-half centuries. From 1733-1761, it functioned as Hotel de la Compagnie. It was destroyed by the British in 1761 and rebuilt in 1766 as Hotel du Gouvernement by Bourcet. In 1820 it was restored by Spinasse. The upper storey was added in 1768 and it served as the office and residence of the Chief Commissioner from 1954. From 1963, the Raj Nivas has been serving as the office and residence of the Lieutenant Governor. A landmark building in the French precinct, the Raj Nivas enjoys a significant location overlooking the Bharathi Park. The main building consists of interconnected rooms flanking the central halls. The first-floor reception hall has a vaulted roof with clerestory windows, according to INTACH. Originally, the building was surrounded on all three sides by arcaded porticos on the ground floor and colonnades on the first floor. As part of a later alteration on the ground floor, the portico along Saint Louis Street was enclosed to create more rooms.  Heritage is the prime factor for Smart City and if the government goes on demolishing old buildings and rebuilding in their place, Puducherry won’t be left with any heritage. Sunaina Mandeen Co-founder, PondyCan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raj-nivas-views-differ-on-demolition/article64990450.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Admission to MBBS seats based only on MCC allotment, says Jipmer||Jipmer on Sunday stated that admission to MBBS seats at Jipmer Puducherry and Karaikal campuses under the all-India open quota as well as the U.T. domicile quota is being done based on the merit score in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test – Undergraduate (NEET-UG) and through online counselling conducted by the MCC, Director General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. In a press note, Jipmer said that admissions were no longer done by Jipmer directly and that only the candidates who were allotted seats in Jipmer by Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) would be admitted to the institution after confirming eligibility and verifying certificates. The Director, Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, Government of Puducherry-cum-Nodal Officer (NEET), Puducherry, has provided the list of candidates eligible for participation in counselling for Puducherry Union Territory domicile seats in Jipmer to MCC, based on which MCC is allotting seats. Candidates who have any grievance regarding their non-inclusion against the Puducherry quota seats or inclusion of other non-Puducherry candidates against Puducherry seats are advised to contact the MCC and the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare services, Government of Puducherry, Jipmer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-to-mbbs-seats-based-only-on-mcc-allotment-says-jipmer/article38351962.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Opposition turns heat on govt. ahead of strike against power privatisation||Ahead of the proposed indefinite strike by electricity workers from February 1, opposing the privatisation of the public utility, Opposition parties have ratcheted up pressure on the NDA government at the Centre and the Union Territory to withdraw the proposal. On Saturday, trade unions of the Congress, DMK, VCK and the Left, staged a demonstration on Anna Salai, in solidarity with the strike call by the electricity engineers and Employees Privatisation Protest Committeee to thwart privatisation of the distribution functions of the Puducherry Electricity Department (PED). Even as the Labour Department has initiated attempts for a conciliation with workers to call off the strike, a delegation of workers called on Power Minister A. Namassivayam, urging him to intervene to get the Centre to withdraw the privatisation proposal. Meanwhile, V. Vaithilingam, MP, charged that the assets of the PED were grossly undervalued to benefit private parties. In a statement, he said while the department has substations, thousands of transformers and millions of street light poles worth billions, the government has estimated these assets to be privatised at just Rs. 500 crore. Traders, farmers and the poor will be severely affected by the move. It should remain in the government sector, he said and urged the government to maintain the PED as a public utility in the interests of the common man. Leader of Opposition R. Siva demanded that Chief Minister N. Rangasamy spell out the government’s stand on privatisation instead of remaining ambiguous. Mr. Siva also sought to know the benefits and demerits of the move that the government and people of Puducherry would encounter. The government should release a white paper before allowing the proposal to reach finality, he said. The government should realise that privatising power sector is a blow to the dignity and prestige of Puducherry, he said. He cautioned that protests would erupt if the government thought it could achieve the move by simply keeping mum. The DMK would be with the workers and fight the move tooth and nail, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-turns-heat-on-govt-ahead-of-strike-against-power-privatisation/article64990451.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||923 fresh cases in U.T.; 5 deaths take toll to 1,928||The Union Territory registered five COVID-19 deaths and 923 fresh infections at a test positivity rate of 29.05% on Sunday. Puducherry recorded three deaths and Karaikal two, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,928. The patients, including two women, were in the 50-85 age group. Of the total deaths, Puducherry logged 1,503, Karaikal 260, Yanam 111 and Mahe 54. Puducherry accounted for 650 of the fresh cases, detected from 3,177 tests, followed by Karaikal which logged 186, Yanam 72 and Mahe 15. With 2,433 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 11,027. Of these, 189 were in hospital and 10,838 in home isolation. The case fatality rate was 1.20% and the recovery rate 91.94%. The Union Territory has recorded 1,60,747 cases and 1,47,792 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.56 lakh tests conducted till date, over 18.08 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,785 persons took COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 15,33,395 doses so far. Other districts Cuddalore recorded 329 fresh infections on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 72,353. The district saw 68,487 recoveries and the active case count stood at 2,647. Villupuram reported 326 cases, Kallakurichi recorded one death and 208 fresh cases. The official toll stood at 212.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/923-fresh-cases-in-ut-5-deaths-take-toll-to-1928/article38351967.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai, Rangasamy pay homage to Gandhi||Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy led the tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 74th death anniversary on Sunday. Speaker R. Selvam, Ministers, MLAs, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar and officials of various departments and freedom fighters paid homage at the Gandhi statue on the Beach. All those present at the venue observed silence for a couple of minutes from 11 a.m. The Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee paid floral tributes. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Congress leaders and freedom fighters joined in the observance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-rangasamy-pay-homage-to-gandhi/article64990452.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chain-snatcher held, jewellery recovered||The Reddiyarpalayam police on Saturday arrested a chain-snatcher, A. Ashok Kumar, and recovered 23 sovereigns of gold ornaments from him. Police said he had seven cases pending against him in various police stations in Puducherry and Villupuram. They recovered gold and two motorcycles from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatcher-held-jewellery-recovered/article38351968.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||RSS man arrested for intimidating Christian women||The police here have arrested a 28-year-old Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary for allegedly intimidating and restraining two women in Thirumaiyampatti in Pudukottai district from visiting a family in the village, claiming they were there to convert them to Christianity. According to police sources, two women — Rani and Devasanthi — both from a denomination of the Protestant Church, had travelled to the house of a woman in Thirumaiyampatti, near Illupur, for whom they used to pray regularly. “According to the complainant, Ms. Rani, the pregnant woman had invited them to pray for the healthy delivery of her child. She had done so for her firstborn, and had asked that the same be done this time around too,” the police personnel said. However, when the duo headed to the woman’s house on January 21, they were waylaid by Ganesh Babu and a few others, who claimed that they were attempting to convert the family. Ganesh Babu seized the two-wheeler used by the women and allegedly took away Ms. Rani’s phone. Ms. Rani lodged a complaint on January 24 with the Illupur police, who, after investigation, registered an FIR. Ganesh Babu was booked under Sections 147 (rioting), 341 (wrongful restraint), 387 (extortion and fear of death) and 294 (b) (using obscene language) of the Indian Penal Code. The man was arrested and remanded on Sunday.  According to the complainant, Ms. Rani, the pregnant woman had invited them to pray for the healthy delivery of her child Police personnel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rss-man-held-for-intimidating-christian-women/article38351600.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized in separate incidents||Flying squad officials seized Rs. 10 lakh from a car during vehicle check near Sooramangalam on Sunday. A team led by Salem South Tahsildar Arivudainambi, during vehicle check at Pudhuroad in Sooramangalam, intercepted a car and seized Rs. 10 lakh in cash being carried without necessary documents. According to the officials, the motorist was into real estate business and the money was proceeds from a land deal. Similarly, a flying squad team during vehicle checks near Kondalampatti seized Rs. 7 lakh in cash being carried without proper documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-in-separate-incidents/article64990647.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner reviews poll arrangements in Salem Corpn.||Salem Corporation Commissioner and Election Officer T. Christuraj conducted a review of arrangements for urban local bodies elections in the Corporation limits on Sunday. The Commissioner, along with Assistant Commissioners of four zones of the Corporation, advised zonal officers on the guidelines to be followed for the elections. The ordinary elections would be conducted for 60 wards in the Corporation and 709 polling booths would be set up. The Commissioner advised the zonal officers to inspect the polling booths and identify arrangements to be carried out. The officials were also asked to check if there were sufficient tables, chairs and other furniture for polling personnel and availability of basic amenities. The officials were urged to take precautionary measures against COVID-19 pandemic at the booths. The Commissioner asked the officials to ensure that the polling booth premises were sanitised and maintained clean. The Commissioner on Saturday inspected centres where training would be conducted for polling personnel here. Three private colleges and a higher secondary school premises were identified in the Corporation limits for the training sessions. The first phase of training would be conducted on Monday. As many as 2,600 personnel would be deployed for polling purposes in Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-reviews-poll-arrangements-in-salem-corpn/article64990646.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sites in Salem register low footfall||With the State Government withdrawing the complete lockdown, the tourism spots in the district were opened to the public on Sunday. However, the turnout was very low. The parks operated by the Horticulture Department -- Anna Park, Lake Park, Rose Garden, Government Botanical Garden I and II and Genetic Heritage Garden -- saw a few visitors on Sunday. Officials said that the turnout was lesser than normal weekends in the hill station. At the Yercaud boat house, a major attraction in the hill station, the crowd consisted of local residents, and people from Salem and Bengaluru, the operators added. The Kurumbapatti Zoological Park also witnessed poor turnout. The officials said that all COVID-19 safety protocols were in place in all the tourism spots. The temperature of visitors is checked before they are allowed inside the sites, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sites-in-salem-register-low-footfall/article38351754.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||The Salem City Police arrested a woman and her paramour for murdering a daily wager here. The police said that Jeeva (29) from Moonamkaradu near Anadhanapatti was found dead in his house on January 16. Jeeva was married to Kavitha (25) and the couple had two kids. Annadhanapatti police recovered the body and sent it to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The autopsy revealed that Jeeva was choked to death. On inquiry, the police found that Kavitha had an illicit relationship with Raja from the same locality. The two murdered Jeeva while he was in an inebriated state and projected it as a natural death. The police arrested the two and remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article38351755.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school student gets medical seat||The daughter of a woodcutter and a student of Mangudi Government Higher Secondary School near here has secured a seat in medical college. S. Sneha is the eldest daughter of Senthilkumar and Kalimuthu of Kayangulam Colony near Sivaganga. She has two sisters and a brother. Her mother, Kalimuthu, goes for the 100-day job under Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Since she could ill-afford coaching classes, Sneha prepared for NEET from home and secured 199 marks. During counselling, she got a seat in a private medical college in Krishnagiri under the 7.5% quota for students from government schools. She says one need not be afraid to take NEET. If students have self-confidence and study hard, they can enter the portals of medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-school-student-in-sivaganga-secures-medical-seat/article64990603.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||53 injured at jallikattu in Thanjavur village||Fifty-three people, including 11 tamers, sustained injuries in a jallikattu held at Thirukkanoorpatti near Thanjavur on Saturday. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver flagged off the event in which 680 bulls brought from Ghandharvakottai, Sengipatti, Minnathur, Mappillai Naickenpatti, Theththuvasalpatti, Manjapettai, Vallam Pudur and in and around Thirukkanoorpatti, were released. The jallikattu was organised as part of Saint Anthoniyar Pongal festival conducted in the village every year. Around 350 tamers tried their luck to win prizes offered for taming the animals. Gold coins, bicycles, almirahs, chairs and other products that were offered as prizes by the sponsors were won by tamers owners of bulls tat sped past the 100-metre stretch from the releasing point without giving any chance for the tamers to cling on to the hump. Both the bull tamers and bulls were subjected to medical tests before commencement of the event, where the Collector administered an oath to participants and organisers before the release of the first animal from the starting point. While elaborate security arrangements were provided by the district police, ambulances were stationed near the venue, according to sources. Spreading of coconut coir fibre and erection of protective grills and other arrangements relating to the event were carried out by a team of organisers led by the village panchayat president, Xavier, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-injured-at-jallikattu-in-thanjavur-village/article38351704.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cardholders complain about substandard rice at ration shop||After a dozen cardholders complained about poor and sub-standard rice distributed at a ration shop, Collector K.V. Muralidharan visited the hamlet and interacted with the residents on Sunday. Following complaints that rice unfit for consumption was being distributed at the ration shop, the Collector ordered a discreet probe. After ascertaining that the complaints were genuine, he directed supply of quality rice and also ordered a probe, officials said. The cardholders from Asaripatti village in Mootanoothu panchayat said they were issued rice at a PDS outlet operated by Mullayampatti Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society. The complaint was that the essential commodities, including rice, were substandard. “A bad smell emanated from the produce,” said Anusiya, a resident of Sarathupatti, to the Collector. After assuring them of quality goods, he directed officials at the District Supply Office to closely monitor the distribution in future. When some of the villagers asked for his mobile number, Mr, Muralidharan readily shared it with them and said they could also send complaints and suggestions to his WhatsApp number and assured them of swift action, officials said. Later, he visited a few more PDS outlets in Periakulam and checked with the sales staff on the stock availability and the goods issued till date. When a group of youth in the village appealed to the Collector to visit the branch library in Lakshmipuram panchayat, he readily agreed. Regular visitors to the library urged the Collector to provide more space as many of the books and magazines were left on the floor for want of infrastructure facilities. As a gesture of support, he handed over Rs. 1,000 and assured them of adequate space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cardholders-complain-about-substandard-rice-at-ration-shop/article64990652.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ration supply continues unhindered||As many as 22.8 lakh families in Kerala have collected their ration supplies since the restoration of the normal working hours of ration outlets four days ago. According to statistics, a record number of 8,34,672 ration card holders received their monthly allocations on Saturday. This was over twice the average supply count of nearly four lakh people a day. The disruption of supply due to server glitch a week ago had threatened to derail PDS. As a result, 71,45,761 card holders have collected their allocations for the month with a working day left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-supply-continues-unhindered/article38351354.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||45 burial urns found in recent excavations at Adichanallur||Archeological Survey of India has been undertaking excavation at Adhichanallur in Thoothukudi district from October 10 of last year. A team of experts led by Regional Director of Tiruchi, Arunraj, is doing the excavation in this area after 17 years. They have dug pits in 28 places and found 45 earthenware burial urns so far. They have collected evidence of the existence of a Sangam age civilisation dating back to 3,500 years. Museum planned Moreover, they have collected evidence of a thriving civilisation till 150 years back, even during the British rule, with the discovery of a strong limestone flooring. According to Mr. Arunraj, “We are planning to establish a world-class museum for which we are finalising the pits to be covered by glass and showcase them. Work is under way to float tenders for erecting a shed on the excavation site. We’ve planned to invite those who did research from different departments so that the objects they found can be showcased.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-burial-urns-found-so-far-at-adichanallur/article64990478.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner inspects polling booths in Thoothukudi||Ahead of elections to urban local bodies, Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree inspected polling booths here on Sunday to ensure that they had adequate basic amenities for people who will exercise their franchise on February 19. In Thoothukudi district, the polls will be held for electing 414 ward councillors in Thoothukudi Corporation, three municipalities - Kovilpatti, Kayalpatttinam and Tiruchendur - and 18 town panchayats. Filing of nominations started on Friday and only 10 candidates submitted their papers so far, Sunday being a holiday. Many are expected to file nominations on Monday, considered an auspicious day (new moon day). Officials are working on a war footing to ensure that all arrangements are in place at the polling stations following a directive from the State Election Commission. The Commissioner inspected the polling booths at Innasiarpuram, Muthukrishnapuram, Bolepet, Millerpuram, Chidambaranagar, Muthiahpuram and Toovipuram. Later talking to the media, Ms. Charusree said that 319 polling booths had been established in Thoothukudi Corporation. Basic amenities had been provided in all these places, the Commissioner said. Twelve flying squads had been formed for the four zones of the corporation - three squads in each zone. Tahsildar will lead each flying squad which will have a Sub Inspector, a constable and a videographer. Though the flying squads have started their duty, they have not made any seizure so far. There have been no election-related complaints regarding violations so far, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polling-booths-inspected/article64990477.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers get training in banana cultivation||Over 440 farmers from 11 districts in the State have been provided hands-on training in banana cultivationfar under a programme organised by ICAR National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) in association with Agricultural Technology Management Agency – Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms Scheme (ATMA-SSEPERS) over the past couple of months. The 1-3 day training sessions were intended to help farmers emerge ‘experts in banana cultivation’. Forty farmers from Villupuram, Kanyakumari, Chengalpattu, Tiruvarur, Dindigul, Ranipet, Pudukkottai, the Nilgiris, Thanjavur, Karur and Theni have undergone the training, according to a NRCB press release. Each training programme was formulated with different modules with respect to banana improvement, production, protection, post-harvest and value addition. Extension and field visits were part of the training. Farmers were provided with a holistic view of banana cultivation from selection of suckers to value addition. S. Uma, Director ICAR- NRCB and course director, said the initiative was conceptualised with the amalgamation of both practical and theory components on best practices in banana cultivation. It was designed to help farmers understand the science behind each cultivation practices and they could apply them on field not only for banana but for other crops as well. She indicated that the training would be extended to more districts. C. Karpagam, Principal Scientist (Agricultural Extension) and Coordinator of the programme, said the trainees in turn would take the technologies they learnt to farmers in their districts. The database of the trainees would be maintained and used for NRCB’s future outreach programmes such as front line demonstrations, on farm trials, kela melas and development of banana cafeteria in their districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-get-training-in-banana-cultivation/article64990492.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Police probe into the death of girl student is flawed’||BJP Tamil Nadu president K. Annamalai is heading a campaign alleging that a Class XII girl student of a Christian missionary-run school in Thanjavur district died by suicide recently “following attempted religious conversion”. The police have denied the charge. In an interview, he asserts that the direction of police investigation is flawed. Excerpts:  Despite the police arresting the hostel warden, how do you say the investigation is not fair? The Thanjavur police bungled the case from the beginning. They made a quick judgment. I do not understand how the police could comment when the investigation is under way. If someone says religious conversion has taken place, the police should investigate it. The investigating officer, who is supposed to be neutral, should have said that angle should also be investigated. But they are shooting it down from day one. The School Education Minister and other Ministers jumped in and gave a political colour to the investigation. The BJP was not a party to that. Was it necessary and proper for you as the State president of a national party to release a video when the police have taken up the case? I came to know of the case only after the girl died on January 19. I spoke to the locals and saw the video sent to me. I commented on it only after I was convinced that something was missing. It [the release of the video] was required at that time because the people saw the case taking a different turn, and spices were added to it. I thought that as a responsible person, I should take up the issue. It was not political bickering. Subsequent events also attested to the fact that only after the BJP raised the issue was there some sort of pressure, and the [High] Court has said the video is an admissible evidence, and the court is trying to admit parties to the case. It is alleged that you released an ‘edited’ video... It was not edited. The investigating officer has submitted in the court that the voice sample was matching and was not tampered with; the flow of the video was not tampered with. The BJP is being accused of bringing disrepute to Christian educational institutions... I studied in a Christian school early on. In this case, some human beings have made mistakes. That person must be punished. Minority institutions have played an important role in the development of the State and the country. If any mistake has happened in the case, it is my duty to correct. Chief Minster M.K. Stalin was misled and he was not briefed properly about the case. I believe the intelligence wing gave it a religious colour. It tries to play the role of politicians. As a former IPS officer, is it fair to criticise the investigation? The girl did not completely disclose what had happened. Only after eight days did her mother come to know that she had consumed poison. Then the school authorities came and tried to pay money to her mother to shift her to another hospital. The first accused was the harasser, and she was arrested. Later, the issue of conversion cropped up. The problem is that the police are not bothered about investigating the angle of conversion and why the girl was harassed. Muthuvel, who shot the video, is allegedly not cooperating with the police, and he has a history of hatred against minorities...  What I understand from the report of The Hindu is that Muthuvel has submitted the phone and the video to the court. It is the highest degree of cooperation one can expect from him.  The girl was allegedly harassed by her step-mother. Do you want her to be questioned, too? All angles should be investigated. Unfortunately, the police have closed some angles. You have ruled out the school’s role. The SP said there was no conversion angle. We would have not taken up this issue had she said the investigation would take place from all angles. The Chief Minister has said the BJP is resorting to destructive politics by raking up religious sentiments... The Chief Minister is perturbed. I could see it from his statement. The Chief Minister, who was not speaking about the BJP, is speaking about the party today. He knows the BJP is gaining. Critics say the BJP did not fight for “Tamil Nadu Hindu girls” who were subjected to harassment in schools run by non-minorities... It is wrong...we are the first to react. When a girl was molested in a Hindu-run school in Coimbatore, the BJP staged a massive protest. A crime is a crime... The question of the stature of any institution does not arise when a crime is committed. I have never said the [Thanjavur] school should be shut.  The investigating officer has submitted in the court that the voice sample was matching and was not tampered with||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-probe-into-the-death-of-girl-student-is-flawed/article64990462.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||NAAC peer team visits college in Puthanampatti for re-accreditation||A National Assessmenent and Accreditation Council (NAAC) peer team visited Nehru Memorial College at Puthanampatti last week to evaluate metrics for re-accreditation, signalling hope for full-fledged revival of academic activities in higher educational institutions after the pandemic-induced hiatus of nearly two years. After ensuring that safety precautions were in place, the team paid on-site visit to the college, located in an interior rural part of the district, over exercising the option of making 'hybrid' visit, which was approved by the Council in its Executive Committee meeting held on July 26, 2021, due to the Covid pandemic. Hybrid visit would have meant one or two members of the peer team visiting the premises on-site face-to-face and one or two members joining online. The schedule for the NAAC team encompassing listening to the presentation by the head of the institution, visiting a few departments, holding interactions with various administrative units of the institution, students and stakeholders was condensed to two days. The college with a student strength of about 4,300 and 170 faculty members has a teacher-pupil ratio of 1:21. The duration was sufficient for the peer team consisting of Mrunalini Fadnavis (Chairperson), the Vice Chancellor of Punyashlok Ahilyadevi Holkar Solapur University, Maharastra; Shivanand S.Gornale (Member-Coordinator), Professor of Computer Science and Director of IQAC of Rani Channamma University, Belagavi; and Imbichikoya, Professor and Principal of SAFI Institute of Advance Study, Malappuram, to fulfil the core agenda of validating claims in the self-study reports pertaining to Qualitative Metrics (QlM). "The visitors, faculty and students wore face shields as well along with masks and complied with the social distancing norms," T.T. Tamilmani, Dean - Academic Affairs, and Associate Professor of English, said. The team carried out a qualitative assessment on the basis of the seven-point criteria framed by NAAC: Curricular aspects; Teaching-Learning and Evaluation; Research, Consultancy and Extension; Infrastructure and Learning Resources; Student Support and Progression; Governance, Leadership and Management; and Innovations and Best Practices. At the end of two-day assessment process, the NAAC Peer Team handed over a copy of the Exit Report to the college Principal A.R.Ponperiasamy and A.Venkatesan, the IQAC Co-ordinator. The college that has been in the service of higher education for 54 years was accredited with 'A' Grade by NAAC in the previous cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naac-peer-team-visits-college-in-puthanampatti-for-re-accreditation/article64990490.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools prepare to welcome students back to classrooms||As schools get ready to reopen for all classes from Tuesday, the district administration has directed school heads to clean and sanitise their premises. Students need time to acclimatise themselves to the school environment. Since they are coming back after a rather long break, the academic process could pick up momentum only gradually, teachers said. At the Pirattiyur Panchayat Union Middle School here, admissions had increased markedly in 2021. A total of 593 new students had enrolled in the school, increasing the strength to 900. To accommodate the students in a safe manner, the school administration has decided to conduct classes on a shift basis. "The district administration has asked us to keep the classrooms clean, make arrangements for sanitisers, hand wash and also check students' body temperature when they enter the campus. Random fever checks will also be conducted," said Headmistress Asha Devi. Students and teachers have welcomed the move to return to schools as they were looking forward to learning. "Many students do not have access to mobile phones or Internet connections to attend online classes. It has been very difficult to teach them, our teachers have gone door-to-door to teach for over two years," she said. Similar thoughts were echoed by Mercy Grace, Headmistress, Government Syed Murtaza Higher Secondary School, who said that additional efforts were being made to ensure students, especially in Class 10 and 12, returned to school. "We make phone calls to the parents and request them to send the students to school. However, many come from underprivileged backgrounds and send the children for work," she said. A chunk of students had become untraceable and teachers have even gone to their houses in search of them. Many would have migrated in search of work, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-prepare-to-welcome-students-back-to-classrooms/article38351701.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central districts continue to report dip in fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Sunday reported 2,202 fresh COVID-19 cases, continuing to register a significant drop in cases. However, a slight spike in the number of deaths was reported. Eight patients succumbed to COVID-19 in the region. Five of the deceased belonged to Tiruchi and one each from Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, according to data from the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts also reflected a slight dip in fresh cases in line with the State average. A total of 592 patients tested positive in Thanjavur, while Tiruchi reported 518 cases. In Tiruvarur district, 258 persons tested positive, and in Karur, 205. In Pudukottai, 190 fresh cases were reported, and in Nagapattinam, 171. Ariyalur district registered 118 fresh cases, and Mayiladuthurai, 98. Perambalur district reported 52 fresh COVID-19 cases- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-continue-to-report-dip-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38351706.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||MoU signed for project on bioremediation of solid waste leachate||Bharathidasan University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ZIGMA Global Environ Solutions for carrying out a joint project costing Rs. 8.05 lakh on ‘Microalgae-based bioremediation of municipal solid waste leachate.’ L. Ganesan, Registrar in charge, and K.P. Mutharasu, Director, Zigma, signed the MoU, entailing remediation of municipal solid waste leachate using extremophilic microalgae, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam. The Zigma released Rs. 7.24 lakh to the University, after deducting 10% towards Tax Deduction at Source to carry out the project. Started in 2015 to solve the problem of legacy waste management, Zigma designed India’s first integrated landfill mining facility. Its services were subsequently contracted by the municipalities in Tamil Nadu and other States, enabling reclamation of several hundred acres of land and restoring them back to the urban and local bodies. The company received Excellence award in managing municipal solid waste from the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) during 2020, a Bharathidasan University release said. In joining hands with the industry partner, Zigma, Bharathidasan University brings to its fold a technology partner in taking a proven ‘lab-to-land’ technology in handling the problem of leachate of landfills of municipal wastes, a haunting task for municipal bodies, both small and big ones, the Vice-Chancellor said. "The bioremediation method is the need of the hour, said N. Thajuddin, an eminent Professor in Bio-science arena, and his colleague D. Dhanasekaran, in the Department of Microbiology. This challenging project uses extremophilic microalgae to reclaim municipal solid waste leachate which would otherwise seep down deep below spoiling soil and groundwater, quite irreparably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mou-signed-for-project-on-bioremediation-of-solid-waste-leachate/article64990496.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||47-year-old man falls from temple wall, dies||A 47-year-old man from Kumbakonam fell to his death from the wall of the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple where he had undertaken maintenance work along with a dozen workers. According to police sources, Vasudevan, from Cholapuram in Thanjavur district had been working on the wall on South Chithirai Street where maintenance work is under way for nearly a month. While working, the man slipped, fell and died on the spot after sustaining injuries on his head, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-after-falling-from-temple-wall/article38351710.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 108.40 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 729 cusecs and the discharge nil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64990491.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli DMK functionary murdered||An armed gang attacked a man identified as Ponnudas, 38, alias ‘Abe’ Mani, son of Sudalaimuthu of Palayamkottai here on Saturday night. The police said that when Ponnudas was returning home, a speeding car hit his two-wheeler in which he lost control of the vehicle and fell on the ground. Immediately, the occupants of the car alighted and attacked him with weapons in which Ponnudas died on the spot. As the news spread, the Palayamkottai police rushed to the spot and seized the body. It was sent for post mortem to the Tirunelveli Government Hospital. Initial probe suggested that Ponnudas had recently taken a liquor bar and was operating it. There might be some previous enmity behind the deal, the police said. “We are probing into other aspects and tracked his mobile phone as well,” an officer said and added that they were tracking the CCTV camera footages obtained from the vicinity. Meanwhile, the family members refused to accept the body and demanded the arrest of the suspects. Police pickets were posted in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-man-murdered/article38351735.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Sunday was 119.70 feet (maximum level is 143 feet) with an inflow of 338.31 cusecs and a discharge of 1104.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 113.10 ft (118 feet) with an inflow of 34 cusecs and a discharge of 430 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38351998.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rayalaseema forum urges govt. to expedite works on irrigation projects||Forecasting extreme pressure for drinking water in the drought-prone Rayalaseema in future, the Rayalaseema Intellectual Forum has represented to the Andhra Pradesh government to expedite works on the pending projects, considered a lifeline to the region. In a memorandum to the Principal Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy, forum coordinator M. Purushottham Reddy pointed to the growing importance of Rayalaseema lift irrigation and Siddheswaram projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rayalaseema-forum-urges-govt-to-expedite-works-on-irrigation-projects/article38351355.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 22.84 lakh seized from house of taluk surveyor||Ambur Taluk Surveyor S. Balaji, 37, was arrested on charges of corruption following a day-long search, conducted by the sleuths from the Vellore detachment of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), at his residence in Kalanikattu Street in Senbakkam near Vellore on Saturday. The searches led to the seizure of Rs. 22,84,650 cash from his house. The searches were conducted a day after Mr. Balaji was allegedly caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs. 8,000 from K. Sekar, an applicant, for patta transfer at the Ambur taluk office. For patta transfer Mr. Sekar, had approached Mr. Balaji to get a patta transfer for four of his plots in his native village of Minnanur near Ambur town after his online application was not processed. In his complaint to DVAC, Mr. Sekar alleged that the Surveyor had demanded Rs. 12,000 and later reduced the amount to Rs. 8,000 for the patta transfer. A special DVAC team led by inspectors, S. Vijayand V. Rajinikanth, arrested him and also conducted searches at his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-2284-lakh-seized-from-house-of-taluk-surveyor/article38351707.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister lauds coconut vendor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised M. Thaiammal, 43, a tender coconut-vendor at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district, for having donated Rs. 1 lakh to a government school in her locality. In his monthly radio address to the nation, Mr. Modi explained how Ms. Thaiammal came to know that the Panchayat Union Middle School at Chinnaveerampatti was looking for funds to improve infrastructure. She donated Rs. 1 lakh from her savings. “To do this, you need a very big heart and an urge to render service,” he said, adding that Ms. Thaiammal got both her children educated at the same school.  Ms. Thaiammal visited the school on January 8 and presented the cheque. She was felicitated by Collector S. Vineeth. She had saved Rs. 2,500 every month for nearly three years and wanted to donate the sum to the school where her husband, son and daughter studied, she told The Hindu earlier.  “All of us [at Chinnaveerampatti] are overjoyed,” school headmaster N. Inbakkani said. 650 students Established in 1925, the school has around 650 students. It plans to construct 12 classrooms. “Work on construction of four classrooms has started under the ‘Namakku Naame’ scheme, and we need funds for constructing the other classrooms,” he said.  Work on construction of four classrooms has started under the ‘Namakku Naame’ scheme, and we need funds for constructing the other classrooms N. Inbakkani, Headmaster||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-lauds-coconut-vendor/article38351621.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bio-degradable cutlery to help fight plastic pollution in the Nilgiris||Entrepreneurs producing what they claim to be bio-degradable cutlery, which is made from agricultural waste, met the Nilgiris district administration officials recently to chart a course that will help restaurants and businesses phase out use of plastic containers. The Nilgiris district administration had announced ban on 19 different kinds of plastic a few years ago, apart from water and soft drinks packaged in plastic bottles. The aim was to prevent build-up of plastic waste in the district. Over the last few years, the results of the ban have been mixed, with pollution remaining a huge problem, but plastic bottles being seen in very-low quantities in the district’s rivers. While water ATMs were set up across the district to enforce the ban on bottled water and soft drinks, hotels and restaurants across the district continue to use plastic containers to pack food for their customers. Recently, a group of Coimbatore-based entrepreneurs met the district administration to discuss their “bio-degradable, environmentally-friendly” products.  R. Senthil Kumar, one of the manufacturers, told The Hindu that plates, cups and containers that are made by the Coimbatore-based company is made entirely of agricultural waste. “We buy the agricultural waste in bulk from farmers, and produce the cutlery,” he said.  “As the Nilgiris has been plastic-free for many years, we wanted to introduce the products here as an alternative to current methods of packaging,” he added. They claim that the cutlery, once used, will bio-degrade in less than a day, while animals can also safely consume them. The administration urged the business owners to set up a manufacturing plant here, and to reach out to businesses to help phase out the use of plastic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bio-degradable-cutlery-to-help-fight-plastic-pollution-in-the-nilgiris/article64990665.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. official held for sexual harassment||A 33-year-old deputy tahsildar was arrested by the Nilgiris district police on Saturday after he sexually harassed a woman police personnel. The man was identified as S. Babu, a resident of Udhagamandalam town near the Government Arts College. He had been heading a flying squad of four personnel for the urban civic body elections. A woman police attached to the All Women Police Station in Udhagamandalam was part of the team accompanying the flying squad. When the complainant was said to be inside a vehicle, it has been alleged that Babu sexually harassed her. Based on a complaint by the victim, Babu was booked under sections 354 (assault of criminal force to woman to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act and was arrested by the police. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-tahsildar-arrested-on-sexual-harassment-charge-in-udhagamandalam/article38351645.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 110 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 56,612 with 110 fresh cases reported on January 30. With a total of 54,114 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1,336. The district’s toll is 1,162. Ranipet district logged 365 fresh infections, Tirupattur 214 and Tiruvannamalai 433.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-110-fresh-covid-cases/article38351999.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 Olive Ridley carcasses washed ashore||Carcasses of three Olive Ridley turtles were found washed ashore near Bommayarpalayam on Sunday. A group of youth were on their daily morning walk on the beach when they spotted the carcasses of the turtles on the stretch between Bommayarpalayam and Pillaichavadi coasts. A Forest Department official said that one of the turtles had cuts on its flippers and the carapace. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained. A post-mortem will be conducted and the carcasses will be buried on the shore, he said. The nesting season of Olive Ridleys listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, is from January to March and the turtles could have arrived to the shore to lay eggs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-olive-ridley-carcasses-washed-ashore/article64990454.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Death toll goes up to two in Saturday’s fireworks accident||The death toll in Saturday’s fire accident at Bhommi Fireworks in Ammankovilpatti Pudur near here rose to two after a victim succumbed to burns on Sunday morning. K. Gubendran, 29, of Ammankovilpatti Pudur, who was critically injured, died at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. While D. Arumugam, 58, of Sankaralingapuram was killed on the spot, the factory foreman, B. Deivendran, 33, of Viswanatham, who suffered 80% burns is under treatment at GRH. The police said that four employees were involved in disposing of waste materials on the unit premises after all other workers had left for home, at 7.30 p.m. The police suspect that the employees had not followed the safety measures. When the waste materials dumped in a pit in a corner of the unit, were set on fire, a ball of fire engulfed the trio following an explosion. Another employee S. Ganesh Pandi, 23, who managed to escape from the flames sustained injury in the hip.He has been admitted to the Government Hospital in Sivakasi. Owner arrested Meanwhile, the Amathur police arrested the owner of the unit, C.Selvakumar, 38, of Viswanatham on charges of negligence, causing grievous injuries and death without intention and under the provisions of Indian Explosives Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-goes-up-to-two-in-fireworks-accident/article38351736.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Urban civic polls to be held for 363 wards in Virudhunagar||The district administration has set up a control room and deployed 45 flying squads to prevent malpractices in the coming election for Sivakasi Corporation, five municipalities and nine town panchayats in Virudhunagar. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said people could call the control room over the toll-free number 1800-425-0453 round the clock to lodge poll-related complaints. Election would be held for 363 wards in urban civil bodies including 48 wards of Sivakasi municipality. The five municipalities had 171 wards: Sivakasi and Virudhunagar 36 each, Rajapalayam 42, Sattur 24, Srivilliputur 33. The nine town panchayats had 144 wards: Chettiyarpatti, Kariyapatti, Mallankinaru, S.Kodikulam, Sundarapandiam, W. Pudupatti all 15 wards each and Mamsapuram, Seithur and Watrap 18 wards each. A total of 662 polling stations comprising 111 for Sivakasi Corporation, 398 for municipalities and 153 for town panchayats had been set up in the district, which has 2,76,897 male voters, 2,92,157 female voters and 74 others. Fifteen Returning Offiers and 42 Assistant Returning Offiers would be involved in the poll duty. Four critical and 99 vulnerable polling stations had been identified in the urban local bodies. They included two critical polling stations in Virudhunagar municipality and one each in Seithur and W.Puduppatti town panchayats. Among the vulnerable polling stations, 24 were in Sivakasi Corporation, 45 in the five municipalities and 34 in nine town panchayats. The ceiling of expenses for the candidates for the wards had been fixed as Rs. 17,000 for town panchayats, Rs. 34,000 for first and second grade municipalities and Rs. 85,000 for special grade municipalities and corporation, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-civic-polls-to-be-held-for-363-wards-in-virudhunagar/article64990653.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police stop oath naming Godse as Gandhi assassin||The Kattoor inspector objected to this, stating that they had applied for permission to conduct the event to the Rathinapuri station. The organisers later installed the flex board at Sivananda Colony where the police asked them to remove the word, ‘Hindu’, which was masked with an adhesive tape. “The police allowed them to go thus far, thinking that the event would be over with the garlanding of Gandhi’s photo. However, the pledge had words that might lead to law and order issues,” the officer said. Kovai Makkal Ottrumai Medai, which organised the event, said the banner had the words denoting that on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, “who was murdered by Hindu religious fanatics, we will work for unity and religious harmony.” Since the police objected, the organisers agreed to remove the word ‘Hindu’. The police later removed the audio system and the vehicle from the venue. They were returned to the organisers after talks. City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar said he would check whether there was anything wrong with the police intervention. The Rathinapuri police said a case was registered against the organisers under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penalty for unauthorised disfigurement by advertisements) of the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan demanded an inquiry. “It is a wrong practice on the part of the police to interfere when an event was in progress. Why should the police be particular about suppressing the fact that Gandhi was killed by Godse? It is unacceptable to allow the mind of the police to be clouded by ‘saffronite’ thoughts. There are doubts whether these police officers would function impartially,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-stop-oath-naming-godse-as-gandhi-assassin/article38351597.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||One death 1,181 fresh COVID-19 cases in Salem||The daily caseload of COVID-19 infections reduced to 1,181 in Salem district on Sunday. The district had registered 1, 264 cases on Saturday. Health officials said that 703 cases were indigenous and 298 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. The district reported one COVID-19 death. Erode district reported 1,127 new cases. As on Sunday, the district had 8,781 active cases. Namakkal district reported one COVID-19 death and 572 fresh cases, all indigenous, on Sunday. While Dharmapuri reported 274 cases, Krishnagiri saw 612 cases, all indigenous. In a relief to Coimbatore district, the daily caseload of COVID-19 infections dropped below the 3,000 mark on Sunday. The Health Department said that the district had 26,044 active cases on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-1181-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-salem/article38351751.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday unlocked||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-unlocked/article64990602.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Homage to Mahatma||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homage-to-mahatma/article64990678.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work apace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-apace/article64990485.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Damaged portions of the 14-km ghat section on Pachaimalai hills from Shobanapuram checkpost to Top Sengattupatti pose risk of accidents. Residents of Kambur, Solamathi, Thaneerpallam, and Boothakkal in Tiruchi district and Nallamathi, Mayambadi, Periyanagoor, Chinnanagoor, Kodungal, Odaikadupidur in the jurisdiction of Salem district face sufferings on a daily basis. Passengers utilising the thrice-a-day service operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation from Thuraiyur bus stand and a sole service from Athur in Salem district also experience the discomfort of numerous potholes. Overgrowth of vegetation on the sides has made matters worse for two-wheeler riders whenever they are required to cross or overtake buses. There is a compelling need for laying a strong road along the 14-km stretch with parapet in the interests of passenger safety. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti   Large piles of dug-out mud left unlevelled after laying underground drainage pipelines pose enormous difficulties for residents of Visvas Nagar in Karumandapam. Since the quantum of soil is huge, the residents are unable to clear it by themselves. There is a collective opinion among the residents that the contractors responsible for levelling the surface ought to be held answerable. R. Pichai Pillai, Karumandapam   The mushrooming growth of eateries, meat stalls and other shops on the eastern side of the stretch between Sundar Nagar Hostel and Sabari Mills bus stops has shrunk the path for pedestrians. Presence of street dogs keeps two-wheeler riders on their toes while taking the path. One wonders why these shops are permitted on the busy road. Some seem to have erected temporary shelters too, warranting prompt intervention by the authorities. The law-enforcing authorities should ascertain the state of affairs for themselves by installing CCTV camera. P.K. Raman, Ayyappa Nagar   While vaccines are an important tool in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, and there is a need to scale up vaccination, the public also have the responsibility of taking protective measures. Wearing of masks, maintaining physical distancing, avoiding crowded, closed and confined setting, and ensuring hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette are of equal importance. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi   Conferment of Padma Shri award this year to Clarinet maestro A.K.C. Natarajan has come rather late given the fact that he had introduced the western instrument to Carnatic music way back in the fifties, akin to what Kadri Gopalnath did for Saxophone in the eighties. The clarinet maestro along with his brother AKC Venugopal enthralled audiences all over South India and received innumerable awards, including Kalaimamani. He was associated with almost all Sabhas in Chennai- Tamil Isai Sangam, Naradha Gana Sabha, Krishna Gana Sabha and Music Academy etc. Rasikas strongly feel the nonagenarian deserves Padma Bhushan. A.V. Narayanan, Thillainagar   The road condition in Kaliya street in Kumbakonam has turned bad. Residents of the locality undergo much inconvenience and trouble during their daily commute. None seems to remember when a proper road was laid the last time. Students of a couple of schools in the vicinity undergo difficulty every day due to the poor condition of the road, which is also the route to the Kumbakonam bus stand and railway station for pedestrians and motorists from Mathulampettai and those residing beyond the railway gate in areas such as Anaikarampalayam and Srinivasa Nagar. Ganesh Babu, Kumbakonam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article64990489.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli Reader’s Mail||In the absence of a proper drinking water supply, residents of Lake View Colony in Melagaram near Tenkasi have to fetch water from Courtallam. Electricity poles, which were erected years back, do not have lights. Since a shallow sewer has been built on one side of the road, the sewage water gets stagnant and has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. These problems should be set right. Besides, a park should be set up in the area earmarked so that children and youth can utilise it and the elderly need not take risk walking on the busy Courtallam Road. Even the bund of a nearby pond can be developed with walking track. A.Sathasivam, Tenkasi.   Adding to stray dog menace, Eruvadi people in Tirunelveli district are haunted by the presence of Asian Palm Civets (‘maranaai’ in Tamil) which find refuge on housetops and under cars at midnight. Due to the proximity of Western Ghats of Kalakad wildlife sanctuary, the menace of these animals is felt every day. They suck tender coconuts in the gardens of the houses and in coconut groves. People used to trap these animals in cages or nets and hand them over to the forest authorities in Tirukkurangudi. But a permanent solution is to be found by the Forest Department so that people can live in peace. A. Kaja Nazimudeen, Eruvadi.   The Tamil Nadu Governor has rightly appealed to the student community to learn Indian languages other than the mother tongue. In this context, I reiterate that Tirunelveli needs a Kendriya Vidyalaya or Navodaya Vidyalaya. During recruitment for CRPF, CISF, RPF and armed forces, youth throng in large numbers at the selection venue. Do they voice protest against learning Hindi? An institute must also be opened at Palayamkottai to teach European, middle-eastern and far eastern languages for the benefit of those aspiring to become diplomats. A.M.N. Pandian, Tirunelveli.   Thiruvanthapuram High Road, one of the busiest roads in Palayamkottai, does not have a median between Murugankurichi signal and Kulavanikarpuram railway gate. During peak hours, rash driving, wrong side overtaking and quick change of lanes cause accidents and anxiety among drivers of two-wheelers and four-wheelers. So medians, with street lights, must be constructed on this stretch, and also between Palayamkottai bus stand signal and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. P.Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai.     With the model code of conduct in force ahead of urban local body elections, wall posters and graffiti are being removed in Tirunelveli. A newly built divider, painted in balck and white stripes, on the stretch of the Samathanapuram corner in Palayamkottai going towards Thoothukudi, was also not spared. Under the Smart Cities Mission programme, many constructions have been undertaken in Palayamkottai and Tirunelveli. These structures must be protected from the ugly-looking posters and wall paintings. Violators must be penalised with heavy fines. Rajakumar Arulanandham, Palayamkottai.   It was widely published in media that special camps would be held for the precautionary dose for COVID-19 on January 20. When I approached the PHC, I was told that my slot was on January 22. When I went to the PHC on that day, I was asked to provide the last four digits of the final vaccination certificate registration which I did not have. I went home again. Only on my third visit, I could get the jab. Had they issued clear instructions while announcing the camp to bring the registered mobile, Aadhaar card and final vaccination certificate number, the vaccination process would have been hassle-free, and senior citizens need not make multiple visits. J. Edison Devakaram, Thoothukudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-readers-mail/article38351997.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Adithya School of Business Management : CEO Meet, 4 pm.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on “Designing Your Career”, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38351647.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||31-01-2022-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Mylapore. Hall-2 B/N 4.15 pm Students of Indhisha Fine Arts Dhamini Devaraj & Rukhmini Inthuri, 5.45 pm Students of Amirtham School of Bharathanatyam, 7.15 pm Mohiniyattam Nisha Pradeep Guru Gopika Varma. All are Welcome. https://livewebcast.in/anusham Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Today 04.00 pm Bharatha natyam by Ms. Aabheri Sreeram Guru : Sri. M.S. Hariharan & Smt. Pramila. 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Students of Thapasya Guru: Smt. Rathnamala Saravanan. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-01-2022-city-cinema/article64990682.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||20 HESCOM staff suspended in Athani, seven transferred||Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) has begun an investigation in what is said to be financial irregularities amounting to an estimated Rs. 85 crore by the company staff in the Athani taluk unit of Belagavi district. Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar has suspended 20 employees after a preliminary probe found their involvement in the misappropriation. As many as seven others have already been transferred. A detailed probe is on. These officials, including some engineers, face the charge of diverting funds and material meant for welfare schemes to other channels. They also face the charge of misappropriation of funds and material received from the government towards flood relief. The action is based on an inquiry report by HESCOM Managing Director Bharati D. This followed an investigation by the Managing Director, Director Technical, Finance Officer of the company and others. The investigation was ordered after the HESCOM head office received written complaints from Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leaders and others against several officers in Athani division. The suspended staff are five Assistant Executive Engineers, four Assistant Engineers, Five Junior Engineers, Accounts Officers and Assistant Accounts Officers, an operator and a meter reader. However, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leaders say that they are not satisfied with the action.  In a letter to the Chief Minister, Choonappa Pujari, Shashikanth Guruji, Raju Jambagi, Somaling Guddapur and others have said that the Government has not acted on some other officers who are involved in the incident. Only small fish have been caught, while the big fish have been let go, Mr. Pujari told The Hindu . He sought a CID inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-hescom-staff-suspended-in-athani-seven-transferred/article64990566.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:22 IST,KARNATAKA||I have cut my ties with Congress: Ibrahim||“I have come out of the Congress. There is no question of going back. I will not yield to any attempt by any leader to convince me to stay [in the Congress],” C.M. Ibrahim, MLC, said in Hubballi on Sunday. “I am like the mythical Vishakantha from the Puranas. I have kept quiet even after suffering humiliation for years. But if I decide to curse someone, they will suffer badly,” he said. A visibly upset Mr. Ibrahim said it was the media that made him a leader and he would now look to it for guidance at his crucial juncture in his life. A few days ago, he had said in Bengaluru that he would soon quit the Congress. Criticises Siddaramaiah He criticised Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, for claiming that he made him an MLC. “Siddaramaiah has been saying he made me an MLC. I will throw an open challenge to him. Let us both resign our seats and contest again. I will resign as MLC tomorrow. Let him resign as MLA. Let us both contest elections again. Let us see who wins,’’ Mr. Ibrahim said. Mr. Ibrahim claimed that D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, had not kept his promise of talking to him to resolve differences. “He is a big man. Why will he talk to me?’’ he said. Mr. Ibrahim said he had come to meet S.R. Patil, former MLC. “I will go, but I will take with me some leaders who are willing to come. Let us see what happens,’’ he said. ALINGA, AGOWDA Mr. Ibrahim said he would establish ALINGA (alpa sankhyata- Lingayat) and AGOWDA (alpa sankhyata- Gowda) organisations to counter AHINDA promoted by Mr. Siddaramaiah. “In North Karnataka I will build ALINGA and in South Karnataka AGOWDA” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-have-cut-my-ties-with-congress-ibrahim/article38351587.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Nargund murder case: Inspector suspended||The State Government has suspended a circle inspector on charges of failing to contain law and order disturbance at Nargund in Gadag district, leading to the death of a local youth recently. N. Satish Kumar, Inspector General of Police (north western range), issued orders of suspension pending further inquiry of Nandishwar Kumbar, Circle inspector, Nargund police station. Two attacked The town police face allegations of allowing hate speeches by Bajrang Dal leader Sanju Nalwade in front of the police station, that incensed some youth who attacked two innocent Muslim youth with weapons. Sameer Shahapur, 19, who worked in a road side eatery in Nargund, and Shamsher Khan Pathan, a photographer, were attacked. Sameer Shahapur died in the hospital. Pathan is still under treatment. The incident happened on January 17. Protest rally The problem started in Nargund on January 14 when some Bajrang Dal members took out a protest rally alleging that some Muslim youth had insulted Hindu Gods on social media platforms. The police filed two cases against around 80 persons. However, Sanju Nalvade and other Bajrang Dal leaders alleged that the police were not taking action against the accused. They took out a rally on January 17 and held a protest in front of the police station. Sanju Nalvade who addressed protestors, abused the police calling them cowards and challenged the police officers to arrest him and his associates. He also made a hate speech, calling for attack on Muslims. Enraged by this, a group of eight persons waylaid two Muslim youth who were going home from their shop and attacked them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nargund-murder-case-inspector-suspended/article38351923.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||Gang strikes at temple for second time in six months||A gang of men struck at the Sri Renuka Devi Temple in Belagavi on Saturday night. The gang broke open the lock of the temple and fled with gold and silver articles worth lakhs of rupees, the police said. Canine squad The District Canine Squad was rushed to the spot. The dogs went up to the Samarth Nagar Cross where the trail ended. This is the second time in six months that the temple has been looted. The case registered by the police the first time remains unsolved. The police are sifting through CCTV footage for clues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-strikes-at-temple-for-second-time-in-six-months/article38351763.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Agnihotra’ ritual conducted at Belagavi airport||Airport staff joined members of a religious association to organise an ‘agnihotra’ ritual on the premises of the Belagavi airport in Sambra on Saturday. Rajesh Kumar Maurya, airport director, Vinayak Lokur, industrialist, and around 20 others lit fire in small homa kundas and chanted hymns to worship Agni, the fire God. They sat in a square-shaped formation at the entrance of the airport lounge. Mr. Maurya shared pictures and videos of the event on the social media handle of the airport. “Agnihotra is the way to heal and purify the space. It rejuvenates and activates surrounding atmosphere. Thanks to Vinayak Lokur,’’ he said in his post. “A few days ago, I had requested Mr. Lokur to organise the ritual at the airport. We are happy that he came with his team and organised the agnihotra. We all participated in it. We have decided to make it a regular activity here,’’ he said in an accompanying video. He told journalists on Sunday that there was no security threat to the airport by such rituals and that there were no rules that prohibited such activity. He claimed agnihotra’s beneficial effects on the environment were scientifically proved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agnihotra-ritual-conducted-at-belagavi-airport/article64990562.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||Mutalik Desai passes away||Dhruvaraj Venkatrao Mutalik Desai, veteran journalist, theatre personality, advocate and Seva Dal activist, died in Hubballi on Sunday. He was 92-years-old. Hailing from Koujalagi village in Belagavi district, he served Kannada, Marathi and English news papers in various capacities in Belagavi and Hubballi.  He served for long as a journalist for Samyukta Karnataka daily and Karmaveera magazine. In a career spanning six decades, he worked for Udayavani Kannada daily, Tarun Bharat Marathi daily, Navhind Times English daily, among others. He wrote comedy sketches for All India Radio Dharwad’s Kannada service.  He was a winner of prestigious awards like Press Club of Bengaluru rural reporting award, R. H. Kulkarni award for lifetime achievement, Kannada Sahitya Parishat Sirigannada award. The State government selected him for T.S. Ramachandra Rao award in 2019. But the award ceremony did not take place due to COVID epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mutalik-desai-passes-away/article38351766.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:20 IST,KARNATAKA||Belagavi firm to build houses in Rwanda||The Department of MBA at KLS Gogte Institute of Technology organised an online international conference on Indo African Businesses-Strategic Perspective in Belagavi recently. Belagavi-based developer and CREDAI office-bearer Chaitanya Kulkarni said that CGK Constructions and Real Estate Private Limited, Belagavi, has signed an MoU with the Rwanda Housing Authority to build 6,000 houses with an investment of about Rs. 1,500 crore at Kigali, Rwanda (East Africa).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-firm-to-build-houses-in-rwanda/article38351765.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Cold, cough and fever? Many shunning COVID-19 tests||Venkatesh Murthy, a college lecturer in the city, recently came down with a fever but refused to get tested for COVID-19. Instead, he took paracetamol and rested for four days. Once his fever subsided, he resumed work. “In this wave, COVID-19 has become more like the flu. So even if I had contracted the virus, I’m fine now. The government has also prescribed only seven days of home isolation,” he said, defending his decision not to get tested. He isn’t the only one choosing this route. A growing number of people coming down with fever and other symptoms similar to COVID-19 are opting out of getting tested. Rashmi K., a software engineer and a resident of north Bengaluru, recently tested positive for COVID-19. Soon, her family members, including her three-year-old son and mother-in-law developed a sore throat, cold, cough, and fever. But none of them got tested. “We assumed it was COVID-19 and our family doctor put us on medication. We were in home isolation and came out of it after seven days,” she said. This trend is distorting the actual rate of infection, say civic officials who are also grappling with unreported positives among those using self-test kits at home. The mechanism put in place to track buyers does not appear to be in place. “The sales of home test kits have skyrocketed in the last one month. We are selling hundreds of kits every day. The Government has asked us to take down the Aadhaar and phone numbers of buyers, but to date, nobody has asked us for this data,” said a senior manager of a leading pharmacy store chain in the city. As per the Government data, the daily caseload of COVID-19 in the city appears to be declining gradually. But it may not be a reflection of the real picture on the ground, civic administration now fears. “We have observed that many of those who have symptoms are also not getting themselves tested. We would advise all symptomatic persons and primary contacts of positive patients to get themselves tested. The guidelines are very clear,” said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who had tested positive for the virus and went into home isolation on January 26. A senior public health official said that while COVID-19 is easily manageable at home during the ongoing wave, it is still advisable for people to follow guidelines and not self-medicate. “The severity of the disease is less with the Omicron strain and complications are very low. However, it is not that nobody is developing complications or even dying. Especially senior citizens and those with comorbidities need to be monitored as per the guidelines,” said the public health official. He added that the problem with people isolating themselves till they feel better or their fever and other symptoms subside is that it puts others at risk. “They may potentially be carriers and infect people they come in contact with,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cold-cough-and-fever-many-shunning-covid-19-tests/article64990696.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Anchepalya residents to get road to metro station||Last year, residents of Anchepalya and other villages off Tumakuru Road had staged multiple protests demanding that the authorities build a road that will allow them access to the planned Chikkabidarakallu station on the Nagasandra–BIEC metro line. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) claims that the situation has been resolved. A link road will be built via the property of a private builder located close to the station.  BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that a private builder had agreed to build a 12-ft road that villagers can use to reach the station once it becomes operational. One more road will be built linking the village to Tumakuru Road.  “We have settled the issue. The link road which goes via the builder’s property will provide direct access to the station. We are not spending any money for this road. The builder has come forward to build the road which can be used by private vehicles as well,” said Mr. Parwez. As a “goodwill gesture”, the BMRCL will take up various civic works in the villages such as the construction of a school building and drainage network at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. “We have already inspected the area and addressed the grievances expressed by villages. The BMRCL has received cooperation from villages as well as elected representatives to resolve the issue,” he added. Initially, villagers wanted a separate metro station, but are happy with the compromise. “We had demanded a separate metro station but now at least we will get multiple roads that connect Tumakuru Road and the Chikkabidarakallu metro station. Work on civic amenities has begun. People living in Mayanna Layout, Prakruthi Layout, and others villages will also benefit,” Akash Gowda, a resident of Anchepalya said. Multiple agencies The BMRCL has roped in multiple agencies to complete the extended Green Line from Nagasandra to Madavara (formerly BIEC) as the original contractor executing the project failed to meet the tender conditions. “The BMRCL had entrusted the work to Simplex Infrastructure, but due to financial woes they could not execute the project at expected level. Now we have roped in multiple agencies to clear pending works that include the station as a viaduct,” said the MD. He added that hurdles to carry out projects on NICE properties are being addressed. “Near the BIEC, there were some issues with construction of the metro on NICE land that have been resolved,” he added. Construction was halted near the BIEC as NICE did not agree to provide land for building the elevated line. When asked about when the line is likely to open for commercial operations, Mr. Parwez said, “We are aiming for opening the line by the end of the year.” As per the plan, the BMRCL is extending the Green Line by 3 kilometres. Three metro stations are being constructed at Manjunathnagar, Chikkabidarakallu, and Madavara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anchepalya-residents-to-get-road-to-metro-station/article64990702.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||First round of counselling to end on Feb. 7||The schedule for the first round of counseling for those who took UGNEET-2021 for Medical/ Dental/ Ayush courses began on January 29 and the process will end on February 07, according to a release by the Karnataka Examination Authority. As per the Executive Director of KEA, the process began with the display of the seat matrix and fee structure and the download of the verification slip. As per the schedule of the calendar of events, Option Entry by eligible candidates (in the order of preference), publication of mock allotment results and provision to change option entry for eligible candidates (add/ alter/ rearrange/ deletion of options) will be carried out on February 1. Publication of first-round allotment result, exercising choices by the seat allotted candidates, payment of fees and downloading of Admission Order (payment of fees by choice-1 and choice-2 candidates; downloading of admission orders only by choice-1, after payment and depositing of original documents) will be done on February 4. Depositing of original documents (at KEA, Bengaluru in person) along with one set of attested photocopies of all the documents, only for choice-1 fee paid candidates will be on February 5. The last date for reporting at the allotted Medical/ Dental College (Choice-1 candidates only) with one set of attested photocopies as per verification slip is February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-round-of-counselling-to-end-on-feb-7/article38351574.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||New COVID-19 cases drop to 28,264||The number of new COVID-19 cases across the State dropped on Sunday to 28,264, but the death toll remained high at 68. A week ago, on January 23, Karnataka had reported over 50,00 new positives, more than the peak of the second wave in 2021. But cases have been steadily declining. There are currently 2,51,084 active cases in the State. Though Bengaluru accounted for the maximum number of cases with 11,938 positive cases, this is a steep decline. Of the 68 people who succumbed to the virus, 14 were from Bengaluru Urban district, 10 from Mysuru and seven each in Dakshina Kannada and Ballari. Tumakuru and Bagalakote each reported four deaths. Since the start of the pandemic, 38,942 people have died of COVID-19 across Karnataka. As many as 29,244 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 34,95,239. The positivity rate for the day was 16.38%, while the case fatality rate was 0.24%. Testing was well over the one lakh mark. As per the daily COVID-19 bulletin released by the Karnataka Health and Family Welfare department, 1,72,483 tests were conducted including 1,33,852 RT-PCR tests. The cumulative number of tests conducted to date stands at 6,17,48,173.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-covid-19-cases-drop-to-28264/article38351573.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Hariprasad: Godse was first terrorist and anti-national of the country||Terming Nathuram Godse as the first terrorist and the first anti-national of the country, Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Council B.K. Hariprasad on Sunday said that Mahatma Gandhi, a staunch Hindu, was killed by those propagating Hindutva ideology. Speaking here as part of the Martyr’s Day function to mark the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Hariprasad said: “Mahatma Gandhi was a staunch Hindu. The person who killed him was not a Muslim, Christian or a Sikh. He was killed by a Hindutvawadi who is now the inspiration for BJP leaders. If they had so much anger or if they loved Hindus, they should have killed Mohammed Ali Jinnah. But they did not do it.” He said: “It was not an ordinary murder. He was not killed by a Pakistani. Some section may give different reasons or bifurcation of the nation as a reason for the murder, butthe real reason was that the Sangh Parivar could not tolerate the rise of the nation under liberal thoughts. Gandhiji stood for social justice, freedom, entry to temples for Dalits and equality among others. The Sangh Parivar is against social justice, constitution, secularism and liberal thoughts.” Mr. Hariprasad said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi even after so many years has not said anywhere that Godse should not be eulogised. He did not comment even when attempts were made by Sangh Parivar to eulogise Godse on social media. “We have to spread awareness about the murder of Mahatma Gandhi repeatedly. It is the responsibility of every Congressman to spread the Gandhiji’s ideology.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hariprasad-godse-was-first-terrorist-and-anti-national-of-the-country/article38351582.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||CM to review existing towing system||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the State Government will review the existing vehicle towing system. “We will review the system. Earlier, towing was being done by the department itself and now it is being outsourced. Several incidents of skirmishes between the public and police have been reported,” he told reporters here after taking part in the Martyrs’ Day function. Though this comes in the wake of a traffic policeman violently thrashing a woman for pelting stones at a towing vehicle, it is not the first time citizens have expressed ire over how vehicles are towed. People ave been accusing traffic police of violating SoPs while towing vehicles from non-parking areas. There have also been instances of irked motorists physically attacking the towing staff. The towing fee is another sore point among motorists, many who are unable to afford them. For a first-time offence for parking a bike in a non-parking area the fine is Rs. 1,150. This includes Rs. 500 for the parking violation and Rs. 650 for towing the bike away. The Rs. 650 towing charges is split equally between the government and the agency. For car parking violations, owners have to pay Rs. 1,500 (Rs. 500 fine, and Rs. 1,000 as towing charges). Here, too, the agency and the government split the towing charge. For the second offence for both categories of vehicles, motorists are charged an additional Rs. 500 over and above the regular fine. Another incident Another incident of towing staff allegedly harassing a motorist has gone viral. It shows staff from J.B. Nagar traffic police towing away the bike of a delivery executive as he runs behind the vehicle, pleading with them to stop. The vehicle was later stopped, and the executive got his bike back after he spoke to the ASI in charge. People commented on the video and blamed the towing staff for their senseless action. Taking a strong exception to this, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda ordered an inquiry and suspended the operation of the vehicle. The ASI was also withdrawn from towing duties until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-review-existing-towing-system/article38351568.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Pattan episode exposes chinks in Congress||In just about three months time, the Congress has faced embarrassment after leaders have been caught bad mouthing KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on microphone that has exposed chinks in the party where Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar are seen contenders for the Chief Minister’s post. While in October, it was media coordinator M.A. Saleem and former MLC V.S. Ugrappa, who were caught bad mouthing the Vokkaliga leader, it was former legislator from Ramdurg Ashok Pattan in the latest episode. On both occasions, the microphone picked up conversations. “It is a dangerous trend that will hurt the party as well as leaders. It is surprising that all those found speaking are senior enough and knew that they were speaking at a wrong place. Such episodes should be stopped, especially in the election year and leaders should reign in their followers and restrain them from bad mouthing each other’s camp,” party sources felt. According to another source, Mr. Pattan, a known follower of Mr. Siddaramaiah, is keen to please his leader since his constituency has a big chunk of Kuruba voters. Responding to the episode, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that it was an internal matter of the party, and that such differences between Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar are already known. “There are many instances. Congress never worked for the welfare of the people. They were always concerned about coming to power and using power for their selfish ends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pattan-episode-exposes-chinks-in-congress/article38351584.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||ASI who assaulted woman suspended||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra condemned the brutal behaviour of a traffic cop caught on camera kicking and abusing a physically challenged woman. The traffic cop, Assistant Sub-Inspector R. Narayana, was suspended on Sunday. “Police should behave properly with the public. Any incident of police going overboard will not be tolerated. I have convened a meeting of senior police officials on Monday,” Mr. Bommai told reporters on Sunday after taking part in the Martyrs’ Day function. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, too, condemned the brutality of the attack. The assault on a hapless woman by a police officer who used brutal force and hurled abuses will not be tolerated, he said. “No one has the right to take the law into their hands and police officials are no exception.” Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda has ordered an inquiry into the incident, based on which action will be taken against the ASI. The incident took place a few days ago when a stone that the woman was pelting at a towing truck hit Narayana. The woman, Manjula, 37, who lives in a makeshift shelter, works as a parking lot attendant at a service lane off J.C. Road. The clip shows the ASI confronting the woman. When she walked away, he dragged her by the hair, forced her onto the ground and began to kick her. Based on his complaint the jurisdictional S.J. Park police arrested Manjula, who was remanded into judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-who-assaulted-woman-suspended/article38351567.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t find fault when none exists: Bommai to ex-CM||Countering former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for attacking the Government, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday asked the former not to find fault where none exists. “We are aware of our responsibilities. We have launched many programmes for the welfare of the people,” he told reporters here. His response came after Mr. Siddaramaiah had alleged that the Government had not fulfilled any of the promise made in the 2018 manifesto of the BJP. The Chief Minister said: “Nothing more can be expected from Mr. Siddaramaiah. He should see the work done for the welfare of the people. Instead he is trying to find fault where none exist. Mr. Siddaramaiah had claimed that he implemented 96% of his manifesto. But still people rejected him.” Stating that it is not enough to announce programmes, Mr. Bommai said: “They should be implemented. We are aware of our responsibilities towards the welfare of students, youth, women, SC and ST communities.” Cabinet expansion Declining to respond in public the issue of Cabinet expansion, he said: “I am ready to go when the party high command calls me to discuss the issue.” The Chief Minister also said that he would convene a meeting of Members of Parliament from State ahead of the budget session of the Parliament. “There is a convention. I will visit Delhi soon to meet our MPs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-find-fault-when-none-exists-bommai-to-ex-cm/article64990560.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Cases booked against Ola, Uber cab drivers at KIA||The Transport Department has booked cases against taxi drivers attached to Ola and Uber on the grounds that the aggregator platforms have not renewed their licence. Officials have booked cases against around a hundred drivers operating from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Saturday.  Additional Commissioner (Enforcement) of the transport department Narendra Holkar told The Hindu that both the aggregators are illegally running their business without renewing their licence.  “Their licence expired months ago. Though they have submitted documents for renewal they were not done as per rules. We will continue to take action, if they fail to adhere to the rules.” This is not the first time that the transport department has cracked down on Ola and Uber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-booked-against-ola-uber-cab-drivers-at-kia/article38351565.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||With fewer applicants, schools alter hiring process||There was a time when school managements were flooded with applications for teaching posts. But in a complete U-turn, schools are scrambling to get qualified applicants for vacant teaching posts. The problem of staff shortage has become all the more urgent offline classes set to resume on Monday. In order to tackle this deficit, many school managements are trying to recruit younger teachers and reduce the number of rounds for the interview process. Dakshayini Khanna, senior principal of Harvest International School, said that the recruitment criteria had changed to hire younger teachers that fit their budget. “We also want to hire younger teachers and there is demand for those who are in the 30 to 35 years age bracket as they are more open to adapting to new teaching methods. This academic year we want teachers who have good communication and technology skills as well as subject knowledge,” she said. With salary cuts, many teachers have resigned this academic year and relocated to other cities. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said that in the past their schools would receive at least five applications for one teaching position. “We would have an elaborate and rigorous selection process that includes a written round, demo class and an interview. We have converted all these rounds online,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said that earlier school managements were conducting at least four rounds before shortlisting a candidate. “Now, however, we conduct only one or a maximum of two rounds before recruiting teachers.” He also said that it was difficult to find teachers with high qualifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-fewer-applicants-schools-alter-hiring-process/article38351575.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||MBA graduate arrested for cheating students||The police on Sunday arrested a 26-year-old MBA graduate for allegedly cheating engineering students who wanted to change their streams. The accused,Rajeshwar, would visit colleges, befriend security guards and take photos of the entry book where students write down their names and contact number. He would then send bulk messages to students claiming that he was from the management of that college, and offered to help those who wanted to change their streams – for a fee. Many students, thinking that they were opting for management quotas would pay up. But instead of asking them to transfer the money to his account as he knew he would get caught, he would give them bank account details of gold and jewellery shop that he patronised. “Once a student agreed to pay the ‘fee’, the accused would visit a jewellery shop and tell the proprietor that he wanted to purchase some gold for which he would transfer money online. He gave those bank details to students, and when the money was wired, would buy the equivalent in gold,” said a police officer. Using this modus operandi, he cheated a student with Rs. 1.27 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mba-graduate-arrested-for-cheating-students/article38351566.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||BEL signs contract with Hyperion||Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL) and Hyperion Global Group, an infrastructure telecommunication distribution company, have entered into a contract to develop, manufacture and supply Internet of Things devices for the U.S market. As per the contract, BEL will manufacture and supply IoT devices worth $73 million to U.S. firm Hyperion during the first year, while the contract comes with a provision to negotiate for supply upgrades of the products worth $365 million in the next five years, as per a statement from BEL. According to the PSU, the contract pairs Hyperion’s need to provide advanced connectivity solutions with BEL’s world-class engineering and manufacturing capabilities. Anandi Ramalingam, Chairman & Managing Director, BEL, said: “BEL is looking forward to expanding its global footprint and the contract with Hyperion is another major step in that direction.” BEL’s Central Research Laboratory would be actively working on this project, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bel-signs-73mn-contract/article38351576.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:53 IST,KARNATAKA||Case against man who ran car over stray dogs||The police are on the lookout for the driver of a white Audi who ran over stray dogs that were sleeping on a pavement in Jayanagar. Though the incident occurred last Wednesday, animal right activists filed a complaint with the Siddapura police on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-man-who-ran-car-over-stray-dogs/article38351564.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Never sought membership of Congress: Preetham Gowda||Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda of the BJP has said he was ready to quit active politics and work as a watchman for Congress leader H.K. Mahesh if he showed proof that he had sought membership of the Congress party. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Saturday, the MLA said he had never thought of quitting the BJP and joining any other party. “The day the thought of joining any other party comes to mind, I believe that is the end of my political career,” he said. He was reacting to Congress leader Mahesh’s allegation that Preetham Gowda had consulted leaders of the Congress and also applied seeking party’s membership. “If Mahesh shows any evidence to prove that I had applied for Congress party membership, I will quit politics and start working as watchman for Mahesh’s residence. I don’t expect salary from him. But, if he cannot show evidence, he should apologise in public for his comments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/never-sought-membership-of-congress-preetham-gowda/article38351935.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:43 IST,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar’s driver leaves behind death note with names||The series of incidents at the Sringeri taluk office that began with the arrest of Sringeri tahsildar earlier this month took a new turn with the death of the tahsildar’s driver Vijeth Hegtur, 24. He was found dead near his house at Hegtur on Saturday evening, leaving a note that forced the police to suspect suicide. The note reportedly carry several names and details related to allegations of corruption and the creation of false documents, for which the Sringeri taluk office has been in news for many days. Vijeth was working on a contractual basis as a driver for the tahsildar. He took the extreme step due to the mental torture he suffered following an investigation into the allegations of corruption in the office, according to his friends and relatives. The people of Sringeri staged a protest, keeping his body in Sringeri town on Sunday demanding suitable compensation for his family. They alleged that he gave up his life for the mistakes of other officials. They took Assistant Commissioner H.L. Nagaraj to task, blaming the administration’s failure to take control of the situation in the office well in advance. Senior officers of the Revenue Department and political secretary to Chief Minister D.N. Jeevaraj spoke to the family. It is said the local leaders promised a sum of Rs. 8 lakh to the family. Vijeth’s brother Vineesh filed a complaint with Sringeri police. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M. Hakay said that three people had been arrested based on the note. Though the officer refused to divulge the content, he said going by the note it was clear he took this step due to the issues at his workplace. Background Following a complaint by a resident of the taluk Anti-Corruption Bureau, the police arrested tahsildar R. Ambuja and village accountant Siddappa while accepting a bribe for regularising a residential property on January 6. This led to a series of incidents. Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh ordered a probe into the allegations of corruption in the Sringeri taluk office by a team of officials led by Assistant Commissioner Nagaraj. Initially, three staff members of the taluk office were suspended and went incommunicado. (Those in distress and those having suicidal thoughts can call up the State’s helpline 104 for counseling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildars-driver-leaves-behind-death-note-with-names/article38351931.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:43 IST,KARNATAKA||Cabinet sub-committee hearing on shrine issue on February 7||The State Cabinet sub-committee on the Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah issue will hold a public hearing at Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner’s office in Chikkamagaluru on February 7. The Department of Religious Endowment has sent a notice to Ghouse Mohiyuddin Shakhadri, hereditary administrator of the shrine, informing him about the meeting. This would be his last chance to present his case along with relevant documents before the sub-committee, the notice said. The State Government constituted the sub-committee with Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy as head on October 5, 2021, following Karnataka HC’s direction to relook into the issue afresh delivered on September 28, 2021. The committee met in Bengaluru on January 6 this year. Shakhadri had sent a letter to the committee stating that he could appear before the committee due to ill-health that day. M.L. Varalakshmi, the undersecretary of Religious Endowment Department, in her notice to Mr. Shakhadri, said the cabinet sub-committee which met on January 6 decided to give one more and final opportunity for Mr. Shakhadri to submit his statement. He has been asked to attend the public hearing scheduled at 10.30 am at the DC’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-sub-committee-hearing-on-shrine-issue-on-february-7/article38351927.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:43 IST,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga reports 490 new cases||Shivamogga district reported 490 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Sunday. The total number of active cases in the district is 2,633, and among them 2,529 are in home isolation. As many as 361 people recovered on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-reports-490-new-cases/article38351930.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:43 IST,KARNATAKA||806 new cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 806 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the infection on Sunday. With this, the number of active cases in the district stands at 7,167. Among them, 13 are in ICUs. So far, 1,409 have died in the district. As many as 1,863 people were discharged on the day. Of the fresh cases Hassan taluk reported 245, Alur 49, Arkalgud 119, Arsikere 73, Belur 64, Channarayapatna 158, Holenarasipur 65 and Sakleshpur reported 33 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/806-new-cases-in-hassan/article38351926.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||We’ve achieved self-sufficiency in energy needs, says NMPT||New Mangalore Port has met 100% of its power requirement from solar energy by generating 34.95 million kWH of solar energy in the last five years till December 2021. With this, the port saved Rs. 23 crore towards electricity during the period. Due to this, 29,709 tonnes of carbon footprint has been reduced till last month, New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) said in a release on Sunday. In addition to roof-top solar panels on buildings and storage sheds, the port has installed a 5.2 MW solar plant on its premises at a total expenditure of Rs. 33.75 crore, it said and added that the port has also switched over to LED lighting. All port vehicles will be changed to electrical vehicles in phases. Two electric buses will be hired for transportation in operational areas inside the harbour, while opting for multi-clean fuelled vehicles. It will construct an exclusive in-house facility to manage solid waste generated in the residential area and port premises. The plastic waste generated in the port will be segregated and disposed of through an authorised recycler as per Central Pollution Control Board guidelines. In view of the need to reuse the material generated through dredging in the port waters the work feasibility study has been entrusted to NTCPWC, IIT (Chennai). The port is also exploring the possibilities of setting up of an LNG Terminal which will facilitate LNG bunkering of vessels reaching the port, the release said. The port has created a green belt around its vicinity and has earmarked 33% of its land area exclusively for greenery. It has planted one lakh saplings in the last five years. It has developed a Sewage Treatment Plant with a capacity for 1.20 MLD inside the port area. The treated water is used for watering the green belt and also for water sprinkling in operational areas. The port has installed slop reception facility for vessels visiting the port and to ensure that hazardous waste is disposed of through authorised recyclers only, the port said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weve-achieved-self-sufficiency-in-energy-needs-says-nmpt/article38351919.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Amendments proposed to Cooperative Societies Act’||The State has proposed eight amendments to Cooperative Societies Act, including barring a person, who is defaulter of a loan given by a cooperative institution, from contesting elections, said Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar here on Sunday. Talking to reporters, the Minister said presently nominations for Assembly and Lok Sabha elections can be rejected if the person has defaulted in payment of rent, water bill and other payments. But defaulters of loan given by Cooperative institutions are being allowed to contest elections. “There are good number of legislators, who have defaulted in clearing loans,” he said. In order to save the Cooperative bodies, the State Government has proposed amendment to the Act to bar a cooperative loan defaulter from contesting Assembly and other elections. The State Government has proposed eight amendments. Home Minister Amit Shah, who also heads the Cooperation Ministry, has said he will discuss about the amendments during his proposed visit to the state in February. The proposed amendments will further improve working of Cooperative bodies in the country, he said. To another question, Mr. Somashekar said there is no move to form a separate district cooperative bank for Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-amendments-proposed-to-cooperative-societies-act-minister/article38351577.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Martyrs’ Day observed||Martyrs’ Day was observed at the War Memorial at Mangalore University, Mangalagangothri, here on Sunday, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Addressing the gathering after paying floral tribute to martyrs, Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya said that the life of Gandhiji itself is a model for others. “By adopting his messages, we must embody the qualities needed to preserve freedom and should be able to convey the importance of this martyrdom to the next generation,” he added. Recalling that January 30 was also the World Leprosy Day, the Vice-Chancellor said: “Instead of looking down upon lepers, we should be compassionate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/martyrs-day-observed/article64990597.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Dept. looking into allegations against SCDCC chairman: Somashekar||The Joint Director of Cooperatives is inquiring into allegations of irregularities against the chairman of South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank M.N. Rajendra Kumar. Further steps will be taken after getting replies to the allegations, said Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar here on Sunday. “There is a well laid down procedure for taking action (on allegations against office bearers of Cooperative institutions). We have to get reply. This reply can be accepted or rejected before initiating action,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the inauguration of Aatmashakti Soudha of Aatmashakti Multipurpose Cooperative Society Ltd. at Padil. During his address in Bharatiya Janata Party’s Janaswaraj Yathre in Udupi and Mangaluru in November last year, Mr. Somashekar said Rs. 19 lakh was being transferred every month from the SCDCC Bank to Navodaya Grama Vikasa Charitable Trust, of which Mr. Kumar is the Managing Trustee. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies has the power to disqualify him from being a member of the Board under Section 29C of the Karnataka Cooperative Societies Act, the Minister had said. Following this allegation, Mr. Kumar opted out from contesting as an independent candidate in the Legislative Council polls from the local authority constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Earlier, in his speech at the inauguration programme, the Minister said it is because of fraudulent practices of four cooperative banks that the remaining 256 cooperative banks are also being viewed with suspicion. Appreciating the way Aatmashakti Multipurpose Cooperative Society Limited was disbursing loans, recovering loans and collecting deposits, Mr. Somashekar said people keenly observe these aspects before coming forward to transact with such institutions. “Sanctioning loan to relatives without looking at their creditworthiness will bring disrepute to cooperative banks,” he said. The Minister said the 21 District Cooperative Banks in this fiscal so far have disbursed Rs. 14 crore loan to 20 lakh farmers. “I have given them a target to disburse Rs. 20,810 crore to 30.86 lakh farmers by March 25 this year,” he said. Mr. Somashekar said in his tenure so far appointments have been made to 3,000 vacant posts in different cooperative organizations. The remaining 2,000-odd posts, which includes 70 posts in the Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union, will be filled shortly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dept-looking-into-allegations-against-scdcc-chairman-somashekar/article64990594.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:43 IST,KARNATAKA||Property tax: MCC going after top defaulters||The cash-strapped Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is identifying major property tax defaulters in its ongoing drive to mop up revenue. The revenue through property tax so far has touched Rs. 140 crore and against the target of Rs. 245 crore for the financial year 2021-22. Property tax is a major source of revenue to the MCC and in a bid to augment the collection it prepared a zone-wise list of top defaulters. “We targeted 25 top defaulters in each revenue zone of the MCC and increased our revenue substantially,” said N.M. Shashikumar, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue), MCC. A similar list of top 25 defaulters has been made for each of the 65 wards and the MCC officials are racing against time to meet the target. A majority of the defaulters are in the commercial segment and include owners of hotels, choultries and theatres. While about 60% of those listed have coughed up the arrears, there are financial issues plaguing some of the property owners who have sought time. But there are also properties mired in legal quagmire and hence no revenue can be expected from them unless the issue is legally resolved. Last year the MCC had collected Rs. 119 crore by way of property tax and was reckoned to be low though it was attributed to the impact of the pandemic. This year, the Government has announced a waiver of 50% on property tax on commercial establishments including hotels, theatres, restaurants, amusement parks, etc. in view of the pandemic. Mr. Shashikumar said the introduction of online system to pay property tax has also helped augment the revenue as more people are willing to pay online. It obviates the need to stand in lengthy queues or visit crowded offices especially in times of the pandemic. Being the first year since the introduction of the online system, the response is good and this is expected to become more popular in the ensuing days, he added. There are nearly 1.7 lakh registered properties in MCC limits and this include nearly 3,000 properties in Vijayanagar 3rd stage which was recently transferred from MUDA to MCC. The drive to augment the tax collection will be intensified in the days ahead and though the MCC hopes to add another Rs. 30 crore in the next two months, it will fall short of the target by a long way. In an effort to bridge the deficit, review meetings will be held once in 15 days to assess the progress in tax collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-mcc-going-after-top-defaulters/article64990546.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Gas project: Nagendra hits back at Pratap Simha||BJP MLA representing Chamaraja Assembly constituency in Mysuru L. Nagendra hit back at Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Sunday as the row among the BJP’s elected representatives deepened over digging up of the roads in the city for implementing the piped cooking gas project. A day after Mr. Simha criticised Mr. Nagendra, who had raised questions over repair of roads that will be dug up for laying gas pipelines, the latter not only reiterated that he had the right to hold somebody accountable for repair of the roads dug up during the project, but also countered the accusations levelled against him by the MP. While more than 500 km of the roads in the city, mostly in Chamaraja Assembly constituency will be dug up for the project, the amount of money set aside for repair of the roads was a measly Rs. 98 crore, he said. This amount will barely be enough for patchwork on the roads that had recently been laid. Mr Nagendra said he had asked the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials to provide him the estimate for repair of the roads to be damaged during the project. The MLA also questioned the MP’s for jumping to the defence of the private company executing the project. As an MLA, Mr. Nagendra claimed that he had a right to raise questions over the damage to the roads and he had written only as much in the letter to the MCC authorities. “What was the need for him (Pratap Simha) to talk about so many things other than the topic?”, he questioned. With regard to Mr. Simha’s contention that the Chamaraja MLA had not been able to bring even Rs. 30 crore for development work of his constituency, Mr. Nagendra on Sunday displayed a list of works taken up in his constituency at a cost of Rs. 526 crore since was elected to the Legislative Assembly in 2018. “My office staff have collected so many details since yesterday. There may be more,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Simha’s claim that Mr. Nagendra was unable to ensure the victory of the BJP candidate contesting from his own residential area in the last MCC polls, the MLA hit back at the MP and questioned how many members had he been able to elect to the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat comprising 49 seats. Also, he asked Mr. Simha why he was unable to ensure the victory of Raghu Kautilya in the recently-held elections to the Legislative Council from the local bodies’ constituency of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. “My supporters are asking me how many seats he helped win in the elections,” Mr. Nagendra said. Further, Mr. Nagendra sought to clarify that Mr. Simha himself had issued tickets to several of his followers in the MCC polls and asked if he was able to ensure their victory. The MLA claimed that he was able to ensure the victory of six candidates out of the 18 MCC wards that fell in his constituency. When reporters asked him about the public squabbling among the BJP’s elected representatives of Mysuru, Mr. Nagendra said he had already been brought to the notice of party’s State unit President Nalin Kumar Kateel and Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gas-project-nagendra-hits-back-at-pratap-simha/article38351934.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Shri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Institute for Management Development (SDMIMD) has invited applications from BA, B.Com and B.L.I.Sc graduates for apprenticeship training. A release said the applicants should have graduated during the last 2 years. The candidates will be observed as Graduate Apprenticeship Trainees for one year with a monthly stipend of Rs. 9,000. BA and B.Com graduates will be trained in office administration, record management, and technology tools in academic administration. For details call 9945273780 or 9886012918.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article38351932.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Gudiyatham police bag CM’s award||The writer at the Gudiyatham Taluk police station on the outskirts of Vellore was always careful to not move his desk near the walls of the dilapidated building, especially during monsoon, as leaky roof might drench his work for the day — entries into 127 records that need to be updated at the station every day. Leaky roof, wet floor, broken cupboards, poor ventilation, cramped space in the station have not deterred the Gudiyatham Taluk police from bagging the prestigious Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Trophy for the Best Police Station for 2020. The Gudiyatham station is among 40 police stations that bagged the award for 2020 and the only police station to win the award in Vellore district. “We are happy that one of our police stations bagged the coveted award. Such recognition will inspire other police stations to perform better,” said S. Rajesh Kannan, SP (Vellore). Bifurcated into Taluk and Town police station half a century ago, the Gudiyatham Taluk station has been chosen for the award after it was assessed on 18 parameters including computerisation of files and cases, crime detection, arrests in POCSO cases. Interestingly, the evaluation for the award, which was done in the rank of IGP, also includes negative marks if any official at the station had faced suspension or any other disciplinary action. Among other things, cleanliness of the station and quick issuing of chargesheets were highlights that bagged the award for the station. Since first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the station officer earmarked specific timing for each complainant to address their grievances every day. Their grievances were addressed accordingly. Such measures had not only saved time and ensured safety but also resolved the issue faster.  We are happy that one of our police stations bagged the coveted award. Such recognition will inspire other police stations to perform better S. Rajesh Kannan, SP, Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gudiyatham-police-bag-cms-award/article64990540.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:22 IST,KARNATAKA||Remembering the Mahatma||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-the-mahatma/article64990554.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of Power||People know well that laws and rules often do not apply to lawmakers themselves and this has notchanged even during the COVID times when itcan be a matter of life and death. UmeshKatti (in picture), Forest Minister, after a function in Athani, wasirked by journalists who kept asking him questions about why he did not wear masks in public. He was particularly annoyed because no one asked similar questions to other leaders like Laxman Savadi or Mahesh Kumathalli.“Why do you keep asking me such questions? Is that because I give answers that you can run on your channels all day?” he asked. Some reporters of televisionchannels admitted that no one else gives “interesting answers” like he does.Mr. Katti did not disappoint. He blatantly said that he did not wear masks as he “did not believe in them” and it was a matter of choice. He brought in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for good measure. “Mr. Modi has told the nation that wearing masks was a matter of personal choice. I am only following his instructions,’’ he said. Mr.Kattiwas forced to retract his statement the next day, but insisted that he was “wrongly quoted” in the media. He had nothing to say, however, on when and where Mr. Modi had said that wearing masks is a matter of choice.   People of Shivamogga will not forget the Republic Day speech delivered by Minister for Sericulture and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda this year for a long time. The video clip of his speech has gone viral on social media. It became an issue of debate because of the manner in which he read out the speech prepared by the district administration. Curiously, the Minister was finding it difficult to pronounce even simple Kannada words and names. The district administration had kept his speech short. According to someone who actually kept count, the Minister made 24 mistakes in his37-line speech. Mr. Gowda, a native of K.R. Pet in Mandya district, gave up his studies at a young age and went to Mumbai to work. He eventually made it big there and built hotels. Voters of K.R. Pet, who have seen him for several years, say that as he had spent decades in Mumbai and learnt Marathi, Hindi languages and hardly had a chance to read or write Kannada.He cleverly avoids reading Kannada scripts in public functions, saying that he has left his spectacles at home,according to a resident of K.R. Pet. But that excuse clearly did not come handy on R-Day.   The BJP has been finding it hard to explain non-selection of the float of social reformerNarayana Guru for the Republic Day parade. However, the ruling party in Karnataka is in favour of renaming Lady Hill Circle as “Brahmashri Nayarayan Guru Circle” in Mangaluru. It was in January last year that the Mangaluru City Corporation passed a resolution to rename the popular Lady Hill Circle. Though the MCC sent the resolution to the State Government for ratification, the Government is yet to issue the notification. On Republic Day, Congress and other organisations, including Vishwa Hindu Parishad, took out processions opposing non-selection ofthe floatof Narayana Guru. A group of Bajrang Dal activistsinstalled“Brahm -ashri Narayana Guru Circle” board as well. Incidentally this happened on the day when former Bajrang Dal State convener and Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar was in the city to hoist the national flag in his capacity as Minister in-charge of the district. On January 28, activists of Biruver Kudla installed more boards that declared the name of the circle as “Brahmashri Narayana Guru Circle.” The Minister said there was nothing wrong with activists installing boards even before official notification is issued. This apparently is aimed at checkmating the Congress whichhas attempted to make an issue of non-selection of the float, a BJP leader said. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Sathish G.T. Raghava M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article64990559.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||AC Road work to begin today||The reconstruction of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road, part of upgrading it as a semi-elevated highway, will begin on Monday. Officials said the work would start from Perunna in Changanassery. As part of the project, 2.9-km of the road will be refurbished using the bituminous macadam bituminous concrete method. Another 8.27-km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles and a 9-km stretch will be rebuilt with geogrid and geotextiles-encased stone column. "We hope to reconstruct at least 10-km of the road before the monsoon season," said an official. Initial phase The work to reconstruct the 24.14-km road as a semi-elevated highway, connecting Alappuzha and Kottayam districts, began last year. In the initial phase, the rebuilding of some of the bridges was undertaken. Officials said that apart from launching the road work, demolition of the Mankombu bridge would begin on Monday. The bridge will be reconstructed with a width of 14 metres. A temporary route has been set up parallel to the Mankombu bridge for the movement of light vehicles and ambulances. The KSRTC buses from Alappuzha will conduct service up to Mankombu Junction via Kainakary and buses from Changanassery will end service at Mankombu Block Junction. Apart from reconstructing the road and bridges, seven flyovers will be constructed at places prone to severe flooding. Construction of causeways, minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts and bus shelters are also part of the Rs. 671-crore project. Once completed, the two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 metres. Completion by 2023 The project, which is expected to prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season, will be completed in 2023. The work is being carried out by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society.  Construction of causeways, minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts and bus shelters are also part of the Rs. 671-crore project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ac-road-work-to-begin-today/article38351868.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Four held with ganja||The police have arrested four youths for alleged possession of ganja and hashish oil at Mannacherry in Alappuzha. The arrested have been identified as Shanu (19), Abrar (18), Athul (18) and Vishnu (18), all hailing from Mannancherry. The police have seized 121 gm of ganja and 1.4 gm of hashish oil from them. The operation was led by Mannancherry Circle Inspector P.K. Mohith. Mannancherry Sub Inspector K.R. Biju, civil police officers- Ullas, Thomas Antony, Midhun, Krishnamoorthy, Antony and dog trainers-Manesh K. Das and Dhanesh P.K. took part in the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-with-ganja/article38351871.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Keralite held for pledging fake jewellery||A 47-year-old man was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Coimbatore City Police on charges of cheating a nationalised bank of Rs. 1.32 crore by pledging fake jewellery. The police said that P. Reji (47), a native of Ernakulam, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by P. Subramanian, zonal manager of the Indian Bank, zonal office, Coimbatore, on January 12, 2022. Reji used to reside in an apartment on Vilankurichi Road. The police were on the lookout for four more persons namely P. Hemamalini of Gandhi Maa Nagar, T. Mathankumar of Balamurugan Nagar near Kalapatti and gold appraisers V. Dharmalingam of Chetty Street and K.A. Selvaraj of Rangappa Layout at Selvapuram. A third gold appraiser, namely Rajendran who was also allegedly involved in the cheating died of COVID-19 in 2020 and his name was removed from the case, said the police. The accused were booked for offences under Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant or by banker, merchant or agent) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. A CCB team arrested Reji from Kerala on Sunday. The cheating came to light when an unknown person visited the Cheran Maa Nagar branch of Indian Bank and informed officials that Reji was arrested in Kerala in a document forgery case, the police said. The jewellery pledged by Reji, Hemamalini and Mathankumar at the Cheran Maa Nagar branch for availing a loan of Rs. 1,32,50,000 were found fake (imitation jewellery) in an inspection conducted on October 27, 2021. The trio remained at large when the bank tried to reach them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-from-kerala-held-for-pledging-fake-jewellery/article38351648.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Youth dies after fall into gorge||A 25-year-old youth was killed when he accidentally fell into a gorge from a height of 600 feet at Karadippara viewpoint near Munnar on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Shibin Charli, a resident of Chelad near Kothamangalam. According to the Vellathooval police, Shibin was part of a 17-member team that reached Munnar on Saturday and stayed in a tent camp near Karadippara. On Sunday morning the team was trekking to the Karadippara viewpoint when the accident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-dies-after-fall-into-gorge/article38351865.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||RSS activist injured in explosion||Alakode Biju, an Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader accused in the murder case of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activist Dhanraj, was injured in a bomb explosion outside his house at Alakode on Saturday evening. Biju is out on bail. In the explosion, Biju’s hand was injured and two fingers of his left hand were severed.The house was damaged. He has been admitted to the Malabar Medical College Hospital at Ulliyeri. Though the bomb exploded on Saturday evening, it was reported only on Sunday morning. The police registered a case against him for handling explosives. CPI(M) Peringome area secretary C. Sathyabalan alleged that Biju was transferred to a secret centre in a vehicle. He said the RSS was trying to create tension in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-activist-injured-in-explosion/article38351893.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Customs seize gold worth Rs. 1.15 cr.||The Customs arrested a person when he tried to smuggle contraband gold worth Rs. 1.5 crore in his car in Kasaragod. Customs Superintendent P.P. Rajeev said Abhijith Pratap Ingale, 31, a native of Mangalore, was caught with 3.11 kg of gold. The gold was hidden inside the car. Based on a tip-off, theteam carried out a check near Chandragiri bridge on Saturday evening when they found the gold hidden inside the car. The arrest wasregistered on Sunday. This is the second gold seizure in the last two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-seize-gold-worth-rs-115-cr/article38351883.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Trenching of SA Road triggers fears of traffic snarls at Vyttila||Barricading of the Vyttila Janatha-Vyttila Junction corridor on SA Road to trench a portion of the fast track of the road to lay CNG pipelines has given rise to fear that traffic snarls will reappear at Vyttila. Even worse, trenching has been proposed on the road that was fully resurfaced by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) just over a year ago after completion of the metro’s Pettah extension. It was a fortnight ago that movement of vehicles through the junction was streamlined, following redirecting of vehicles from the Palarivattom side. The aim was to lessen traffic hold-ups on SA Road, where the queue of vehicles often extended up to the Elamkulam bridge during peak hours. Vyttila United Forum chairman Thampy V.R. said this was the latest example in the city of shoddy planning. The trenching (to reportedly provide CNG supply to a fuel station on SA Road) could have been done before the road was resurfaced. “This is proof for slack accountability by stakeholders, especially so since public funds are at stake. The District Collector should prevent recurrence of such indiscriminate trenching of newly relaid roads. The least that the Kochi Corporation, which owns SA Road, can do now is to insist on advance payment for the road’s restoration work,” he added. Even if the trenched portion is restored, there is a possibility that it would sink, resulting in the road being at two levels. Trenching could also impair movement of vehicles in the east-west direction, from the city to Vyttila and Thripunithura, he said. Mayor M. Anilkumar said he hoped the push-through method to lay gas pipelines would be chosen to avert trenching of the entire barricaded portion. “The resurfaced road has a three-year warranty period. Still, efforts were made to set apart Rs. 73 lakh to further overlay it. I opposed it, since it would be a wastage of public funds,” said Sunitha Dixon, the councillor representing the Vyttila division in the Kochi Corporation. Kunnara Park road Even as traffic has been re-routed, a major bottleneck persists in the form of the narrow Vyttila-Kunnara Park Road. The corridor owned by the PWD (Roads Wing) remains two-lane, even as the Kunnara Park-Pettah stretch was widened to four-lane as part of the Kochi metro work. Buses from the Vyttila Mobility Hub exiting into the narrow stretch compounded the snarls. PWD sources said a proposal to widen it was submitted to the State government a decade ago. “We hope funds will be allocated in the impending budget, so that it can be tagged with the second phase development of Vyttila Junction and the mobility hub,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trenching-of-sa-road-triggers-fears-of-traffic-snarls-at-vyttila/article64990625.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Do not deny treatment to COVID patients, Minister tells hospitals||Health Minister Veena George has said that action will be taken under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance if hospitals denies treatment to COVID-19 patients. She was participating in an online meeting with Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, who is in charge of overseeing the COVID-19 situation in the district. Instructions have been issued to private hospitals to set aside 50% of beds for COVID patients. The Health Minister said 497 more appointments would be made in the health sector in the district on an emergency basis. Of these, 429 will be in hospitals and 68 in laboratories. A Public Service Commission list is also ready for filling 13 vacancies of junior health inspectors in the district, the Minister added. She also directed hospitals to ensure availability of medicines. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Thomas Chazhikkadan, MP, Mayor M. Anilkumar, and MLAs K. Babu, Anoop Jacob, Eldhos Kunnappillil, Roji M. John, Anwar Sadat, K.J. Maxy, Antony John, P.V. Sreenijin, Mathew Kuzhalnadan, and K.N. Unnikrishnan, and district panchayat president Ullas Thomas were among those who attended the meeting. COVID cases Meanwhile, a total of 9,704 fresh COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Ernakulam district on Sunday. There are 7,143 cases of local spread, while there are no cases of infected persons coming in from other districts or states, said a communication from the district health authorities. There are 2,528 cases in which the source of infection is not known, and 33 health workers are among those who have been infected. At the same time, 1,382 persons were declared cured, and 11,225 more were brought under observation in their homes. A total of 5,632 persons have been declared out of home observation. There are a total of 69,184 patients in the district, and 17,195 samples have been sent for tests. Vaccination Up to 5.30 p.m. on Sunday, 789 doses of vaccine were administered. Of these, 151 are first doses and 482 second doses. A total of 58.17 lakh doses have been administered so far in the district. Of these, 31.90 lakh are first doses and 25.66 second doses. As many as 96,385 children have received the vaccine so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-deny-treatment-to-covid-patients-minister-tells-hospitals/article64990631.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||KSEB plea for more manpower flayed||The high tension (HT) and extra-high tension (EHT) power consumers have strongly objected to Kerala State Electricity Board’s request to the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission to increase the allowable manpower strength from 27,175 in 2008-09 to 33,371 as of 2017-18. This represents a 22.8% rise in manpower over the last nine years, said Nandkumar Nair, vice-president of HT and EHT Industrial Electricity Consumers’ Association. Objections by the industrial consumers were raised at a recent hearing convened by the electricity regulatory commission after the KSEB petitioned it on December 6, 2021. The HT and EHT consumers account for around 27% of the energy supplied by the Kerala power utility and contribute about 34% to the revenue. The association is of the opinion that such a steep rise in manpower would not only hit the consumers in the form of a rise in tariffs but also affect the profitability of the power utility. The KSEB is seeking to raise manpower “without considering an organisational restructuring to cut unnecessary expenses”, said Mr. Nair. “Our members feel such a move would be detrimental not only to the consumers but also to the KSEB itself. Individual members of the association have expressed concern about the move,” he added. The industrial consumers said in their presentation that the KSEB was seeking not just redetermination of manpower strength for 2017-18 but also cost approvals till 2026-27. This implies that the utility plans to retain the strength of 33,371 till 2026-27. The industries requested the commission not to approve the numbers with retrospective effect. The large industrial consumers have also alleged that the KSEB had not implemented any of the manpower-related directives passed by the regulatory commission. The board has also been projecting big revenue gaps for the period between 2008-09 and 2017-18. Per 1,000 consumers The number of employees per 1,000 consumers at the KSEB in 2016-17 was 2.8, which was better than the all-India average of 3.18 employees per 1,000 consumers, the industries said in its presentation. However, in less than three years other States improved their position and the all-India average stood at 2.3 employees per 1,000 consumers, which means that KSEBL employee strength per 1,000 consumers is 9% more than the all-India average as in 2019-20, the industries claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-plea-for-more-manpower-flayed/article64990616.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Anti-mosquito drive to be intensified in all divisions||Faced with widespread criticism over mosquito menace, the civic authorities have decided to step up measures to contain the insect population. Anti-mosquito fogging will be intensified in all divisions of the Kochi Corporation from Tuesday, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the health standing committee of the civic body. Fogging will be done in all divisions from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. Larvicide will be sprayed in drains and areas where mosquitoes are likely to breed. This will be done from 7.30 a.m. to 12.30 in the noon. In the evening hours, fogging will be done between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., said Mr. Ashraf. Mosquito population can be contained only through regular and repeated use of larvicide and fogging, he added. The civic administrator conceded that the city was facing increased mosquito menace this season. Most canals got filled with slurry during the recent spring tide. This led to stagnation of water, aiding breeding of mosquitos, he said. Mosquito population can be contained to a considerable extent by covering the windpipe of septic tanks with nets. This will prevent escape of mosquitoes that breed in the tanks. The civic body will supply nets free of cost to those who have not covered wind pipes. Residents shall also take care to drain stagnant water in containers left unattended, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-mosquito-drive-to-be-intensified-in-all-divisions/article38351819.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||CIAL reaffirms position as third busiest airport||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has retained its position as the third busiest airport in India throughout 2021 thanks to concerted efforts to smoothen traffic during the pandemic and increased connectivity. According to the latest numbers released by the Airport Authority of India (AAI), CIAL stands third in the country in terms of international traffic. The figures showed that the airport stood third in terms of international passenger traffic in December too, which cemented its third position for the entire 2021. A communication from CIAL on Sunday said according to AAI data on international traffic for the month of December 2021, the Delhi Airport topped the list with 8,42,582 passengers and Mumbai handled 4,51,212 passengers. CIAL saw 3,01,338 international passengers during December 2021, whereas the Chennai Airport, which is at the fourth position, handled 2,46,387 international passengers. CIAL handled a total of 43,06,661 passengers during the entire 2021. Of them, 18,69,690 were international passengers. CIAL’s passenger volume increased almost by a million in 2021 when compared to 2020, the communication added. CIAL managing director S. Suhas attributed the traffic growth to proactive measures taken by the airport management to attract more airlines. The chairman and board of directors have focused on re-establishing air connectivity to Kochi from all international travel hubs during the pandemic. Despite the spike in COVID cases, CIAL managed to facilitate smooth traffic, he said. “The year 2021 also witnessed the resumption of direct services to the United Kingdom by Air India. Singapore Airlines started operations in December 2021, and we hope that we can host services in the Kochi-Bangkok sector soon,” Mr. Suhas said. Airports in the country as a whole handled 25.12 million passengers in December 2021, compared to 23.23 million passengers in November. There were 19.64 million passengers in October, compared to 15.44 million in September and 14.26 million in August 2021. However, the growth in air passenger traffic has been slow since December-end because of the third wave of the pandemic. The country recorded 22.13 million domestic passengers in December, up from 20.72 million in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-reaffirms-position-as-third-busiest-airport/article38351808.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Kalam bust at Marine Drive to be repaired||With much of the Marine Drive walkway being repaired under a Rs. 7.20-crore project by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), which owns the walkway, will take steps to repair the damaged bust of former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam on the waterfront, official sources said. This will be in addition to the renovation of the Marine Drive shopping complex that the GCDA owns. The flanks of the walkway leading to the building and other structures on the eastern side too will be renovated, they added. The renovation work will include waterproofing of the walkway. In addition, efforts are on to extend the walkway from behind the Children’s Park to Rajendra Maidan through Subhash Chandra Bose Park, it is learnt. Even as CSML renovated much of the 2.20-km walkway, trees and shrubs along the stretch remain to be pruned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalam-bust-at-marine-drive-to-be-repaired/article64990628.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||‘Globally accepted method’||The most scientific and internationally accepted methodology was used for the survey on the SilverLine rail project, said V. Sivaprasad who retired from the Department of Chemistry, S.N. College, Kollam, and an executive committee member of Greens Movement Kerala which organised the survey. Any authority was welcome to challenge the survey results, he said. We would include more technical questions in the questionnaire in the next stage (of the survey, said Prof. Sivaprasad, who also associates with, among other bodies, the Save Kerala Movement which proposes alternative development models for the State. The random survey among commuters also included four multiple-choice questions on why they opposed SilverLine rail. The State would fall into debt trap, said 93.51% people, while 89% said it would affect the environment, said S. Georgekutty, Director and CEO of Edupress which did the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/globally-accepted-method/article38351828.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Two injured in goonda attack at N. Paravur||Two men were allegedly attacked at N. Paravur late on Saturday night by a gang of around six people. Shanavas and his brother Navas sustained serious injuries in the attack. The attackers reportedly came looking for Shanavas and saw Navas outside the house. They then broke open the door and hacked Shanavas. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik was among those visited the spot on Sunday. He has formed a special squad to track down the assailants. A few of the attackers had entered into a scuffle with the employees of a hotel a few days ago. Shanavas had reportedly intervened in the scuffle. The police suspect that the attack was an act of revenge. They claimed that the attackers had been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-injured-in-goonda-attack-at-n-paravur/article38351826.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||‘SilverLine will damage State’s ecology’||The proposed silverLine project is not suited for Kerala, as it could cause serious damage to the State’ ecology, according to C.P. Rajendran geoscientist and adjunct professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru. ‘DPR silent’ Speaking at a webinar organised by the Breakthrough Science Society here on Sunday, Mr. Rajendran said embankments of the project could lead to flooding. It will also lead to the destruction of paddy wetlands. The detailed project report (DPR) is silent on the ground-borne vibrations, he said. K.S. Harikumar, State committee member of the society, presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-will-damage-states-ecology/article38351827.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Martyrs’ Day observed||The Ernakulam District Congress Committee on Sunday observed Martyrs’ Day on the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi as anti-communal day.  Inaugurating the meeting, Congress leader Prof. K.V. Thomas said that the CPI(M) was promoting majority and minority communalism in the State. DCC president Mohammed Shiyas presided. The Kerala Pradesh Gandhi Darshan Vedi and Mattancherry Mythri Social Group also jointly observed the Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/martyrs-day-observed/article38351822.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Senior media executive dead||Senior media executive of MD Niche Media Consultancy Blessy Mathew Varghese, 50, passed away on Saturday. She was residing with family at an apartment at Kacheripady. The funeral will be held at St. Behenan’s Church at Ayroor, Pathanamtitta, on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-media-executive-dead/article38351823.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Rising mercury fuels human-wildlife conflict||Rising temperature has triggered a sudden spurt in incidence of human-animal conflict in several fringe forest areas of the State, leaving the residents and farmers in distress. While elephant incursions have become more frequent, villagers also report increased spotting of crop-raiders that include sambar deer, monkeys and giant squirrels. According to farmers, they are bracing for summer when the situation is expected to aggravate as the measures taken by the Forest Department are inadequate to address the mounting crisis. Apart from the scarcity of water, flourishing wildlife population can be a reason for the abrupt surge in human-animal conflicts. "There is definitely a change in population density and conflict has clearly intensified in some parts of the southern belt," says a senior official from the Forest Department. The Department is rejuvenating ponds and check dams inside the forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-mercury-fuels-human-wildlife-conflict/article38351958.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Free vocational training||Model Polytechnic College, Karunagapally, is conducting a three-month free vocational training course in Electrician Domestic Solution (NSQF-Level 3). Qualification required is Class 10 and permanent residents of the municipality / corporation can apply. Age limit is 35 years and annual income should not exceed Rs. 1 lakh. Last date for accepting applications is February 3 and call 9447488348 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-vocational-training/article38351872.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Curator vacancies in Thrissur zoo||The Thrissur Zoological Park has vacancies for curator and curator trainees and the recruitment will be on contract basis. Qualification required is postgraduate degree in Zoology or Wildlife Biology and the last date for accepting applications is February 14. For details, call 0471 2529145 or visit www.forest.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curator-vacancies-in-thrissur-zoo/article38351882.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||MGU to constitute internal probe into bribery episode||A day after the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) arrested one of its employees on charges of accepting bribe, the Mahatma Gandhi university, Kottayam, has decided to constitute an internal inquiry into the episode. Officials said a decision on the its scope of investigation would be decided at a meeting of the varsity Syndicate, slated on Monday. The probe will run parallel to an investigation by the VACB. ‘A first in varsity’ “This is the first time that such an incident is being reported from the varsity and it will be dealt with due seriousness. The employee has already been placed under suspension,” said B. Prakash Kumar, registrar, MGU. Sources said the accused official, identified as C.J. Elsy, had been appointed as a clerical assistant and was promoted as the University Assistant subsequently. “She was accorded promotions based on qualification in accordance with the previously existing service rules and had been with the MBA section since 2016,” they said. As the per the case, the accused official had received Rs. 1.25 lakh from a student for issuing her mark list along with a provisional certificate. Acting on a complaint, the VACB sleuths arrested her from a location near the Pareeksha Bhavan on the varsity campus, while accepting a bribe of Rs. 15,000 from the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-to-constitute-internal-probe-into-bribery-episode/article38351891.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Man stabs wife and commits suicide||A 60-year-old man from Akalakkunnam committed suicide after stabbing his wife following a family dispute. The deceased was identified as Surendran, who was found hanging from the ceiling of his house near Mattakkara on Saturday night. Earlier, he had attacked his 55-year-old wife Pushpamma using a knife . According to police, the duo had picked up a quarrel which culminated in the attack. Locals rushed the woman to a hospital and by the time a police team reached the spot, Surendran had already ended his life. He was declared brought dead at the Kanjirappally Taluk hospital. (Suicide Prevention Number; 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabs-wife-and-commits-suicide/article38351874.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||3,889 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 3,889 people including 110 health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday With 653 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanasserey municipality which recorded 124 cases . As many as 2,425 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 25208. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 2,517 people s tested positive for the disease during the day. With 182 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla, which reported 166 cases. The disease claimed two lives in the district With 2,275 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 12,901||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3889-test-positive-in-kottayam/article38351864.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Doctors flag unwarranted medication in COVID-19 fight||Azithromycin, an antibiotic drug to treat bacterial infections, is reportedly being widely used by people who have mild symptoms for COVID-19 in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic spurred by the Omicron variant of the virus. Doctors have flagged the use of such inappropriate medicines and unwanted hospitalisations, saying they are likely to result in more harm. According to sources, there is a rise in the number of people using azithromycin following suggestions by local healthcare workers and Accredited Social Health Activists. Senior health professionals too are prescribing it to some patients. Health experts point out that it is not an over-the-counter-drug that can be freely used. It has not been included in the guidelines prepared by the World Health Organisation and the Union and State governments. Meanwhile, the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics, a wing of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, has approached the State Drugs Controller, requesting imposition of curbs on the sale of the drug. A group of doctors from across the country, in an open appeal to Health Ministers, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), and medical professionals, said that “unwarranted medications, tests, and hospitalisations that are inappropriate for the clinical management of COVID-19” were continuing. They said a vast majority of infected persons, who were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, would require little to no medication. They claimed that several COVID-19 kits and cocktails were part of the medical prescriptions they reviewed in recent weeks. The prescribing of vitamin combinations, azithromycin, doxycycline, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir, and ivermectin was irrational, they said. “Such wanton use of drugs is not without harm as the Delta wave has shown. Outbreaks of opportunistic fungal infections like mucormycosis in India, and aspergillosis in Brazil were attributed to the widespread abuse of inappropriate medications,” they said. COVID-19 is a viral infection, that is not caused by a bacteria, seems to be the bottom line. This group of doctors include Rajeev Jayadevan, who is part of the COVID task force of the IMA, and Cyriac Abby Philips of The Liver Institute, Rajagiri Hospital, Kochi. A study titled ‘Bacterial co-infection and secondary infection in patients with COVID-19: a living rapid review and meta-analysis’ published by Bradley J. Langford and others had said that “bacterial co-infection is relatively infrequent in hospitalised patients with COVID-19. The majority of these patients may not require empirical antibacterial treatment.”  The peer-reviewed study was published in Clinical Microbiology and Infection , a monthly publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-flag-unwarranted-medication-in-covid-19-fight/article38351811.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Safety measures still at their infancy at children’s home||Many of the important recommendations made by various government agencies and organisations for the safety of girls at the Government Children’s Home in Kozhikode have been ignored despite recurring incidents of missing cases and their suspected links with criminal activities. The priority list for improving safety measures is back in focus following the latest incident in which six girls fled from the facility. The preliminary findings of the Kerala State Child Rights Commission attest that there are no sufficient number of security personnel or staff to take care of the children. Though there are 39 children, including the six missing girls who were brought back, at the facility, only three officials are on duty to take care of them. No closed circuit television cameras or fortified compound walls are in place. Apart from security issues, the posts of child welfare inspector and child counsellor have been lying vacant for long. According to official sources, the two posts are important as far as ensuring the welfare of the children and timely reporting of their additional requirements to the government are concerned. Members of the commission who recently visited the campus said that they would submit a detailed report to the government on the situation at the facility in two weeks. According to them, the possibility of setting up police surveillance will also be explored, as many other important rehabilitation centres and care homes are functioning in the area. “We are planning to meet each child personally and take note of individual complaints for prompt action. There are many suspected internal issues and grievances which can be verified only through personal interactions,” said commission member Babitha Balraj. She also made it clear that there would be concrete follow-up action based on each complaint received during the confidential interaction. The panel also expressed concern over the lack of proper training for staff to handle children. There are no such well-trained persons who can emerge as professional mentors for the children. To fill the void, the panel plans to meet ministers and the officials concerned and make suggestions for quick action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-measures-still-at-their-infancy-at-childrens-home/article38351815.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||CWC moots rehab plan for rescued girls||The Child Welfare Committee (CWC) held an emergency meeting here on Sunday to discuss the rehabilitation needs of the six girls who were brought back to the city after they were found missing from the Government Children’s Home. The meeting, chaired by CWC Chairman P.M. Thomas at the Children’s Home, decided to come up with a suitable action plan in two days taking into account the girls’ welfare needs and requests. Addressing the media, Mr. Thomas said the committee had heard in detail the complaints of the rescued girls for clarity and offered them counselling. “After studying all aspects of the case, we will come up with a suitable action that can safeguard their interests,” he said. According to Social Justice Department sources, the possibility of sending interested girls along with their parents to their own homes would also be examined by the CWC. One parent have already made such a request, they said. As part of the safety audit ordered by District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George, Assistant Commissioner (Special Branch) A. Umesh visited the Children’s Home and recorded the statements of the six girls. It was also part of efforts to gather additional information to support the investigation into the incident. The safety audit was done quickly in the wake of a suspected suicide attempt by one of the rescued girls. Kozhikode Medical College sources said the girl who was presented with a scar on her wrist was discharged after administering first aid on Saturday. Helpline: 0495-276000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cwc-moots-rehabilitation-plan-for-rescued-girls/article64990511.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Results of second semester UG exams likely to be delayed further||Results of the second semester undergraduate (UG) exams of the 2019 batch in the University of Calicut are likely to be delayed further despite the authorities claiming that the evaluation of answer scripts without assigning false numbers was aimed at “expediting” the process. It was in a reply to a recent letter by Congress-aligned Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, Senate member Lekshmi R. Chandran, and Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed that Controller of Examinations C.C. Babu said that the evaluation without false numbering was applicable only for the second semester UG exams. Mr. Babu said in the reply that the effort was to “expedite the process of publishing the results”. The evaluation of answer scripts for other courses would be done as earlier. Ms. Chandran and Mr. Ahammed had pointed out that the credibility of the examination system had been lost after the answer scripts were sent for evaluation with the original numbers assigned to the students. Though the evaluation was completed by October, results are yet to be announced. It is learnt that many answer scripts are spread across various colleges and Pareeksha Bhavan staff are still in the process of sorting them out. Mr. Ahammed said on Sunday that the results could be delayed by another one month. The university is unable to monitor to whom the answer scripts had been sent. “False numbering of answer scripts for one semester of a UG course takes at least 10 days. During the process, various other works such as sorting out of the answer scripts are also undertaken. The university apparently wanted to save this time. But it has actually delayed the results,” he said. Mr. Ahammed pointed out that even after the results are announced, re-evaluation of these answer scripts would pose another problem. It would require another round of sorting out and dispatch of these papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-of-second-semester-ug-exams-likely-to-be-delayed-further/article38351814.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Milma to raise remuneration for farmers||Milma has decided to increase remuneration for dairy farmers in the Malabar region from February 2022. The 32nd annual general body meeting of the union on Saturday decided that dairy farmers should get at least Rs. 1 per litre additionally based on the quality of milk. The union has set aside Rs. 2.3 crore for the purpose, said Milma Malabar Regional Union chairman K.S. Mani in a press release. Milma collects 7.6 lakh litres of milk in Malabar daily. Its sister concern, Malabar Rural Development Foundation (MRDF), will give a discount of Rs. 50 paise per kg for hay and Rs. 1 per kg of maize powder to dairy farmers. When most sectors crumbled in the aftermath of COVID-19, the milk manufacturing sector in north Kerala managed to stay afloat. Moreover, milk production increased during the period, as more people started venturing into dairy farming as a sustainable vocation during the pandemic. The Union noted that there was 10% rise a day in the amount of milk collected in the Malabar region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-raise-remuneration-for-farmers/article38351812.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Two arrested||A special squad of the Excise Department on Sunday seized 55 gm of MDMA, which was found hidden inside a Bluetooth device. Malappuram native P.V. Vysakh, 22, and Malaparamba native M.V. Vishnu, 22, who allegedly smuggled the drug by a motorbike were nabbed in connection with the incident. According to Excise Department officials, the youths were intercepted at Chevayur following a tip-off received by the Excise Intelligence wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested/article38351816.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Rescued girls flay arrest of youths||In a major twist, the six girls who were recently brought back to the Government Children’s Home at Vellimadukunnu after they were found missing claimed that they were not sexually exploited by the two youths who were arrested on Saturday under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girls who criticised the police action argued that the youths had actually come to their help in Bengaluru. They also alleged that no one was willing to hear their side of the story. Meanwhile, police sources said the arrests were recorded on the basis of strong circumstantial evidence. They added that further details would emerge soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rescued-girls-flay-arrest-of-youths/article38351813.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Thrips wither dreams of Muthalamada farmers||The mango farmers of Muthalamada are a worried lot with a large-scale thrips attack on their crops. Thrips or minute insects locally called ‘ilappen’ have destroyed the flowered mango trees in Muthalamada orchards. No pesticide has been found effective against it. Hundreds of acres of mango orchards owned or taken on lease by different farmers had flowered in profusion by the mid of December last year after delayed and untimely rains that hit many parts of Kerala in October and November. However, the flowers withered by the beginning of January following a widespread thrips attack. Rekindling hopes among the farmers and traders of Muthalamada, the orchards began to flower again by the mid of January. But thrips have returned with a vengeance decimating a large part of Muthalamada, the mango city of Kerala. “This seems to be the worst attack since thrips emerged in Muthalamada five years ago. As a farmer upholding optimism as my positive ideal, I expect to get one fifth of the normal yield this year,” said M. Sachindran, a leading farmer at Muthalamada. Mr. Sachindran said the farmers were helpless and defenseless against the thrips. “Many farmers tried various kinds of pesticides to address the issue. But it (thrips) seems to be invincible,” he said. The anxiety among the farmers and traders was palpable at Muthalamada, the State’s mango city that used to enjoy the advantage of early mango yield compared to other parts of the country. Advantage The biggest advantage of Muthalamada was that its mango orchards used to flower by November and give the yield by January and February. The climate change, including the delayed rains, has deprived Muthalamada of the advantage that it used to enjoy in the past. Delayed flowering and delayed yield, however good it is, is never beneficial for Muthalamada. Any yield after March will bring down the prices of mango across the country, giving heartburns to the farmers who invest lakhs in the orchards. Delhi, Ahmedabad and Mumbai continue to be the main mango markets in the country with 90% of Muthalamada mangoes yielded between January and March reaching those markets. “This year we hope to get hardly 20%,” said Mr. Sachindran. Muthalamada has major mango varieties such as Alphonso, Sindhooram, Banganapalli, Totapuri, Kalapadi, Mallika, Naduselai, Neelam, Gudadat, Malgoa and Rumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/insect-attack-withers-dreams-of-keralas-mango-farmers/article64990506.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Panchayat plans barbed wires to keep out wild pigs||Amidst the growing frustration over the significant nuisance posed by wild pigs to croplands and human life, the Pathanamthitta District Panchayat has now come up with a special project to get rid of the menace.The project, which follows a prolonged and failing struggle against the animal,envisages erecting barbed wire fences across the farmlands in 24 panchayats of the district, except rubber plantations. To be established at a cost of Rs. 2.53 crore, the proposal has now received an approval from the Kerala State Planning Board.Elaborating on the project, Omallur Shankaran, President of the Pathanamthitta District Panchayat said the fencing would bemade of special wire with a thickness of 60 mm. “The fencing, with an average height of one and half metres andat least half a foot below the ground, will be attached to iron or concrete pillars. The cost of construction per meter is estimated to be around Rs. 500 while the Department of Agriculture has projected the cost to be around Rs. 7,556 for 15 metres,” he said.Farmers who are willing to construct the fences as per the estimate prepared by the Department of Agriculture should apply to the grama panchayat. As many as 500 farmers in blocks including Ranni, Ilanthur and Konni will be included in the project in the ongoing year.A fund of Rs. 75 lakh has already been allotted for the first phase of the project, added Mr.Shankaran.Commenting on the initiative,Dr. P S Easa, former director of Kerala Forest Research Institute and a member of the committee appointed by the State Government to study the human wildlife conflict related issues, called for a comprehensive approach to tackle the issue. Welcome move “The involvement of the District Panchayat is indeed a welcome move because the threat posed by wild pigs is no more a forestry issue alone. The authority, however, should take up the fencing project on a pilot basis and proceed with it based on its success,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-plans-barbed-wires-to-keep-out-wild-pigs/article38351875.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||‘Kambavala’ fish workers in distress||For Nazir’s family, fishing using ‘Kambavala’ (gill nets) is a traditional method handed down over generations. The uniqueness of their method is that unlike many other fish workers, Nazir and his kin do not venture out into the deep sea. A group of 30 to 40 fish workers, who work with a ‘Kambavala’, lays out the long net stretching hundreds of meters in the waters close to the shore, waiting patiently for a considerable catch. However, in recent years, the catch has been disappointing due to various reasons, including overfishing in the deeper waters. Their problems gets further compounded by a shrinking of the coastline. ‘Best returns’ “It is during these three or four months of relatively calm waters that we get the best returns. But now, there are several days on which we hardly get anything. Today, after many days, we got squid worth Rs. 10,000, but when it is divided among 30 people, it is nothing. Earlier, we used to get fish worth more than Rs. 1 or 2 lakh on the good days. Many of those who are working with the ‘Kambavala’ are elderly fish workers who do not venture out much into the sea. I own two such nets, each of which costs a few lakhs to make. When the catch dwindles, we struggle to pay the loans and give wages to the other workers,” says Nazir. Along the capital’s coastline, there are around 80 such nets registered with the Trivandrum Kambavala Matsyathozhilali Federation, each of its employing 30 to 40 fish workers. Many of them have been struggling for the past few years with constant sea erosion washing away the shore at Shanghumukhom, Poonthura, and other areas. To prepare the ‘Kambavala’ for fishing as well as to dry it later, they need larger sandy expanses, which have disappeared in many of these places. According to these fishermen, the work on breakwaters in other areas might have contributed to the shrinking coast in Shanghumukhom and nearby regions. “Fishing in the deeper waters at night time using LED lights also has contributed to this situation. We have been raising the various issues faced by us with the government for quite some time, but there has been no response. When the Vizhinjam rehabilitation package was awarded, we were also promised of aid, although of lesser amounts compared to those who used to fish in the project area. But although our work has been affected due to the shrinking coastline caused by the breakwater constructions, we have not yet been given any compensation,” says Davidson of Poonthura. Tony Oliver, president of the Trivandrum Kambavala Matsyathozhilali Federation, said the government should take steps to either aid the ‘Kambavala’ fishermen by protecting the coastline or provide them adequate compensation and rehabilitate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kambavala-fish-workers-in-distress/article64990515.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||COVID fight leaves State health system gasping for breath||As the State rides the third wave of COVID-19 and the focus shifts to how normal life can be resumed, the crippling impact the pandemic has left on the State’s health system is more stark than ever. Two years of fighting SARS-CoV-2 has been catastrophic not just for the State’s health system, which expended all its energy on exercises to tie down the virus, but also the healthcare workers, most of whom are exhausted and suffering burnout. The stigma surrounding COVID, anxiety over personal safety and that of families, physical rigours of operating donning a suffocating PPE kit and helplessness of having to watch people die every day were distressing, said doctors. In some ways, COVID exposed the health system’s vulnerabilities even when it empowered the system in some ways. No B team here “COVID-19 succeeded in perking up a lethargic health system, got it up and running. The department, which used to function from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m.., learnt to work round-the-clock and for the first time, there was a sense of ownership among the health staff. But we failed to reckon that there is no B team. Today, all of us are exhausted, and have no fight left in us,” a senior Health official said. But even so, the entire burden of the system during the pandemic was borne by some 30% of the department personnel, while for many others, COVID has been a long two-year vacation, he said. “There is no performance assessment in the department. There are many who are still working from home without even a computer, while many others, who were roped into teams at the beginning of the pandemic, continue to work round-the-clock even after two years. They have been offered no incentives or even a certificate of appreciation and are totally demoralised,” a senior doctor in the department said. These past two years, the system has been fighting COVID to the exclusion of all else and the impact it has had on all routine activities of public health as well as other vertical programmes such as non-communicable diseases (NCDs) control or cancer care is something which is still being uncovered. At the field level too, supervision, evaluation, reviews and follow-up have been suffering. Better utilisation of human resources could have helped minimise the fatigue that has affected the system now. “COVID management was confused with COVID data management and this obsession with generating reels of spreadsheets and charts, still takes up a lot of energy, time and human resources which could have been diverted to deficient areas. The saddest part of the last two years was how the Health department surrendered all leadership to political administration,” a senior Health official said Some of the gains during the pandemic include the strengthening of the data management system such as LDMS portal, which many hope can be upscaled for the monitoring of all infectious diseases in the long term; the strengthening of the telemedicine system, e-Sanjeevani and major infrastructural upgradation (hospital beds, ICU/ventilators, oxygen plants), in the name of COVID preparation. As one resigns oneself to living with COVID and tackling it alongside other infectious diseases, motivating a tired work force to find the enthusiasm to get all the public health programmes back in order is going to be a tall task, many acknowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-fight-leaves-state-health-system-gasping-for-breath/article64990620.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Capital reports 5,746 new cases||Active caseload further dropped to 44,403 in Thiruvananthapuram district on Sunday as the infection spread showed signs of lessening. As many as 5,746 fresh cases and 7,461 recoveries were recorded on the day. Among the new caseload, 5,412 cases have been attributed to contact transmission, while the source of infection was unknown for 260 others. Seventy-two health care workers are among those diagnosed with the disease. Death toll The death toll went up by 24 to reach 7,030 on the day. The district currently had the highest number of deaths followed by Ernakulam (6,285). The case fatality ratio stood at 1.1 in the Thiruvananthapuram. As was the case during the previous Sunday, the public largely remained indoors in the district during the COVID-19-necessitated lock down on the day. The City police had set up nearly 60 picket points to screen vehicles and prevent inessential travel. Lockdown While most streets appeared deserted throughout the day, several commercial establishments including those that traded essential goods remained closed despite being permitted to operate. The City police registered 48 cases in connection with violations of the COVID-19 norms. Twenty one people were arrested and 13 vehicles were seized. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered eight cases, arrested seven people and seized two vehicles for unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-5746-new-cases/article38351982.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Action taken against MCH doctor||The Health Department initiated disciplinary action against two employees, including a deputy superintendent, of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, on Sunday. Santhosh Kumar S.S., deputy superintendent of the casualty wing at the hospital, has been removed from the position for alleged lapses while discharging his duties. The action was taken through an order issued by the Director of Medical Education A. Remla Beevi on the basis of a letter sent by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare Department. Dr. Kumar, a professor in orthopaedics and emergency medicine, has been a prominent figure in the State government’s COVID-19 control efforts. He was part of a medical team dispatched to Mumbai to assist in the pandemic mitigation efforts there. Absence from duty The action is believed to be linked to his absence from duty during a surprise inspection conducted by Health Minister Veena George to the hospital on October 28 last. An explanation that he had given in response to a show-cause notice was apparently found to be unsatisfactory. Resident Medical Officer of the Thiruvananthapuram MCH G. Mohan Roy has been given additional charge as deputy superintendent of the casualty wing. Against junior resident Action has also been taken against a junior resident for misbehaving with a patient at the casualty a day ago. Anantha Krishnan, an orthopaedic intern, has been directed not to undertake any duties that involves direct public interaction. An inquiry has also been initiated. The order was issued by medical college Principal Sara Varghese who took cognizance of video clips shared on the social media that found Dr. Krishnan behaving rudely with a caregiver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-taken-against-mch-doctor/article38351983.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||51,570 more test positive||The State reported 51,570 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday when 1, 03,366 samples were tested in 24 hours. The active case pool now has 3,54,595 patients, of whom, 3.4% are admitted in hospitals. The number of recoveries reported on Sunday was 32,701. On the day, 1,259 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. ICU occupancy ICU occupancy rose again on Sunday and 33 persons were newly admitted for ICU care. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State now stands at 1,376 while ventilator occupancy is at 322. The case fatality now stands at 53,666, with the State adding 475 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday. This includes 14 deaths which occurred in the last 24 hours. The department also declared 87 deaths which occurred much earlier, but which had remained undeclared till now due to incomplete documentation. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 9,704, followed by Thrissur 7,289, Thiruvananthapuram 5,746, Kottayam 3,889, Kozhikode 3,872, Kollam 3,836, Palakkad 3,412, Alappuzha 2,861, Malappuram 2,796, Pathanamthitta 2,517, Kannur 1,976, Idukki 1,565, Wayanad 1,338 and Kasaragod 769.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/51570-more-test-positive/article38351879.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Memorial to J.C. Daniel at Neyyattinkara||The Neyyattinkara Municipality will be constructing a memorial to filmmaker J.C. Daniel, who had spent his last days in the town. The memorial will be coming up near the Municipal Stadium at TB Junction. A statue designed by the J.C. Daniel Foundation will also be installed here. A children’s park and a screening facility will also be arranged along with it. The foundation had earlier approached municipal chairman P.K. Rajmohan with a request to make a memorial to the filmmaker a reality. The filmmaker had lived in an old house at Krishnapuram near the National Highway. The building was occupied by the Kerala Water Authority until recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorial-to-jc-daniel-at-neyyattinkara/article38351987.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Couple arrested in cheating case||The Thiruvallam police have arrested two people for cheating a financial institution of Rs. 1.20 lakh by pledging fake jewellery. The police identified the arrested as Abdul Rahman, 42, of Manikavilakom, and Ramsi, 24, of Vallakadavu. They have been accused of defrauding a financial institution in Vandithadam, near Thiruvallam. The alleged incident had taken place on January 15 around 2 p.m. The duo had allegedly pledged fake ornaments that weighed 36 grams and received the amount. The owner of the establishment sensed something amiss when he found that the mobile number submitted along with the applicant’s details had only nine digits. The couple had fled from the area in their car by the time he rushed to call them inside. Soon, the ornaments and the documents they had submitted were found to be fake. In the absence of a CCTV footage in the financial institution, the police traced the whereabouts of the duo through other scientific means. It later emerged that Abdul Rahman had stolen a motorcycle under the Medical College police station limits. Similar financial frauds have also been reported from the Poonthura police station limits, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-arrested-in-cheating-case/article38351985.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Common Service to bring in positive results: Minister||The formation of the Local Self Government Department (LSGD) Common Service will bring about positive changes in local administration and development, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. For effective local administration, constant coordination and joint efforts are required between the three-tier panchayats and municipalities. The Common Service will facilitate this. The administrative bodies at the various levels will be able to work together in the planning and implementation processes. Various projects funded by the Union and the State governments could be merged with the local projects to form comprehensive development projects, Mr. Govindan says. The five departments of panchayat, urban affairs, rural development, town and country planning, and LSGD engineering will be merged to form the common service with a Principal Director heading it at the State level. At the district-level, offices will be set up under a joint director, which will act as facilitators for all local bodies in districts. This arrangement will ensure that the district-level plan will complement the State plan, he says.  Panchayat, urban affairs, rural development, town planning, and LSGD engineering will be merged to form the common service||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/common-service-to-bring-in-positive-results-minister/article38351986.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Plus One improvement exams begin today||As many as 3.2 lakh students will appear for the Plus One improvement examinations beginning Monday. Arrangements for the examinations are complete, a statement from the office of the Minister for General Education on Sunday said. A total of 2.98 lakh students in the regular category, 21,644 in private, and 11 students in the lateral entry regular category will sit for the examinations in 1,955 examination centres across the State. Forty-one students will take the examination in the Gulf region, 1,023 in Lakshadweep, and 414 students in Mahe. The maximum number of students will appear for the examinations in English – 2.08 lakh. The examinations will be held at 9.30 a.m. and 2 p.m. over five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-improvement-exams-begin-today/article38351892.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of theft||The Thampanoor police on Sunday arrested a man accused of theft sixteen years after the crime had taken place. The police identified the accused as Manoj, 42, of Koliyakode. Accused of stealing a motorcycle, Manoj had been declared a fugitive by the court after he had gone absconding. He is believed to have stayed in various States during the period. The Thampanoor police nabbed him on receiving information that he had returned to the district. He has been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-theft/article38351984.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Award given to Krishnadas Nair||The 2021 K.P.P Nambiar award instituted by the Kerala section of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) was presented to Dr.C.G. Krishnadas Nair, technocrat and metallurgical scientist for his outstanding contributions in the Aerospace Industry, including indigenisation of the sector, development of advanced aircraft and his extensive academic activities. Dr. Nair was the Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. He has also served as the Managing Director of CIAL. IEEE Kerala Section Chair for 2021 Sarada Jayakrishnan, Amarnath Raja, Mini Ulanat ( Chair 2022), M.V.Rajesh and Shankar Jayaraj were present at the award ceremony. The outstanding Industry Contribution award was presented to K. Nandakumar of Sun Tec Business Solutions, Outstanding Women Engineer award went to Daisy Devassy Chittilappilly (President, CISCO-India and SAARC ); The Outstanding Teacher Award was presented to Prof.Dr.Sreejith P.S ( Rajagiri School of Engineering ), the Friend of IEE award to Bosch Global Software Technologies Pvt Ltd. Techgentsia Software Technologies Pvt.Ltd received the Outstanding Start Up Award, the Outstanding Researcher Award was presented to Prof. Leena Mary and Dr. Sudarshan Kaarthik and the Special Award for sustained contributions to K.Gopalan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nambiar-award-given-to-cg-krishnadas-nair/article38351873.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||KGMOA office-bearers elected||G.S. Vijayakrishnan (left) and T.N. Suresh have been re-elected president and secretary respectively of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). Other office-bearers were also elected. Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the 55th State conference of the association on a virtual platform. Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgmoa-office-bearers-elected/article64990615.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Dentist gets U.S. patent for digital paper currency||A Digitalised High-Value Paper Currency technology developed by R.S. Dhanya, a Chavakkad-based dentist, has received U.S. patent approval. The digitalised currency was developed by Dr. Dhanya to counter counterfeiting of currency. Frequent reports about counterfeit currency and her own experience with a fake currency prompted the dentist to develop the technology. Digitalised High-Value Paper Currency (DHVPC) is a combination of paper currency and its data on an online portal created by the central bank of each country, explains Dr. Dhanya. By central bank “The first registration of a digitalized high value paper currency can only be done by the central bank. After this, the currency is ready for transactions. For each transaction, the data will be updated on the portal. Therefore, it cannot be counterfeited.” It is easy to identify the holder of the DHVPC at any time. Therefore, in case of theft, loss, or fire damage, the owner will receive its full value. The currency cannot be used by a third party. It is easy to track and monitor it as all the data is updated on the portal. “Since high denominations such as Rs. 10 lakh are possible, the cost of printing the currency is very less and hence it is eco-friendly,” says Dr. Dhanya. Transactions The currency can be transacted through banks, ATMs, CDMs, and Internet banking. Using the same technology, low value paper currency can also be digitalised, she said. This is the second patent recognition of Dr. Dhanya, a public health dentist working as a faculty in the Department of Public Health Dentistry, PSM Dental College, Akkikavu, Thrissur. The Government of India has approved a patent for a technology called Collision Impact Reducer, which reduces the impact of road accidents and saves lives. Dr. Dhanya is the daughter of Ramachandran Kalarikkal, a paediatrician, and Surya Ramachandran, gynaecologist, in Chavakkad, Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dentist-gets-us-patent-for-digital-paper-currency/article64990617.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Thrissur records 7,289 COVID cases||There is no let-up in the number of COVID-19 cases in Thrissur. The district recorded 7,289 fresh cases on Sunday. Currently, there are 32,448 positive cases in Thrissur. When two years have been completed since the first case of COVID-19 in the country was reported from Thrissur on January 30, the district has so far recorded 6,18,852 cases. On Sunday ,7,236 people were infected through contact. This included 39 health workers. There are 35 active clusters in Thrissur. So far 47,97,209 doses of vaccine have been distributed in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-records-7289-covid-cases/article64990505.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Utmost respect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/utmost-respect/article64990622.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Missing the buzz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-the-buzz/article64990636.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Battle against the virus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-against-the-virus/article64990609.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:53 IST,KERALA||Weekend routine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weekend-routine/article64990516.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:58 IST,KERALA||Sunday settings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-settings/article64990512.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Name Konaseema district after Ambedkar’||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop and Amalapuram MP Ch. Anuradha on Sunday appealed to the Dalit associations to garner support from the other sections to convince the State government to name the Konaseema district after B.R. Ambedkar. Konaseema district is proposed to be created with 24 mandals of four Revenue Divisions –Amalapuram, Ramachandrapuram, Kakinada, and Rajamahendravaram with headquarters in Amalapuram. The Dalit associations conducted a public meeting in Amalapuram on the demand. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Viswaroop said, “The MLAs of the SC Assembly segments – Mummidivaram, Razole, and Amalapuram – are also supporting the demand. I will attempt to convince the Chief Minister to consider the demand, which is genuine and justifiable for the region,” said Mr. Viswaroop.  “On the demography front, a majority of the population belongs to the Scheduled Castes in the Konaseema region. A majority of the people wants the district to be named after Dr. Ambedkar. It must be respected,” Ms. Anuradha told The Hindu . Ms. Anuradha said the demand was already in the notice of the State government since the beginning of the exercise to create new districts in the State.  “We are not protesting. It is an appeal to the government as people cutting across all political affiliations are demanding it,” added Ms. Anuradha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/name-konaseema-district-after-ambedkar/article64990435.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nutritious, organic black rice has few takers in Anantapur||Enthused by the wide publicity given by the State government to the Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) a couple in Dharmapuri village near Dharmavaram in Anantapur district took to organic farming without using chemical pesticides or fertilizer and has been reaping goodyields. Polepalli Revathi and Kondarajugari Seetaramaraju, owning justtwo acres of land in this nondescript village, are seen as ‘different’ as they do not resort to farming in the way other villagers do, and use neem and castor cake in the soil, Jeevamrutham and neem oil for fertilizer and pest control and once their crop comes to harvest stage, they use fermented curd.  However,while they have more than 550 kg of processed and packed black rice with them, they are struggling to findtakers. “We expected some NGOs or government agencies to show ushow to market it, but getting back our investment of Rs. 30,000 per acre looks difficult,” Mr. Seetaramaraju told The Hindu .  Things have come to such a pass that at a time when organic black rice is sold at an average of Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 a kg in stores, entrepreneurs are asking for the stock for prices lower than the normal white BPT rice. The State government’s agriculture departmentis not providing any support, they lament. “We have reaped very good results for the past three years and got enough seed for our use in the first year in 2019 and used BPT-2841 variety of black rice seeds sourced from Haripuram in Sangareddy, which gave us a healthy crop in 2020 Kharif,”said Ms. Revathi, who also doubles as a tailor at home toboost the family income. Describing the health advantages and nutritional values of black rice, Ms. Revathi said 100 grams of it containsnine grams of protein, as againstseven grams in brown rice. It’s also a good source of iron, and several nutrients, protein, and fiber. Scientists at Agriculture Research Centre at Rekulakunta said thatblack ricehas over 23 types of antioxidants and has the highest antioxidant activity of all rice varieties. The couple can be reached over phone at 8147467521.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nutritious-organic-black-rice-has-few-takers-in-anantapur/article64990430.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burglar held; Rs. 24 lakh worth jewellery recovered||The Anantapur police on Saturday arrested a person who was allegedly involved in t 29 house break-ins and decamped with valuables. Additional SP I. Nagendrudu said at a press conference here on Saturday that 25-year-old Uppara Adi Srinivasulu hailing from Upparapalli village was allegedly involved in series of house break-ins at several places in and around Anantapur city for the past year. The police recovered Rs. 24 lakh worth of gold ornaments weighing 52.46 tolas, 800 gm of silver articles, and two cellphones. Following an investigation into all the theft cases, the police could zero in on the accused and he was arrested on the city outskirts while he was moving in a suspicious manner, the Additional SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burglar-held-rs-24-lakh-worth-jewellery-recovered/article64990459.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress rewards coastal Karnataka leader Khader||Close on the heels of senior leader C.M. Ibrahim announcing his departure from the party, the Congress on Sunday appointed leader from Coastal Karnataka U.T. Khader as Deputy Leader of the party in the Legislative Assembly. While Siddaramaiah became the Congress Legislative Party leader and Leader of the Opposition since the fall of the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition, the position of his deputy had remained vacant. Mr. Khader’s appointment comes in the light of internal rumblings among the Muslim legislators that the community leaders were being ignored in the party platform when it came for distribution of power. With just over a year away from the Assembly polls, the party has been making crucial appointments keeping caste and regional demands. While KPCC is helmed by D.K. Shivakumar, a Vokkaliga, the party appointed M.B. Patil, a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka as the chairman of the campaign committee. Both Siddaramaiah and newly appointed Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Council B.K. Hariprasad, belong to the backward classes. Among the four working presidents appointed recently to balance caste and community equations, MLC Saleem Ahmed was one of them. Party sources said that Mr. Khader’s appointment to the post serves the representation to Muslims as well as the Coastal Karnataka, and that the appointment comes as a damage control exercise after the outbursts of Mr. Ibrahim when he announced that he is set to quit the party as well as resign from his membership from the Council. Mr. Khader is a senior leader and gets along well with everyone in the party, source said. As Mr. Ibrahim continued his tirade against Congress leaders in Hubballi on Sunday, Janata Dal (Secular) sources said that the leader is expected to join the party shortly. When JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy met the veteran Congress leader, the former is learnt to have offered the party president’s post or head of the campaign committee. Meanwhile, a congregation of several community religious leaders that met here on Sunday, under the leadership of Amir e Shariat Moulana Sageer Ahmed Khan to discuss the recent Naragund incident, also discussed political representation for the community.  “The meeting did not discuss about any one party or individual. The community has concerns that was communicated,” Moulana Shabeer Ahmed Nadvi told The Hindu . “We are not getting benefits and we feel our mandate is not being respected or parties not showing concern towards minorities. Whenever it comes to post and positions in the parties, the community is not given representation according to our population ratio or vote share. We also have to think of which party to vote for. If our demands are met, we will give wholehearted support to whichever party addresses our concerns,” he said, adding that the religious leaders also expressed displeasure at the response of both the ruling and Opposition parties to the Nargund incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-rewards-coastal-karnataka-leader/article64990365.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Offline classes in Bengaluru||Principals and school managements, who will welcome students back to classrooms on Monday, are grappling with severe staff shortage as teachers are down with COVID-19. Many school managements said they may have to tweak class timetables accordingly. Others said they would delay resuming offline classes until the caseload drops further and staff strength is back to normal. The State Government on Saturday had announced that schools, which until now were conducting on-campus classes for Std. X, XI and XII, could reopen in Bengaluru for offline classes for Std. I to IX. Many private school managements are already facing a shortage of teaching staff, as many employees have relocated to their hometowns and are unable to conduct offline classes. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), however, said that despite these hurdles, physical classes will resume. “We will ensure that we do not waste time and complete portions for the subjects where teachers are unavailable. The portions for the remaining subjects can be conducted once the teachers recover,” he said. Gayatri Devi, principal, Little Flower Public School in Bengaluru, said they would reopen on Monday but the management was unsure how many parents would send their children. “So we have decided to conduct both online and offline classes, but that will be challenging and stressful for our teachers,” she said. School managements were relying on parents to ensure that even if their children have very mild symptoms of COVID 19, they should not be sent to school. Some private schools and colleges have decided to postpone offline classes till COVID-19 cases drop further. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said that they will wait and watch this week and accordingly take a call. “Omicron spreads very easily and many parents and children are positive. Hence we have decided to postpone our reopening,” he said. Sijo Sebastian, joint secretary, Voice of Parents’ Association, Karnataka, questioned the Government’s decision to reopen schools towards the end of the academic year. “Over the past few weeks, we have been seeing that the new variant spreads quickly. Even the corporate sector is reconsidering opening their offices and are continuing with work from home for the safety of their employees. Children are almost at the end of their academic year, and what is that we are going to achieve by opening the schools for 1-1.5 months?” said Among parents, opinion is divided, with many expressing unhappiness over schools continuing with offline classes for the near future. Preethi S., whose daughter studies in Class IV in a private school, said, “Many schools have realised that it is more cost effective for them to conduct online classes. So they have decided not to reopen classes even though a large number of us have given consent. This is hampering the education of students and the department needs to issue a directive that all schools should reopen even if the number of students who will attend classes is low,” she said. KAMS has decided to petition the Department of Public Instruction to take action against schools that do not resume offline classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/offline-classes-in-bengaluru/article38351360.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. youth, injured in accident, dies||A youth from Ramanaidu Kandriga of Gummudipoondi taluq in Tamil Nadu, who was injured in a road mishap near Ubbalamadugu waterfalls near Varadaiahpalem, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Chennai on Sunday. According to Varadaiahpalem police, the youth, identified as Arun (18), was on his way to Ubbalamadugu eco-tourism center on Saturday along with his friends. The accident occurred when Arun reportedly tried to negotiate a curve at high speed to join his friends who were ahead of him.. The bike skidded, and Arun and Dhanush, pillion rider, were critically injured. They were rushed to the emergency ward at a hospital in Sri City industrial zone. The duo was later shifted to a private hospital at Red Hills in Chennai. While Arun succumbed to his injuries, Dhanush is still undergoing treatment. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-youth-injured-in-accident-dies/article38351534.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Racing bull falls into well, dies||In a freak incident, a bull fell into a farm well during a race at Chinnapotu village in Vedurukuppam mandal, 55 km from here, on Sunday. According to information, several cattle were in the fray for the competition, attended by many villagers. Some youth reportedly served liquor to the bull before the race. When the race was under way, the animal reportedly got scared, strayed away from the line, and fell into an agriculture well. Before the youth could initiate a rescue operation, the bull drowned after getting multiple fractures. Some youth were also reportedly injured when the bull jumped into the crowds before falling into a well. Meanwhile, the Vedurukuppam police rushed to the spot and controlled the mob frenzy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/racing-bull-falls-into-well-dies/article38351533.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||420 kg ganja worth Rs. 84 lakh seized, two arrested||The Pedapadu police busted a ganja smuggling racket and seized 420 kg of ganja, worth about Rs. 84 lakh. Two persons allegedly involved in the racket have been arrested. On a tip-off, the police arrested Rayudu Shuam of Gajuwaka, Devi Das Shankar and Changa Dev of Maharashtra on Sunday, said SP Rahul Dev Sharma. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) O. Dileep Kiran said a team intercepted a lorry at Kalaparru toll gate and seized the contraband. The accused were transporting the ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency to Maharashtra, the ASP said. Police launched a hunt for the remaining two accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/420-kg-ganja-worth-rs-84-lakh-seized-two-arrested/article38352001.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Registration department proposes market value revision||The Registration and Stamps department has decided to revise the market values of different kinds of properties ranging from 10 per cent to 50 per cent depending on the current market prices. Accordingly, it has been proposed to raise the market value of the lands in the range of Rs. 75,000 an acre to Rs. 5 crore an acre by 50 per cent. This would mean a land presently costing Rs. 10 lakh an acre would forthwith cost Rs. 15 lakh an acre once the revised market values become effective. The department prepared proposals for agricultural lands, open plots and apartments in different areas and submitted the feedback to the government. The new market values will become effective once the government issues a formal order relating to the proposals made by the department. According to senior officials, the lowest value of land in the State at present was Rs. 75,000 an acre and this would be enhanced by 50 per cent.  “Market value of lands ranging from Rs. 75,000 an acre to Rs. 5 crore an acre will be enhanced by 50 per cent. It will be 20 per cent for lands beyond Rs. 5 crore an acre and 10 per cent in case of those beyond Rs. 10 crore an acre,” a senior official told The Hindu .  Market values of open plots will also be subject to change and the revision will be of the order of 10 per cent to 35 per cent. Accordingly, there will be 35 per cent rise in market value of open plots which are currently valued up to Rs. 20,000 a square yard and it will be 15 per cent for open plots valued between Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000 a sq.yd. “For lands currently valued beyond Rs. 40,000 a square yard, the revision will be 10 per cent,” the official said. Upward revision will also be affected in case of apartments. Accordingly, 25 per cent increase has been proposed in areas where the value is upto Rs. 4,000 per square feet and it will be 15 per cent higher in case of areas where per square feet value is beyond Rs. 4,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/registration-department-proposes-market-value-revision/article38351798.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM to unveil statue in Telangana||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the world the ‘Statue of Equality’ to mark the 1000th birth anniversary of Vaishnavite saint Ramanujacharya at the sprawling ashram of Tradandi Chinna JeeyaSwamy at Muchintal on the city outskirts, on February 5. First pooja President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate a 54-inch idol of gold weighing 120 kg, representing the number of years the 11th century saint lived, in the huge meditation hallat the base of the 216-foot statue by participating in the first pooja on February 13, official sources said quoting indications from New Delhi. The statue is considered the second tallest in the world in sitting position.It is named such to symbolise equality because the saint had differed with his teacher on interpreting Vedic texts and preached that people of all castes, creed and religions were equal. The Telangana government has made elaborate arrangements for the twin programmes to be attended by the VVIPs since it is co-hosting the event. The beautification works at Sriram Nagar where the ashram is located have been completed in record time. A 45-foot dynamic water fountain stands in front of the statue and has lighting for laser shows in the surroundings. Holy fire The event from February 2 to 14 will see holyfire performed in the morning and evening every day. About 500 workers toiled to construct 144 sheds made of bamboo and palm branches. About 5,000 rithviks and Vedic pandits from across the country will lead the rituals at the holy fire, chanting mantras at 1,035 pits. The fire will be performed at 1,035 pits in four corners in themorning and evening by about 5,000 rithviks and Vedic pandits from across the country. The Roads and Buildings department has taken up construction of internal roads and external roads while the transmission corporation has set up a 33/11 KV sub-station and 28 distribution transformers for uninterrupted power supply. Mission Bhagiratha project authorities have made arrangements for supply of 15 lakh litres of drinking water to the sumps in the ashram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-to-unveil-statue-in-telangana/article64990370.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fewer than 2,500 cases logged in TS as testing dips||COVID-19 cases in Telangana dropped below 2,500 on Sunday as only 65,623 tests were conducted. After a few days of intense testing, the daily tests in the State have dropped to 95,000 to 1 lakh and around 3,800 to 4,000 infections are detected in a day. However, The tests further dropped on Sunday. Results of 1,581 samples were awaited. The 2,484 new infections included 1,045 from Greater Hyderabad region, 138 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 130 from Rangareddy, 108 from Nalgonda and 107 from Khammam. The cumulative case total stands at 7,61,050. One more COVID patient died, taking the death toll to 4,086.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/less-than-2500-cases-logged-as-testing-dips/article38351782.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS to boycott President’s address||The TRS has decided to boycott President Ramnath Kovind’s address to the joint session of Parliament at the commencement of its budget session on Monday in protest against the indifference of Centre to fulfill its promises to the State in bifurcation law. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Parliamentary party of TRS presided by Chief Minister and party president K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday. Chevella MP G. Ranjith Reddy said it was decided to wait till the presentation of the Union budget on Tuesday before turning the heat on the Centre. If the demands of the State were not conceded, the TRS will chalk out its action plan to confront the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-to-boycott-presidents-address/article64990367.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||43 persons arrested in flesh trade racket||In an organised flesh trade racket, the police have so far arrested 43 persons, including a few women, for allegedly pushing a minor girl into prostitution. The Arundulpet police of Guntur Urban district, who are probing the case, are trying to identify the remaining accused in the case. The victim’s mother was admitted with COVID in Government General Hospital, Guntur, in June last year, and died while undergoing treatment. The girl who assisted her mother in the hospital was infected with the virus. A woman reportedly promised the victim’s father to provide ayurvedic medicine to the girl for COVID and took the victim along with her. Later, she allegedly sold away the girl to different persons in Vijayawada, Guntur, Nellore, Hyderabad and other places. When the girl fell sick, the organisers admitted her in a hospital and when the doctors asked to submit the patient’s ID proof, they reportedly escaped. In December last year, the girl escaped from the gang, reached her home and explained to her father on how she was forced into flesh trade. A.P. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita said that the police so far arrested 43 accused, including a few persons from Telangana, who were allegedly involved in the racket. Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has said that police registered a case against the accused under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and other Sections. Financial aid  “Stern action would be taken against the accused and the Mahila Commission is taking measures to prevent trafficking in the State,” Ms. Padma told The Hindu on Sunday.  Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Project Director (PD) of Guntur district B. Manoranjani said that government would provide financial aid to the girl under Victim Compensation Scheme, as per GO.28. “The girl was sent for medical examination and her health condition is stable. The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials are providing counselling to the minor,” Ms. Manoranjani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/43-persons-arrested-in-flesh-trade-racket/article38352002.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rayachoti Voddu, Rajampeta Muddu’ cries echo in Kadapa||Rajampeta, located in the native district of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, continues to boil over what protestors call ‘unscientific and irrational’ carving out of Annamayya district with Rayachoti as headquarters. Tallapaka in Rajampeta is the birthplace of saint poet Annamacharya, who sang compositions in favour of Lord Venkateswara. The very idea of naming the district after Annamayya was born here and the residents were jubilant when the name was announced, but their joy evaporated when the ‘relatively insignificant’ Rayachoti was named its headquarters. The ‘skewed’ proposal invited people’s wrath more than it had brought laurels to the YSRC government. Similar protests have erupted from Madanapalle in Chittoor district, which also has a hoary past. Madanapalle and Rajampeta are the largest revenue sub-divisions in Chittoor and Kadapa districts respectively, but Rayachoti was chosen apparently in view of its central location and also to pacify criticism in the two major towns. However, the decision has evidently not gone down well with the public. “Rajampeta has been a parliamentary constituency headquarters since inception, but it is not even a district headquarters today. We demand that the government remove this anomaly,” said TDP Rajampeta constituency in-charge B. Chengalrayudu, while leading a rally from the famed 108-ft tall Annamayya statue in Tallapaka on Sunday. Residents, going beyond their political affiliation, laid siege to the 1.1 km-long Nandalur bridge, blocking traffic on the Tirupati-Kadapa highway. Similarly, people under the banner of Jana Sena burnt the effigy of Chief Minister at Ambedkar circle and shouted slogans ‘Rayachoti Voddhu, Rajampeta Muddu’.  YSR Congress MLA Meda Mallikarjun Reddy, who is down with COVID, told The Hindu over telephone that he would pursue the matter with the Chief Minister. “Personally, I want Rajampeta to be the headquarters, but we have to look into what led to the decision. Once I test negative for the virus, I will take it up,” he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rayachoti-voddu-rajampeta-muddu-cries-echo-in-kadapa/article64990427.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Car runs over 4 pavement vendors||Three women and a 14-year-old girl were killed and three injured when a car driven by a 16-year-old boy with two other minors on board ploughed into a group of vendors sitting on a pavement near the Kaman crossroads in Karimnagar on Sunday morning. The ghastly accident occurred around 6.45 a.m. when the juvenile was heading to the Ambedkar stadium, along with his two friends, in the car to play badminton. The minor boy reportedly lost control of the car apparently due to early morning fog and pressed the accelerator instead of the brakes ramming the vehicle into a group of women on the pavement. A young woman was killed on the spot after being hit by the car at a high speed. Six suffered multiple injuries in the ghastly accident. Three of them died of injuries a little later, according to sources. The deceased were identified as 27-year-old Pawar Lalitha, 30-year-old Sunitha, 32-year-old Pariyang, and a 14-year-old girl, of the Kaman area. Angry relatives of the deceased staged a road blockade on the main road demanding stern action against the reckless driver and justice for the bereaved families of the four victims. The local leaders of the Opposition parties, including the Congress, the Left Parties and the BJP, expressed solidarity with the demonstrators. CCTV footage showed the car taking a U-turn at high speed near a petrol bunk at Kaman circle before heading towards Ambedkar stadium minutes before the accident. Later in the day, the Karimnagar one town police arrested the owner of the car identified as Rajendra Prasad, a resident of Gayatri nagar, his 16-year-old son and the latter’s two minor accomplices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/car-ploughs-into-pavement-4-dead/article64990373.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||243 gms of MDMA seized in Kasaragod||The police on Saturday arrested two persons with 243.38 grams of Methylenedioxy Methamphetamine (MDMA) in Kasaragod on Sunday. During the special drive, the Melaparamba police arrested Shajahan, 30, from his house at Kizhur. Later, A.M. Ubaid, 45, who was carrying 241.38 grams of MDMA in his scooter was arrested from near the Chandragiri bridge. As per the directions of the State Police Chief, the District Police Chief had constituted a special squad to crackdown on drug trade. District Police Chief Vaibhav Saxena said there was information that drugs were being supplied in large quantities and based on which checks were conducted since Saturday. Mr. Saxena said the arrested were not carriers, but were suppliers of MDMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/243-gms-of-mdma-seized-in-kasaragod/article38351347.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||75% of survey respondents oppose SilverLine project||An overwhelming 75.29% of the people surveyed are opposed to the Rs. 63,941-cr. SilverLine semi-high speed rail corridor project in Kerala, while 20.41% are for the project, as per a 10-day survey conducted across Kerala from January 19. Another 4.3% of the 13,704 people who were surveyed, preferred to remain neutral on the project that has been mooted to reduce travel time between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod to about four hours. Even as 76% people said the existing rail service ought to be improved and another 75% said the speed of existing trains should be increased, 68% said SilverLine will not be a viable alternative. On the contrary, 23% opined that SilverLine would provide a better service for rail commuters, while 24% said the project would help save on travelling time. Opponents of the project said the project would adversely affect the environment, increase the cost of commuting and result in Kerala being pushed into a debt trap, in the survey organised by Greens Movement Kerala, an NGO, and carried out by Edupress, a consultancy firm which also does social survey. Prior to the survey, both the forums had said that it will be done in an objective manner. The widely-accepted stratified random sampling method was adopted, while volunteers were selected and trained for the purpose from all districts. The online survey was done in all districts and among NRKs, involving mostly graduates (36% of those surveyed), postgraduates (23%) and technically-qualified people (14%). Forty per cent of those surveyed were from the middle-age group. The number of people overall who are for and against the project was much the same in all districts. Likewise, there was no marked variance in the opinion of men and women about the project. Sixty-nine per cent of those who were surveyed had travelled on the Thiruvanathapuram-Kasaragod rail corridor at least once. The questionnaire was prepared with the help of experts and a sample survey conducted on social media. The questions were simplified following this and included in an app. A total of over 160 volunteers relied on their contacts from all districts to get the survey results. A total of 13,704 people took part in the survey, from among whom 11,402 people answered all questions. Another 2302 people preferred not to comment on a few of the questions. The following is the percentage of people surveyed in each district – Thiruvananthapuram 15.76 %, Kollam 8.50 %, Pathanamthitta 4 %, Kottayam 9.61 %, Alappuzha 6.01 %, Idukki 2.32 %, Ernakulam 12.33 %, Thrissur 9.08 %, Palakkad 3.74 %, Malappuram 6.47 %, Kozhikode 12.80 %, Wayanad 0.99 %, Kannur 6.73 %, and Kasaragod 2.79 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/75-of-survey-respondents-oppose-silverline-project/article38351348.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survivor to be consulted on new prosecutor||The views of the survivor in the sensational actor rape case will be sought regarding the appointment of the special prosecutor as trial has hit a roadblock following the resignation of the prosecutor. The new situation was warranted following the resignation of V.N. Anilkumar from the post, though the government has not accepted his resignation. The State is keen to protect the interest of the survivor in the case. Hence, she would be consulted before zeroing in on the lawyer, who would be leading the prosecution. Efforts are on to persuade Mr. Anilkumar to resume the job. If he agreed to return to the court, he would continue. If not, he may have to be replaced with a new one, legal sources indicated. The State, felt the legal sources, has got a breathing time to decide on the special prosecutor as the police have sought time for completing the further investigation in the case. Currently, an additional public prosecutor is appearing in the case to complete the examination of the witnesses. Incidentally, the trial entered the second year on Sunday as it was on January 30, 2020, that the trial in the case began with the Kerala High Court appointing Honey M. Varghese as the Special Judge. Ms. Varghese was handpicked by the High Court on a plea of the survivor to have a woman judicial officer to consider the case. The case took a new turn a few weeks ago with the disclosure of P. Balachandrakumar, a filmmaker, on the alleged conspiracy hatched by actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the case, to harm the investigation officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survivor-to-be-consulted-on-new-prosecutor/article38351514.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bifurcation: historical injustice continues in Rayalaseema’||The recent division of the existing 13 districts into 26 districts is yet again a historical injustice to the Rayalaseema region, opined the Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samiti. It demanded the creation of at least three more districts — Adoni, Guntakal, and Madanapalli — in addition to the eight notified now. Rayalaseema region with 42% of the landmass of the State has only 8 districts, while the remaining 18 are in 58%, which reduces focus on development, it opined.  Samiti president Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy told The Hindu that close to 50 lakh people had migrated from Rayalaseema region to other parts of the erstwhile combined Andhra Pradesh owing to lack of irrigation water and no focus on the development of the arable land by creating infrastructure to utilise river Krishna water as per the 1937 Sribagh Pact.  “The government’s claim that the existing formula of carving out districts based on population or Assembly constituencies was scientific, does not fit into the natural justice formula. Rayalaseema should have smaller districts so that the Collectors and other officers in the government departments could concentrate better,” Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy added. While the lands could be used, providing irrigation water to Rayalaseema had been neglected and resultant human migration was noticed for 200 years and a pact was made about 100 years ago, but nothing has been in action, which would lead to further migration of people from this region in future too, he opined. The creation of Nandyal district was welcome, but attaching Panyam and Gadivemula Mandals to Kurnool district was illogical as people have a stronger connection with Nandyal. Till the reorganisation of Assembly constituencies happens, there was nothing wrong if one Assembly constituency was spread over two districts, the RSSS leader observed. Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh Bhramana Sankshema Samakya has demanded that Nandyal district be named after former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, who had represented the Nandyal constituency and had earned a name for the economic reforms he had initiated in his term as Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bifurcation-historical-injustice-continues-in-rayalaseema/article38351400.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Create new dist. with Markapur as headquarters, demands TDP||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party pressed their demand for a new district with Markapur as its headquarters and symbolically submitted a petition in this regard to a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary, in Kanigiri on Sunday. The activists, led by former MLA Ugra Narasimha Reddy, who gathered near a statue near the Kanyaka Parameswari temple, said the backward western parts of the district would see development only when a separate district was formed comprising Kanigiri, Markapur, Yerragondapalem and Giddalur Assembly segments. They went in a big procession to the Tehsildar office and symbolically submitted a petition to another Bapuji statue there. Meanwhile, TDP MLAs Gottipatti Ravikumar, Dola Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy and Yeluri Sambasiva Rao from Prakasam district dubbed “unscientific” the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to create Bapatla district by clubbing with it three Assembly segments of Addanki, Parchur and Chirala, and reuniting Kandukur revenue division with SPSR Nellore district. Prakasam district, formed by drawing the backward parts of Nellore, Kurnool and Guntur districts in 1970, had not seen any meaningful development in the last five decades, they said. Two districts, one with Ongole as headquarters and another with Markapur as headquarters should be created and on no account the Assembly segments in Prakasam district should be clubbed with regions in Guntur or SPSR Nellore districts, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/create-new-dist-with-markapur-as-headquarters-demands-tdp/article64990445.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lucky draw announced for new downloaders of Disha app||With a view to popularise the Disha app, Prakasam district police on Sunday announced a lucky draw for those downloading the app, launched by the State government to reach out to women in distress. Every day, three newly-registered persons on the app will be selected in a lucky draw, and they will get a chance to meet Superintendent of Police Malika Garg and discuss women-related issues with her. A Mahila police personnel who facilitates a maximum number of downloads of the app by women during the week will be felicitated with a certificate and prize. The SP said that women should register details such as phone number, address, alternative contact numbers on the app. In case of danger, when SOS button on the Disha app is pressed, a 10 second voice is recorded and instantly sent to the command control centre including phone number, address and location. The Disha app also has emergency numbers like 100 and 112 as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lucky-draw-announced-for-new-downloaders-of-disha-app/article38351407.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery behind boy’s murder solved||Giddalur police cracked the case of a brutal murder of a 11-year-old boy within a week, by arresting a 21-year-old man from Akkapalle village near Komarole in Prakasam district. The uncle of the boy, identified as Bhuma Srinadh, who was studying in Class VI at the Zilla Parishad High School at Thaticherlamotu village, lodged a complaint with police after the boy failed to return home from his usual play time with his friends on January 22. The Giddalur police then registered a missing case and began a probe. Meanwhile, the body of the boy surfaced in a decomposed condition in an open well with a boulder tied to his stomach at Edamakallu village near Komarole. On a complaint from the Village Revenue Officer, the police registered another case. A meticulous investigation of the two cases led to the accused, D. Venkata Prashant (21) getting cornered. He later surrendered to Revenue officials. Superintendent of Police Malika Garg thanked the Markapur division police for swiftly investigating the case and arresting the culprit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-behind-boys-murder-solved/article38351408.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal JAC formed||Elders of the Koya and Konda Reddy tribes andrepresentatives of various tribal associations on Sunday formed a Joint Action Committee (JAC) to fight for a separate district headquarters at Rampachodavaram instead of Paderu in Visakhapatnam district. The State government is creating a new districtcalled Alluri Sitharamaraju,headquartered inPaderu, which will be formed by carving out Chintoor and Rampachodavaram revenue divisionsfrom East Godavari district and the 11 Agency mandals of Araku Valley in Visakhapatnam district. The JAC is headed by human rights activist Balu Akkisa, who is also convener of the Rampa Zilla Sadhana Samithi. Mr. Balu stated that the State government’s idea of ‘administrative convenience’ to carve out a new district is not viable as far as the creation of Alluri Sitharamaraju district is concerned. “In the Agency, demography should not be the lone criteria and geographical factors must also be taken into consideration,” Mr. Balu said. The tribal elders and people from other walks of lifeopposed the proposalto declare Paderu the district headquarters, as it is nearly 300 km away from one side from Chintoor Agency. The present headquarters at Kakinada is only 90 km away. Polavaram R&R “We cannot afford to visit the district headquarters at Paderu anyway for our grievances. The district administration will soon become completely inaccessible for us,” said Vetla Vijaya, an active member of the Agency Girijana Sangam. A native of Konda Modalu Grama Panchayat, Ms. Vijaya’s family has been displaced from their habitation due to cofferdam works of the Polavaram project. In Chintoor Agency, four mandals have merged from Telangana State to Andhra Pradesh to speed up the Polavaram project during the bifurcation of united Andhra Pradesh. The entire stretch of Koya society is being displaced from the Polavaram project. However, the displacers are now falling in the new district with many problems. Illa Rami Reddy, Bondla Varaprasad of Adivasi Hakkula Sangham, Lakshma Reddy (CPI-ML), Kunjam Sidhu are a few key members of the JAC. They said they would intensify the demand for the new district headquarters at Rampachodavaram in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/announce-rampachodavaram-as-dist-headquarters-say-eg-tribes/article38351406.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees will not fear ESMA, says AP JAC leader||Andhra Pradesh Joint Action Committee-Amaravati chairman Bopparaju Venkateswarlu on Sunday said the employees were not afraid of disciplinary action proposed to be taken under the Andhra Pradesh Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1971, as they were fighting for their legitimate demands such as 30% fitment, clearance of dues pertaining to health bills, Provident Fund, and continuation of old slabs of House Rent Allowance (HRA). Mr. Venkateswarlu extended his solidarity to APNGOs’ State Associate president Chowdary Purushottam Naidu, association leaders Hanumanthu Sairam, R. Venugopal and others who had been staging protests and relay hunger strikes in Srikakulam over the issues of the government employees. Mr. Venkateswarlu urged the employees to participate in the ‘Chalo Vijayawada’ agitation on February 3, 2022. “The government has misled employees with false promises and unfruitful talks. That is why, they have launched protests. Until the government comes up with concrete proposals, all unions will continue agitations and participate in the proposed strike from February 7,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-will-not-fear-esma-says-ap-jac-leader/article64990428.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gandhi will be a guiding force for future generations’||Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas said that Mahatma Gandhi will continue to be the guiding force for the next generations as his teachings and struggle to achieve independence were relevant forever. Along with Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao, he inaugurated Mahatma Gandhi mandir constructed in Shantinagar Municipal Park in Srikakulam. As many as 26 statues of great freedom fighters,including Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Bhagat Singh, were also inaugurated in the parkwhich was named as Bharata Swatantra Samarayodhula Spoorthi Vanam. Mr. Krishndas lauded the initiative of the retired officials and academicians for striving hard for the establishment of a temple for Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of latter’s death anniversary. Mr. Prasada Rao said that Mahatma Gandhi’s life itself was a great message since he made many experiments with truth and new ideas including non-violence which have driven the British out of India. BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that patriotism would develop among children when they understand the sacrifices of many persons and social reformers. Former Union Minister Killi Kruparani and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gandhi-will-be-a-guiding-force-for-future-generations/article38351978.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s Sunday lockdown affects life||Everyday life seemed to reach a standstill for the second consecutive weekend on Sunday, with the Kerala government allowing only essential services in a bid to bridle the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will chair an online pandemic monitoring committee meeting remotely from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Monday to possibly weigh more prevention measures to slow down the growing number of COVID-19 cases. Currently, five districts have limited gatherings at social events to a maximum of 20 people. The administrations have also restricted a range of recreational activities for an indefinite period. Cinema theatres, gymnasiums and swimming pools remain closed until further notice in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts after public health experts classified them as Category C (Threshold 3) districts. There is also a temporary ban on visitors to religious places of worship in these regions. The committee relies on hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) admissions as the point of reference or baseline for classifying districts into three categories. It will take a call to bring more districts into the highly restrictive Category C grade. Inputs from the COVID-19 ‘war room’ at the Secretariat would decisively impact the administration’s pandemic control measures. The cell monitors, in real-time, COVID-19 hospitalisations, the availability of hospital beds, caregivers, paramedical staff, ICU beds, ventilators, and supplementary oxygen cylinders to prevent the surge of infections from overwhelming the State's finite health infrastructure. An official said the government was acutely aware that harsher restrictions and weekend lockdowns could decimate small businesses and imperil the livelihood of many, especially daily wage workers. The official said the administration appeared optimistic that it could restore normality by the end of February. The Sunday lockdown rendered conventionally busy localities devoid of activity. Roads, markets and shopping centres remained relatively deserted. The police fanned out in strength across the State to discourage inessential travel and clustering in public places. They turned back travellers without affidavits attesting to their reason for travel. However, the police allowed those reporting for work and journeying to hospitals and vaccination clinics to pass unimpeded. Private buses, autorickshaws and taxi cabs remained off the road. Bars remained shuttered. Restaurants and hotels disallowed customers but permitted takeaways and home delivery. But toddy shops were allowed to operate since the government reckoned toddy tapping a traditional sector. Fish, meat, milk, vegetable, fruit and provision stores, medical shops, laboratories, clinics and diagnostic services remained open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-sunday-lockdown-affects-life/article64990368.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||K.T. Jaleel’s remarks draws flak||LDF Independent MLA K.T. Jaleel has drawn flak from the Congress and the BJP for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Kerala Lok Ayukta, Cyriac Joseph. His ‘flare-up’ against the Ombudsman has further stoked the controversy surrounding the government’s attempt to promulgate an Ordinance to relegate the Lok Ayukta to a minor advisory role in cases relating to charges of corruption and maladministration against public officials. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said Dr. Jaleel’s invective against the Ombudsman underscored the rising alarm in the CPI(M). It seemed gripped by a fear that the Lok Ayukta could hand down a declaration of guilt in cases pending against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. Mr. Satheesan said the CPI(M) had realised belatedly that a declaration under Section 14 of the Act would be binding on the competent authority, the Governor in the case of the Chief Minister, to eject the erring official from public office. A ruling under Section 14 also lacks an appeal provision. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan ought to shed light on the ‘compelling situation’ that prompted the CPI(M) to hastily introduce a rash executive order to undermine the anti-corruption powers of the Lok Ayukta ‘without the support’ of LDF allies, notably the CPI. BJP State president K. Surendran said the move to defang the Lok Ayukta shone an uncomfortable spotlight on the entrenched corruption in the Pinarayi Vijayan government. CPI(M) stance CPI(M) district secretary, Kannur, M. V. Jayarajan, reiterated the party's position that Section 14 could unsettle an elected government based on an Ombudsman's adverse ruling on an individual's complaint. It could also open the door for the Centre to meddle in the State's affairs. Hence, the Act required urgent amendment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kt-jaleels-remarks-draws-flak/article38351513.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New policy soon to promote medicinal plants||Farmers intending to grow medicinal plants on a large scale have always nursed doubts, be it over the quality of saplings, availability of technical support, probability of demand-supply mismatch, or buyback arrangements with procuring companies. Though the COVID-19 situation has revealed the growing importance of and demand for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (MAPs), a tint of uncertainty has always pervaded the air, putting brakes on the farmers’ enthusiasm. The element of suspicion will soon be a thing of the past, as the Union government is all set to finalise a new policy to promote medicinal plants on a large scale, in tune with the steadily rising demand from Ayurvedic practitioners and pharmacists. The Ministries of Agriculture and AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) are cohesively working towards promoting the concept among the farmers. Win-win situation “The Agriculture Department has contact with the farmers at the grassroot level. We, under the AYUSH Ministry, not only have medicinal formulations and the processing know-how but also keep tabs on the industry’s requirement. Our combination will be a win-win situation,” says R. Murugeswaran, Deputy Director of National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), New Delhi.  Speaking to The Hindu during his recent visit to Tirupati, he explained the steps taken to promote the cultivation of medicinal plants by the farmers, either as the main or alternative crops.  He called upon the Farmer Producers’ Organisations (FPOs), voluntary organisations, cluster of farmers with large landholdings, or even individual farmers to come forward to grow such crops having sustenance in the long run. “The Union government’s proposal, when finalised, will not only have large extent of herbal farms across the country but also a processing unit for every such cluster, which will emerge as a game-changer,” adds Dr. Murugeswaran. SRK Educational Society Secretary D. Subramanyam, who has been actively involved in field activities to bring awareness among the farmers, finds new income generating activities opening up for rural population, especially the small and marginal farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-policy-soon-to-promote-medicinal-plants/article38351947.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP activist found murdered||Suhani Basha, a resident of Gandhipuram locality in Tirupati and an activist of Jana Sena Party (JSP), was found murdered on Sunday. His body, inflicted with cut injuries, was found near Peruru tank on the city outskirts. The party activists rushed to the spot upon getting information, followed by the local police, who shifted the body to SVRR Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Though the motive behind the murder was not known immediately, the police have registered a case and launched a manhunt for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-activist-found-murdered/article38351939.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of AP cadre IAS officers on Central deputation shrinking||Two to three years down the line, there may not be a Union Secretary from Andhra Pradesh State cadre at the Centre. The situation has arisen for two reasons: the State government is “not willing to spare” those already eligible to serve in Central departments and there are no officers empanelled for various reasons, including the ‘360 degree system’ for empanelment. According to information, there are only three IAS officers in the Secretary rank, one in the Additional Secretary rank and four in the Joint Secretary rank working in the Central government on deputation from the State. Another one is in the level of the Director. Of the three Secretaries, one will retire from service by the end of February and another in August. The third one will be retiring from service in June 2023. Of the four Joint Secretaries, three are on a few months extension and have to return to the State soon. The Central deputation tenure of the lone Director-level officer is also coming to an end. Thereafter, for years there may not be a Union Secretary from the State cadre at the Centre, sources say. As per the cadre strength fixed by the Centre, at least 52 IAS officers from Andhra Pradesh should be on Central Deputation Reserve, but the current number is a mere 15, with no empanelment in the last few years. This is the lowest number of empanelled officers from the State to the Centre in decades, though many are competent. Earlier, there used to be at least half a dozen officers from A.P. holding crucial Secretary posts in the Union government, senior officials recall. Since 2007, a two-year Central deputation at the Director level has been mandatory even for empanelment as Joint Secretary. If the State doesn’t send Director or Deputy Secretary level officers on deputation, they can’t become Joint Secretary or further up at the Centre. It affects the career progression of the IAS officers adversely, but, importantly, the State will be the ultimate loser as there will not be any representation at the Centre in a few years, sources say. Notwithstanding these ground realities, the State government has recently issued the no-objection certificate to only one IAS officer for deputation to the Centre at the Joint Secretary level, while two officers are empanelled in the Additional Secretary rank and four in the Joint Secretary rank, making them eligible for Central posting. 360-degree evaluation On other hand, after the 360-degree system of evaluation was put in place, somehow, the AP cadre officers lost out and many could not even get empanelled for Additional Secretary and Secretary-rank posts in New Delhi. Feedback from various stakeholders, including seniors, peers and juniors, has been introduced in the process of empanelment of officers for holding senior-level positions in the Government of India under the 360 degree system. These officers are many a time giving wrong and negative feedback about their colleagues, leaving the juniors in the lurch. The Government of India should discard the views of these officials, or do a 360-degree afresh for the cadre, opines an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-ap-cadre-ias-officers-on-central-deputation-shrinking/article38351948.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl, in suicide note, blames neighbour for extreme step||The minor girl, who reportedly jumped to death from an apartment in Bhavanipuram in the city, allegedly mentioned the name of the her neighbour, a real estate businessman, accusing him of harassing her. The 14-year-old girl reportedly leaped from the fifth floor of an apartment at Kummaripalem under Bhavanipuram police station limits on Saturday. The victim, in a notebook reportedly mentioned the name of the accused and narrated how the ‘uncle’ had sexually harassed and tortured her. Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said the Bhavanipuram police recovered the suicide note purportedly written by the ninth standard girl. “The accused tormented the girl severely. We are trying to collect more evidence in the case,” Mr. Kanthi Rana said. West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Hanumantha Rao said the police registered a case under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment) IPC, 306 (abetment to suicide) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The girl’s body was handed over to her family after post-mortem, Mr. Hanumantha Rao said on Sunday. Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas and Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma inquired into the incident. Mr. Srinivas ienquired with the police about the investigation of the case and consoled the bereaved family members. Ms. Padma, who spoke with the bereaved family members on Sunday, directed the police to collect all evidences in the case and see that the accused was punished severely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-in-suicide-note-blames-neighbour-for-extreme-step/article38352004.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Financially weak DISCOMs will affect economy: APERC chief||AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) Chairman Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy said that a financially weak DISCOM not only affects consumer services but would also have an adverse impact on the economy. In his message to the power sector stakeholders on the eve of the completion of the online public hearings on the DISCOMs’ annual revenue requirement and tariff filings for the 2022-23 financial year, Justice Nagarjuna Reddy observed that there was a need to balance the interest of consumers and DISCOMs and to focus on improving their financial stability and operational efficiencies. He said protection of the consumers’ interests and strengthening power utilities were the two major objectives of the commission, and as power utilities in the State faced severe financial crisis, APERC felt that it was high time for the consumers and other stakeholders to support the DISCOMs to enable them to provide reliable, quality power. He insisted the APERC and power utilities should work together for the development of the sector. Justice Nagarjuna Reddy said he and commission members P. Rajagopal Reddy and Thakur Rama Singh were closely monitoring the investment proposals of DISCOMs and that they had introduced automatic compensation in case of failure to meet certain service standards. The commission is periodically tracking the standards of performance and other service issues related to the consumers, the APERC chief added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/financially-weak-discoms-will-affect-economy-aperc-chief/article38351945.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC unions to discuss merger issues on Feb. 1||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (Public Transport Department) Employees’ Unions’ United Front on Sunday said they would meet on February 1 in Vijayawada for a final round of discussion on key issues confronting them even after their merger with the government. In a statement, the United Front’s convener P. Damodar Rao said the RTC unions had already declared their support to the ongoing agitation by the PRC Sadhana Samithi. The proposed meeting would precede submission of a memorandum to APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao by the APSRTC Joint Action Committee leaders, he said. ‘Last-ditch effort’ He said the objective was to draw the management’s attention to the fact that several pending issues, which the employees thought would be addressed after the merger with the government, continued to bother them. He said this would be a last ditch effort by the employees to elicit a favourable response by the management before taking the plunge into the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-unions-to-discuss-merger-issues-on-feb-1/article38351941.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand to name new dists. after prominent leaders grows louder||Even as the YSR Congress Party government in the State has embarked on the exercise of carving out 13 new districts from the existing 13 districts by delimitation of their boundaries “for better administration and development of areas”, demands for naming the newly-carved districts after prominent persons who contributed to the development of the region, are being made from various quarters. The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee wants Kurnool district to be named after Damodaram Sanjivayya, the first Dalit Chief Minister of an Indian State. In a statement, State Congress president Sake Sailajanath alleged “political motives” behind the “hurried manner in which the government is going ahead with the delimitation exercise.” Justifying his demand, he said Damodaram Sanjivayya was not only an honest and upright leader, but also an able administrator who contributed immensely for the unity of Telugu people at the time of the formation of linguistic states. “When the newly-carved Vijayawada district can be named after NTR and Kadapa district after YSR, why not Damodaram Sanjivayya for Kurnool district,” he asked. Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan made a similar demand last year urging the authorities concerned to recognise the contribution of leaders like Damodaram Sanjivayya and Burugula Ramakrishna Rao to the development of the State. The Kakani Aasaya Saadhana Samiti, meanwhile, has urged the government to rename the newly-carved Vijayawada district after Kakani Venktaratnam, former Minister and three-time MLA from the district. In a representation submitted to the Krishna district Collector J. Nivas, samiti president Tarun Kakani reminded that Venktaratnam was fondly known as the “Iron Man of Andhra” who fought all his life for upliftment of farmers and workers in the dairy sector,mainly between 1920 and 1972. He breathed his last when the ‘Jai Andhra’ movement was at its peak, in support of the demand for better allocation of resources to the Andhra region during the then bifurcation, said Mr. Tarun. “He was ‘Ajaata Satru’, a man with no enemies and controversies,” he said, adding that naming the district after him would be a fitting tribute to him. He also appealed to the authorities to restore the statue of Kakani Venktaratnam at the Kakani circle and merger of Nuzvid mandal into Vijayawada district, instead of combining it with Eluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-to-name-new-dists-after-prominent-leaders-grows-louder/article38352003.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter pass certificates from today||The BIE has despatched original Intermediate pass certificates of the second year students with security features to the Regional Inspection Offices located at the district headquarters. Board Secretary M.V. Seshagiri Babu said students and parents could collect the certificates from the principals of their colleges from January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-pass-certificates-from-jan-31/article38351946.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slight decline in COVID-19 positive cases in State||There was a slight decline in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, but the number of deaths due to the virus had gone up. The State reported 10,310 positive cases against 11,573 the previous day (Saturday) and 12 deaths – three each in Kadapa and Visakhapatnam, two in Nellore and one each in Chittoor, Guntur, Prakasam and Srikakulam districts. The number of fatalities on Saturday was three. As many as 39,296 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested in the State so far to 3,24,45,428. A total of 9,692 people afflicted with the virus recovered during the past day. The cumulative toll and tally of the pandemic in the State increased to 14,606 and 22,67,596 respectively and the number of active cases touched 1,16,031. Kadapa, Kurnool and Guntur districts continued to see lots of positive cases. In the last 24 hours, while Kadapa reported 16,97 cases, Kurnool logged 1,379 cases and Guntur 1,249 cases. They were followed closely by Krishna (1,008), Nellore (927), East Godavari (910), Visakhapatnam (853), Prakasam (700), Chittoor (411), Srikakulam (229), Vizianagaram (222), and Anantapur (99).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slight-decline-in-covid-19-positive-cases-in-state/article38351951.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New executive of APBSS||Andhra Pradesh Brahmana Seva Sangha Samakhya on Sunday elected a new executive committee. Satyavada Durga Prasad was elected as president of the samakhya. Konuru Satyanarayana (Satish Sarma) was elected as general secretary. The general body of the samakhya elected 20 others as treasurers, vice presidents, Advisers, honorary president, organising secretaries etc. The samakhya is in existence since 1984 and striving for the welfare and development of Brahmin community in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-executive-of-apbss/article38351409.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gunadala Mary Matha fest cancelled||Gunadala Mary Matha Utsavams, scheduled to be held from February 9 to 11, have been cancelled owing to a steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. Catholic Diocese Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Raja Rao issued directions to the shrine management to cancel the annual festival owing to the pandemic.  Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Gunadala Matha shrine Rector Fr. Eleti William Jayaraju said the celebrations had been cancelled keeping in view the safety of devotees.  “Except the daily rituals, there will be no special pujas in Gunadala Matha shrine. Devotees are requested not to throng the temple, and to stay by following COVD norms,” Fr. Jayaraju said. Bishop Raja Rao had also cancelled the ‘Navadina Japams’, scheduled to be performed from January 31 to February 8, due to COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gunadala-mary-matha-fest-cancelled/article38351942.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB busts gambling racket at private resort, 22 arrested||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) busted an organised gambling racket at a private resort near Annavaram under Bheemili police station limits in the district in the early hours of Sunday. The SEB arrested 22 persons and seized Rs. 5.70 lakh from them, apart from playing coins, which were being used for gambling in place of money. The teams have also seized nine cars and mobile phones from them. Among the arrested, four are residents of Visakhapatnam, while the others are from East and West Godavari districts. The officials said that the gamblers involved in this activity every weekend. Based on credible information, five teams under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner of SEB, S.V.V.N. Babji Rao and Assistant Enforcement Superintendent Srinadhudu, conducted the raid. “The coins we found at the spot are representation of money. We have found around 300 coins of 10, 20, 50, 100 representations. We have learnt that a 50 coin represents Rs. 5,000, while a 10 coin represents Rs. 1,000. After winning these coins, they settle the accounts every week,” said Mr. Srinadhudu. He said that they have also seized the bank account of an organiser which had about Rs. 12 lakh in it. The enforcement agencies will initiate action against the resort management, he added. The case was handed over to Bheemili police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-busts-gambling-racket-at-private-resort-22-arrested/article38352012.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records three deaths and 853 new COVID cases||After almost two weeks, the single-day tally of COVID-19 was under the 1,000-mark in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. In the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the district recorded 853 new infections, according to the COVID-19 State Bulletin. During the same time period, three more persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases has come below the 1,000-mark and stands at 9,937.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-three-deaths-and-853-new-covid-cases/article64990382.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP announces free COVID medicines to the needy||The ‘doctors’ cell’ of Jana Sena Party (JSP) has launched the distribution of medicine kits, free of cost, to needy patients, affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in the third wave. Dr. Boddepalli Raghu, chairman of the Doctor’s Cell of JSP, said that a vast majority of patients were mostly unsymptomatic undergoing treatment in home isolation and only a few of them were requiring oxygen concentrators. The doctors’ cell has also procured oxygen concentrators for supply to needy patients, on returnable basis, based on a doctor’s prescription. Instructions on using the kits are also printed in Telugu for the benefit of patients. Dr. Raghu said that any person requiring the medicine kit could collect the same from the JSP Office, located beside the AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) Office, at Madhavadhara VUDA Colony. Those requiring the medicine kits could call the JSP office on 7075532737. The medicine kits would be distributed in Rajamahendravam on Wednesday. Home delivery of the oxygen concentrators and kits could also be arranged, if required. JSP general secretary T. Sivasankar said that party president Pawan Kalyan had set up the doctors’ cell to provide medical assistance to needy persons. JSP general secretary Bolisetty Satya was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-announces-free-covid-medicines-to-the-needy/article38352015.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 trains cancelled to facilitate non-interlocking works||Ten trains have been cancelled during the next few days in view of non-interlocking (NI) works at Hijli Station of Kharagpur Division for construction of the third line, according to a statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi on Sunday. They are: 22853 Shalimar – Visakhapatnam Express on February 1 and 22854 Visakhapatnam – Shalimar on February 2; 22874 Visakhapatnam – Digha express on February 3 and 22873 Digha – Visakhapatnam on February 4; 18045 Shalimar-Hyderabad East Coast Express will remain cancelled from February 1 to 4; 18046 Hyderabad-Shalimar East Coast Express from January 31 to February 3; 22853 Shalimar-Visakhapatnam Express on February 1 and 22854 Visakhapatnam-Shalimar Express will be cancelled on February 2. Similarly, 12245 Howrah-Yesvantpur Duranto Express will remain cancelled on February 1 and 5; 12246 Yesvantpur-Howrah Duranto Express on January 31 and February 3; 22874 Visakhapatnam-Digha Express on February 3; 22873 Digha-Visakhapatnam Express on February 4; 22605 Purulia-Villupuram Bi Weekly Express will remain cancelled on February 4 and 22606 Villupuram-Purulia Bi Weekly Express on February 2. The following trains will be partially cancelled. They are: 12704 Secunderabad – Howrah Falaknuma Express, leaving Secunderabad on January 31, February 1 and 3 will run up to Bhubaneswar and will be cancelled between Bhubaneswar and Howrah. Train no. 12703 Howrah-Secunderabad Falaknuma Express will start from Bhubaneswar on February 1, 2 and 4 instead of Howrah. Hence, there will be no services of this train between Howrah and Bhubaneswar on these dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-trains-cancelled-to-facilitate-non-interlocking-works/article38352005.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Raipur NH project will spur growth in 3 States: Gadkari||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has said that the ministry has awarded works to the tune of Rs. 15 lakh crore, including spending Rs. 2 lakh crore in Andhra Pradesh. He participated, through video conference, as the guest of honour at the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam’s (IIM-V) two-day flagship annual business conclave ‘Vriddhi’, which concluded on Sunday. Speaking on ‘the role of infrastructure development for realising India’s five-trillion-dollar economy goal’, Mr. Gadkari spoke on the Union government’s vision for the promotion of integrated infrastructure under ‘PM Gati Shakti national plan’. He said the thrust was on development of road infrastructure and allied highway initiatives like Multi-Modal Logistics Parks(MMLPs) and other infrastructure development. Mr. Gadkari said that the Union government was working towards the development of a national highway network of 2 lakh km by 2025. The Visakhapatnam-Raipur greenfield road corridor, being developed, would become a growth highway for the three States of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Besides cutting travel time, it would also spur socioeconomic growth in the region. As many as 35 MMLPs would be developed across the country, including one each in Anantapur and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. A detailed project report would be ready in the next few months for these parks, Mr. Gadkari said. He advised the students to convert problems into opportunities with commercially viable solutions . The event also witnessed a panel discussion on ‘Prioritising products or consumers’, which was moderated by Amit Shankar, Assistant Professor of Marketing, IIM-Visakhapatnam. The first speaker on the panel, Varun Jain (Associate Director-Marketing at Cipla) discussed the role of semantics in making a consumer product. Vipul Oberoi (Director Marketing at Dun and Bradstreet, India) emphasised the importance of understanding, articulating, anticipating, and then ultimately presenting the product to the consumer. Shobhit Mohan (V-P Marketing at PayU), another panel member, spoke on product priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-raipur-nh-project-will-spur-growth-in-3-states-gadkari/article38352013.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancer treatment shouldn’t be delayed due to COVID fear: expert||The COVID-19 pandemic has affected cancer care over the past two years. Cancer usually presents as a painless lump or ulcer. The absence of pain and the pandemic scare are making many patients postpone their visit to hospitals, says Suman Das, senior consultant radiation oncologist, Apollo Cancer Centre. This is resulting in many patients getting diagnosed at an advanced stage of the disease. The lack of pain in the early stages also makes patients think that there was no need to rush to the hospital for diagnosis. The treatment of cancer involves surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Usually the overall treatment ranges over a period of a few weeks to a few months, depending on the type of cancer. During this period, if the patient gets infected with COVID-19 there is a possibility of interruption of treatment. Citing an example, Dr. Suman Das said a breast cancer patient was being treated with chemotherapy and after receiving the third dose of chemotherapy, she got infected with COVID-19 and needed hospitalisation and continuation of treatment for breast cancer got affected. Her further chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy got discontinued and this affects the outcome of cancer treatment. Dr. Suman Das says that cancer patients need not worry about taking COVID vaccine. They should, however, consult their oncologist before taking the vaccine, if they are on active treatment like chemotherapy and radiotherapy. There is no need to be afraid of COVID as simple precautions could help in preventing the virus. On the other hand, one should not delay cancer treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancer-treatment-shouldnt-be-delayed-due-to-covid-fear-expert/article38352008.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haemodialysis unit launched||A haemodialysisunit was commissioned by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy at the Divisional Railway Hospital here on Saturday. Railway officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haemodialysis-unit-launched/article38352014.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe on into ‘objectionable behaviour’ by correspondent||The District Education Department has launched an inquiry into an alleged objectionable behaviour of a private school correspodent against a girl student at Sagar Nagar in the city. A group of parents staged a protest on the issue on Saturday. According to information given by the parents to the Education Department officials, the incident occurred when the girl went to give chocolates to the accused on the occasion of her birthday on Friday. However, when questioned, the correspondent reportedly informed the parents that he did nothing wrong. District Educational Officer L. Chandrakala on Sunday said that an inquiry has been launched with Deputy DEO Prem Kumar as investigating officer into the incident. On Saturday, the Deputy DEO commenced the inquiry and it would be continued on Monday after which he would submit a report, she said. Inspector of Arilova Police Station, Emmanuel Raju, said that they had come to know about the incident and are enquiring about it. The police are yet to receive any complaint, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-on-into-objectionable-behaviour-by-correspondent/article38352011.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness walk organised||An awareness walk was held on the occasion of World Leprosy Day on Beach Road here on Sunday. President of IADVL K. Venkatachalam, secretary K.S. Divya and treasurer M. Divya were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-walk-organised/article38351977.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salary Bills not prepared for January||“We will do everything we can to approve the Bills immediately if presented,” says a Sub Treasury Officer (STO). Payment of salaries and other benefits of employees, pensioners, contract workers, village and ward employees, outsourced workers, full/part time contingent employees, and daily wage workers, as also home guards, ASHA workers, anganwadi workers, and mid-day meal service providers will be hit with the non-preparation of the Bills. The State government has warned that action will be taken as per the Andhra Pradesh Civil Services Conduct Rules to ensure timely payment of salaries to the employees for the month of January. The government is proposing an alternative mechanism if the situation warrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/salary-bills-not-prepared-for-january/article38351940.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Creating awareness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/creating-awareness/article64990448.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect setting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/perfect-setting/article64990384.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A blanket of fog||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-blanket-of-fog/article64990364.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:49 IST,TELANGANA||Convict on the run for 14 years, arrested||The Madiwala police have arrested a 48-year-old murder case convict who has been on the run for 14 years. He escaped while he was given parole to see his ailing mother. According to the police, the convict, Karunakar hailed from Kundapura and worked as a panipuri vendor in Byatarayanapura when he killed a man in 1998. The court after conducting the trial sentenced him to life imprisonment, following which he was incarcerated in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara. In 2008, Karunakar obtained parole to see his ailing mother and escaped. The police registered a case against him, and never gave up. “For years, we kept watch on his family and friends. Fourteen years later, we traced him to a small village near Haveri,” a police officer said. Karunakar was running a small eatery there. He was brought back to the city and remanded in judicial custody to complete his sentence. He was also booked under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/convict-on-the-run-for-14-years-arrested/article38351572.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||1,000 BC structures endangered||A cluster of burial structures of the Iron Age are found in utter neglect at Raghunathapuram village of Rajapet mandal in Yadadri-Bhongir district. Based on the information given by S. Haragopal, Convenor, Kotha Telangana Charitra Brindam, Dr. E. Sivanagireddy, archaeologist and CEO, Pleach India Foundation and M. Vedakumar, Chairman, Deccan Heritage Academy, visited and surveyed the Megalithic burials known as ‘cist burials’ located on either side of the road leading to Ramaswamy Gutta of the village on Sunday. After conducting a thorough survey on the local hill and the surroundings, Dr. Reddy revealed that there are only 10 burials existing now, out of about 100 a few years ago, due to active agricultural operations. These burials known as Rakasigullu denote the burial practices of the Iron Age in which the dead were interred in a stone chamber covered with a huge cap stone measuring 4.0 x 4.0 metres and 0.33 meters in thickness and demarcated by a circle of natural boulders all around. Mr. Vedakumar has spotted nearly 20 cup marks on the top side the one of the cap stones here and identified as the depiction of star constellations and opined that these cup marks bear a lot of significance on astronomical grounds. Dr. Sivanagireddy noticed grooves of the Neolithic period (4000 BC) on the rear side of the Ramaswamy temple located on the hill top amidst the Deccan Rock formations. Both the heritage activists said that there are 20 to 25 natural boulders planted in circular form for each burial and worried that these boulders are being removed by the local farmers. Dr. Sivanagireddy and Vedakumar sensitised the local community on the archaeological and historical significance of the structures and on the need to preserve them for posterity. They made an appeal to the concerned district authorities to notify the burial site immediately and opined that the site could be developed as cultural landscape and an archaeological and heritage tourism spot for the benefit of the tourists frequenting Yadadri temple city and Kolanupaka Jain centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1000-iron-age-structures-endangered-in-yadadri/article38351793.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Issue job notifications, says Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao fulfil the electoral promise of giving Rs. 3,016 monthly allowance to all jobless youth in the State while asking him to refrain TRS workers from attacking on Youth Congress workers on the unemployment issue. “When demanded that the poll promise be honoured, the government was illegally arresting the Youth Congress workers and implicating them in false cases,”, he said. He demanded that the State Government immediately issue the notification to fill over 1.91 lakh vacancies in various departments. The ruling party TRS leaders were getting frustrated when the Congress activists exposed the fact that job notifications were not issued in the last seven years and the promise of unemployment allowance of Rs. 3, 016 remained unfulfilled. The TPCC chief said Ranga Reddy district youth president Ravikanth Goud was attacked when Youth Congress activists went to submit a petition to local MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy. Similarly, the local police personnel in Jadcherla broke the leg of a Youth Congress leader Srinivas Naik when an attempt was made to submit a memorandum on the unemployment issue. He said the party would continue to put pressure on the government for job notifications and unemployment dole and demanded withdrawal of fake cases registered against Youth Congress workers and their immediate release. Congress, if voted back to power in the next elections, will ensure that the tribal children develop equally with the rest of the society, the TPCC chief said. He was addressing a meeting of tribals after attending the Nagoba festival in Keslapur village in Adilabad district in the wee hours of Sunday. He praised the Mesarams clan of Gond tribes for setting an example across the world by preserving the Tribal traditions. Later, he felicitated Padma Sri awardee Gussadi Kanaka Raju. MLA Seethakka and other Congress leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/issue-job-notifications-says-revanth/article38351796.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Redress ‘Dharani’ grievances: BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that the Government immediately look into the glitches in the 'Dharani' web portal on lands considering that an estimated five lakh requests have poured in seeking 'corrections' in the official records. “It has been two years since ‘Dharani’ was launched and one is unable to make out if this portal is a boon or bane to the people when so many citizens are complaining. There is no mechanism to resolve the complaints. Neither the officials concerned or the ministers are accessibleto hear to the grievances,” charged party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday. Participating in the round table conference on problems associated with 'Dharani' at the party office in the presence of senior leaders K. Laxman, N. Indrasena Reddy, Vijayshanti, Premender Reddy and others, the Karimnagar MP said: "Farmers and ex-servicemen have been crying themselves hoarse about the difficulties being encountered by them as the lands they own has been put into prohibitory list. It is shameful that till date there is no clarity on extent of assigned and patta lands, etc." Mr. Sanjay Kumar alleged that the portal is “full of mistakes with wrong photos, names and entries”, and accused the government of “diverting funds released by the Centre for digitisingthe land records”. “The district collectors are unable to resolve the issues thrown up by the portal but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is unmoved. Is the portal meant for illegal transfers of prime land or to make it convenient for people?,” he questioned. Earlier in the day, the party chief launched the 'one crore signature collection' campaign of the youth wing and once again criticisedthe Chief Minister for "deceiving" unemployed youth on filling of vacant posts. "Youth are resorting to extreme step as they see a bleak future ahead with the job notifications not being issued in the last seven years. There is no sign of theunemploymentstipend either as was promised during the elections but Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao is still not giving any assurance on this count and had not consoled a single bereaved family," he said. The BJP president urged the youth and other aggrievedsections of the society like farmers not to take any extreme steps but join his party in “dethroning” the current regime for ensuring justice to all. The party is determined to hold a “million march” during the budget session of the Assembly, he added. In a separate function to release the diary of the Tahsildhar Association, former Minister Eatala Rajender blamed the Chief Minister and chief secretary Somesh Kumar not taking any steps to resolve the current "mess" in 'Dharani' portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/redress-dharani-grievances-bjp/article64990532.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:48 IST,TELANGANA||Cold nights to continue||Arli in Adilabad district continued to shiver for the second successive night recording 5.7 degree C followed by Adilabad recording 6.7 degree C. It was 8.3 degree C within the city at the University of Hyderabad while Ramagundam recorded 10.6 degree C and Medak 10.7 degree C from amongthe cold regions on Saturday night. In fact, citizens will experience chilly nights throughout the week with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting 12-13 degree C across the twin cities. This is primarily due to the low level Easterlies and North-Easterlies prevailing. Fog and mist Temperatures recorded on Saturday night was 12 degree C, which is a good four degreebelow normal and day (maximum) temperature was 31.8 degree C in the capital region. No major change is expected during the day, with fog/mist in the early hours and clear sky later on in the capital region. Minimum temperatures are expected to be in the range of 12-15 degree C, while the maximum temperatures will be in the range of 27-30 degree C, said the Telangana State Development and Planning Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chilly-nights-to-continue/article38351778.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||KCR favoured only a few IAS officers, says Uttam||Nalgonda MP and senior Congress leader N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has accused Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao of destroying the Civil Services cadre and said he would be remembered for misusing the IAS and IPS officers system. “When you are questioning the Centre’s new move to gain control over the officers of the central service you should remember that you have destroyed the entire system diluting their power and image and insulting them,” he said at a press conference here. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked why were the retired Chief Secretaries and DGPs in Telangana being reemployed when officers were available. “Is it not a bait for the serving officers to toe your line violating all the norms and demoralise the officers during their service period,” he asked. Similarly, junior officers were being given top posts insulting the seniors. The present Chief Secretary S. Somesh Kumar was chosen superseding 14 senior IAS officers and all the important portfolios were being handled by him while senior officers sit idle, he alleged. Moreover, he belongs to the Andhra Pradesh cadre. Mr. Reddy further said that non-cadre officers in IPS were being appointed as the Superintendents of Police while direct IPS officers were totally ignored. “In earlier governments IAS and IPS officers had respect but now they are forced to work like followers of the MLA concerned. Officers willing to bow to him only are given postings,” he claimed. The Nalgonda MP said he would raise the issue in Parliament and question such dictatorial attitudeof the government.. He said Centre’s move to gain total control over the officers was not correct but KCR had no moral right to question it when he himself had destroyed the system in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-favoured-only-a-few-ias-officers-says-uttam/article38351797.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:49 IST,TELANGANA||Hip replacement surgeries at OGH under govt schemes||Doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) have started performing total hip replacement surgeries under Aarogyasri Health Scheme and Ayushman Bharat scheme. People can undergo knee and shoulder replacement surgeries too, under the schemes at the State-run hospital. The surgeries cost Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 3.5 lakh at corporate hospitals. Four patients have undergone the procedures free of cost. They were suffering from severe pain for the past several years and could not afford surgery at private hospitals. Professor and head of the orthopaedics department at OGH, G. Ramesh said surgeries under the two schemes were performed this month. All four patients were in need of hip replacement. “Their condition has improved. They were discharged a few days ago,” said Dr. Ramesh. Also part of the surgery team were doctors Y. Thimma Reddy and A. Krishna Reddy. Hospital superintendent B. Nagender said patients in need of surgery or other medical procedures can avail themselves of the schemes and undergo the procedures at OGH. Patients from other States who are eligible under Ayushman Bharat can also opt for treatment at the hospital, he added. Dr. Nagender said everyone is provided treatment, but the schemes help buy some medical resources. While the orthopaedic procedures were being conducted at the government hospital earlier too, one had to depend on philanthropists who funded implants used in the surgery. Now, the medical resources have been brought under the insurance schemes. Doctors have stressed that more patients can undergo knee, hip, or other surgeries by availing the benefit at the government hospital. Regarding knee health, Dr. Thimma Reddy said osteoarthritis of knee can be prevented by taking precautions such as regular physical exercise, consuming protein and calcium-rich diet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hip-replacement-surgeries-at-ogh-under-govt-schemes/article64990534.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:48 IST,TELANGANA||‘Reopen schools but wait till peak passes’||The government’s decision to reopen schools in Telangana from February 1 has once again sparked a debate on the safety of children as the pediatric caseload of COVID is also high. Pediatricians at prominent government and private hospitals opine that schools must definitely be opened, but say it is advisable to wait for a couple more weeks or till the peak shows definite signs of declining. “It is better to reopen schools when the peak starts to pass. We are yet to note a dip in daily cases in Telangana. Kids could contract the infection, fall sick and spread it to others,” said a well-known pediatrician on the condition of anonymity. A few others say the cognitive development of children is also important and that it could be impacted if schools are closed for a prolonged time period. However, one cannot ignore the importance of generating awareness about possible post-COVID complications in children, encouraging COVID surveillance in schools and the need to gather robust data on symptoms and hospitalisations, they suggest. Since the beginning of this year, pediatricians across the State have been witnessing a rush in out-patient consultations as parents whose children contracted the infection did not wish to take a chance and sough immediate medical advice. The specialist doctors say that majority of the cases came to them through out-patient consultations, and only a negligible number required hospitalisation. Most children with COVID were asymptomatic when Delta variant was prevalent in 2021. However, cases of high-grade fever have increased. Besides, children with the infection had vomiting, cold, cough, low appetite and pain in abdomen. “Children with COVID need hospitalisation if they have high grade fever for more than three days, show signs of dehydration, experience difficulty in breathing, have low urine output and refuse to take food or fluids,” says head of Pediatrics department at Niloufer Hospital, T. Usha Rani. She points out only a few children with the infection are admitted at the government hospital, and that they had not come across multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) cases yet in January. MIS-C is a post-COVID complication. Dr Usha Rani says cognitive development needs a stimulating environment, and schools being shut for a long time is not good for that. Thousands of children missing out on mid-day meals could also lead to malnutrition, she avers. Another pediatrician, Karuna Madap, says parents and teachers, have to be made aware about MIS-C and other possible post-COVID complications which help in early identification and treatment. “We need information on clinical presentation of COVID in children — how long did it take for them to recover, how many needed hospital admissions, how many had high-grade fever, had symptoms like vomiting and diarrhea, etc. This helps in diagnosis and avoiding unnecessary investigations and treatment. This knowledge should reach periphery doctors,” says Dr Karuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reopen-schools-but-wait-till-peak-passes/article38351783.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Pact renewed||College of Defence Management (CDM) and Osmania University recently renewed their 28-year-old Memorandum of Understanding with a fresh pact signed between Commandant Rear Admiral Sanjay Datt and Registrar P. Lakshminarayana in the presence of Vice-Chancellor D. Ravinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pact-renewed/article38351981.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||BJP leader joins the TRS||A Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency member of BJP from Nandipet in Nizamabad district Aruna joined the TRS in the presence of MLC K. Kavitha here on Sunday. She was upset with the anti-farmer policies of BJP. She left the BJP within 24 hours of the State president of the party Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Nizamabad MP D. Arvind Kumar addressed a meeting at Armoor, according to the local TRS MLA A. Jeevan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leader-joins-the-trs/article38351794.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Tributes paid to Mahatma Gandhi||Rich tributes were paid to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on the Assembly premises on Sunday by several leaders. Assembly Speaker Pocharm Srinivas Reddy, Council Pro-tem chairman Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri, Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Legislative Council Whip S. Prabhakar Rao and others visited and offered floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tributes-paid-to-mahatma-gandhi/article64990523.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:48 IST,TELANGANA||IAF officer visits air warfare college||Air Officer Commanding in Chief, Training Command, Indian Air Force, Manavendra Singh on Saturday visited the College of Air Warfare, Secunderabad, where he addressed officers of the three services undergoing training in various aspects affecting national security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-officer-visits-air-warfare-college/article64990538.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Three killed as autorickshaw rams bike in Jagtial district||Three persons including two migrant labourers were killed when an autorickshaw collided head on with a bike at Rajarampalli stage in Malial mandal of Jagtial district on Sunday evening. According to the police, the autorickshaw, heading towards Malial from Jagtial, hit the bike from the opposite direction near the bus stop at Rajarampalli on the Jagtial-Karimnagar main road at around 6 pm. Two occupants of the autorickshaw were killed instantly and another passenger suffered serious injuries in the accident. The deceased were identified as Sudhakar of Odisha and Gopal of Chhattisgarh, both migrant workers. The autorickshaw turned turtle in the impact of the collision. The motorcycle rider identified as Sanjeev of Malial died on the spot. The pillion rider sustained multiple injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-as-autorickshaw-rams-bike/article38351801.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:49 IST,TELANGANA||Car ploughs into pavement; 4 dead||Angry relatives of the deceased staged a road blockade on the main road demanding stern action against the reckless driver of the car and justice to the bereaved families of the four victims of the accident. The local leaders of the Opposition parties, including the Congress, the Left Parties and the BJP, expressed solidarity with the demonstrators. CCTV footage showed the car taking a U-turn at high speed near a petrol bunk at Kaman circle before heading towards Ambedkar stadium minutes before the accident. Later in the day, the Karimnagar one town police arrested the owner of the car identified as Rajendra Prasad, a resident of Gayatrinagar, his 16-year-old son and the latter’s two minor accomplices. Presenting them before the media at a press conference late on Sunday afternoon, Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana said a case has been registered against the four accused, including the car owner Rajendra Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/car-ploughs-into-pavement-4-dead/article64990533.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||War of words over procurement||After a war of words over the issue of paddy procurement in the State for nearly two months since the first week of November, TRS and BJP have joined another wordy duel after that – on employment. As the BJP has taken up the issue of employment by questioning the TRS Government on not taking up recruitment process to fill the existing vacancies in different departments, the TRS started hitting back asking the BJP to explain people how far its election promise of giving 2 crore jobs every year and filling 19 lakh vacancies in various Central Government departments and organisations and undertakings. In response, BJP leaders have picked up the issue of the government plan to introduction English medium in all government schools from the next academic year without having required qualified teaching staff. The Congress, on the other hand, is of the view that both Telangana Rashtra Samithi and BJP were deceiving people blaming each other on the employment issue without taking up recruitment process.   If there is one section that is facing multiple challenges at present, it is the teacher community. Teachers, who are on an agitation path ever since the government issued orders on cadre reallocation. are now faced with the tough task of completing syllabus as schools are set to reopen on Tuesday. The academic year was adversely affected owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and physical attendance of students was possible only around the second half by which time teachers took to agitation against GO 317. It is against this background that they are facing a stiff challenge of completing the syllabus. It has to be seen whether the government sticks to the examination schedule as usual or whether teachers would be given some breather by extension of examinations by a month or two.   Inflated bills to claim reimbursement, particularly in government offices, is an age-old practice but never one as glaring as this.. The Madhira municipality moved in the general body meeting of the elected council a claim for payment of Rs. 1.45 lakh towards purchase of soaps, sanitisers and oils for distribution to the sanitation staff on the occasion of Republic Day. The staff were handed over 675 soaps each costing Rs. 96 and the total running to Rs. 64,800. Sanitisers worth Rs. 12,600 and oils valued Rs. 68,000 were also distributed. What raised many an eye brow was the cost of soaps at Rs. 96 a piece where they were sold for Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 each. (B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev, N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/war-of-words-over-paddy-procurement/article38351795.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Blessings come down||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blessings-come-down/article64990525.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:49 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||While the COVID third wave is on and cases are rising daily, it is distressing to note many are not wearing face masks or not covering their mouth/nose even though the government has started imposing Rs. 1,000 fine on violators. There is an urgent need to educate people about the importance of wearing mask, through NGOs by interpersonal communication, awareness activities, putting hoardings in markets, stickers on all taxis, posters on the backside of autorickshaws, TSRTC buses and also mobile vans visiting localities with audio and visual aids to highlight the importance of COVID safety protocols like vaccination, mask wearing, washing hands and social distancing to lower the caseload. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura   GHMC had laid speed breakers long ago in Sangeethnagar opposite to Saisadan Apartments H./No 5-5-15 in Kukatpally. People are riding two-wheelers at high speed, leading to accidents on this particular road. People of the apartment while coming out from the complex are unable to notice the two-wheelers coming from the north side of the road because the house owner on that side has raised a garden, obstructing the sight. I appeal to the GHMC to review the work and provide wide speed breakers to prevent accidents. M. Subbaiah, Kukatpally (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article38351784.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Cowshed managers booked for bovine deaths||A large number of cows were found dead in a cowshed in Berasia town near Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, following which district authorities registered an FIR against its management. An official said the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Berasia, some 45 kilometres from the State capital, got an FIR registered against the cowshed management on the directives of Bhopal District Collector Avinash Lavania. Mr. Lavania, who visited the cowshed earlier in the day, in a statement said its management has been removed and the Janpad Panchayat’s Chief Executive officer (CEO) was appointed as receiver, adding that an autopsy had been ordered to know the cause of death of the bovines. He also ordered the Berasia SDM to take action against the cowshed director for collecting the carcasses at one place and not carrying out the last rites as per guidelines. Mr. Lavania asked the State Animal Husbandry department to carry out a health check-up of all cows in such facilities across the district. Meanwhile, Congress Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh alleged a trade in cow bones and leather was going on in this cowshed, which he claimed was run by a woman BJP leader. Mr. Singh said over 500 cows had been found dead in this facility and sought a case of cow slaughter against its directors. “It should be investigated if the woman BJP leader was involved in the business of leather and bones. The grant received by this cowshed should also be probed,” Mr. Singh said. Queried on Mr. Singh’s allegations, state BJP spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi said the former should “rather speak about Congress workers who ate beef on the road in Kerala”. ‘Playing politics’ “The BJP is committed to the protection of cows while Singh is only involved in playing politics on the issue. The district administration has already initiated action against the cowshed management and further steps are being taken as per the law,” Mr. Chaturvedi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cowshed-managers-booked-for-bovine-deaths/article64990582.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:15 IST,||M.P. forest dept. wants to allow killing of nilgais||The Madhya Pradesh forest department has sent a draft to the State government to allow the killing of 'nilgai' and wild boars which damage crops of farmers, an official said on Sunday. Following strict rules issued in 2000 and 2003 pertaining to the hunting of blue bulls and boars, respectively, no animal was killed, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Alok Kumar said. The State government now wants to simplify the rules following complaints from farmers that their crops were being destroyed by these animals, sources in the forest department said. Madhya Pradesh, specially western part of the State, has a huge population of nilgai (blue bulls) and wild boars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-forest-dept-wants-to-allow-killing-of-nilgais/article38351837.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||TRS to boycott President’s address to Parliament||The TRS has decided to boycott President Ramnath Kovind’s address to the joint session of Parliament at the commencement of its Budget session on Monday in protest against the indifference of the Centre to fulfill its promises to the State in bifurcation law. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Parliamentary party of TRS presided by Chief Minister and party chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday. Chevella MP G. Ranjith Reddy said it was decided to wait till the presentation of the Union Budget on Tuesday before turning the heat on the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/trs-to-boycott-presidents-address-to-parliament/article38351676.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||PM to unveil statue in Telangana||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the world the ‘Statue of Equality’ on February 5 to mark the 1,000th birth anniversary of Vaishnavite saint Ramanujacharya at the sprawling ashram of Tradandi Chinna Jeeya Swamy at Muchintal in Telangana. The statue is considered the second tallest in the world in sitting position. President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate a 54-inch idol, made of gold weighing 120 kg, representing the number of years the 11th century saint lived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pm-to-unveil-statue-in-telangana/article38351675.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Eight booked for forcing Dalit man to drink urine in Churu||A 25-year-old Dalit youth was allegedly abducted, beaten and forced to drink urine by eight men over old animosity in Churu district of Rajasthan, police said on Sunday. Two accused have been arrested, they said. According to the police complaint filed by victim Rakesh Meghwal, a resident of Rukhasar village, on January 27, the accused abducted him from his house at around 11 p.m. the previous night and took him to a field in an SUV. They forced him to drink liquor after which they urinated in the same bottle and forced it down his throat, Mr. Meghwal alleged in his complaint at the Ratangarh police station. He also alleged that the accused used casteist slurs and other derogatory terms saying the Dalits would be taught a lesson for confronting them as all of them belonged to an ‘influential’ community. The police said injury marks on Mr. Meghwal’s back confirmed that he had been attacked. “It is confirmed that he was beaten up and two accused have been arrested in connection with the matter. The allegation that he was forced to drink urine is yet to be established,” investigating officer and Ratangarh circle officer Himanshu Sharma said. While two of the accused Umesh and Birbal have been arrested, the others Akshay, Rajesh, Rakesh, Tarachand, Bidadichand and Dinesh are absconding, he said. They have been booked under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (abduction) and 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt, or restraint) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the officer said, adding that the vehicle used in the crime has been recovered. According to Mr. Meghwal, he was playing a local musical instrument called Chang on Holi during which the accused had passed nasty comments, leading to a confrontation between them for the first time.  The allegation that he was forced to drink urine is yet to be established Himanshu Sharmainvestigating officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/8-booked-for-forcing-dalit-man-to-drink-urine/article38351680.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Lecture series throws light on Gandhian philosophy||A unique 21-hour-long lecture series on Mahatma Gandhi, delivered by a scholar of Gandhian and peace studies here, has narrated the finer aspects of Gandhian thought and portrayed the challenges, struggles and contributions of the Father of the Nation in the right perspective. The series of online lectures was completed last week. The initiative sought to counter the misinformation campaign against Mahatma Gandhi, mainly operative on social media, while challenging the attempts to belittle his stature. Sponsored by Jaipur Peace Foundation, the lectures were delivered for two days every week-end on Google Meet platform for two-and-a-half months, with over 50 participants attending the online interaction.  Political scientist Naresh Dadhich, former Vice-Chancellor of Vardhaman Mahaveer Open University, Kota, who delivered the lectures, told The Hindu that he had dealt with Mahatma Gandhi's approach to politics and religion, his relations with other leaders during the Independence movement and his concepts of non-violence, Swaraj, Satyagraha, Sarvodaya, Ram Rajya and trusteeship.  Each lecture lasted an hour and was followed by a question-answer session. The participants included political leaders, research scholars, teachers, students and social activists in the age group spanning from 22 to 60 years. Each of them was given a certificate at the end of the series. Prof. Dadhich said the Gandhian thoughts were most relevant in the context of moral principles being ignored in the current politics, when the values of purity, honesty, non-violence and secularism needed to be incorporated into the public life. “The present tech-savvy generation must know the significance of Mahatma Gandhi and see through the lies and deceptions holding him responsible for several ills,” he said. Philosophy,thoughts After covering Mahatma Gandhi's life in the initial two to three lectures, the series compared his philosophy with the contemporary thoughts, such as Marxism, Maoism, socialism and liberalism and also dealt with his critics. This was followed by an analysis of Mahatma Gandhi's relations with Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Subhas Chandra Bose, B.R. Ambedkar and Mohammed Ali Jinnah and his role in freedom struggle and Partition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lecture-series-throws-light-on-gandhian-philosophy/article64990583.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Gehlot govt. seeks ideas on draft law for funds||The Congress government in Rajasthan has sought suggestions from the public on a draft legislation for allocation of funds for welfare of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes every year in proportion to their population. The Bill is likely to be tabled in the upcoming budget session of the Assembly, starting on February 9. The Rajasthan State SC & ST Development Fund (Planning, Allocation, and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Bill is aimed at ensuring sustainable development of Dalits and tribals by creating an institutional mechanism for utilisation of funds in the focus areas. The draft Bill stated that its primary objective is to “cover up the deficit” of these communities on development indicators. While the Dalit and civil society groups have been demanding such a law for more than a decade, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had reportedly prepared a draft in 2013. The draft law could not see the light of the day following the change of government. The Congress seems to be focusing on its core vote banks by bringing a law before the 2023 Assembly election. The SCs account for 18% and the STs 12% of Rajasthan’s population. Rajasthan will be the fifth State to provide a legal framework if the Assembly passes the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gehlot-govt-seeks-ideas-on-draft-law-for-funds/article38351852.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Rajasthan government setting up innovation hubs||New innovation hubs being established at science centres in Jaipur and Jodhpur districts of Rajasthan at a cost of Rs. 2.50 crore this year are set to provide opportunities for computer coding, modelling and programming to students and researchers under the guidance of mentors. Two more science centres will be constructed shortly in Ajmer and Bikaner. A miniature nuclear power gallery opened in Kota has also emerged as a model for scientific education on the theory and practical aspects of production of clean energy. The Nuclear Power Corporation has set up the gallery at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh to generate awareness about the advantages of nuclear energy and explore the scope for its expansion. Minister of State for Science & Technology Zahida Khan, who virtually inaugurated the gallery on Thursday, said the youngsters were being encouraged to build their career in the scientific fields with the guidance provided by reputed institutions. While an asteroid search campaign was launched in the State in November 2021, the children were finding a gallery of fun science models extremely informative. A model of a 700 MW nuclear power plant has been displayed for the first time in the miniature nuclear power gallery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-government-setting-up-innovation-hubs/article38351853.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Governor attacks Mamata govt. again||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary, and launched another attack on the Mamata Banerjee government, stating that he cannot see “trampling of human rights” and the State “getting drenched” in violence. Asserting that no amount of “insults” will deter him from performing his duties, Mr. Dhankhar said violence and democracy do not go together, and urged all to become messenger of peace and non-violence as a tribute to the father of the nation. “I cannot see the hallowed land of Bengal getting blood-drenched (in violence) and becoming a laboratory for trampling of human rights. People are saying that the State is turning into a gas chamber of democracy,” Mr. Dhankhar said at Gandhi Ghat on the bank of Hooghly river at Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district. NHRC probe ordered He added the situation had become such that the Calcutta High Court had to order the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission to form a fact-finding committee to probe into allegations of human rights violations in post-poll violence in West Bengal last year. Mr. Dhankhar said it has to be everyone’s effort to ensure that there is “peace in the society in terms of the Constitution of the country”. The Governor, who has crossed swords with the Mamata Banerjee government over several issues since assuming charge in the State. He recently accused the Chief Minister and the Speaker of the Assembly of transgressing constitutional norms by not providing him the information he had sought on multiple matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/governor-attacks-mamata-govt-again/article64990576.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Migratory birds find winter home in Bengal||During the winter months, migratory birds from the Himalayan and Central Asian highlands come to water bodies of south-central Bengal. The rivers of Sunderbans and the Santrgachi Jheel in Howrah and the Kulik Bird Sanctuary are a few of the well-known spots where thousands of migratory birds visit every year in winter. State survey A survey by the West Bengal Forest Department has revealed that the water bodies of Bankura and adjoining areas, which are considered arid regions of the State, have emerged as new havens for migratory birds.  “Nearly 133 species of birds were spotted from 20 water bodies in these regions and many of them are migratory. We were spreading awareness against poaching of wild animals during Sikhar Utsav and decided to hold a survey on these water bodies,” S. Kulandaivel, Chief Conservator of Forest, West Bengal Forest Department, told The Hindu .  He said that some of key water bodies of the region where different species of migratory and non-migratory birds have been spotted are Mukutmanipur Dam, Kadamdeuli Reservoir, Gangdua Dam and Lalbandh in Bankura district and Saheb Bandh and Futiyari Dam in Purulia district. The species recorded include lesser whistling duck, red-crested pochard, common pochard, tufted duck, northern pintail, great crested grebe and different species of wagtails. Ecosystem health Anirban Patra, secretary of the Green Plateau, an organisation involved in the survey, said bird presence is an indicator of the ecosystem health of the region. Mr. Patra said some of the birds are so sensitive to the changes in the region that they can sense changes in the pollution and other external factors. “A bird called rufous tailed lark left Mukutmanipur due to construction work and use of a particular kind of paints in 2018. The bird returned in 2020 when the situation improved,” he said. Dr. Kulandaivel said it is an initiative of the State government to restore water bodies in different areas to boost tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/migratory-birds-find-winter-home-in-bengal/article64990570.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||Parties begin strategising as civic polls approach||With just two months left for the civic polls in the Capital, the Congress and the BJP have begun intensifying their attacks on the Delhi government’s new excise policy on liquor. Earlier this month, the BJP held a city-wide ‘Chakka Jam’ to protest against the new policy, which allegedly allowed some liquor vends to open in the vicinity of schools and places of worship. Congress’ councillors have also alleged that most of the newly opened liquor vends were in non-conforming areas, including residential and mixed land use areas. “Apart from the new excise policy, we will also highlight the government’s failure in controlling pollution, the collapse of the public transport system, as well as the education and healthcare systems. Our focus on these issues will only intensify in the coming months,” Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said. In October last year, the BJP’s Delhi unit had launched ‘Jhuggi Samman Yatra’, aimed at wooing slum dwellers in the city spread across 600 slum clusters. Mr. Bidhuri, however, ruled out that the party had a “special focus” on votes from the slum clusters, which have a population of close to 30 lakh. While the BJP and the Congress’s strategies largely focus on highlighting the “shortcomings” of the Delhi government, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) strategy, according to its civic body in-charge Durgesh Pathak, banks on raising allegations of corruption against the BJP which has remained in power at the three civic bodies over the last 15 years. However, the seats of several senior civic body leaders — including former and current Mayors, and Leaders of the Opposition — have now been marked under the reserved categories, after the ward rotation exercise by the State Election Commission (SEC). The SEC had released the list of reserved seats earlier this week. Fresh faces “A change in candidates is not a concern. The larger focus is the BJP looting the civic bodies. We will have new and interesting candidates coming up. Our goal is to bring a change in the civic body leadership. However, it is too early to say who will get tickets,” said Mr. Pathak. The seats of several senior BJP municipal leaders – including Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta and three sitting Mayors – have now been brought under the reserved category. The AAP, which has emerged as the principal Opposition party, also finds itself in a similar situation, with the seats of its three leaders now falling in the reserved categories. The number of seats reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates stands at 46, while 114 seats are reserved for women. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Leader of the Opposition, Prem Chauhan, who represents the Dakshin Puri ward, said that with his seat now being reserved for women, for him the idea of fighting from a different ward brings its own set of challenges. Rotation exercise He added, “For a period of five years, councillors engage with the people in their ward and work for them. A councillor’s ward is a very crucial factor in the civic body election and when they fight from a new ward, there is a high chance that the results will not be positive because they have not engaged with the people for a long period. This rotation exercise definitely affects the candidates.” Senior Congress councillor, Abhishek Dutt, who represents the Andrews Ganj ward, said, “Whether I fight from an adjacent ward is a call that the party leadership has to take. If the councillor works hard, then the party will give a ticket to the individual. This election is fought at a micro-level, where people expect the councillor to look after their area.” Former North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash who represents the Sadar Bazar ward, said that the seats being reserved for women meant “new faces will come up”. The BJP fielded new candidates across all wards in 2017 and won the polls by a huge margin”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/parties-begin-strategising-as-civic-polls-approach/article64990659.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||Holding hostage to earn quick money||On January 23, an 18-year-old teenager was kidnapped and killed by three persons in north Delhi’s Burari for a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh. The accused hatched the plan after assessing the victim’s family’s wealth. They abducted the teen on the pretext of inviting him to a birthday party and later strangulated him. Last December, a 19-year-old youth, Kinshuk Aggrawal, was kidnapped at gunpoint from Ghazipur flower market. A woman, who worked in his father’s office, had hatched the plan along with her boyfriend and mother, after her husband suffered financial losses. Kinshuk was released after the kidnappers received Rs. 50 lakh of the Rs. 1 crore demanded. A 32-year-old vegetable store owner was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs. 1 crore by two of his acquaintances in November last year. When he refused to give the money, he was strangled to death by his abductors. In October, a seven-year-old boy was kidnapped from his house by a domestic help. The accused asked for a ransom of Rs. 1.1 crore because he wanted to buy a flat in Mumbai where he used to work as a decorator.  The child’s parents, who own a water treatment plant in Shahdara’s Gandhi Nagar, had received eight threat calls within three hours. The kidnapper refused to settle for a lesser amount and gave them an hour’s ultimatum. However, soon after, he was arrested from Gokulpuri metro station and the child was recovered, said DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram . Top priorities Rapid negotiations, coordinating with family members to identify the kidnapper and ensuring the safety of the abducted, are the priorities of the Delhi police while handling kidnapping cases in the Capital.. Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana recently passed an order asking the Crime Branch officers to focus on kidnappings for ransom. Special units like anti-extortion and anti-kidnapping cell have been put in place for the purpose, according to him. As per the data available till October last year, there have been 60 cases of kidnapping for ransom in the city since 2018. During the corresponding period between 2014 and 2017, the number of such cases were almost double at 113. Senior police officers said that while the number of cases have declined in the recent past, such incidents require specialised focus and a strategically planned operation in order to save the victim’s life and arrest the kidnapper “in a covert manner”. “Once a family member receives a ransom call, we coordinate and try to trace the call to know the kidnapper’s exact location…we keep him engaged in a conversation to buy time,” a senior police officer said. The professional kidnappers are aware of their calls being traced and usually hang up within two minutes of the conversation, which is way below the minimum five-minute threshold required to trace a call. “We mobilise and assign specific duties to all divisional officers of the area police station from where the incident is reported. The officer is briefed about the covert operations against the kidnappers. Our effort is to act swiftly and not give enough time to the abductors to react to the police chase,” an officer said. An investigator explained how manpower is deployed in civilian clothes at various crucial locations across the city such as bus stands, high-rush markets, railway and metro stations. “We take a family member with us for quick and easy identification of the accused,” he said. Negotiate to buy time The family member waits in the control room so that whenever a ransom call is received, the conversation with the kidnapper is carried out in the police presence. “It helps us to give appropriate instructions and try to distract the accused,” the officer added. “The kidnappers keep changing locations for the ransom handover in the fear of being nabbed by the police. We keep negotiating with them so that our team gets enough time to locate and nab the accused. But if we feel a lot of time has been lost and there is a possibility of the kidnapper harming the abducted, then we send the family member to handover the ransom after deploying our officers in adjoining areas to lay a trap and arrest the accused,” another officer said. Police sources said in such kidnapping-for-ransom cases, an FIR is lodged but the officer sets up a base camp and operates from different areas to avoid alerting the accused during the ongoing investigations. “The case strategy is usually devised and executed from adjoining areas,” an officer said. In high-profile kidnapping cases, the anti-kidnapping cell of the Crime Branch carries out the investigation and also probes unsolved or pending cases with the district police. Known to the targets Describing the profile of kidnappers, officers said that in most cases, they turn out to be acquaintances, neighbours or employees who lure the victim as they have first-hand information about their target’s financial background. In a few instances, the kidnappers turn out to be professional gang members involved in abducting both children and adults alike. The police said that out of the total such kidnapping cases, only a small percentage lead to heinous offences where abductors end up harming or killing the abducted. “The main motive is to earn quick money through extortion. Once the victim’s family delivers the money, the kidnapped are let off,” said an officer. An investigator said that it is usually more difficult to track down professional kidnappers who are often aware of the police techniques in tracing them. If the kidnapper is known to the family, there are more chances of harm to the abducted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/holding-hostage-to-earn-quick-money/article64990657.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||Journalist arrested for impersonating U.P. CM||A journalist was arrested by the Delhi Police’s Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations Unit (IFSO) for allegedly creating a fake e-mail ID in the name of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and asking public sector companies (PSUs) to provide advertisements for newspapers, officers said on Sunday. According to DCP (IFSO) K.P.S. Malhotra, the accused was identified as Manoj Kumar Seth, 41, a resident of Bhubaneswar. Police received a complaint from the personal secretary of Mr. Adityanath wherein he alleged that some unknown person had created a fake e-mail ID purportedly shown to be that of the Chief Minister. “Further, the alleged person had sent emails and forged letters to PSUs including Power Grid Corporation of India, ONGC and GAIL India,” Mr. Malhotra said. He added that the accused had also attached scanned letters, wherein he had forged the signatures of Mr. Adityanath. Thereafter, an FIR was lodged and a team led by ACP Raman Lamba was constituted to investigate the case. During the probe, the fake email ID was identified and its contents analysed to understand the motive of the emails following which it was revealed that it was with the request to release advertisements in favour of an English newspaper ‘Breaking News’. “Similarly, fake emails and letters were sent to ONGC and GAIL for the advertisement in favour of one ‘TOP News’. After digital tracking through the IP address, the accused was identified but he kept changing location. Seth was eventually arrested from Bhubaneswar. Police said that Seth was a freelance journalist who also published a fortnightly newspaper ‘Samaj Aina’ and had created the fake email and prepared the forged letters to seek advertisement support in favour of local newspapers.  The accused had also attached scanned letters, wherein he had forged the signatures of Yogi Adityanath K.P.S Malhotra DCP (IFSO)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/journalist-arrested-for-impersonating-up-cm/article38351674.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Months of planning, designing went behind drone show on Rajpath||The sky over Rajpath on Saturday lit up in a kaleidoscope of colours as a swarm of 1,000 drones painted 3-D images of Bapu with his walking stick, the Tricolour and the map of India. The brain behind the event were two IIT-Delhi alumni and their professor who spent six months to design and manufacture the drones and prepare different animations to be recreated in the sky. Start-up’s aim Tanmay Bunkar and Anuj Kumar Barnwal, physics graduates from IIT-Delhi, co-founded their start-up Botlab Dynamics along with Dr. Sarita Ahlawat in 2016. Their aim was to replace big, expensive drones with simpler and cheaper drones that can perform the same tasks and carry the same payloads by forming a network or collaborative aerial system. Over time they received funding from the Department of Science and Technology and I-Hub Foundation for Cobotics (IHFC) at IIT-Delhi. Sky was canvas On Saturday, the sky over Rajpath was their canvas, and drones their paintbrushes with which they brought to life different patterns to mark the 75 years of Independence. These included a giant three-dimensional globe, an ascending Tricolour with the Ashok Chakra in the centre and the map of India among others. This was an elaborate process that took several months to just conceptualise and design. “We thought of a concept in which we would show six to seven patterns. This had to be then converted into an animation on a computer. This is a very time consuming exercise and each animation can take up to two weeks. And then we run this animation through simulations to ensure that drones don’t collide with each other and account for factors like speed of the air. After this we feed the programme into each drone and then take them to the ground and carry out test flights,” explains Dr. Ahlawat. It was in July last year that the Ministry of Defence told Botlab Dynamics that they would be part of the Republic Day celebrations and that they had to aim for 1,000 drones. Until then, Mr. Bunkar and co had never handled more than 80 drones simultaneously. Reliability key “Reliability of these drones was key to ensuring that the show goes smoothly. We have 1,000 drones to pull off a show, but we don’t have 1,000 people to maintain each drone, carry out a pre-flight check, etc. That is a luxury we just didn’t have. So, we decided we will make drones ourselves so that we know the causes of different errors and failures,” says Mr. Bunkar. Soon they started ordering parts and assembling the hardware. But this was the time that world’s supply chains had snapped up and shortages of different parts such as semi-conductor chips began to hit different industries. This forced the team to look for alternatives within the country. That’s when they found someone in Manesar who made motherboards for mobile phones and asked him to make printed circuit boards. The outer casing of the drones was made by a maker of fruit baskets and broom handles in Seelampur, says Mr. Bunkar. The end products were drones that were nearly 80% made in India, including important parts like flight controllers (or the brain of the drones), GPS precision and motor controller. Need knowhow “In India we need this capability. We need knowhow. We can’t just be a service provider through start-ups like Zomato and Swiggy. We can’t keep relying on the outside world for electronic based hardware and high speed trains, computers, lithium ion batteries. I am happy that through our participation, we have been able to shine light on the need for hardware-based solutions,” says Dr. Ahlawat. Ask them what’s next for the start-up and Mr. Bunkar says he will be selling drone shows and that he is already flooded with inquiries from big brands who want a big-bang launch for their products as well as the Ministries who want to promote their schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/months-of-planning-designing-went-into-drone-show-at-rajpath/article64990573.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||Met department forecasts rainy start to February||After experiencing the coldest January in nine years on Tuesday with maximum temperatures staying below normal for the larger part of the month, the India Meteorological Department has forecast a rainy start to February. An active western disturbance is likely to affect north-west India from February 2. An induced cyclonic circulation that is likely to form over south-west Rajasthan and moisture feeding from Arabian Sea could combine to bring rain. Another western disturbance is likely to affect western Himalayan region on February 6, the IMD said. Under the influence of these weather systems, the minimum temperatures are likely to rise by 2-3 degrees after February 1 for the next three to four days and fall thereafter, the IMD added. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Delhi was 22.2 degrees Celsius, which is normal for the season while the minimum temperature was 7.5 degrees Celsius, one notch below the average. The forecast for Monday reads: “Mainly clear sky with mist in the morning and strong surface winds blowing at a speed of 25-35 kmph during the day.” The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 23 and eight degrees respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/met-department-forecasts-rainy-start-to-february/article38351671.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||COVID cases show steady decline in city||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the city stood at 21,490 on Sunday, according to data provided by the Delhi government. The latest health bulletin showed that in the past 24 hours, 3,674 new cases were reported along with 30 deaths. The positivity rate, which was around 30% during the peak of the wave in the second week of January, has plunged to 6.37%. The government said that 57,686 tests had been conducted in the last 24 hours of which 46,188 were RT-PCR. Hospital data shows that there are 1,567 patients admitted due to COVID-19. Among these, 143 are on ventilator support while 590 are on oxygen support. There are currently 16,165 patients under home isolation. The number of COVID-19 cases has seen a steady decline over the past week when it first fell to below 10,000 cases last Sunday. On Saturday, the city reported 4,483 COVID-19 cases with a positivity rate of 7.41% while on Friday, Delhi had recorded 4,044 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-cases-show-steady-decline-in-city/article38351668.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 04:10 IST,||Man arrested for cheating homebuyers||A 47-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating several homebuyers of over Rs. 1.75 crore on the pretext of providing luxury apartments in Delhi-NCR, the police said on Sunday. According to JCP (Crime) Dheeraj Kumar, the accused was identified as wanted criminal Sanjeev Kumar Mavi, who carried a reward of Rs. 25,000 on his arrest. The police received a tip-off following which a team was formed and he was nabbed. The accused revealed that he and his accomplices had opened shell companies through which they launched fake luxury apartment projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-cheating-homebuyers/article38351667.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Tikait calls for observing ‘Betrayal Day’ today||Alleging betrayal by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday announced a country-wide observance of ‘Betrayal Day’ on Monday over farm issues. The national spokesperson of the farmers’ union claimed the over-a-year-long protest at Delhi’s borders was withdrawn on the basis of a letter of promises by the government on December 9 but those remain unfulfilled. “A nation-wide ‘Betrayal Day’ will be observed on January 31 because of the government’s betrayal to farmers. The movement was suspended on the basis of a letter given by the government on December 9 but those promises have not been fulfilled,” Mr. Tikait, whose BKU is a part of the SKM, said in a tweet in Hindi. The protest on Delhi’s borders had started under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in November 2020 over the main demands of withdrawal of three contentious farm laws that were introduced by the BJP-led Centre. The farmers, who occupied key border points of Singhu , Tikri and Ghazipur for over a year, also demanded a legal guarantee for MSP of crops. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in November 2021 announced that the contentious farm laws would be rolled back, leading to the protestors eventually vacating Delhi borders in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tikait-calls-for-observing-betrayal-day-today/article64990571.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:15 IST,||Auto driver helps unite girl with kin||A 14-year-old girl, who ran away from her home in New Delhi after being pressured by her parents to focus on studies, was reunited with her family here in Maharashtra after an auto-rickshaw driver promptly alerted police, an official said on Sunday. On Saturday morning, the auto-rickshaw driver, Raju Karwade (35), was waiting outside Vasai station here for passengers when the girl approached him and asked if she could get a room to stay in the area, Manickpur police station's senior inspector Bhausaheb K. Aher said. The driver, out of suspicion, checked the girl’s identity card and enquired about her. The girl informed him that she was from New Delhi and had come here alone. The driver immediately alerted a traffic cop and then took the girl to the Manickpur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/auto-driver-helps-unite-girl-with-kin/article38351838.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||BJP’s ‘winnability’ strategy will be put to test in Goa||With the filing of nominations for the Goa Assembly election concluding on January 28, all parties are gearing up for the final sprint before the coastal State goes to the polls on February 14. The ruling BJP’s strategy for the election has been marked by cold pragmatism. From keeping up a sustained ‘charm offensive’ to dissuade stalwart Congressman Pratapsingh Rane from contesting the Poriem seat to denying Utpal Parrikar a ticket, ‘winnability’ has been the saffron party’s watchword to fulfil its stated objective of “winning 22 plus seats (in the 40-seat Assembly) in the 2022 election.” Effusive tributes As effusive tributes from the Congress – and BJP leaders – poured in across Goa’s political spectrum for Mr. Rane on the occasion of his 83rd birthday on Friday, it was a bittersweet moment for the Congress, given that the former Chief Minister – who has been the coastal State’s longest-serving Chief Minister (serving no less than six terms) – has backed out from contesting from Poriem, a Congress bastion. The Poriem seat (which was Sattari until 1989) has been held by Mr. Rane a record 11 times since 1972. Mr. Rane’s backing-off from the poll fray forced a beleaguered Goa Congress to field last-minute candidate Ranjit Rane from Poriem, who will be facing the BJP’s Deviya Rane, wife of the senior Rane’s son, BJP leader and Goa Health Minister Viswajit Rane. Shrewd campaign The BJP’s Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, who has orchestrated a shrewd campaign for the saffron party, had met the octogenarian Congressman at his residence in September last year reportedly to discourage him from contesting Poriem. While Mr. Fadnavis’ revelation of this matter earlier this month prompted a sharp rebuttal from Mr. Rane, the BJP has doubtless scored a coup in Poriem by getting the veteran Congressman (one of the two MLAs the Congress currently has in Goa) not to fight the election. Earlier this month, the Pramod Sawant-led BJP government had even felicitated Mr. Rane with a ‘lifetime Cabinet rank’ in recognition of 50 years as an MLA and his contributions to the State. No sentiment On the other hand, the Goa BJP, despite its oft-repeated statements of carrying forward the late Manohar Parrikar’s legacy, showed no sentiment while denying Utpal Parrikar the ticket from Panaji as it believes he does not have the necessary ‘voter connect’ to win the Panaji seat. It has instead favoured a Congress defector and history-sheeter, Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate – the incumbent Panaji MLA. The party also dropped two Cabinet-rank Ministers (Deepak Pauskar and Filipe Nery Rodrigues), but retained scam-tainted Milind Naik on account of his apparent ‘winnability’. Likewise, the party snubbed loyalists such as ex-BJP Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar (denying him the Mandrem ticket) and Union Minister Shripad Naik by denying his son, Siddhesh, a ticket. Monserrate factor In fact, the BJP’s strategy and candidate selection reveals the increasing weightage of Atanasio Monserrate. Mr. Monserrate, who was responsible for bringing in 10 Congress MLAs (including himself and his wife Jennifer Monserrate) into the BJP fold in 2019, has been responsible for ensuring no less than four tickets in the list and for some of the party’s hard decisions. It was Mr. Monserrate’s allegations against party colleague, PWD Minister Deepak Pauskar, that made the BJP leadership drop the latter. Surprise move Again, despite the perception that the BJP was consolidating the Hindu bloc in Goa by sidelining minorities, the party has surprised its detractors by fielding no less than nine Catholic Christian candidates – more than what Mr. Parrikar had done in both the 2012 (six Catholic candidates from the BJP) and 2017 Assembly election (eight minority candidates). At the same time, the BJP’s fire-fighting has only been partially successful: while it has managed to retain Siddhesh Naik – the son of Shripad Naik – by making him a general secretary of the Goa BJP, Mr. Parsekar, Mr. Pauskar and Mr. Utpal Parrikar have all raised the banner of revolt by contesting as independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-winnability-strategy-will-be-put-to-test-in-upcoming-goa-poll/article64990581.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||IED blast in Shillong’s market area||A low-intensity blast in Shillong’s busy Khydailad area triggered panic on Sunday evening, police said. No casualties were reported in the blast that happened at 6.15 p.m. in the commercial hub of the State, they said. The front portions of a mobile store and a wine shop were damaged due to the blast, the police said. It is suspected to be an improvised explosive device blast, a senior police officer told PTI. Bomb squad personnel were at the spot and the matter is being investigated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ied-blast-in-shillongs-market-area/article38351683.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||7 sentenced to life for killing 4 of family||Seven people were sentenced to life imprisonment by a court in Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh for killing four persons by setting them ablaze, an official said on Sunday. As per the complaint of Rameshwar Rathore, his sister Laxmi's husband Ramlakhan Rathore, mother-in-law and others started a blaze in a room in which his siblings and parents were sleeping on the night of April 15, 2015. His complaint said his sisters Laxmi and Saraswati, brother Mahesh and mother Gita died in the blaze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/7-sentenced-to-life-for-killing-4-of-family/article38351846.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Getting ready for the show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/getting-ready-for-the-show/article64990577.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:16 IST,||Gun salute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gun-salute/article64990578.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Britain to widen sanctions on Russia to deter Ukraine invasion||Britain will unveil new sanctions legislation next week to hit “a much wider variety” of Russian economic targets as part of efforts to deter Moscow from invading Ukraine, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Sunday. The U.K.’s top diplomat said the draft law would widen the country’s sanctions toolbox so “any company of interest to the Kremlin and the regime in Russia” could be targeted. “There will be nowhere to hide for Mr. Putin’s oligarchs,” Ms. Truss said. “What I’ll be announcing later this week is improved legislation on sanctions so we can target more Russian interests that are of direct relevance to the Kremlin. “What the legislation enables us to do is hit a much wider variety of targets, so there can be nobody who thinks that they will be immune to those sanctions.” Relations between Russia and the West are at their lowest point since the Cold War after Moscow deployed tens of thousands of troops on the border of Ukraine. The military build-up has prompted fears it is planning an invasion, spooking NATO and its members and prompting the Western alliance to explore bolstering its own deployments there. Britain is preparing to offer NATO a “major” deployment of troops, weapons, warships and jets in Europe as soon as next week, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced late on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-to-widen-sanctions-on-russia-to-deter-ukraine-invasion/article64990692.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||‘Bomb cyclone’ hits eastern U.S., triggers transport chaos, outages||Blinding snow whipped up by powerful winds pummeled the eastern United States on Saturday, as one of the strongest winter storms in years triggered transport chaos and power outages across a region of some 70 million people. Major cities like New York and Boston bore the brunt of the blizzard, which the National Weather Service (NWS) confirmed intensified on Saturday into a “bomb cyclone” — characterized by the explosive power of rapid drops in atmospheric pressure. The heaviest-hit parts of New York and Massachusetts received two feet of snow by early evening, with more than 95,000 homes in Massachusetts reported without power. Cold weather stretched as far south as Florida, where the NWS warned of “scattered to isolated falling iguanas from trees” as plunging temperatures temporarily paralysed the large lizards. Residents in towns and cities across the eastern seaboard were urged to avoid all unnecessary travel for a second night of whiteout conditions, with additional snowfall expected to be heaviest across New England. In Long Island, officials said a woman had been found dead in her car by a snowplow operator. Salt machines and snowplows crawled along the streets of New York City, where Central Park was covered in 7.5 inches of snow and regional train lines were partially shut down. New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland and Delaware declared emergencies for all or part of the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bomb-cyclone-hits-eastern-us-triggers-transport-chaos-outages/article64990687.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Amid chill in relations, new PLA history returns spotlight to 1962 war||Ahead of the 60th anniversary of the 1962 India-China war which falls in October this year, official Chinese military researchers have compiled a new history of the war reassessing its significance and legacy, bringing the spotlight back to the war amid the current tensions in relations. Previous anniversaries of the war received only modest attention in China — far less than in India — and some Chinese military scholars have in the past viewed the war with India as one of China’s forgotten wars. Unlike the Korean War or war with Japan, the India-China war hasn’t been covered as extensively in Chinese films, television dramas or in the media. That is now changing. There has been renewed attention on 1962 following the Line of Actual Control (LAC) crisis which began in April 2020 and particularly after the June 15, 2020 clash in Galwan Valley. If the normalisation of ties with India was one reason for downplaying 1962 in the past, the recent plunge in relations has coincided with greater interest both in 1962 and on the boundary dispute.  To mark the 60th anniversary, Zhang Xiaokang, daughter of the former PLA General Zhang Guohua who headed the Tibet military region and planned the Chinese offensive in the eastern sector in October 1962, brought together Chinese military researchers to compile a new history of the war, titled One Hundred Questions on the China-India Border Self-Defence Counterattack . Extracts of the book were published this month in the popular Chinese website Guancha . The book is based on interviews with PLA veterans and focuses on Chinese military strategy as well as on the legacy of the war.  In China, high-profile books on military history, a sensitive topic, cannot be published without a green light from the PLA’s Central Military Commission, which is headed by President Xi Jinping. The extract said although it had been many years since the war “it has not been forgotten with the passage of time, and generations of soldiers and military fans have always been interested in this counterattack.” One reason why the 1962 war hasn’t received wide attention is that unlike the war against Japanese occupation, China was the aggressor, despite the often repeated claim by the Communist Party that China had never invaded or occupied any country. ‘Counterattack’ Officially, China still calls its massive attack on India as a “self-defence counterattack”. The book reveals that the CPC under Mao, very shortly after the offensive, decreed that all references to the war in China could only describe it as a “counterattack”, reflective of how the leadership looked to immediately turn on its head China’s act of aggression. The extract notes that on December 3, 1962, less than two weeks after the unilateral ceasefire declared by China, the PLA’s General Staff department issued a telegram to all troops on “The Question of Naming the Operation Against the Invading Indian Army,” which stipulated that the war would only be referred to as the “China-India Border Self-Defence Counterattack”, a description that is still used today. The book also looks at Mao’s decision to go to war and says he believed the offensive would, somewhat counterintuitively, “create conditions for a peaceful settlement of the Sino-Indian border issue” by bringing India to the negotiating table after Nehru’s “refusal” to acknowledge a dispute. That both sides subsequently began negotiating, the book argues, proved him right. It also says Mao was initially concerned about the capabilities of the Indian Army but was reassured by his generals, including General Zhang. It quotes Mao as saying “if we don’t win, we won’t blame heaven and earth but our own incompetence”. He also told General Zhang that if China lost “sacred territory in Tibet” in the war that it would “take it back one day”. The book focuses on the Eastern Sector, which General Zhang headed, and discusses the significance of the capture of Tawang in 1962, which it said was aimed to “demonstrate that China would not accept the McMahon Line” as well as its sovereignty over Tibet. It attributes China’s military success in 1962 to the fighting experience gained by the military first in the war against Japan and subsequently in the war in Korea fighting U.S. troops. Those wars have occupied the spotlight in official Chinese military histories. But with the resurgence of tensions along the India-China border and ahead of the upcoming anniversary, the India-China war is now back in the spotlight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-chill-in-relations-new-pla-history-returns-spotlight-to-1962-war/article64990691.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Trump for pardon to Jan. 6 rioters if re-elected in 2024||Former President Donald Trump is dangling the prospect of pardons for supporters who participated in the deadly January 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol if he returns to the White House. “If I run and if I win, we will treat those people from January 6th fairly,” Mr. Trump said on Saturday night during a rally in Conroe, Texas. “And if it requires pardons, we will give them pardons because they are being treated so unfairly.” The offer represents an attempt by Mr. Trump to further minimise the most significant attack on the seat of government since the War of 1812. Participants smashed through windows, assaulted police officers and sent lawmakers and congressional staff fleeing for their lives while trying to halt the peaceful transition of power and the certification of rival Joe Biden’s victory. More than 700 people have been arrested and charged with federal crimes in connection with the riot, marking the largest investigation in the Justice Department’s history. The tally includes more than 150 people charged with assaulting police officers, more than 50 charged with conspiracy, and charges of seditious conspiracy against the founder and leader of the far-right Oath Keepers militia group, and 10 other members or associates. More than 100 police officers were injured, some critically, after Mr. Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol on January 6, 2021, following a “Stop the Steal” rally by Mr. Trump near the White House. As President, Mr. Trump used his power to pardon or commute the sentences of numerous political allies and friends, including his former chief strategist, Steve Bannon; his former campaign chair, Paul Manafort; and a longtime friend Roger Stone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-for-pardon-to-jan-6-rioters-if-he-runs-wins-in-2024/article38351298.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Christian priest gunned down in Pak.||Militants killed one Christian priest and wounded another as they were driving home from Sunday Mass in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar, police said. Father William Siraj, 75, was shot multiple times and died instantly in the ambush in the Gulbahar neighborhood, while Father Naeem Patrick was treated briefly in hospital for a gunshot wound to the hand, officer Iqbal Shah said. A third priest in the car was unharmed. No one claimed responsibility for the attack, the latest on Pakistan’s Christian minority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/christian-priest-gunned-down-in-pak/article38351294.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Israeli president on first-ever visit to UAE||Israel's President Isaac Herzog started his first visit to the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, the latest high-profile diplomatic trip since the countries normalised ties. It follows a visit by Naftali Bennett last month, the first by an Israeli premier.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-president-on-first-ever-visit-to-uae/article64990690.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:56 IST,||Road accident in Bolivia leaves at least 11 dead||A bus in Bolivia tumbled 400 meters into a ravine on Saturday, killing at least 11 people, authorities said. It was not immediately known how many people were on the bus. The driver was among those who survived the fall. One child was among the fatalities and two others were hospitalised, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/road-accident-in-bolivia-leaves-at-least-11-dead/article38351295.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Show commitment to equity in the Budget||On January 17, 2022, Oxfam International presented its annual global “Inequality Report”. Titled “Inequality Kills”, the report calculated and presented the quantum growth in wealth of a minuscule few, and the simultaneous impoverishment of millions of working people. During the novel coronavirus pandemic, the report reveals, more than half the world’s new poor are from India; 84% Indian households have suffered a loss of income, with 4.6 crore people falling into extreme poverty. In this period, the richest 142 people have more than doubled their wealth to more than Rs. 53 lakh-crore. This is clearly happening by design, and can only be corrected if our policymakers reverse their framework of paying lip service to the poor while making policies that support the rich. One of the most important places to show commitment to equity, is the Union Budget; and inequality should perhaps be discussed threadbare in India before, and after every Union and State Budget. This is the guiding light There is also a constitutional mandate to reduce inequality. In India today, some of the most basic human rights that allow people to stay alive are under threat. It is the sacred responsibility of the Government to follow the Constitution, and ensure delivery of these rights. The policymaking “duty” of all governments is to follow Part IV of the Constitution — the Directive Principles of State Policy. The Budget is one of the most important annual exercises in state policy, and it is the Directive Principles that should be a guiding light. In terms of inequality, Articles 38 and 39 mandate a policy path. Among other important principles, Article 38(1) states: “The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life.” Article 39 (c) states: The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing — (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment; ‘Duties’ talk A rights-based policy framework, should, therefore, be followed by the Indian state to protect the poor and the marginalised. But the Prime Minister advocates that people concentrate on their duties and stop demanding their rights. On January 20, 2022, at the launch of the Brahma Kumaris’ year-long programme of events (as part of the Government’s celebration of 75 years of Independence) the Prime Minister declared, “In the last 75 years, we only kept talking about rights, fighting for rights and wasting our time. The talk of rights, to some extent, for some time, may be right in particular circumstances, but forgetting one’s duties completely has played a huge role in keeping India weak.” Ironically, the Prime Minister did not seem to be referring to his own duties. In a country like India, reducing inequality should be a high priority. Today, this principle is being inverted. The Oxfam report does not exclusively examine the multiplying wealth of India’s billionaires. Let us look outside this 0.00001% of our population, and for the purposes of the Budget, look at their analysis of basic social services — particularly those that affect the survival of the poor. India must be one of the only countries in the world where during the COVID-19 pandemic the health Budget has declined — and that too by a huge 10% in the last year. Social security expenditure has declined from an already pathetically low 1.5% in 2020-21 to 0.6% of the Union Budget in 2022. It is at this end of Budget allocations where people are deprived of the most basic services and entitlements and are unable to survive. Social security pensions, for the elderly, for the disabled, and widows have been frozen at Rs. 200-Rs. 300 a month for almost 15 years. The Government says there is not enough money to even index these to inflation. In contrast, policymakers have just in the last year increased their own salaries and pensions through a DA increase to 28%, and given themselves a bonus of 3% — with just the increase for one crore central government employees and pensioners costing the exchequer more than the total social security pension budget for 3.3 crore beneficiaries. The Prime Minister’s outburst against “rights” perhaps explains his lack of support for the implementation of rights-based laws. Nevertheless, during the pandemic, even his government had to turn to the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to save millions of Indians from hunger and premature death. After increasing allocations in the first phase of the pandemic, allocations were frozen, and budgets were slashed in Budget 2021-22. The Government said it will supplement as and when needed. However, it is clear that supplements come in an extremely miserly fashion, causing extensive distress, and in MGNREGA, undermining the legal guarantee of work on demand. During a recent 18-day “Accountability Yatra” in the State of Rajasthan, we came across thousands of cases of needy people not receiving Rs. 2 per kilo wheat. The answer to grievances and appeals filed in writing is that the portal is closed and no more entries allowed. The priority list of households under the NFSA has been frozen in absolute numbers, based on a percentage determined from the 2011 Census. In the last 11 years, population increases amounting to approximately 10 crore eligible beneficiaries have been kept out. Therefore, approximately 12% legally entitled people — even children of existing “priority households” — cannot get subsidised foodgrain. To use digital codes to block even the appellate process mandated by law is a live example of callous multi-dimensional inequality, demonstrating why the “Inequality Kills” title of the Oxfam report is poignant and true. Children and education The pandemic has also produced a generation of children who have forgotten what formal education is. Many teenagers from poor households have already joined the workforce. In this period, there has been a 6% cut in the education Budget. Relying on online teaching, accompanied by Budget cuts, amounts to the institutionalisation of endemic multidimensional poverty. The list can go on and on. As we await Union Budget 2022-23, will this trend be reversed? There will be much talk among affluent analysts cautioning against social sector expenditure, calling them “welfare and doles”. Programmes such as the food security Act will not receive the quantum of allocations needed, even though food grain stocks are more than 90 million tons. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG) has estimated that approximately Rs. 2,64,000 crore will be needed to guarantee 100 days work for currently active job cards. Even half that amount is unlikely to be allocated for MGNREGA. Social security pensioners will continue to face hunger, insult, sickness and death. One would expect that if nothing else, their millions of votes in crucial State elections would fetch these families some basic rights. But, in polarised elections, the basic needs of unorganised and voiceless people are easily ignored. Time to generate data Policymakers will tell us that resources are scarce. Oxfam says the combined wealth of India’s 142 billionaires has increased by a massive Rs. 30 lakh-crore, in just the pandemic period. Jan Sarokar, a network of more than 30 social sector movements, has suggested that a 2% wealth tax, and a 33% inheritance tax on the top 1% of our population will fetch an estimated Rs. 11 lakh crore per annum, to support basic social sector entitlements. Suggestions such as this are already being ridiculed by market fundamentalists. Which way will the Government go? The Bharatiya Janata Party’s response to most international reports has been to claim flawed methodology and analysis. It is time to introspect, generate robust data, and face the truth. The Budget is a policy that matters to all. There is, unfortunately, little hope that this Government will stop this avalanching slide into a grossly divided society. It is perhaps up to society to stand up and make sure that we are true to our constitutional commitment of building a more just and equal society. That is our most fundamental duty. Nikhil Dey and Aruna Roy are social activists with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS). The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/show-commitment-to-equity-in-the-budget/article64990715.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:32 IST,||A year on from Myanmar’s ‘annus horribilis’||The coup in Myanmar will be a year old tomorrow. On February 1 last year, the military seized power, violating the Constitution. A decade-long experiment with hybrid democracy ended abruptly, paving the way for violence, oppression and instability. The road ahead looks dark, but diplomatic efforts are under way to bring amelioration. Internal scene The Opposition camp has called for a nationwide silent strike that ends in mass clapping, an act representing the indignation and the frustration of the people. They are angry with the military that has oppressed them and imprisoned their elected leaders. They are also frustrated with the international community as it failed to show up with a magic wand to restore democracy. Some of their leaders are promising freedom from military rule by the end of 2022. But few believe them. The military leadership has persisted in marching on the dangerous path it chose last January. It convinced itself that the November 2020 elections were fraudulent, resulting in a landslide victory for the National League for Democracy (NLD) led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. It feared that, armed with a strong popular mandate, she would clip their wings and establish full democracy. President Win Myint and Daw Suu Kyi were arrested and there was a brutal clampdown. The result: 1,498 people have been killed and 11,787 imprisoned till January 27, 2022, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners. Besides, a sizeable number of security officials have been killed. An exodus of people seeking refuge in neighbouring countries followed, which included over 15,000 people to Mizoram, India.  After the coup, the Opposition was active in articulating people’s anger. A parallel government named the National Unity Government (NUG) was formed. Slowly it lost momentum as Naypyitaw denounced NUG as “terrorists”, and used its overwhelming power to subdue the resistance. The military now has an upper hand although normalcy still eludes the nation. Instability has ruined the economy, with the World Bank terming it as “critically weak”. The crisis also weakened the Government’s efforts to manage the pandemic. In short, Myanmar has just gone through its annus horribilis .  ASEAN’s role  Attention has now been focused on mediation by the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). It began well by persuading Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, the regime’s supremo, to accept the ‘Five-Point Consensus’ comprising, inter alia , the cessation of violence, national dialogue and mediatory efforts by ASEAN. Insiders recall that Min Aung Hlaing’s consent was implicit. This became explicit when Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin formally conveyed Myanmar’s “commitment” to the plan last August. But the military resiled from its implementation. With uncharacteristic firmness, ASEAN barred the Senior General’s participation in its summits. It offered representation at the non-political level which Myanmar turned down.  In this impasse, Cambodia’s Prime Minister Hun Sen, the current ASEAN Chair, has adopted a softer approach which is backed by Thailand and Laos. It aims at adjusting to the military’s refusal to compromise on its key requirements such as denial of access to Daw Suu Kyi for ASEAN mediators, and little dilution of the 2008 Constitution. Other ASEAN States led by Indonesia are opposed to Cambodia’s diplomacy. But long-time ASEAN watchers believe that through further consultations, the grouping will craft internal consensus and re-adapt its negotiating mandate.  Whether this happens on Cambodia’s watch, or later under the Indonesian leadership, remains to be seen. A key person to watch is Noeleen Heyzer, the United Nations Secretary General António Guterres’s special envoy, who could help both the UN and ASEAN to craft a modus vivendi for Myanmar.  Other players The West exerts influence in Myanmar, but it has been unable to comprehend the dynamics of power. The United States and the European Union have not accurately assessed the military’s resolve and core conviction that without its driving role, national unity and integrity would disappear. The western policy to promote democracy and impose sanctions against the military have produced minimal results. The media paid huge attention to Russia’s endeavours to woo Myanmar by increasing its defence cooperation since the coup. But the principal player is China, not Russia, despite evident coordination between the two. Beijing enjoys enormous leverage in the ‘Golden Land’ through its control over several ethnic armed organisations, projects covered by the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the regime’s protection via veto in the Security Council, and a thick cheque book. Whoever wields power in Naypyitaw develops stakes in close partnership with China. But Myanmar’s rulers also desire independence and balance in their external policy, provided the international community gives them the means for it. Japan understands this geopolitical reality, but acting by itself, Tokyo cannot make a difference. It should act in coordination with ASEAN and India. India’s policy As the world’s largest democracy, India is always happy to work with fellow democracies, but it has never been in the business of exporting democracy. Nevertheless, it has done much to shape and to strengthen diplomatic efforts at the UN and through its support to ASEAN for putting Myanmar’s transition to democracy back on the rails. This line was reiterated by India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla in his interactions with the top military leadership in December 2021. He was given a patient hearing even though his request to meet Daw Suu Kyi was denied, as was expected. Besides, New Delhi provided one million doses of “Made in India” vaccines, and humanitarian assistance to the people of Myanmar. For India, the well-established two-track policy of supporting democracy and maintaining cordial relations with the Government remains in operation. South Block has to protect the state’s interests, guided by realism and pragmatism. It has to discourage a mass influx of refugees; cut the capability of insurgent groups to endanger security in the Northeast from Myanmar soil; safeguard the ongoing projects and investments; and, above all, counter China’s growing influence. Finally, what future awaits Daw Suu Kyi who no longer dominates the political narrative as she did before the coup? Sadly, she faces three choices, all difficult: long imprisonment, foreign exile, or imposed retirement from politics. The last option seems the most likely at present. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and former Ambassador to Myanmar. He is also the author of ‘India-Myanmar Relations: Changing Contours’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-year-on-from-myanmars-annus-horribilis/article64990709.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Mahatma Gandhi, the out-of-the-box thinker||The 74th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s death provides us an opportunity to think about his character and contributions as an important figure of world history. Usually, to praise a historical figure, one tries to enumerate on their qualities to show how marvellous they had been in all areas of life.  But Mahatma Gandhi was both an enigmatic and disturbing figure. He used to think out of the box. He was an open-minded soft reader of concepts and categories . In this regard, he saw his place among the weakest and the poorest. His notion of a just and truthful politics was that in such an environment, the weakest should have the same opportunities as the strongest. It would, therefore, be suspect to see Gandhi being celebrated by the powerful and the victors and not by the weak and the defeated.  If Gandhi continues to disturb the powerful and the victorious, it is because he does not fit in the victors’ histories and narratives. Why do we continue to read Gandhi and to admire him? Not because he is the Father of the Indian Nation, but because he disturbs us. He was a chief doubter of oppressive systems and a rebel against all forms of hidden and open authority. An example of simplicity  It is also because in an arrogant and unchecked civilisation like ours, Gandhi is a great example of simplicity and transparency. Gandhi’s simplicity was reflected in his deeds and acts, but mostly in his mode of life. Unlike most of us, not to say all of us, Gandhi had more joy and fulfilment in pursuing less in life than in pursuing more. The corporate mindset — that of being successful — which dominates all aspects of our lives, did not exist for him. And maybe, it is because of his pure simplicity that we continue to have so much trouble in understanding Gandhi. Naturally, corporates, even when they use him as a logo or an emblem, fear him. Maybe because Gandhi, like Sisyphus, continues to roll the rock up to the top of the mountain. With Gandhi we are never confronted with absolute Truth. Gandhi is a perpetual truth seeker. In fact, Gandhi is victorious through his effortful trials. His position remains ambiguous and disturbing.  Assuredly, Gandhi was an ambiguous personality, but he never wore a mask. He neither masked himself nor put a mask on the face of Indian history. Rather, he challenged Indian history by asking lucid and limpid questions from it. As such, in practically all of Gandhi’s historical actions, there was moral or spiritual interrogation. He, therefore, led Indians to a historical and civilisational awareness that went as far as a spiritual conversion to non-violence. That is to say, the Gandhian maieutic completely reversed the relationship between a leader and his people. Like Socrates, Gandhi was a midwife of minds (Gandhi was very much influenced by Socrates and his method of thinking). He reversed the guiding values of Indian life. His philosophy was that of a spiritual exercise, accompanied by an active reflection on truth and a lively awareness of all walks of life. Gandhi believed that the true test of life for the individual can be summarised in two principles: self-discipline and self-restraint. In this relation, he observed: “A self-indulgent man lives to eat; a self-restrained man eats to live.” His vision of community goes in the same direction and Gandhi gives ethical and political primacy to the two concepts of self-realisation and self-rule. For Gandhi, a self-realised and self-conscious community is a society of citizens who reconcile the self-determination of the individual with the recognition of the shared values in the community. Point of self-transformation Interestingly, in a very existential way, Gandhi believed in the interrelated nature of human existence. In the same manner, what interested him in a democracy was neither representation nor elections, but the self-transformative nature of the citizens. But we can go even further and say that for Gandhi, this process of self-transformation should influence not only the inner life of the individual but also public life. So, what seems important is the upholding of the ethic of human action. And of course, solidarity is the advancement of that very ethic. However, what Gandhi taught us is that solidarity is not just a promise of compassion; it is actually what we can call the wake of responsibility. Undoubtedly, Gandhi knew well that global responsibility is nothing but an overriding loyalty to mankind. It goes without saying that remembering Gandhi could be a way for us to be reminded of our global responsibilities and our loyalty to mankind. Without it there would be no solidarity and no universal harmony among the peoples of the world. Need for moral leadership The pandemic shows us clearly that our world is in lack of a moral leadership which can evolve through experiments of empathy and by redress of the sufferings and grievances of humanity. Even if Gandhi is no more among us, his spirit has been with the great transformative leaders of the 20th and 21st centuries like Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Martin Luther King, Jr., Nelson Mandela, the Dalai Lama, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Václav Havel and Pope Francis. As a global thinker with a transhistorical and transgeographical influence, Gandhi was a moral and political leader who stayed out of the box. We continue to wrestle with the radical parts of his vision. Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Non-violence and Peace Studies at O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mahatma-gandhi-the-out-of-the-box-thinker/article64990711.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:32 IST,||For the Finance Minister to note||The World Inequality Report 2022 authored by Lucas Chancel, Thomas Pikketty, Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman says India is now among the most unequal countries in the world. The bottom 50% of the population earn Rs. 53,610, while the top 10% earn more than 20 times that. The top 10% and top 1% of the population hold 57% and 22% of the national income, respectively, while the bottom 50% hold just 13%. India stands out as a poor and unequal country with an affluent elite. Inequality today is as great as it was at the peak of western imperialism in the early 20th century. The pandemic has exacerbated it. Nations have become richer but governments have become poor, says the report. The totality of wealth is in private hands. Global multimillionaires have captured a disproportionate share of global wealth growth over the past several decades. The Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, will take the findings of the report while framing the Budget. The long-standing complaint about corporate houses abusing provisions for tax exemption and deductions was addressed in a unique way by Ms. Sitharaman when she brought in a twin system of tax rates for companies claiming deductions and not claiming deductions. Domestic companies are charged 25% when their turnover is less than Rs. 250 crore and 30% when their turnover is above Rs. 250 crore. Suitable surcharges are also levied. A glaring inequality arises in the case of partnership firms; they are taxed at 30%. The idea seems to be to encourage corporatisation of firms. But medium- and small-scale industries find it a pain to go through the legal processes of corporatisation. Promoters of companies devise novel ways to escape the rigour of taxation. The revolt of the haves The decline in corporate tax rates reduced government revenue at a time of growing public deficit and declining public wealth. It erodes the progressive nature of the tax system. High-income individuals choose to incorporate their business so that they can shift income from personal income tax to corporate tax. There is also the recent phenomenon of wealthy families of promoters of big corporate houses creating a succession plan through private trusts. Assets are transferred to the trusts. India’s corporate houses are taking a cue from wealthy families in the West like the Waltons who run Walmart via private trusts. The time has come for the re-introduction of estate duty in India. Global minimum tax The Government of India has to prepare for the introduction of the global minimum tax on MNCs, as agreed to by 130 countries in July 2021. The rate then fixed was 15%. This is lower than what working class and middle-class people in high-income countries pay. MNCs are always ahead of the governments. Mark Zuckerberg chose to change his company’s name from Facebook to Metaverse. Google, Apple and Intel are all working on devices to circumvent the minimum global tax. Metaverse will pervade daily life offering new avenues for buying goods and services, communicating with friends and collaborating with colleagues. Metaverse refers to a collection of shared online worlds in which physical augmented and virtual reality converge. The CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella, points out that people can now hangout with friends, work, visit places buy goods and services and attend events on Metaverse. Digital access has not been equitable. This provides a challenge to the implementation of the proposed global minimum tax. Augmented reality attempts to provide a new kind of computing platform so as to find a new source of revenue. The rate of global minimum tax at 15% on MNCs will mean a gain of $0.5 billion for India without deductions. The gain will be zero if deductions are allowed. The World Inequality Report suggested a minimum global tax on MNCs at 25%. This will yield $1.4 billion for India without deductions and $1.2 billion with deductions of 5%. MNCs and their shareholders have been the main winners from globalisation. Their profits have boomed due to the ever-closer integration of world markets. Inflation indexing has long been suggested as a way out to sort out the difficulties of the fixed income group. India is a poor country. Pericles said, “Poverty is no disgrace to acknowledge but it is real degradation not to attempt to overcome.” The Finance Minister will do well to remember Justice Chagla’s famous saying, “Equity and income tax law may be strangers to each other but they are not sworn enemies.” No doubt, our socially conscious Finance Minister will do everything to promote equity while presenting the Budget. T.C.A. Ramanujam is Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (retd.) and an advocate of the Madras High Court. T.C.A. Sangeetha is an advocate of the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-the-finance-minister-to-note/article64990707.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:32 IST,||New districts, new challenges||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government’s proposal to create 13 new districts in Andhra Pradesh on the lines of what has been done in Telangana may ensure good governance but it adds multiple challenges to the existing ones in the State. As promised before the 2019 Assembly election, the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government has carved out 13 new districts, taking the total number of districts to 26. Each of the 25 Assembly constituencies will now become a district. However, the tribal communities-dominated Araku constituency, which is spread over many districts, has been split into two. Prakasam district will now be the largest in size after the reform and Visakhapatnam will be the smallest. The new districts are set to come into force from Ugadi, the Telugu new year which falls on April 2. Objections or suggestions in writing from the people of these districts have been invited within 30 days of the notification. The government’s stated aim is to ensure administrative convenience and better development of all the regions. The decision comes at a time when Andhra Pradesh is staring at stressed finances, dipping revenues and growing expenditure, largely owing to numerous welfare programmes which were promised before the election. A rough estimate indicates that half the budget goes to employees’ salaries and the other half to welfare. The new districts will require additional infrastructure such as office buildings for the Collectors, Superintendents of Police, and other officials. Carving out borders, building roads and bureaucratic exercises are likely to further burden the State exchequer. Added to this, the stalemate between the government and employees over pay revision doesn't help. As the district delimitation exercise is expected to be expeditious, support from employees is crucial. Though objections and suggestions have been invited for 30 days, there seem to be new demands and protests surfacing every other day and so, the matter is likely to stretch beyond 30 days. Some have protested over the choice of names for the proposed districts. There are demands emerging from some districts for new names. There are also complaints that the move will affect's people's identity with their districts and that changes in district headquarters will affect the people. For instance, the proposal to merge agency region Rampachodavaram from East Godavari district with Araku district was resisted by many as the new district headquarters, Paderu, is about 300 km from Rampachodavaram. Some suggest that Rampachodavaram should be made the headquarters. Chintoor, another place in the same district, is over 400 km from the district headquarters Paderu. Similarly, the people of Ongole feel that the district has lost its identity as most parts of it have been merged with two other districts. There was also a demand that Hindupur be made the district headquarters for a new district. The protests notwithstanding, the State government seems to be on a mission. It has planned nine fishing harbours and three major ports across the coastline besides 13 airports. There are already six airports in the State and two more are in the planning and development stages in Bhogapuram and Nellore. While these mega projects are at different stages of development, the State is also under pressure to repair the highways and district roads which are in bad shape. With massive projects waiting to be completed and with the State facing a cash crunch, how the Jagan Mohan Reddy government plans to rise up to the new challenge of creating 13 more districts and infrastructure within a short span of time is unclear. appaji.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-districts-new-challenges/article64990710.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Limits of power||In ruling that the one-year suspension imposed last year by the Maharashtra Assembly on 12 BJP legislators was illegal and irrational, the Supreme Court has set the limits of the legislature’s power to deal with disorderly conduct in the House. It has laid down a significant principle that the effect of disciplinary action cannot traverse beyond the session in which the cause arose. Citing precedents from rulings of the Privy Council and the Supreme Court, the Court has sought to read the power of the House to suspend a member as essentially defensive or ‘self-protective’ so that disorderly conduct does not overwhelm its proceedings, but it should not assume a punitive character. Therefore, the suspension beyond the duration of the session was illegal. It was deemed irrational because the need to exercise the power was limited to restoring order in the House; logically, it was not needed beyond the day, or in case of repeated disorderly conduct, to the session so that scheduled business could be completed. It has termed the one-year suspension as a punitive action worse than expulsion. Its reasoning is that if a member is expelled by a resolution of the House, the Election Commission is bound to hold a by-election within six months and the member could seek re-election. On the contrary, the year-long suspension will mean that the constituency remains unrepresented, while there would be no vacancy to be filled through a by-election. The State government argued vehemently that there was no limit to the action that the House could take for maintaining order and the Court could not examine the proportionality of the action. Rule 53 of the Assembly allowed the Speaker to adopt a graded approach to disorderly conduct; naming members after which they should withdraw from the House for the day, and, in the case of the conduct being repeated, for the rest of the session. However, the Government insisted that the suspension was imposed under the inherent power of the Assembly to ensure orderly functioning. Even then, the Court ruled, in the absence of a rule enabling such a power, the House had to adopt a graded approach and that the same-session limit could not be breached. Referring to the bar under Article 212 of the Constitution on the judiciary examining the regularity of the procedure adopted by the House, the three-judge Bench ruled that the present action was illegal and irrational, and not a mere irregularity of procedure. The ruling is yet another reminder to legislative bodies that their functioning is subject to constitutional parameters. In an era when the government side accuses the Opposition of being obstructionist, and the Opposition alleges that it is being silenced, it is gratifying that the higher judiciary grapples with questions related to the limits of the power exercised by the majority in the legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/limits-of-power/article38351274.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Risky bets||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov’s comment, after receiving a written response from Washington to Moscow’s security demands, that ‘Russia doesn’t want wars’ raises hopes of a diplomatic solution to the Ukraine crisis. Last week saw a flurry of diplomatic activities aimed at de-escalating the situation. Besides the U.S.’s written response to Russia, which could set the stage for further diplomatic talks in the coming weeks, French President Emmanuel Macron has held talks with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. Mr. Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz are also reportedly trying to revive the stalled Minsk process that sought to find a peaceful solution to Ukraine’s internal conflict between Kiev and the Russia-backed separatists in the eastern Donbas region. Mr. Putin has said the U.S. response does not address Russia’s core security concerns. Fears of a military conflict are still there. Russia, which has mobilised thousands of troops on its border with Ukraine, in Belarus in Ukraine’s north and in Transnistria (a breakaway region from Moldova) in its south-west, has a clear military advantage. But the West’s willingness to press ahead with diplomatic options and Russia’s reciprocity suggest that neither side is in a hurry for armed conflict. There is a strong case for de-escalation. Mr. Putin has already achieved many things, without a shot being fired. He has got the Western leadership to talk to him over the contested issue of NATO’s expansion, which Russia has long been complaining about. By putting a gun to Ukraine’s head, he has effectively drawn a red line in Russia’s relations with the West. Also, as the U.S. and its allies are scrambling for economic measures to punish Russia “if it invades Ukraine”, the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea and Moscow’s continued support for separatists inside Ukraine have practically become non-issues. Nobody is threatening to punish Russia for not returning Crimea to Ukraine. The status quo has been redrawn. Besides, the U.S. has said it is open to discuss some of Russia’s security concerns, including missile deployments in Eastern Europe and military exercises in sensitive regions. Russia should accept the U.S. proposals, de-escalate the crisis around Ukraine and opt for more dialogue on critical issues, including NATO’s eastward expansion. If it still goes ahead with an attack, which U.S. President Joe Biden said could happen, it could well be a mistake. Russia might be in a position to overrun Ukraine militarily, but what comes next in Europe’s largest country is as unpredictable as it can get. If the post-9/11 military adventures of the U.S. are any lesson, it is that great powers could clinch swift victories against weaker countries but could fail miserably in sustaining those victories. Mr. Putin should not walk into the same mistake and thereby push Europe back into the darker days of the Cold War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/risky-bets/article38351275.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:32 IST,||Pakistan quits Commonwealth||New Delhi, Jan. 30: In a desperate gamble to shore up its untenable diplomatic stance, Pakistan to-day announced its decision to quit the Commonwealth with immediate effect in protest against the impending recognition of Bangla Desh by Britain and other member countries which had made up their minds to fall in line with the new realities in the sub-continent. The Pakistan Government said in a statement issued in Islamabad this afternoon that it was informed to-day that Britain proposed to recognise Bangla Desh soon. Two other Commonwealth countries, Australia and New Zealand, had notified that they would announce their recognition to-morrow. The Pakistan Radio, which broadcast the statement, recalled President Bhutto’s earlier warning that if Britain and other principal countries of the Commonwealth recognised Bangla Desh, Pakistan would leave the organisation. The statement voiced Pakistan’s strong indignation against the decision of those countries to endorse the “dismemberment” of a member State and put the “seal of respectability” on what it described as an act of blatant aggression contrary in international law and the principles of the United Nations. What had apparently provoked Pakistan to resort to this extreme step was not so much the decision of these white Commonwealth countries to recognise Bangla Desh as the active interest they were taking in persuading the other European and Asian countries to accord similar recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pakistan-quits-commonwealth/article38351284.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Letters||The Opposition parties are again hopelessly found wanting by not getting their act together (Page 1, “Opposition slams govt. as report says India bought NSO spyware”, January 30). Let us look at the statements from the Opposition, especially from the Congress and the Left, following the report by The New York Times on a ‘India-Israel Pegasus deal’. Will mere statements serve the purpose of digging out the truth? The government of the day will obviously duck and obfuscate this burning accusation as far as possible. This is an issue that concerns the privacy of the citizen.  P.K. Sharma, Barnala, Punjab  It is unfortunate on the part of The NYT not to have divulged its sources — not even responding to an e-mail from The Hindu. This does cast a shadow of doubt on the veracity of the report. On the contrary, a sitting Minister calling The New York Times a “supari” (hit-job) newspaper does not augur well for the image and the reputation of our country abroad. Has the Minister concerned forgotten that our Prime Minister wrote an opinion piece in the same The New York Times , titled “Why India and the World Need Gandhi”, in 2019?  A. Venkatasubramanian, Tiruchi, Tamil Nadu  The NYT ’s claim that Pegasus was a larger backroom deal makes the issue even more serious. The Supreme Court of India needs to fast-track the hearing of the case with ruthless objectivity and an urgency to get to the bottom of the issue. The Budget session of Parliament would see the Union government stonewalling questions, even pertinent ones, from the Opposition. Hence the need for the Supreme Court’s quick completion of the investigation.  S. Sanjeevi Rao, Puducherry The foreign report only gives credence to the snooping process by the Centre. It is not surprising that a Union Minister has used an unsavoury term to describe the paper. If this was such a big inter-country deal struck at the highest level of leadership, it will certainly weaken India’s stand in many an international issue. G.B. Sivanandam, Coimbatore   The article,”Women and public spaces” (‘Open’ page, January 30), reminded me of my wife’s agonising experience years ago. It was near Deepavali and she wanted to buy a sari from a famous textile outlet. Being a working day, I asked her to go early and wait for me in front of the store. When I was about to start out from office, I received a message about a new pending assignment. I managed to reach the store late in the evening, but my wife was not to be seen. Her angry response to my telephone call was that she was back in the house and that she did not want any sari at all. Back home there were tears and a statement: “You just asked me to wait in a public place. I was standing there for two hours and so many people were staring at me.” It was obviously an uncomfortable experience. When can women claim their rightful access to public spaces? D. Sethuraman, Chennai   It is astounding that, collectively, the triumvirate — Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer — is still holding strong. It would seem as if their fingers cannot be prised off the biggest trophies. Meanwhile, none would have been more disappointed than Djokovic who messed up a golden opportunity to create tennis history. R. Sivakumar, Chennai Nadal has proved that he is made of sterner stuff. That said, Daniil Medvedev played a fantastic game too. C.K. Prem Kumar, Palakkad, Kerala Nadal has proved that age is no barrier to sporting excellence. His work ethic and perseverance will be a beacon of inspiration for young athletes for decades. Kannan B., Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64990714.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||Ask US||Q.My post-retirement corpus of about Rs. 30 lakh is at my disposal for investing to get monthly income. I will be getting a nominal pension but nothing substantial. So, I will have to explore other avenues to supplement my monthly pension. I am interested in investing in mutual funds and using the monthly / quarterly systematic withdrawal plan (SWP). I would like to get a reasonable return (8-10%) and at the same time ensure protection of the principal amount. Kindly advise me on SWP and also suitable mutual funds that offer such options. Shibu Srinivasan Vidya Bala replies: Systematic withdrawal plans require you to keep the withdrawal rate lower than the return rate of the fund, to preserve corpus. Else, you will deplete the corpus soon. It is one thing to grow the money for 5-10 years at least in equity and then shift to debt and do an SWP post, as opposed to starting SWP right away. If you have to start one right away, you can only do so in low-risk debt funds. They cannot return 8-10% percent in most scenarios, barring peak rate periods. Hence, your requirement at this stage is not tenable with funds. You can instead do a combination of Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme, LIC’s Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana and RBI’s Floating Rate Bonds. All of these are government schemes and will fetch you better returns than bank fixed deposits. Once rates move up a bit you can allocate 10-15% in ultra-short and money market debt funds and do an SWP then. Q.I am one of the sufferers of NCD scheme of DHFL, where I lost more than 50% of the original deposit. Can you please suggest any mode of investment where I can venture without fear of debacles (except bank deposits which offer horribly low rates)? G. Harinath Rao A.You could look at RBI’s Floating Rate bonds. The interest is taxable, but rates are better than bank FDs. They are also guaranteed by the government. You will get them in large banks. Once yields go up a bit, you can also open an account with RBI’s Retail Direct Schemehttps://www.rbiretaildirect.org.in/ and buy the primary gilt issuances. They are safe (sovereign) and you need not worry about volatility, provided you hold them till maturity. (Vidya Bala is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)  Q.I retired from a government-owned bank in 2018. While in service, I availed of a housing loan from the employer and purchased property in 2003. The entire outstanding in the loan was paid before superannuation. Meanwhile, another property was available for sale in the same location and SBI was prepared to grant a loan with repayment extending up to 70 years of age. I availed of the loan in 2015 and purchased the property.We moved into the second property and started getting the income tax benefits on interest and repayment of the housing loan. The rental income of the first property was offered for tax purposes.In March 2020, we shifted to the first property, but could not let out the second property till the end of October 2020 on account of lockdowns: 1. Can notional rental income be offered for tax from April to October 2020 and thereafter actual rent received? 2. In the last Budget or so, was there an announcement that no tax would be levied on rental income when a person holds two properties in the same town/city and one is self-occupied and another is rented out? R. Sampath N. Sree Kanth replies: On point 1, as per Section 23 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, where the property or any part of the property is let out and was vacant during the whole or part of the year and owing to such vacancy the actual rent received by you is less than the rent which the property might be reasonably be expected to fetch, then the amount so received by you for the remaining part of the year during which period the house property was let out will be taxed in your hands. In other words, the rent received by you for the period the house property was occupied by your tenant will be the Gross Annual Value and will be taxed accordingly. On point 2, with effect from April 1, 2020, an assessee may claim two house properties as self-occupied and need not disclose notional income on either one (as was the case prior to the amendment) provided the conditions of self-occupied house property is satisfied as per Section 23 of the I-T Act, 1961. In order for a house property to be self-occupied, it is to be occupied by the owner for his own residence or if it cannot be occupied by him owing to employment or business at another place, and he resides at that another place in a rented house or a house not belonging to him. Both the residential properties within the same city/town is to be self-occupied by the owner in order to claim the GAV as zero for both the house properties. If any one is rented out, the same cannot be claimed as self-occupied house property. Q.I am a pensioner aged 86 regularly filing income tax returns every year with nil tax payment. I have exhausted the Rs. 1.5 lakh deduction under 80C by way of PPF, etc. I want to know whether there is any other scheme for senior citizens to become eligible for deduction from taxable income over and above the Rs. 1.5 lakh under the section. Ramsubbu Krishnamoorthy A.As you have stated that you are a senior citizen and that you have exhausted the limits of Rs. 1.5 lakh as prescribed in Section 80CCE of the I-Tax Act, 1961 by investing in PPF, there are no other investment schemes that can be utilised to claim deduction over and above Rs. 1.5 lakh. (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article38351263.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||Relentless Nadal scales Slam peak with miracle at Melbourne||Rafael Nadal roared back from two sets down to win a titanic five-set duel with Daniil Medvedev and claim a record 21st Grand Slam men’s title in the Australian Open final here on Sunday. The Spanish great looked dead and buried as the Russian World No. 2 carved out a two-set lead but Nadal surged home for one of his mightiest comeback wins 2-6, 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 in five hours and 24 minutes on Rod Laver Arena. War of attrition Nadal came out on top in the physical war of attrition to move ahead of era rivals Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer on the all-time list of men’s Major winners. Djokovic missed his chance to improve on his nine Australian Open wins when he was deported over vaccination issues on the eve of the tournament, while Federer is injured. It was one of the 35-year-old Spanish warrior’s greatest title victories in his 29th Grand Slam final as he won his second Australian Open, 13 years after his first in 2009. “This has been one of the most emotional matches of my tennis career,” Nadal said. Nadal also became only the fourth man to win each of the four Grand Slams twice and the third oldest man in the Open Era (since 1970) to win a Grand Slam title, behind Ken Rosewall and Federer. The final went down to the bitter end with Nadal being broken as he served for the championship only for the Spaniard to break back. On his second attempt to serve it out, Nadal powered to three match-points to win amid chaotic scenes in his player’s box and the frenzied crowd. Fourth time It is the fourth time in his storied career that Nadal has clawed back to win from two sets down, but the first time in a Slam final. It is the second time Nadal has denied Medvedev in a Grand Slam final, winning a five-set epic at the 2019 US Open. Nadal holds a 4-1 lead over Medvedev in their five matches to date. It crowned an extraordinary effort from Nadal at the year’s opening Major, having to modify his game to compensate for a degenerative bone disease in his left foot that ended his 2021 season last August. He then caught Covid in December which, he said, made him “very sick”. Amazing champion Medvedev had wrecked Djokovic’s calendar Grand Slam push and bid for a 21st title in New York four months ago and was aiming to do the same to Nadal in Melbourne. Medvedev lost his second consecutive Australian Open final after falling in straight sets to Djokovic in last year’s final. “It’s tough to talk after five hours 30 and losing but I want to congratulate Rafa because what you did today, I was amazed,” Medvedev said. “I thought you were going to get tired, and maybe you did a little, but you still won the match. You are an amazing champion.” Going one better Top seeds Barbora Krejcikova and Katerina Siniakova, earlier, won their fourth Grand Slam, sweeping to the women’s doubles title beating Kazakhstan’s Anna Danilina and Brazilian Beatriz Haddad Maia 6-7(3), 6-4, 6-4. They were runners-up to Elise Mertens and Aryna Sabalenka last year. Krejcikova and Siniakova have won titles at Roland Garros (2018, 2021) and Wimbledon (2018) since making their debut as a partnership in 2016.  Maybe one month and a half ago I would have said this would be my last Australian Open. But now there's plenty of energy to keep going Nadal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relentless-nadal-scales-slam-peak-with-miracle-at-melbourne/article64990362.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||Unnati youngest women’s singles champ||Fourteen-year-old Unnati Hooda capped a splendid run with an impressive finish against a fighting Smit Toshniwal to become the youngest winner of the women’s singles title in the $75,000 Odisha Open badminton tournament at Cuttack on Sunday. For the men’s singles title, Kiran George staved off a remarkable rally from Priyanshu Rajawat in three games. Battling hard The newsmaker of the day was the Haryana school girl who kept her calm to claim the first game. Trailing 9-14, Unnati battled hard to surge ahead at 18-17 to lead for the first time. Though Smit drew level, Unnati won three straight points to close the game. In the second game, Unnati jumped to a 17-4 lead before Smit closed the gap to seven points. Like in the first game, Unnati claimed the final three points for the title. In the men’s final, after the players were locked 1-1, the decider saw Priyanshu blow away a 10-5 lead after George won eight points on the trot to lead 17-12. Though Priyanshu fought well to catch up at 18, George was not to be denied. In another all-India final, Treesa Jolly and P. Gayatri defeated Sanyogita Ghorpade and Shruti Mishra to win the women’s doubles title. However, in the men’s doubles and mixed doubles finals, where the home-grown talents faced overseas rivals, there was disappointment for the host.  The results (final):   Men: Kiran George bt Priyanshu Rajawat 21-15, 14-21, 21-18. Doubles: Nur Mohammad Azriyn Ayub Azriyn & Lim Khim Wah (Mas) bt P.S. Ravikrishna & S. Udayakumar 18-21, 21-14, 21-16.   Women: Unnati Hooda bt Smit Toshniwal 21-18, 21-11. Doubles: Treesa Jolly & P. Gayatri bt Sanyogita Ghorpade & Shruti Mishra 21-12, 21-10.   Mixed doubles: Sachin Dias & Thilini Hendahewa (Sri) bt M.R. Arjun & Treesa 21-16, 22-20 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unnati-youngest-womens-singles-champ/article64990423.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:55 IST,||India to build on recent showings||The Indian women’s hockey team will look to build on its bronze medal-winning showing in the Asia Cup when the side makes its debut in the FIH Pro League, chief coach Janneke Schopman and captain Savita said on Sunday. India won the bronze medal in the continental tournament after beating China 2-0 in the third-place match and will open its FIH campaign against the same team. India is scheduled to play two matches against China on Monday and Tuesday in Muscat, Oman. Excited, says Schopman “We are excited to start our Pro League campaign and look to build on our performance in the Asia Cup by hopefully creating and converting our opportunities as well as having a clinical defence,” Schopman said. “China has shown to be a good team here in the Asia Cup. While they did not finish in the top three, their game stats show that they were even to all top 3 teams,” she added. Savita, who will continue to lead the team in the FIH Hockey Pro League 2021/22 matches against China, too said that they would look to build on their recent performances. “We not only managed to qualify for the FIH Hockey Women’s World Cup in Spain and the Netherlands but also earned a podium finish. We are happy with how the team is shaping up and are looking forward to building upon the same in the upcoming matches,” Savita said. Good tournament “It was a good tournament for us to not only get an understanding of our opponents, but also learn how the team reacts in certain situations on the field, and how we can replicate what we are learning in the training. “We are eager to play in the FIH Hockey Pro League for the first time and continue to improve and gain confidence,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-build-on-recent-showings/article64990513.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||World Giants, not quite old giants||They may have hung up their boots a while ago and they may not be as fit as they used to be. Their passion though is still intact, so are their skills. The Al Amerat Cricket Stadium here was a witness to several cricketers turning the clock back in admirable fashion over the last 10 days. The first edition of the Legends League Cricket showed that some of the most admired cricketers from the past could delight their fans. Those cricket lovers may have been disappointed that the final didn’t go the distance, especially after some closely contested encounters in the league phase. The might of the World Giants batting turned out to be too good for Asia Lions.  Daren Sammy’s men won the final by 25 runs. A stunning onslaught from the man who once broke the record for the fastest ODI century, Corey Anderson (94, 43b), powered them to 256 for five. Lions needed an innings to rival — or better — that to overtake such a mammoth total, even on the batting beauty of a wicket. It never came. Anderson’s wasn’t the only eye-catching innings of the tournament. There was a 69-ball 140 from Indian Maharajas’ Naman Ojha against Giants, not to mention the superb knocks from the likes of Kevin Pietersen, Upul Taranga, Kevin O’Brien, Herschelle Gibbs, Asghar Afghan and the Pathan brothers, Yusuf and Irfan. The bowlers had their moments under the lights, too. There was, for instance, this superb final over by Brett Lee for Giants against Maharajas. The former Australian quick gave away just two runs to hand his side a five-run victory. Other pacers, like Morne Morkel, Nuwan Kulasekara and Ryan Sidebottom, too bent their ageing backs to good effect. As Pietersen suggested on the opening day, things could get even better in the second season. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-giants-not-quite-old-giants/article64990360.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:55 IST,||Barty and Djokovic still No. 1||Newly-crowned Australian Open women’s singles champion Ashleigh Barty has maintained her more than two-year grip on the No. 1 ranking after winning her third Major title on Saturday. Barty, winner of the French Open in 2019 and Wimbledon the following year, has extended her ranking points lead over incumbent No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus, with French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova rising one spot into third after making the quarterfinals in Australia for the first time. In the men’s rankings, Italy’s Matteo Berrettini is the only mover inside the top 10, climbing to a career-high No. 6 after making the semifinals at Melbourne Park for the first time, with Russia’s Andrey Rublev dropping to seventh. Novak Djokovic, with 20 Grand Slam titles, will continue as No. 1 despite missing the Australian Open after being deported for not meeting the country’s vaccination rules. Russia’s Daniil Medvedev maintains second. Nadal stays fifth, behind Germany’s Alexander Zverev and Greece’s Stefanos Tsitsipas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-and-djokovic-still-no-1/article38351860.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||Medvedev ‘not that disappointed’ by the loss||Daniil Medvedev insisted on Sunday he was not disappointed to give up a two-set lead and lose the Australian Open, while heaping praise on “unreal” Rafael Nadal. “If we talk about tennis, I’m not that disappointed. It was a huge match,” said the 25-year-old Russian. “For sure, some small points, small details that I could have done better if I wanted to win. But that’s tennis, that’s life. Rafa played unreal, he raised his level.” It was the second time Nadal had denied Medvedev in a Grand Slam decider, winning a five-set epic at the 2019 US Open. “At two sets to love up I was just like, ‘go for him’,” said Medvedev, who was in his fourth Grand Slam final. “In the fifth set I was just like ‘make him run’. But he was unreal, he was really strong the way he played. “So talking about tennis, I don’t have much regret. I’m going to try and continue my best, work even harder to try to be a champion of some of these great tournaments one day.” The second seed again polarised the packed Rod Laver Arena, which was firmly behind Nadal, with some sections booing him after he complained about the ball boys. Medvedev was also unhappy about shouts from spectators as he was about to serve. “It’s disappointing and it’s disrespectful,” he said, while bemoaning that fans often don’t get behind him when he plays one of the sports’ legends like Nadal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-not-that-disappointed-by-loss/article64990359.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||HRC ex secy. Nari Reddy passes away||Mr. N.N. Reddy, popularly known as Nari Reddy, former secretary of Hyderabad Race Club (HRC) passed away on Sunday due to cardiac arrest. He was born on March 23, March, 1932. Mr. Reddy was the longest serving secretary of HRC — from June 15, 1972 to June 30, 1993. He was the secretary general of 24th Asian Racing Conference hosted jointly by RWITC and HRC in 1995. Mr. Reddy was the founder director of Racing Academy run by the Turf Authorities of India (TAI) from April 1, 1996 to March 31, 2008. Under him several racing officials were trained. Mr. Reddy was the architect of all reforms which took Hyderabad racing to new heights. Under his administration various reforms took place, such as: 1. HRC was given the status of an independent Turf Authority by the TAI in 1977. 2. HRC introduced a computerised totalisator system in 1988 for the first time in India. 3. For the first time in the country, an off-course tote centre of HRC was opened in Hyderabad by him. 4. He was instrumental in getting the totalisator taxes reduced, which was the lowest in the country and helped in boosting the Tote turnovers of HRC to peak. He also presented a paper on this at the Asian Racing Conference and many countries, including Australia, took the cue and revised their betting tax rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hrc-ex-secy-nari-reddy-passes-away/article64990418.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||Roshan does it for BFC||Naorem Roshan’s goal helped Bengaluru FC (BFC) defeat Kerala Blasters (KB) 1-0 in the Indian Super League at Tilak Maidan Stadium (Vasco) on Sunday. In the 56th minute, KB’s Lalthathanga Khawlhring committed a foul outside the box. Roshan stepped up to take the free kick, and belted a left-footed shot past the wall and into the net. The win brought BFC level on points with third-placed KB, though KB has played two matches fewer. KB had a chance to level the score late in the game, when Jorge Diaz threaded a fine pass to Adrian Luna. BFC goalkeeper Gurpreet Sandhu, back in the starting eleven after missing the previous fixture, made a great save to thwart the effort. BFC’s Udanta Singh, who scored a brace in the last outing, made incisive runs. His link play with Sunil Chhetri kept the KB defence on its toes, even if the duo could not find the goal. BFC’s tall forward Prince Ibara was a threat in the air, using headers to create chances.  The result: BFC 1 (Naorem Roshan 56) bt Kerala Blasters 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roshan-does-it-for-bfc/article64990424.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||Faith Of Success wins feature event||Trainer Aravind Ganapathy’s classic filly Faith Of Success ridden by Neeraj Rawal won the Golconda Derby Stakes (Gr. 1), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 30) races. The winner is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Jockey Neeraj kept his mount calmly in the seventh position till the bend, later as they were homeward bound into the straight this daughter of Saamid was bunched up near 400m. When Neeraj asked her to go she brilliantly manoeuvred her way to take charge and snatched the verdict from Stockbridge and Fire Power to win the race in a tight finish. The Stewards, Racing Officials and Professionals of HRC, paid homage by observing a minutes silence in the paddock to the former Secretary of HRC Mr. N.N. Reddy who passed away on Sunday. ROCK HEAVEN PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): THE IMAGE (Ashad Asbar) 1, Star Medal (Nakhat Singh) 2, Voice Of A Dream (C.S. Jodha) 3 and The Sensation (Rafique Sk.) 4. Not run: Wind Sprite. 3-1/2, 3-1/2 and 1/2. 1m 13. 40s. Rs. 11 (w), 10, 15 and 13 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 33, SHW: 10 and 20, FP: 31, Q: 24, Tanala: 77. Favourite: The Image.  Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy. SURYAPET PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): INCEPTION (Rupal Singh) 1, N R I Blue (Rohit Kumar) 2, Rhine (B.R. Kumar) 3 and New Hustle (B. Nikhil) 4. Sh, Nk and Hd. 1m 27. 87s. Rs. 81 (w), 17, 33 and 26 (p). SHP: 125, THP: 72, SHW: 59 and 62, FP: 1,333, Q: 793, Tanala: 15, 094. Favourite: Solar Eclipse.  Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh. YADADRI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ISRA (Dashrath) 1, Silver Bells (Trevor) 2, Kimberley (Santosh Raj) 3 and Campania (C.S. Jodha) 4. 2, Nk and 1-1/2. 1m 38. 89s. Rs. 89 (w), 29, 16 and 19 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 60, SHW: 42 and 12, FP: 610, Q: 195, Tanala: 2,950. Favourite: Silver Bells.  Owner: Mr. Syed Mohiuddin Mufeed. Trainer: S. Sreekant. KHAMMAM PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): KNOTTY DANCER (S. John) 1, Keystone (Akshay Kumar) 2, N R I Sport (B.R. Kumar) 3 and City Of Blessing (Antony Raj) 4. 2-3/4, 1 and 3/4. 1m 24. 87s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 14 and 32 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 75, SHW: 10 and 30, FP: 81, Q: 61, Tanala: 1,010. Favourite: Knotty Dancer.  Owners: Mr. Krishnan Kamesh, Mr. K. Balamukunda Das & Mr. Srikanth Badruka. Trainer: D. Netto. SIR BRUCE PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): NARAKAMICIE (P. Trevor) 1, Hot Seat (Suraj Narredu) 2, Unmatched (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Aibak (Dashrath) 4. 2, Sh and 3/4. 1m 12. 91s. Rs. 23 (w), 13, 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 55, SHW: 19 and 17, FP: 92, Q: 48, Tanala: 226. Favourite: Narakamicie.  Owners: Mr. Homi Framroze Mehta, Mrs. Anaheeta Homi Mehta & Mr. Jehangir Homi Mehta. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji. KAMAREDDY PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): LAGOS (Suraj Narredu) 1, Market King (Trevor) 2, Watch My Stride (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Incredulous (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 2-1/2, 4-1/4 and 1. 1m 10. 24s. Rs. 25 (w), 11, 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 33, THP: 38, SHW: 10 and 19, FP: 75, Q: 32, Tanala: 172. Favourite: Market King.  Owners: Mr. S. Pathy & Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto. YADADRI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): DESPANG (Surya Prakash) 1, Grand Duke (R.S. Jodha) 2, Sorry Darling (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Wallop And Gallop (Deepak Singh) 4. Not run: Majestic Show. 1-1/4, Hd and 3-1/4. 1m 39. 16s. Rs. 79 (w), 23, 16 and 16 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 45, SHW: 32 and 25, FP: 599, Q: 193, Tanala: 2,765. Favourite: Philanthropist.  Owner: Col. S.B. Nair. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh. GOLCONDA DERBY STAKES (Gr. 1) (2,400m) (Terms), 4-y-o only: FAITH OF SUCCESS (Saamidd-Isola Tiberinal) (Neeraj Rawal) 1, Stockbridge (Speaking Of Which-Sheryl) (Antony Raj) 2, Fire Power (Speaking Of Which-Roses In Bloom) (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Karanveer (Excellent Art-Starry Eyes) (R.W. Oliver) 4. Nk, Sh and 3/4. 2m 32. 02s. Rs. 36 (w), 14, 18 and 17 (p). SHP: 70, THP: 40, SHW: 21 and 31, FP: 366, Q: 236, Tanala: 2,069. Favourite: Teresita.  Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Aravind Ganapathy. SURYAPET PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): N R I GIFT (Antony Raj) 1, Rivadavia (Surya Prakash) 2, Good Tidings (B.R. Kumar) 3 and It’s My Life (P. Gaddam) 4. 1, Sh and 2-1/2. 1m 27. 87s. Rs. 30 (w), 15, 20 and 16 (p). SHP: 55, THP: 54, SHW: 16 and 32, FP: 226, Q: 108, Tanala: 748. Favourite: N R I Gift.  Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: G. Shashikanth. Jackpot: (i) 70%: Rs. 20,663 (6 tkts.), 30%: 2,125 (25 tkts.). (ii) 70%: 23,548 (31 tkts.), 30%: 1,396 (224 tkts.). Treble (i): 2,035 (16 tkts.), (ii): 211 (287 tkts.), (iii): 2,125 (76 tkts.). Mini Jackpot (i): 30,566 (6 tkts.), (ii): 5,389 (21 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faith-of-success-wins-feature-event/article38351547.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:11 IST,||HFC aims to retain top spot with win over NEUFC||Hyderabad FC will be a confident unit when it faces NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League in Fatorda. A victory will ensure that the Nizams retain their place at the top of the table. HFC head coach Manolo Marquez knows his team will have the upper hand against a struggling NEUFC. After a 4-0 thumping of SC East Bengal, HFC defeated Odisha SC in a five-goal thriller in its last match. HFC will also have a psychological advantage. When both teams met earlier in the season, the Nizams decimated the Highlanders 5-1. However, Marquez will be well aware of not getting complacent, which can prove to be costly. “This NEUFC side is very similar to the last season with very good foreigners and Indians with a lot of enthusiasm. For sure, this will be a 100% difficult game,” Marquez said ahead of the match. HFC’s Bartholomew Ogbeche, who leads the goalscoring charts and is one hit away from equalling Sunil Chhetri and Ferran Corominas’s record of 48 strikes in the ISL, will be the main threat in the attacking line-up. NEUFC head coach Khalid Jamil has not seen his men win a match in their last seven outings. A top-four spot seems distant for the Highlanders but if last season is anything to go by, a successful run of matches might work wonders for Jamil and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-aims-to-retain-top-spot-with-win-over-neufc/article38351655.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||The touch of the master’s hand or ‘Byramji effect’||Rashid Byramji who breathed his last on Saturday, the 29th January, 2022, was a man who became a legend in his lifetime and will remain one forever. Rashid was arguably the greatest trainer that India has seen in recent times. He rewrote the record books setting the bar at a mark which is unlikely to be surpassed. In a star-studded career that began in 1956, Rashid stood out like a colossus. Close to 3200 winners; 230 Classics; 10 Indian Derbies (not counting three that were saddled by his assistants) 12 Invitation Cups are statistics that will forever exemplify his brilliance. He stamped his authority even further by being crowned Champion Trainer no less than 42 times winning 11 Bangalore Summer Championships on the trot. Maestro Here was a maestro who schooled and produced some of the greatest horses ever. Squanderer, Elusive Pimpernel, Sweet Memories, Commanche, Manitou, Everynsky — the list would make the mind boggle and you’d run out of superlatives to describe them. They all had one thing in common and it was called the touch of the Master’s Hand or simply, the Byramji touch. The one story about him that will remain etched in my mind featured the all-conquering Commanche, who was facing off against a horse named Beauregard, trained by Chandrashekar, in the RWITC Invitational in Bombay. Just a couple of days before the race, Beauregard had a problem. Chandra turned to Rashid for help, and Rashid being the person he was, went across and sorted out the issue. In a sport that has cut-throat competition and a ‘dog eat dog’ mentality, how many people would ever have done that? On the race day, in a duel down the straight, Beauregard pegged back Commanche. Had Rashid not gone across and advised Chandrashekar what to do, Beauregard would probably never have run. Rashid knew that and yet he went out of his way to help another professional. That was the sort of person he was — an incredible human being. As Shakespeare put it, “His life was gentle; and the elements so mixed in him, that Nature might stand up and say to all the world, THIS WAS A MAN.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-touch-of-the-masters-hand-or-byramji-effect/article64990422.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||Musetti looks to make his presence felt||Emerging Italian star Lorenzo Musetti said on Sunday that he was keen to make a mark on his debut at the Tata Open Maharashtra tennis tournament, which begins here on Monday. The 19-year-old second seed will start as one of the title contenders in the men’s singles event in the fourth edition of South Asia’s only ATP 250 event at the Balewadi Stadium here. Confidence factor “I’m here to win matches. I will try to go as far as I can and get the confidence that I used to have,” Musetti said during a virtual press conference on Sunday. He is likely to face strong competition from top players like World No. 15 Aslan Karatsev and defending champion Jiri Vesely. Musetti suffered first-round defeats at the season opener Adelaide 1 event and Australian Open. “I played two good matches with two really great opponents. They showed they were playing best tennis and both the matches were close,” he said. Lithuania’s highest-ranked player Ricardas Berankis, who had a semifinal finish in the last edition, will also be seen in action as seven singles opening round matches will be played on Monday. Among the Indians, Yuki Bhambri and Prajnesh Gunneswaran will start their campaign on Monday against Slovakia’s Jozef Kovalik and fifth-seeded Daniel Altamaier of Germany. Bhambri had received a direct entry into the main draw while Asian Games medallist Prajnesh had entered the tournament as a wildcard. The tournament will also see the country’s top-ranked player Ramkumar Ramanathan and local player Arjun Kadhe starting directly in the singles main draw. Top-seeded Australian pair of Luke Saville and John-Patrick Smith will open its campaign against Stefano Travaglia and Bernabe Zapata Miralles. In the qualifying matches on Sunday, India’s Sasikumar Mukund and Manish Sureshkumar suffered defeats in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/musetti-eager-to-make-a-mark/article64990358.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:09 IST,||Ravi, Angkrish star as India enters semis||India defeated defending champion Bangladesh by five wickets in the quarterfinals of the ICC U-19 World Cup here on Saturday. Chasing 112 for victory, India lost opener Harnoor Singh for a duck. But the in-form Angkrish Raghuvanshi’s fighting knock (44, 65b, 7x4) helped India reach the target in 30.5 overs and enter the semifinals. Earlier, left-arm seamer Ravi Kumar, named the Man-of-the-Match, bowled a sensational opening spell as India restricted Bangladesh to 111 in 37.1 overs. Skipper Yash Dhull scored 20 not out and his deputy Shaik Rasheed making 26 as the victory was even more satisfying considering the youngsters came back without any training post recovery from COVID-19. India meets Australia in the semifinal on February 2.  The scores (quarterfinals):   Bangladesh 111 in 37.1 overs (S.M. Mehrob 30, Ravi Kumar 3/14) lost to India 117/5 in 30.5 overs (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 44, Shaik Rasheed 26, Ripon Mondol 4/31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-angkrish-star-as-india-enters-semis/article38351366.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||Arjun and Carlsen win||Arjun Erigaisi (10.5 points) finished off in style by winning the 13th and final round against Marc Andria Maurizzi (France) to claim the honours in the Challengers sections of the Tata Steel Masters at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Sunday. Magnus Carlsen (9.5) was sure of the title on Saturday since he was to receive a free point from Daniil Dubov who withdrew due to Covid.  Final placings: 1. Carlsen (9.5 points), 2-3. Mamedyarov, Rapport (8 each), 4. Giri (7.5), 5-6. Karjakin, Foreest (7 each), 7-8. Esipenko, Caruana (6.5), 9-10. Duda, Vidit (6 each), 11-12. Shankland, Praggnanandhaa (5.5 each), 13. Gradelius (4.5) and Dubov (3.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-and-carlsen-win/article38351525.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:21 IST,||Shahrukh, Sai Kishore picked as reserves||Rising T20 sensation M. Shahrukh Khan and his Tamil Nadu State-mate, orthodox left-arm spinner R. Sai Kishore, will be joining the Indian white-ball team as stand-by players for the upcoming six-match series against the West Indies. Both Shahrukh and Sai Kishore played a huge part in Tamil Nadu’s victorious campaign and their call-up is more of a precautionary measure in COVID-19 times when there is every possibility of a player from the main squad testing positive. For Sai Kishore, this is the second opportunity in an Indian team set-up after he was part of the net bowlers’ group during a tour of Sri Lanka under Rahul Dravid last year. Shahrukh, who was in contention to make it to the main squad, has been in the news this season for scoring runs at critical stages, including a last ball six against Karnataka, to win the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shahrukh-sai-kishore-picked-as-reserves/article38351367.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||Cameroon, Burkina Faso through to semis||Cameroon and Burkina Faso qualified for the semifinals of the Africa Cup of Nations on Saturday with Karl Toko-Ekambi’s double leading the hosts to a 2-0 win over Gambia before the Stallions edged Tunisia 1-0 in the late game. Burkina Faso edged Tunisia to set up a semifinal against either Senegal or Equatorial Guinea. The results: Quarterfinals: Cameroon 2 (Toko-Ekambi 50, 57) bt Gambia 0; Burkina Faso 1 (Dango Ouattara 45+3) bt Tunisia 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cameroon-burkina-faso-through-to-semis/article64990420.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:16 IST,||Moeen leads England to series-levelling win||Stand-in captain Moeen Ali smashed seven sixes and took two wickets as England beat West Indies by 34 runs in the fourth T20I on Saturday to level the five-match series at 2-2. Moeen, who was again leading England with Eoin Morgan out of the series with a quad injury, hit 63 off 28 balls as the tourists added 59 in the last three overs to post 193 for six. Opener Jason Roy made 52 off 42. Spinner Moeen went on to take two 28 from four overs as West Indies was held to 159 for five. Opener Kyle Mayers top-scored with 40 off 23 and Jason Holder smashed 36 off 24 with two fours and three sixes. It was an explosive finish to England’s innings, with Holder (3/44) clubbed for four successive sixes by Moeen in the 18th over. The hosts required 61 off the final four overs but Chris Jordan (0/30) and Reece Topley (1/21) held their nerve to ensure the five-match series goes to the wire. Roy added 85 for the second wicket with James Vince (34). In reply, the West Indies raced to 56 without loss from six overs. Adil Rashid (1/28) was a calming influence. With neither Mayers nor Brandon King (26) willing to take risks against Rashid they were caught attempting to go big against Moeen.  The scores: England 193/6 in 20 overs (Jason Roy 52, James Vince 34, Moeen Ali 63; Jason Holder 3/44) bt West Indies 159/5 in 20 overs (Brandon King 26, Kyle Mayers 40, Jason Holder 36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moeen-leads-england-to-series-levelling-win/article38351538.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 06:17 IST,||China enters semifinals||In its previous nine face-offs, China has never lost to Vietnam. On Sunday, as the two sides once again crossed swords at the DY Patil Stadium, China continued its winning run, defeating the opponent 3-1. The victory not only guided the Steel Roses to the semifinals of the AFC Women’s Asian Cup, but also helped it qualify for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup. China had won the title the last time in 2006 and had finished third in the previous two editions of the tournament. In the semifinals, it will take on Japan which rode on a four-goal haul by Yuika Sugasawa to beat Thailand 7-0.  The results:   China 3 (Wang Shuang 25, Wang Shanshan 52, Jiali Tang 53) bt Vietnam 1 (Nguyen Thi Tuyet Dung 11)   Japan 7 (Yuika Sugasawa 27, 65, 80, 83; Hiyana Miyazawa 45+2; Rin Sumida 48; Riko Ueki 75) bt Thailand 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/china-enters-semifinals/article64990425.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||The O 3 factor||A new study published in journal Nature Food has found that persistently high levels of ozone pollution in Asia are costing China, Japan and South Korea an estimated $63 billion annually in lost rice, wheat and maize crops. The research used pollution monitoring data from the region and field experiments to show ozone affects Asia's crop yields more than previously thought.  The researchers found that on an average 33% of China's wheat crop is lost annually because of ozone pollution. While South Korea lost 28% of wheat, Japan lost 16%. For rice, the mean figure in China was 23%. In South Korea the figure was nearly 11%, while in Japan it was 5%. And maize crops in both China and South Korea were also affected. The crop is not grown in Japan in significant quantities. The study's authors said the findings should push policymakers to reduce emissions that produce ozone. You may have learnt from your teachers that the ozone layer protects us from the harsh sunlight. But now, what is this ozone all about? And why is it considered a pollutant? Let’s find out in this Explainer...   Ozone is a highly reactive gas composed of three oxygen atoms – O3. It occurs naturally in the stratosphere layer of the Earth’s atmosphere. But ozone also comes from man-made sources and is found in the lowest layer of the atmosphere (troposphere). While the former affects life on Earth in positive ways, the latter does so in negative ways. Our concern in this article is the second form of ozone.   The atmosphere consists of a mixture of 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen and 1% of other gases. Each of the five layers of our atmosphere has its own role in protecting Earth and supporting life on the planet. The second layer – the stratosphere - is the most stable region, where jets ﬂy. It is also the region where ozone is abundant. Stratospheric ozone is formed naturally through the interaction of solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation with molecular oxygen (O2). The layer, found about 10 to 40 km above the ground, is the ozone layer. It is part of the stratosphere and it protects life on Earth from the harmful eﬀects of UV rays by absorbing them. Ultraviolet rays can damage DNA, and cause sunburn, skin cancer and cataract in humans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-o-3-factor/article64990718.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||The rise of the underdogs||SC Freiburg are punching above their weight in the Bundesliga this season, with Christian Streich's ambitious underdogs from the heart of the picturesque Black Forest eyeing a first appearance in the Champions League. Freiburg have been perennial mid-table finishers in recent Bundesliga seasons, aside from their relegation in 2014/15 before coming straight back up. Streich is the Bundesliga’s longest-serving current coach after more than a decade in the job. Under his stewardship, Freiburg's performances have fuelled dreams of a top-four finish and qualification for the Champions League for the first time. "If that should happen, I think the party would really kick off in the city," club captain Christian Guenter told AFP. "It's never happened before in the club's history, but there is still a really long way to go." It's 08:45 a.m. local time on a bleak morning, yet Guenter, 28, is fresh-faced and ready for training, clearly enjoying his football. His performances at left-back earned him a Germany recall last November, seven years after his international debut. Freiburg usually struggle to keep their best players, most recently when Germany defender Robin Koch left in 2020 to join Leeds United. "Almost 10 years ago, we qualified for the Europa League and five important players left that summer," sporting director Klemens Hartenbach told AFP. "It's always a bit related to sporting success -- the exodus after the good work." However, Freiburg managed to keep their squad intact going into this season and have racked up league points. "We simply know that we have great potential in the team," added Guenter. "There is always a lot of energy in training, everyone is very ambitious and wants to win. That's what really distinguishes us this season: we never give up, no matter what the score is."AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-rise-of-the-underdogs/article64990716.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||Baboons and social conventions||As we already know, on average, primates are more intelligent than other mammals, thanks to their larger brains among other aspects. Primates include humans too, considered the smartest of the lot. However, more and more studies are emerging to show just how intelligent non-human primates too are. Come, let’s find out more about this through a recent experiment. Baboons are very intelligent creatures, and through various experiments it has been ascertained that they can “decipher elements of language, understanding words in a sequence”. This is in addition to having “highly complicated social grouping structures, deep empathy for one another and adaptability to the developing world around them”. So it makes sense they were used for a recent experiment on non-human primates. French researchers worked with nearly 20 baboons raised at a primatology centre. In pairs, the primates were given the task of making the same choice when each was presented with a set of two images on touch screens. If both animals made the same choice, they were given a treat. The researchers discovered that in just three days, the baboons had come up with a system to choose the same image even when they were not aware of what the other baboon had chosen, ruling out one imitating the other. Also, it was not a matter of colour-based choice because the baboons chose the same image even when they were presented with black-and-white ones. This proved that baboons manage to develop social conventions to work together to obtain a reward. Though earlier they had showed evidence of social conventions such as grooming, “this is the first to show a new behaviour appearing spontaneously in a group, without human intervention”. According to the study, “for a behaviour to be considered a social convention its benefit must apply to the whole group, it must work consistently, and it must be one among several solutions”. However, it remains a mystery how they do this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/baboons-and-social-conventions/article64990719.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:31 IST,||twin treat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/twin-treat/article64990717.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:12 IST,||In a loop for love||Looop Lapeta comes 24 years after the German thriller Run Lola Run, which had Franka Potente as Lola. But the cast and director of the Hindi adaptation are confident about having created something new.   In a video interview accompanied by her co-star and director, Taapsee Pannu, the first to join the project, says half the battle was won when director Aakash Bhatia and Tahir Raj Bhasin came on board. Like Run Lola …, Looop Lapeta pivots on a woman’s (Pannu as Savi) race against time to raise money to save her boyfriend’s (Bhasin) life. So Savi has 80 minutes to navigate multiple dead ends and three time-loops to muster Rs. 50 lakh.   Fortunately, Bhasin, 34, remembered the original’s style and cutting-edge music from his college days and was excited to see it adapted for a contemporary Indian audience. Pannu, also 34, was especially delighted when he accepted the role as she had anticipated a “tricky” casting, with the actor having to set aside his ego to work in a film with a woman protagonist. This, however, was not Bhasin’s first time in a woman-centred film; his Bollywood breakthrough came as the antagonist opposite Rani Mukherjee in the thriller Mardaani (2014). Most recently, he played Sunil Gavaskar in Kabir Khan’s ’83 (2021).  Bhatia: doing it his way  This is Bhatia’s first feature film, but he has directed several episodes of the Prime series Inside Edge and a music video. Pannu says she admires his vision of doing something radically different from mainstream Hindi cinema. And while she preferred not to track the monitors on set, Pannu felt Bhatia’s energy when she saw the cameras moving dynamically. His style of filmmaking was hard to adapt to, but she was confident they were creating something that hadn’t been seen before.  “You aren’t competing with a film of that level. You are trying to give it an homage, and you should do it in an honest way while being honest to yourself, and all the people who are involved, by making it as a fresh film,” says Bhatia. Game for anything Pannu brings up an intimate sequence where she and Bhasin were lying on a log and elevated mid-air by a crane in an open-air studio with multiple crews watching. “We knew, from that day, that we are going to do things we had never imagined or were prepared for,” she says. “It’s just going to be thrown at us. After that, nothing about the intimacy felt weird, not even the camera, which was so close that I could hit my head on it.” She jokes about how the most awkward person on set was cinematographer Yash Khanna who was constantly up-close with the couple. Looop Lapeta is a fast-paced, kinetic, exaggerated film, and playful in its craft. Compared to the original, Bhatia wanted viewers to become more invested in the couple’s “modern” relationship, which is at the film’s heart.  The intimate scenes contrast the rest of the film, allowing them the space to showcase their vision of a relationship of equals. For Bhasin, these moments helped slow down the film’s frantic rhythm, and gave the actors respite from the shoot’s constant physical demands.  Savi is an ex-athlete, so the multiple hours of running every day left Pannu fatigued. Luckily, she was training to play a sprinter in Rashmi Rocket . Bhasin adds that for him, holding on to Satya’s anxious, hyperactive persona through the day, for days on end, was taxing. That said, today, every new project for him feels like a pivotal moment from the film . “You are at a crossroad, and anything can happen.”  Looop Lapeta streams on Netflix starting February 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-a-loop-for-love/article64990590.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:12 IST,||Snow Right and the 11 duties||If you’ve been following the news, you probably know that Indians have unknowingly weakened the country since Independence. At every turn, personalities ranging from Annie Besant to Ambedkar, Bharati to Namdeo Dhasal, Hasina Khan to Radhika Vemula have fought for the fundamental rights of all Indians, but it transpires that this was a pretty anti-national move. Instead, they should have focussed on people performing their fundamental duties. Added to the Constitution in 1976, Fundamental Duties, like the Directive Principles, are in the nature of guidelines and not enforceable by law. Perhaps it’s time to change that now, given the eagerness with which we are already enforcing the duties. Take, for instance, the duty to “promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst the people, transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities”. I believe nothing does this so well as a strategic lynching or two, disrupting prayers, breaking statues of each other’s religious communities, barring some people from some river banks, and so on. Equally, there is the duty to “cherish and preserve the rich national heritage of our composite culture”. Many people define ‘composite culture’ as a happy fusion of many disparate ways of being. Which is fine, but it doesn’t take into account a widespread misreading of the said passage. Our venerable Constitution writers wrote ‘composite’ but many people are probably reading it as ‘compost’. This explains why the protectors of duties are now showing much interest in digging up all sorts of historical worms that turn, purely in the interest of vermiculture composting.  I actually did not know that one of the fundamental duties is “to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women”. One suspects that this too needs a small amendment. It should perhaps read as “denounce” and not “renounce”. In this revised form, I am happy to say, the nation is following its duty to the letter. Each day brings news of women auctioned online, of women raped by powerful seers and heads of church, of famous actors and singers assaulting female colleagues, and each of these crimes is loudly denounced in public speeches. As long as someone somewhere denounces all practices derogatory to our ma-behens , all will be well.  Duty No. 7 is to protect and improve the natural environment, including lakes, wildlife, rivers, forests, etc. And the best way to do this is to find innovative ways to increase India’s forest cover. It was recently discovered that India’s forest and environment ministry has begun to include tea gardens and palm plantations as forest cover. It should be a citizen’s duty to suggest other areas they can add. Golf courses, lawns and coconut groves come to mind. As for “improving the natural environment,” both industrialists and ministers know that nothing improves messy jungles as neatly as a coal mine or two. One of the Fundamental Duties also says that citizens must “abjure violence”. But this duty, I believe, one can safely ignore because enforcing duties invariably requires a bit of violence. Remember how that man was beaten up by dutiful citizens even as they asked him to recite the anthem? It’s the spirit of the thing that counts. Another duty that could pose a challenge is the one that urges citizens to develop “a scientific temper, humanism, and the spirit of inquiry”. One is aware that many dutiful citizens have a short temper, but it might not always be scientific. After all, when it becomes our bounden duty to bang plates and ring bells to connect aurally with the cosmos, one can’t be too keen on science. And then there’s the highly unscientific Corofil that many of us swear by and diligently distribute to friends and relations. As one should. Never let science come between you and your duty. All told, it appears as if one need not feel anxious about the direction in which the country is headed. But one never knows; people have a nasty habit of suddenly demanding fundamental rights. And that’s probably why the Prime Minister felt the need to caution the nation in its 75th year of Independence. One shares his anxiety. It is perhaps time for another constitutional amendment — one that takes away all rights and assigns to citizens a set of duties alone. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/snow-right-and-the-11-duties/article64990589.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 03:46 IST,||Make science inclusive||Many curious students graduate from colleges and universities every year with dreams of working on research projects and getting into R&D but only a few succeed. What about the rest? They either try hard to start their own research or end up switching fields. Hence Science inclusivity has become the need of the hour. This means the inclusion of people from different backgrounds, perspectives, activities and providing them resources like funds, access to labs, research papers and mentorship. However, there are some problems to face. Funds Scientific research needs a large amount of funds and resources and only fortunate researchers get everything they need. Many research communities are struggling to fulfill even the basic requirements to get started. There is also a perspective that people who do not have a Ph.D. are not qualified enough to conduct research projects. Hence, it becomes very difficult for them to even start working on their ideas. While there are grants (both governmental and private) and crowdfunding is also an option, these work only for a few and not for everyone. Language barrier People who are great at science and research methodology find science communication difficult due to language barriers. Researchers from different regions having vast knowledge in the field want to cross collaborate and expand their scope. Lab facilities Bio-enthusiasts and early stage researchers often have a tough time finding lab facilities that will let them carry out their projects. Academic labs are limited to only academic researchers while industries allow only relevant in-house projects. Though some open community labs have been begun, they are few in number. Open-access tools Since early-stage researchers work with a limited amount of funds, they require access to online tools and research papers. Often well-rated and authentic research papers are behind pay walls and researchers either have to subscribe to journals or buy the paper. Mentorship is another requirement, especially if they hit a block in the technical aspect. There is no framework or portal through which they can reach out to mentors. A few groups have been created on social media but that is not enough. Science should not be limited to people from scientific fields alone but should be open to different stakeholders. Differing perspectives from a variety of people can help. For example, take the growing PPE waste today. How are we going to solve this problem? People from disciplines such as Science, Design, Arts, Engineering along with stakeholders from Municipal Waste Department, Recycling Department and environmental activists can put their expertise together and come up with feasible, implementable and environment-friendly solutions. There needs to be a proper framework and guiding mechanism for early-stage researchers and enthusiasts who are willing to carry out research. Resources, from funds to mentorship, should be made available without any barriers. This is the only way to make science more inclusive. The views expressed in this article are personal  The writer is head of Bioriidl, a DIY Bio Lab and Biotech Business Incubator.   There is also a perspective that people who do not have a Ph.D. are not qualified enough to conduct research projects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-science-inclusive/article64990706.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:05 IST,||Decision on reopening of M.P. schools after consultation with experts: CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said the decision on reopening schools in the State will be taken after consultation with experts and review of the COVID-19 situation. The State government had on January 14 ordered closure of schools and hostels for Classes 1 to 12 till January 31 in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases at that time. The Chief Minister, while reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the State on Saturday, said COVID-19 cases were coming down in the State, including major cities like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior. “Very few coronavirus patients are admitted in hospitals. The decision on opening schools will be taken after considering the COVID-19 situation in other States...experts will be consulted. Schools will be opened only after full deliberation,” Mr. Chouhan said. There is a possibility that COVID cases will come down by February 15, he said. Though there is nothing to worry, the administration should continue to adopt COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and follow the mandatory requirement of wearing masks, the CM said. Health officials informed during the meeting that 72 COVID-19 patients were currently admitted on oxygen beds, while 150 were admitted in the Intensive Care Units (ICUs) in the State. On Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 8,678 new COVID-19 cases, raising the State's infection tally to 9,50,134, while five more deaths pushed the toll to 10,607, a health department official earlier said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/decision-on-reopening-of-mp-schools-after-consultation-with-experts-cm/article38351839.ece
31 January 2022||January 31 2022 05:05 IST,||1 cr. devotees expected to take holy dip on Mauni Amavasya at Sangam||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, authorities in Uttar Pradesh expect one crore devotees to take a holy dip in the Ganga and the Sangam here on Mauni Amavasya Monday. Chief Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, who reviewed the preparation for the event, said Mauni Amavasya is a very important festival of Magh Mela and people from across the country come here to take a holy dip in the river. “Tomorrow one crore people are expected to take bath,” Mr. Mishra said, adding he was satisfied with the arrangements made there for devotees. The Chief Secretary said he himself took a bath on Sunday in the Ganga and found that the river flow and the water is “good”. As far as the coronavirus pandemic is concerned, the cases are coming down in the State, he said. “The rate of infection in the State has come down from 20% to 4%. As of today, the first dose of vaccine has been given to 99.5% of the people in the State while 69% of the people have been given the second dose too,” he said. Mr. Mishra also said that 65% of the children in the age group of 15 to 17 years have also been vaccinated with the first dose. “During my visit here, whoever I asked about the coronavirus vaccine, they told me that have taken both the doses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/1-cr-devotees-expected-to-take-holy-dip-on-mauni-amavasya-at-sangam/article38351849.ece
