02-06-2021||Today's||How Indian-Americans shaped the US response to India’s second wave||The United States (US) has provided aid worth at least half-a-billion dollars since the devastating second wave of Covid-19 struck India. US tech and financial companies such as Google, Microsoft, MasterCard and others have donated money, medicine and medical devices to India to combat the virus.A lot of the credit for this must go to the Indian-American community, whose response has been extraordinary. Apart from raising money, Indian-Americans also put pressure on the political establishment right from the Oval Office down to statehouses to urge them to send aid to India.As a result of these efforts, the Joe Biden administration backed New Delhi’s call for temporarily waiving the intellectual property rights of Covid vaccines, which, partially, opens the door to allow India to produce them locally.The Indian-American community’s response has been two-layered: One within the community and the other focused on mainstream America.At the grassroots level, various community organisations representing the large Telugu, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Bengali and Malayali communities primarily raised funds for the various regions to which they belong. At the national level, organisations such as the American India Foundation, Association of Physicians of Indian Origin, Indiaspora and Sewa International have led the mobilisation efforts.Those speaking on behalf of India have included Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella, both of whom announced multi-million-dollar packages on behalf of their respective organisations. Indian-American lawmakers such as Ro Khanna and Raja Krishnamoorthi called for help not just on humanitarian grounds, but also to ensure US national security. Indian-American public health experts such as Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, chipped in with explaining the dangers of the new variants, what India needed, and what the US could do.In my five decades in the US, I have never seen the community step up in such large numbers. In the past, they have indeed helped in the aftermath of natural disasters in India. They have also helped out when India’s national interests were at stake, lobbying to mobilise support for the country. This included efforts following the US sanctions against India after the 1998 nuclear tests, and prior to the signing of the historic US-India Civil Nuclear Deal in 2008.“In the past, during natural disasters, such as the Gujarat earthquake and the tsunami, the community’s response had been immediate…On this occasion, the response has been immediate, overwhelming and sustained,” says Venky Raghavendra, senior vice-president at Safe Water Network, a non-profit that works toward improving the quality of water in local communities in India and Ghana, among other countries.There are two reasons why the Covid-19 relief efforts have been more successful and are being sustained now. Unlike relief efforts in the past, this time around, India was dealing with a pandemic of which the US is intimately aware. It did not require any hard-selling. The second major difference is the growing size and prominence of the Indian-American community.In 2001, when the Gujarat earthquake struck, the Indian-American population stood at 1.7 million and there were very few Indian-Americans in leadership positions. This is no longer the case. Members of the Indian-American population, almost four million now, are leaders in business, politics, academia and health care, among other fields.With its leadership in mobilising America’s efforts to help combat the pandemic in India, the Indian-American community has demonstrated what it can accomplish when it comes together for a common purpose. It has also demonstrated that although the community has made great progress, this is just a fraction of what it can achieve. There are many stories waiting for the Indian American community to script, as it continues to help India in its hour of dire need. Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed here are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-indian-americans-shaped-the-us-response-to-india-s-second-wave-101622642469366.html
02-06-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Are the cracks beginning to show?||Why is Narendra Modi one of the most unusual politicians in the history of independent India ? Well, it is because he has done what once seemed impossible: He has made Hindus vote on the basis of identity.It is easy enough to get a minority --- especially a disadvantaged minority --- to vote on the basis of identity. But how do you take a dominant majority which has enjoyed most of the fruits of our post-Independence success and make it feel that it needs to vote on the basis of religion over everything else, including performance?How do you make the people who dominate the country feel like the victims of some inequitable system?LK Advani tried hard to achieve some of this in the 1980s and 1990s but met with limited success. Mr Modi, on the other hand, has been so successful that he has swept two Lok Sabha elections. That is his greatest achievement and the secret of his popularity.People don’t vote for Mr Modi because of what he does. They vote because of what his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is: The party of the newly triumphal Hindu.Admittedly, this approach has its limitations. People may thrill to Mr Modi’s oratory and treat him like some sort of sage in parts of the Hindi belt. But the South seems less enthusiastic. The recent elections in Kerala and Tamil Nadu showed that voters were less awestruck by the fabled prime ministership. In Bengal, this approach was solidly rejected.These are disappointments for Mr Modi but he knows that if he can continue to sweep the Hindi belt, his grip on power is secure.But can he?Well, as of now, he can. But we have to ask ourselves: Will a time come when identity politics can stop eclipsing performance? Will there be a stage when people say “yes, yes, he is a great Hindu Hriday Samrat but how does that help me? My life has actually got worse during his reign.”It is the biggest question in today’s politics and, frankly, we have no answers. But we do have some clues. One of them is the recent State of Nation poll conducted for ABP News by C-Voter.The poll confirms my view that Hindutva-affirming politics remains Mr Modi’s core strength. Asked what the greatest achievement of Mr Modi’s second term had been, nearly half of all poll respondents (47.4%) said it was the revocation of Article 370. A quarter (23.7%) picked the Supreme Court decision on the Ram Temple.Even the decision to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) was hailed. A majority (53.3%) thought it was the right thing to do. Mr. Modi’s proud claim that India could now hold its head high around the world was upheld. A substantial majority (62.3%) said that relations with other countries have improved during Mr Modi’s term.So far so good. But there is more.And that’s not so good at all.Let’s consider how people responded to the government’s handling of the farmers’ agitation.Despite the government’s campaign against the agitating farmers (‘Khalistanis, not-real-farmers-at-all, politically-motivated, Covid-spreaders’) the country does not wholeheartedly back the Prime Minister on this issue. More people (41.9%) said that the government should have accepted the farmers’ demands than backed the government’s position (32.8%).From then on, it gets worse. Asked if the Chinese encroachment in Ladakh was a failure of the central government, 44.8% said it was (37.3% said it was not).On economic issues, the responses were devastating. Asked who has benefitted most from the Modi government, a staggering 64.4% (nearly two thirds) said ‘big corporate houses’. Only 7.4% opted for ‘salaried class’ and just 12% said ‘farmers and labourers’.Nearly half (47 per cent) also held the Modi government responsible for the rise in fuel prices.That brings us to the three most common criticisms of Mr Modi in the newspaper comment columns. The government has always said that these are chattering class concerns and that the rest of the country does not feel the same way.Well, think again.The first criticism is that the Prime Minister should not have gone around campaigning during the pandemic. This criticism seems to have been upheld by many respondents. A substantial majority (60.8%) said the government should have postponed the elections and a majority (59.7%) also said Mr Modi should not have campaigned at all.The second criticism is that super-spreader events like the Kumbh Mela should not have been allowed. Oddly enough, though the respondents were broadly supportive on Hindutva issues, they agreed with the commentariat's view that allowing the mela to go ahead was a mistake. A majority (55.3%) said that the Kumbh should have been scaled down to a merely symbolic event. Only 19.9% supported the decision to hold the full mela.The third criticism concerns Mr Modi‘s handling of the pandemic. Even here, the majority of respondents did not seem particularly supportive of the Prime Minister. Asked what the biggest failure of the government was, 41% said it was its handling of Covid. (Another 23% said it was the farmers’ agitation).Asked whether the government’s help reached people during the lockdown, 52.3% said it did not.On the other hand, contrary to the views of the commentariat, responses about the handling of the vaccination programme were evenly divided. Asked if the government had handled the vaccine programme appropriately, 44.9% said yes while 43.9% said no. That’s short of approval but it is not an overwhelming rebuke either.All this should give the Prime Minister and his supporters reason to pause and ponder. Yes, the support is still relatively solid on the so-called Hindutva/nationalist issues like CAA, Kashmir and the Ram Temple.But it is no longer unquestioning. Even people who hailed the Ram Temple judgment thought the Kumbh should have been scaled down. The government’s constant maligning of the agitating farmers has not worked. There are doubts about its pandemic management as well.And most devastating of all, it is seen as a government that benefits big business not the average Indian.So far, the government has not changed its approach to any major issue. It probably knows that it has messed up its handling of the pandemic. But it also knows that it cannot retrospectively fix oxygen shortages or make the vaccines that it neglected to order suddenly materialise out of thin air. That process takes time.So it has kept its head down during the second wave and focused on preparing for a third wave. By the end of the year, it believes, there will be enough vaccines, enough hospital beds and enough oxygen to ward off any third wave.It knows that voters only remember how a story ends, not how it begins and reckons that, with three years to go for the next election, it has time to get its Covid management right.This may well be a shrewd strategy for handling Covid. But these results suggest that the pandemic is only the most obvious reason for public dissatisfaction.The other reasons are deeper. There is a sense in which voters feel hard done by on prices and do not regard themselves as the government’s top economic priority. They are unhappy with confrontations like the one with farmers and do not buy the government’s claim that it has handled the China border situation well.More significantly, they are even beginning to question the Prime Minister’s decisions by declaring that he should not have campaigned in Bengal and other states.Finally, even voters who celebrate Hindu triumphalism are beginning to ask questions about performance. The blind support that Mr Modi has taken for granted has begun to fray.Obviously, there is time to recover. And there is no clear Opposition alternative. But Mr Modi faces two real problems.First, he is fast running out of issues with which to appease the Hindutva faithful. He can impose a uniform civil code but after that, his options are limited. It is not clear whether a getting-tough-with-Pakistan strategy will work a second time.Second, because the basic criticisms are related to his style, he has to make fundamental changes in approach. He can no longer get into confrontations with such groups as farmers and count on the country’s support when he portrays them as anti-nationals. And he can no longer refuse to sack his non-performing ministers. Finally, performance is beginning to count at least as much as identity.Will Mr Modi see the point? Or is he surrounded by people who do not have the guts to tell him where he is going wrong? Does he mislead himself by watching too much of openly supportive TV news channels that speak about what a wonderful job the government is doing?I guess we will find out. But there is no doubt that we are at an inflection point.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-are-the-cracks-beginning-to-show-101622634918011.html
02-06-2021||Today's||Conduct the decadal Census of India, 2021||“Per capita GDP growth slows to ‘x’%”; “Risks of surge persist in ‘y’% of the population in 18-44 segment”; “Rural electrification in Uttar Pradesh still eludes ‘z’ million village dwellers”.You read headlines such as these in your newspaper every day. Have you ever paused to wonder how the writers know the exact values of “x”, “y” or “z”, for nobody conducted a headcount of people to arrive at the numbers cited? These numbers are estimates arrived at by projecting information from a relatively small, primary data-gathering exercise correlated to the population of a region, a state or the country. And what data set was used to project from the small, or sample, data to the population? The decadal Census of India.By the middle of the 19th century, the East India Company had taken near-absolute control of India. In 1858, the Government of India Act 1858 was passed in the British parliament, the company was liquidated, and its authorities were transferred to the British Crown. But to administer the dominion, the British government needed detailed, reliable data on the people and where they lived. After all, how could the sovereign be sure that the extortionate taxes Her Majesty was imposing on her dominion of India, had been collected from every unfortunate resident of the land?Also Read | Assessing the quality of Indian democracyThe colonisers knew what to do. They had been doing it at home since 1801. The exercise was called census, from the Latin censere, to assess. The newly established office of the registrar general and census commissioner launched and completed the first Census of India in 1881.While the original objective of the Census was unapologetically extortionate, once the data became available, it found traction among a diverse range of user groups. Education departments used the data to plan for primary education. Public works departments used it to plan road networks. Planners used it to locate electric power plants and trunk lines on the grid. Railway systems used it to plan routes. As the data began to impact infrastructure, it facilitated large-scale population movements. The rapid growth of port cities, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras, was made possible because major railway systems linked them with the proximate and distant hinterland.Many legacies of the colonial raj continued after 1947. The Census of India, fortunately, is one.Population censuses, typically with a semi-decadal (five-year) or decadal frequency are recognised as indispensable to national resource planning. The United States conducts a decade-end census, the latest round of which was completed, in spite of Covid-19, in 2020. China too completed its decadal census last year. After decadal census rounds from 1871 to 1961, Canada switched to a semi-decadal cycle.India’s last Census exercise began in 2010 and concluded in 2011. The primary exercise, a household survey, is an enumeration of all residential premises. The census count uses this household survey as the framework for population enumeration in the following year. The household exercise appears to have been stillborn in 2020. We are midway into 2021, and there is no sign of the Census.Why should we care about the Census in 2021?One, we now know that the quantity of Covid-19 vaccines ordered by the government did not take into account the scale of the population. Not only do we know how many people live in India, we know their distribution by age, gender, place of domicile, family structure and education level. With the granular detail available in the 2011 Census, projected to 2021, these numbers were on tap.Two, the political balance in the Lok Sabha is about to transform when the next delimitation exercise concludes in 2026. If the population is the basis for representation, states with the poorest record of population management, largely in the Hindi belt, will increase their relative presence massively. South and West India will be disadvantaged. We need a wider palette of demographic variables to inform the exercise.Three, finance commissions provide guidance on the distribution of tax revenues between the Union and the states. The Goods and Services Tax makes deciding the basis of distribution more controversial. Population plays a key role in routing revenue and like in delimitation, disadvantages success and rewards failure.Four, sectarian politics continues its ascendance in India. Many arguments made by majoritarian politicians are about what they allege to be a shrinking majority and explosive growth of minorities. The Census is the objective, all-India process for determining the situation on the ground. Not only does this give us population data, we can also use various statistical measures such as birth and death rates, fertility rates, gross and net birth rates, infant mortality and child mortality rates to determine what it will be over the decade ahead, thus bringing facts to a polarised discourse.Five, there is talk of large-scale investments in infrastructure to restart the economic cycle. Where will these investments be directed? This includes questions such as: Is the bullet train from Ahmedabad to Mumbai a good idea? What railway routes need to be strengthened? Where should road, riverine, maritime and air transport infrastructure be directed? How will farmers make adequate returns on their produce? What is the best welfare model and how should it be targeted? The Census helps answer these questions by giving planners a sense of who benefits, how much, and at what cost.Six, given the centrality of television in the public sphere and its impact on politics, do the Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) ratings accurately represent the viewing patterns of genres, channel or shows? Do rural viewers really outnumber urban viewers in 2021? BARC gathers data based on a continuously monitored viewing panel, then projected to the population based on the Census. If population data is inaccurate, so will the ratings be.The decadal census was meant to take place in 2021. If we fail to do it now, irrespective of the pandemic, we will be getting into the rest of the decade flying blind.Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurement The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/hold-the-decadal-census-of-india-2021-101622631785057.html
