03-06-2021||Today's||Developing the sister islands of Indian Ocean||In March 2021, for the first time, Japan’s government approved a grant aid of approximately ₹265 crore toward developmental projects in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Although this is the first overseas development assistance (ODA) initiative toward the islands, the hesitation was more in Delhi than in Tokyo.Both India and Japan, as well as Delhi’s other key maritime partners such as the United States, Australia and France acknowledge and recognise the strategic location of the Andaman and Nicobar. These islands not only provide Delhi with a key maritime space but also carry significant potential in shaping the strategic and military dynamics of the Indian Ocean region.Despite its significant military and strategic possibilities, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands will have to be first developed sustainably in order for Delhi to maximise its potential — given its economic, ecological, and environmental constraints as well as the laws to protect the indigenous tribes on the islands. A sustainable island development framework is not only important for the Andamans but will also be applicable and of interest to other island nations across the Indian Ocean.In continuing its Indo-Pacific collaborations, India and France have the opportunity to create an island development framework for the region.Also Read | Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsSimilar to the Andaman and Nicobar group of islands, France’s La Reunion in the Southwest Indian Ocean lies near strategic waters and away from its capital. The Andaman and Reunion islands are part of series of island territories under key maritime players in the Indian Ocean. Australia and the US too have similar island territories in the Indian Ocean with Cocos Keeling and Diego Garcia, although the latter’s sovereignty is disputed by Mauritius, which has garnered support through a United Nations (UN) resolution.However, among the four island territories, Reunion is perhaps the most developed with a framework that supports both the island’s economic needs as well as France’s military priorities in the Indian Ocean. With a population of almost a million on the island, Reunion is an excellent case study to develop strategic islands in a sustainable manner.The similarities between Reunion and Andamans are manifold, from strategic location and military bases to strict conservation and environmental laws as well as governing bodies, climate and marine ecosystems. Yet, the difference in the level of development and connectivity between Reunion and Andamans stand in stark contrast.As India continues to recognise the strategic potential of the Andamans and seeks methods and ways to developing these islands, there is scope for collaboration with France, in creating a sustainable framework not only applicable to these two islands but also across the island nations in the region.While the concept of sister cities is quite common, this could be extended to a framework of “sister islands” addressing specific concerns and challenges for islands. Similar to sister cities, a sister island concept would allow India and France to co-develop a sustainable framework for island development. The ecosystems, environment, constraints, challenges and laws surrounding cities, towns and islands are distinctly different. If India is to invest in capacity building initiatives and maritime projects in the Indian Ocean, there is a need to research and create an island model for development. Such an approach also creates a new avenue for Indian-led initiatives in the Indo-Pacific.Also Read | The frayed federal compactThe primary issues facing island nations in the Indian Ocean are sustainable development, illegal fishing, disaster management, the climate crisis, renewable energy and other aspects of the blue economy. Add to it issues of waste management, which impacts both tourism as well as ecosystems specific to islands, and it is clear that there aren’t enough dedicated initiatives in developing models specific to small islands, let alone under a regional framework.As India and its partners compete for access and influence across the Indo-Pacific toward achieving common interests, there is a need to engage with and address regional concerns and challenges of strategically located island nations. India and France should lead an effort, utilising their island territories of Andaman and Reunion in developing a concept of sister islands aimed at creating a foundation for a sustainable model for island development across the Indian Ocean.India could also borrow lessons from France’s island experiences in both the Indian Ocean as well as in the Pacific. To that end, France, in late May 2021, took over as the Chair of the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC). IOC is the only island driven organisation in the Indian Ocean bringing together the African islands of Comoros, Madagascar, Seychelles and Mauritius, also known as the “Vanilla islands”. France, too, is a member of this group through Reunion. United by language (French speaking nations) and an island identity, IOC plays an important role in voicing the concerns and challenges of the islands of the western Indian Ocean. India in 2020, formally joined the group as an Observer. This perhaps provides an opportunity for Delhi and Paris to lead an island-focused development model — a gap in the Indian Ocean.As Delhi looks to maintaining and strengthening its advantages in the Indian Ocean, it should look to leveraging its island territories and non-traditional security issues in offering solutions and addressing regional concerns and challenges. The Andaman and Reunion provide an excellent starting point to do so.Darshana M Baruah is an associate fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC, where she leads the Indian Ocean initiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/developing-the-sister-islands-of-indian-ocean-101622720051095.html
03-06-2021||Today's||Grant autonomy to ONGC; don’t go down the privatisation path||The recent tragedy in Mumbai Offshore was the worst in the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC)’s recent history. It does not matter whether the dead were formally on the upstream giant’s employee rolls or not. There is clear damage in terms of image. Unsurprisingly, knives are out, with many experts and stakeholders calling for a partial or full privatisation of ONGC, citing, among other reasons, its poor performance on delivering new oil and gas discoveries since the 1990s.Those who seek privatisation ask why we even need a State-owned oil and gas exploration and production company in this age of open economy, and cite the Unites States (US) as an example, which has no public sector oil company. But we are not the US. The US is a superpower, home to oil and hydrocarbons technology and services giants, and almost independent in terms of its energy requirement. China, a bigger but still an emerging economy, like ours, controls all its big oil companies for energy security. Russia, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Mexico do the same. Despite the West’s push for net-zero emissions by 2050, and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi government’s spectacular performance in terms of delivering on renewable energy targets, oil and gas will remain central to the economy for at least another two decades. We have to, therefore, push ONGC to keep playing a key role in energy security.ONGC is still very much like an old-fashioned mining company, with bonhomie among its 30,000-plus employees, most of them engineers and technicians, unlike its downstream sibling, Indian Oil, which is closer-to-the-end users and, therefore, market savvy. It is due to this unique culture that the question of leadership — who is the chairman and managing director (CMD) — can make or break ONGC’s fortunes.Also Read | Govt may give CPSEs more autonomyONGC acquired a greater public profile in the early 2000s, thanks to its then CMD Subir Raha, a leader with vision and courage. The then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee once intervened when a powerful minister opposed ONGC’s efforts to venture overseas and acquire a large equity stake in the lucrative Greater Nile oilfields in Sudan, which later boosted India’s clout in Africa. Under Raha, ONGC attracted talent and loads of capital into the company. But the CMD was not adept at keeping the upper echelons of government bureaucracy on his side. ONGC soon began to lose the newly acquired drive, direction and ambition. Raha’s successors tried hard, but the gravitational downward slide proved to be unstoppable. Some pundits in the early 2010s prescribed bringing in foreign collaborators in all key offshore assets, including Mumbai High. The then PM Manmohan Singh, who had served on ONGC’s board in his earlier days, rejected the idea. But these episodes adversely impacted the company, and demoralised the staff. Oil and gas exploration and production is a tough business. One needs nerves of steel to drill and produce hydrocarbons in the dense jungles of Assam or in deep waters of the Bay of Bengal or in the ghostly emptiness of Siberia, where ONGC Videsh operates. A motivated company performs better in such challenging situations.This is not the time to privatise ONGC or put it to sleep, slice by slice, asset by asset. India is the most vulnerable large economy in the world in terms of energy security. We import 86% of its total requirement of oil, and over 54% of its gas needs. Even in renewables, nearly 90% of all solar power equipment is imported.This is the time to grant full and genuine autonomy to all strategically important State enterprises. Giants such as ONGC should be allowed to hire the best management and technical talent, including for the position of CMD, at market rates. ONGC has the potential to be among the great oil and gas companies in the world, and a guarantor of India’s energy security. Helping strategically important companies like ONGC realise their full potential will be the nation’s best tribute to the brave men who sacrificed their lives serving the Mumbai Offshore.Narendra Taneja is a New Delhi-based energy expert The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/grant-autonomy-to-ongc-don-t-go-down-the-privatisation-path-101622719211769.html
03-06-2021||Today's||The frayed federal compact||The last time the scenic Lakshadweep islands made the national headlines, 24x7 private news television didn’t even exist. In 1987, the then Prime Minister (PM) Rajiv Gandhi’s New Year visit to the islands created a flutter over whether public money was being spent on a private family holiday.This time, Lakshadweep is a major national story for even more far-reaching reasons — a spate of unilateral regulations by the Centre’s administrator has triggered fears of a “saffron agenda” among the local population. That the administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, is a former Gujarat minister and a close confidant of PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah has added a political twist. Since the strategically located islands have an overwhelming Muslim majority, anxieties over an attempted cultural “colonisation” are being voiced.Whether it is new land and crime laws, lifting restrictions on alcohol consumption or restricting the sale of beef, there is a creeping Hindutva-versus-Islamism conflict that threatens the idyllic serenity of a land with a negligible crime rate and a population of just around 65,000. Why would anyone want to alienate and unsettle a tranquil petite edge of the country unless there is an obsessively centralising mindset that seeks to impose its political and ideological writ on every part of a diverse land?Also Read | Lakshadweep cannot be Maldives. Respect its uniquenessThis isn’t, then, just a battle between Delhi and distant Kavaratti. At the heart of the controversy lies a deeper crisis between a dominant “Big Boss” at the Centre and restive state leaderships across the country. Then, whether it is opposition state finance ministers objecting to resource distribution under the Goods and Services Tax, contentious farm laws being pushed through Parliament without wider consultation, an unseemly public spat over oxygen supplies, or the blame game on the vaccine policy, there is a marked strain in relations between the Modi government and state governments. Such is the trust deficit and suspicion of central agencies that more than half-a-dozen states have already withdrawn the “general consent” for Central Bureau of Investigations operations within their territory.The most fraught example of the underlying tension spilling over into a potential constitutional crisis has been witnessed in West Bengal. Ever since Mamata Banerjee’s sweeping victory in the West Bengal assembly polls, the battlelines have been drawn between a defiant and ascendant state leadership and a wounded and embittered Centre. It is almost as if the ruling arrangement in Delhi has not forgiven Banerjee for giving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a bloody nose in the polls, with the toxic edge of the campaign extending to daily administrative duties.The latest example is the unprecedented face-off over the sudden home ministry order transferring the Bengal chief secretary to the Union, an order which an enraged chief minister (CM) rejected. A pandemic and cyclone calamity is no time for a political blame game, but the threat of an FIR against Bengal’s top bureaucrat appears a prima facie vindictive act by the Centre, stemming from allegations that CM and her officials kept the PM waiting for 15 minutes during his visit to the state to review the cyclone damage.Even if CM is guilty of non-cooperation, the primary responsibility for a genuine outreach lies with the PM’s office. Banerjee deserves the respect due to a thrice-elected CM, and cannot be equated with a governor guilty of playing the worst form of partisan politics or the opposition leader whose only role appears to be to harangue CM. If Banerjee wanted a one-on-one meeting with the PM, it could have been arranged. Unfortunately, sharply competing egos and political one-upmanship leave little space for negotiation and consensus-building based on good faith.Ironically, Modi himself has been a three-time CM. One of his perennial grouses as Gujarat CM was that the Congress-led Centre was constantly targeting him. In fact, in 2013, he pointedly skipped a National Integration Council meeting called by the then PM Manmohan Singh to discuss the communal violence bill. Modi was by then the BJP’s PM candidate and his supporters alleged that the meeting was called only to sabotage his political rise. On another occasion, Modi openly tangled with the Planning Commission, accusing it of disregarding the federal structure in its dealings with states.Now, of course, Modi has dispensed with even the Planning Commission, one of the few institutions designed to resolve Centre-state conflicts in a rules-based manner. Instead, he directly summons and communicates with district magistrates on Covid-19 management via video conference while meetings with CMs, if the normally soft-spoken Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren is to be believed, are only meant for the PM ’s “mann ki baat” and not to listen to woes of CMs.Is this really the cooperative federalism mantra the PM espouses or a reflection of a presidential-style, domineering national leadership that can’t tolerate dissent or any alternative power structure?Post-script: Lakshadweep’s administrator says that he wants to lift the alcohol restrictions to unleash the tourism potential of the islands. Good idea, with one caveat. Would the former Gujarat minister propose a similar rule for his home state?Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-frayed-federal-compact-101622717411228.html
