16-06-2021||Today's||Crafting an Indian exceptionalism in technology policy||In March this year, just over two months into his term, United States (US) president Joe Biden made two appointments that confirm the change in America’s position on Silicon Valley’s technology behemoths. He announced that he intended to appoint legal scholar Lina Khan and Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia University, to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the National Economic Council respectively.That same month, Wu was appointed adviser to the White House on competition policy. Three months later, on June 15, Biden fulfilled his promise by appointing the 32-year-old Khan as chair of FTC.Both these former academics have been vocal critics of the unbridled power of technology giants such as Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Apple. Wu’s 2010 book, The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires, chronicled how the internet centralised power in the hands of corporates and Khan’s 2017 paper Amazon’s Antitrust Paradox triggered a rethink on conventional notions of what antitrust is.Also Read | Joe Biden names big tech critic Lina Khan as FTC chairThe appointments of Khan and Wu carry forward a trend that began at the end of the Donald Trump administration’s tenure, namely a shift in American technology policy from a light-touch approach to a more interventionist one. The former sought to support innovation by following a non-interventionist line that relied on free-market principles to maintain equilibrium in the technology sector. The latter is more disruptive and seeks to use antitrust to the check the concentration in digital markets as a means to encourage competition and foster innovation.A recent suit filed by FTC and some US states against Facebook for the alleged abuse of its dominant position to thwart competition highlights America’s new interventionist streak. If FTC successfully proves that Facebook violated antitrust laws, the judge presiding over the case can break up the internet behemoth.America’s decision to follow a more interventionist line against big tech might seem like it is following Europe’s lead on technology governance. However, beneath the veneer of similarity lie crucial differences.The European Union (EU)’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), among the world’s toughest data protection laws, is an ex-ante regulation. One study found that the strict standards of the GDPR prompts firms to “abandon products or product ideas” that are inherently irreconcilable with the regulation. It further found that it discourages entrepreneurial activity. Moreover, the single greatest gripe of start-up founders with the GDPR is the enhanced power of data protection regulatory authority to intervene in their affairs and levy fines. This is in contrast to the US which doesn’t have a similar law.For its part, India might read the US’s new approach as a move to break big tech. The reality, however, is that America’s actions are guided by its own strategic self-interest, for two reasons.First, it is nudging these Silicon Valley giants to invest their ever-burgeoning cash reserves to enhance the country’s technology supremacy. Evidence of this lies in the Biden administration’s recent proposal to tax only the top 100 global companies with revenues of at least $20 billion rather than explicitly opposing any taxation on big tech companies. Also Read | US rolls out major bills to clip Big Tech’s wingsSecond, it would much rather initiate the break up of big tech on its own soil, on terms tacitly pre-negotiated with Silicon Valley, to promote its hard power in digital markets. After all, why should it hand over a key lever of global influence to another government?In such a scenario, India should craft its own exceptionalism that serves its economic interests. The centrepiece of the Indian approach should be to foster a competitive environment that enhances consumers’ rights, rather than rely on regulatory solutions to do the same.Less regulation for greater consumer welfare seems counterintuitive. However, recent trends indicate that the entry of new players that offer users services which are more rights-centric than dominant platforms, tends to place an effective check on any potential abuse of market position. For instance, according to a report by Fast Company, Facebook’s announcement regarding a change in WhatsApp’s privacy policy in 2021 prompted millions to use Signal, a privacy-centric messaging app that does not store user data on any servers. The shift was particularly significant in India where Signal had only 1.6 million installs prior to the announcement. That figure ballooned to 23 million soon after Facebook notified users about the potential change on WhatsApp.The upcoming digital rights frameworks in India appear heavy-handed, and may not foster a competition-led rights protection regime. They are also riddled with overlapping regulatory ambits and costly compliance standards. India should therefore, consider calibrating these to lay the foundation of a unique digital governance framework. Its building blocks could include incentives to encourage the growth of homegrown, consumer-friendly challengers to big tech, as well as revisiting proposals envisaged to create room for regulation-led innovation. If it takes these initial steps successfully, India will do what others have tried to but failed – craft a governance framework in which competition and users’ rights walk hand-in-hand, rather than on opposing sides.Vivan Sharan is a Partner and Aayush Soni is the Communications Lead at Koan Advisory Group, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/crafting-an-indian-exceptionalism-in-technology-policy-101623850873047.html
16-06-2021||Today's||Institutional reform is key to post-Covid-19 national recovery||The second wave of Covid-19 has exposed serious institutional infirmities in India — in access to health care, in the management of elections, and in the balance between the judiciary and the executive, where the latter’s failure has led the former to step in.India has one of the lowest ratios of population to health care infrastructure. It also invests inadequately in scientific research. Investments in genome sequencing, vaccine research, and preventive health care at the rural district level are key to staying ahead of the curve. Moving from a 1.2% to 3% budgetary allocation for health will be insufficient, especially in this fiscal year, as a large proportion of the funds will — hopefully and presumably — be utilised for the vaccination drive. This will leave marginal funds for capital expenditure towards expansion in medicine and vaccine research and operational costs for the enhanced infrastructure. The intensity of the pandemic has also meant that treatment for other serious illnesses is being postponed indefinitely. There is no substitute for greater investment.This inadequate infrastructure is coupled with a high degree of resistance to the idea of seeking treatment due to lack of awareness, financial implications and fear, especially in rural areas. It is, therefore, essential to develop decentralised schemes that create awareness and access at the district, village and ward levels — local civil society organisations, self-help groups and community initiatives are critical to the sound implementation of health policy on the ground. Centralised remote control policies seldom work in a country as diverse as India. All case studies of relatively successful Covid-19 management have a common thread of decentralisation. In preparing a larger national apparatus, the district level needs special focus.Public health is also an area that requires cooperative federalism — the Centre has a role and responsibility during a pandemic, and states have an obvious role given that health is a state subject. But citizens are losing their patience with blame games between the states and Centre, and, perhaps, the time has come to fix responsibility.One institutional reform is creating a nodal organisation which, only on the subject matter of health, plays a role bridging Centre-state rifts. To be sure, behind the media headlines, state and Union health officials have been in touch. But to prevent the pulls and pressures of politics, this organisation should be manned only by health care professionals and administrators. This does not negate democratic decision-making. Political inputs are crucial, but it does insulate decision-making from political tussles. All its decisions must be transparent, which will increase pressure on both the Centre and states to comply. The design of this institution will take greater deliberation — and will require a careful balancing act so that neither executive privilege nor constitutional principles are undermined.The Election Commission, endowed with “superintendence over conduct of elections” was subject to public criticism for its negligent role in the recent round of state elections, which spread the infection. An independent collegium or committee for appointments of commissioners will greatly help restore public confidence in this constitutional authority that is perceived to be amenable to political interference.We must remember that this pandemic is neither over, nor will it be the last one. It is the constitutional duty of Parliament to usher in a new era of legal reforms which creates a framework of dealing with pandemics, as well as the root causes of it, rather than leaving the country to rely on antiquated legislation.It is only through reforms and investment in India’s health infrastructure, internalising the principle of decentralisation, enabling greater Centre-state cooperation on public health disasters with a defined role for a national body of experts, ensuring that constitutional bodies are insulated from executive pressure, and creating a new legal framework that India will be able to respond effectively to one of the greatest crises our nation has ever faced.Avishkar Singhvi is an advocate in the Supreme Court of India The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/institutional-reform-is-key-to-post-covid-19-national-recovery-101623846670736.html
16-06-2021||Today's||The promise and perils of Artificial Intelligence partnerships||“A period that had been broadly described as engagement has come to an end,” Kurt Campbell, the Indo-Pacific Coordinator at the United States (US) National Security Council, told a virtual audience in May on the subject of US-China relations. “The dominant paradigm is going to be competition.”On several occasions, Campbell has highlighted that one of the major arenas of this competition will concern technology. This is increasingly reflected in US national security structures. Today, there is both a senior director and coordinator for technology and national security at the White House; the National Economic Council has briefed the Cabinet on supply chain resilience; and the focus of Department of Defense policy reviews have been on emerging military technologies.The subject of intensifying technology competition is also making its way into new US avenues for cooperation with partners, including with India. This could take the form of bilateral cooperation, coordination at multilateral institutions, or through loose coalitions such as Quad. At the virtual summit in March of Quad, the four leaders (of India, Japan, Australia and the US) agreed, among other things, to establish a working group on critical and emerging technologies, which has already convened.Artificial Intelligence (AI) has emerged as one technology of particular importance because of its role as an accelerator, its versatility, and its wide applicability. Driven by recent breakthroughs in machine learning made possible by plentiful data, cheap computing power, and accessible algorithms, AI is a good bellwether for the possibilities and challenges of international cooperation on emerging technologies. It is also incredibly lucrative, and may generate hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue over the coming decade.There are some obvious areas of commonality and cooperation between India, the US, and other partners when it comes to AI. For example, there is a similar concern about developing AI in a broadly democratic setting. AI can be used in many positive ways — to foster innovation, increase efficiency, improve development, and enhance consumer experience. For India, AI deployment will be tied closely to inclusive growth and its development trajectory, with potentially positive implications for agriculture, health, and education, among other sectors.But AI can also be used for a host of undesirable purposes — generating misinformation, criminal activity, and encroaching upon personal privacy. Quad countries and others — including in Europe and North America — generally seek partners amenable to broadly upholding a responsible, human-centric approach to AI.Additionally, despite the nominally more nationalistic rhetoric (e.g. “Build Back Better”, “Atmanirbhar Bharat”), there is a fundamental recognition that international partnerships are valuable and necessary. AI development and deployment is inherently international in character.Basic and applied research involves collaborations across universities, research centres, and countries. Data can be gathered more easily, a lot of development relies on open-source information, and funding for AI start-ups is a global enterprise. There is also a recognition that countries can learn from each other’s experiences and mistakes, and that the successful deployment of AI would serve as a model for others. India, for example, is one of the few developing countries large enough to marshal considerable resources for AI, in a manner that could be replicated, including in South Asia or Africa.India and its partners also confront some similar challenges when it comes to the development and deployment of AI. One imperative involves nurturing, attracting, and retaining the requisite talent. According to Macro Polo’s Global AI Talent Tracker, 12% of elite AI researchers in the world received their undergraduate degrees from India, the most after the United States (35%) and more than China (10%). Yet, very little top-tier AI research is being conducted in India (over 90% is taking place in the United States, China, European Union, Canada, and the UK).Beyond talent, additional challenges lie in securing the necessary infrastructure; ensuring resilient supply chains, especially for components such as microprocessors; alignment on standards, governance, and procurement; and ensuring critical minerals and other raw materials required for the development of the necessary physical infrastructure.Given that various governments have only recently established AI policies, and in some cases are still formulating them, international cooperation is still very much a work in progress. More detailed efforts will be outlined in the coming months and years.Nevertheless, the contours of cooperation are already discernible. Some areas are proving relatively easy, such as coordination in the setting of standards at the multilateral level, which is already underway. Other areas will prove more challenging. Supply chain security and building resilience should theoretically be easier, given the political-level agreement on this issue. However, ensuring bureaucratic and regulatory harmonisation remains complicated. India and its partners may have the most trouble aligning their approaches to data – a particularly touchy subject at the moment – and, in the long-run, incentivising joint research and development.The future looks bright for organic cooperation on AI — the demand is there and India and its partners all hold relative strengths. But critical decisions made in the near future could have transformative effects for international cooperation on AI, which, in turn, could decisively shape the contours of what some have described as the Fourth Industrial Revolution.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-promise-and-perils-of-ai-partnerships-101623837070390.html
