17-06-2021||Today's||Measuring indoor air pollution: Why low-cost technology is critical||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic seems to be weakening. However, an old challenge remains: The heavy load of particulate matter (PM) pollution in cities. This is not good news in the Covid-19 era. Several peer-reviewed scientific studies have established that the coronavirus may stay suspended in the atmosphere as PM provides a convenient surface for the pathogen to latch on.Therefore, managing India’s PM 2.5 crisis (indoors and outdoors) is an essential step. Unfortunately, indoor pollution and its impact of people’s health is often overlooked. But research shows that indoor air pollution, which is generated from kitchen fumes and household dust, can be two to three times deadlier than outdoor pollution.The challenge is establishing a dense and country-wide network of indoor air pollution monitors, which meets the requirements of low cost, accuracy, and consistency of data. The continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) monitors used by the pollution control boards are not suitable for mass deployment as the Beta Attenuation Monitoring protocol they operate on is very expensive. Each unit costs more than ₹15 lakh, and with annual maintenance cost, it touches almost ₹20 lakh.There are low-cost sensors (LCSs), which can be installed in households; however, their accuracy varies with the sensor’s sensitivity and the location of installation. For instance, if a PM 2.5 monitor does not have access to unrestricted airflow in the kitchen, it will not give accurate reading.Also Read | With rampant and illegal sand mining, the Yamuna can’t be rejuvenatedHowever, Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur has collaborated with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to develop a new technology that provides acceptable levels of accuracy at a much lower cost.The project, operationalised in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, has installed 40 LCSs at 15 locations (alongside regulatory-grade monitors). Four indigenous start-ups have developed the sensors: Respirer Living Sciences, Airveda Technologies, Personal Air Quality Systems (PAQS), and Oizom Instruments, and they cost around ₹60,000 per unit. The project recorded PM 2.5 data from November 2020 to May 31, 2021.The research team will deploy machine learning to measure and minimise the mismatch in the sensors’ readings with the co-located CAAQMS monitors. An already encouraging early finding is that their monthly uptime was 90%-plus. This is good or even better than CAAQMS units, and these monitors need minimal manual operation. Once the calibration model is complete, LCSs will be re-installed at the exact locations to improve their precision, aided by machine learning.These low-cost sensors can be quickly expand due to a unique feature called “transfer learning”, under which a calibration model perfected in one region can be encoded into a new set of sensors across the country without repeating the process.The project thus brings together all the desirable attributes needed to inform the suitable policy measures. In the next phase, the research team will upgrade the sensors in other ways that will help the medical community.SN Tripathi is steering committee member, National Clean Air Programme, MoEFCC, and Vipul Arora is an assistant professor, IIT KanpurThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/measuring-indoor-air-pollution-why-low-cost-technology-is-critical-101623911895014.html
17-06-2021||Today's||With rampant and illegal sand mining, the Yamuna can’t be rejuvenated||The draft Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2041, released last week for public review, underlines the need to save, restore, and rejuvenate the Capital’s green and blue assets.Terming the Yamuna and the city’s water bodies “heritage assets”, the draft plan aims to improve the river’s water quality, preserve and improve its fragile ecosystem, and ensure strict manual and technological surveillance to check illegal construction and dumping of sewage in the river and its flood-plains.The Yamuna crosses several states — Uttarakhand, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Delhi, before re-entering UP again. While MPD’s plans are bold, the health of the Yamuna, the second largest tributary of the river Ganga, will not improve unless all states take measures to stop industrial pollution, regulate mechanised sand and gravel mining, and agree to revise the interstate water-sharing agreement in 2024. Currently, riparian states extract much more from the river than they do for its restoration and rejuvenation.Illegal sand mining is the elephant in the room. While little of it happens in the 52km National Capital Territory stretch, it is widespread in other riparian states. Yet, there is very little public discussion about the issue since many, mistakenly, view sand as a dispensable resource, and officialdom sees it as a “minor mineral” that generates revenue.Also Read | Delhi bans certain soaps, detergents to curb pollution in YamunaBut the impact of such unbridled sand mining on the riverine ecology and lives and livelihoods is immense. It destroys the ecosystem of rivers, changes river courses and affects natural flows and riverbeds, destroys natural habitats of organisms, affects fish breeding and migration, impacts the water table, and increases saline water in the rivers.Most large rivers worldwide have lost anywhere between half to 95% of their natural sand and gravel delivery to the ocean, says UNEP’S Sand and Sustainability report (2019). In Sand Stories: Surprising Truths about the Global Sand Crisis and the Quest for Sustainable Solutions, Kiran Pereira writes that the world will not achieve global Sustainable Development Goals if it fails to take into account how sand underpins lives and livelihoods, and impacts each of the goals.Sand is a critical ingredient in our lives. It is the primary raw material to build our cities. It is used in fibre optic cables, glue, cosmetics, glass, silicon chips, and computers – along with virtually every other piece of electronic equipment in one’s home. With such high demand, the world is facing a shortage of sand, which is created by slow geological processes. Desert sand, available in plenty, is not suited for construction use because it is wind-smoothed, and, therefore, non-adherent.At present, no one even knows exactly how much sand is being pulled out of the earth, where, and under what conditions.Other than destroying rivers, sand mining has a substantial human cost too. A 2020 report by the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), a network working on rivers, says that between January 2019 and November 2020, 193 people have died due to illegal river sand mining incidents/accidents in India. In 2018, only 28 deaths were reported. Most deaths related to illegal sand mining are of children who fall into illicit mining sand pits, or due to rash driving by trucks transporting the mined sand. Officials who crack down on the illegal enterprise, and activists and journalists who highlight it, often face the wrath of the sand mining mafia, which usually enjoys support from a section of politicians, police officials, and bureaucrats.If the Yamuna in Delhi has to have any future, upstream riverine states must regulate sand mining and stop industrial pollution. Experts such as Manoj Misra, a former Indian Forest Service official who is now with Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, demand that there must be a total ban on mechanised sand mining. This is because machines scoop out more from a riverbed than allowed in mining leases. The building industry has to put its house in order by reusing construction material so that the pressure on resources such as sand is reduced, and must promise to use only legally extracted sand. In fact, India today needs an overarching river law that looks at riverine ecosystems, sand mining and overall basin management.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/with-rampant-and-illegal-sand-mining-the-yamuna-can-t-be-rejuvenated-101623911355788.html
17-06-2021||Today's||UNSG Antonio Guterres is set for a second term. This time, it will be different||As per convention in the 21st century, Antonio Guterres is cruising unchallenged to a second five-year term as Secretary General (SG) of the United Nations (UN). He is being reappointed by acclamation, well ahead of the end of his current term on December 31, 2021.The contrast with his first campaign is stark. In 2016, Guterres overturned conventional thinking. Some argued for an East European as no SG had come from the region. Others talked about a woman SG to overcome a historic lacuna. Seven of the 13 candidates were women. Formidable leaders such as Helen Clark, Irina Bukova and Kristalina Georgieva were in the fray.Yet, the former Portuguese Prime Minister leveraged the procedures adopted in 2015 to open new forms of engagement to his advantage. A combination of a politician’s innate people skills; an insider’s grasp of UN issues on account of a decade’s experience as High Commissioner for Refugees; and proficiency in several UN languages — English, French and Spanish — helped the charismatic Guterres impress the overwhelming majority of UN delegates. This made it easier for him to navigate the byzantine dynamics of the Security Council (SC).Also Read | Lot of work remains to be done to tackle land degradation: Modi at UN meetHowever, fate had a surprise in store. A month after Guterres’s victory, Donald Trump was voted in as the 45th President of the United States (US). It meant that much of Guterres’s first term was focused on shielding the UN from the recession of multilateralism that followed. Guterres’s re-appointment follows President Joe Biden’s return to the US’s traditional approach to multilateralism.There is a perception that Guterres’s first term lacked the fizz his election generated in 2016. Perhaps it was on account of the SG being in firefighting mode to keep US financial cuts at bay and ensuring damage limitation. He did try to put into practice his vision of a “surge in diplomacy for peace”. The environment of great power competition ensured that such efforts could not take off. Then the Covid-19 pandemic led to UN institutions being pushed to the margins and operating in a business processes continuity mode.This is not to say that there were no diplomatic successes. These include facilitation of the reconciliation process in Colombia; managing the transition in Bolivia; the setting up of a Government of National Unity in Libya; and considerable humanitarian efforts in Yemen and Syria. However, these are not the first rank geo-political issues that a UNSG is judged by. Even what was described as “low hanging fruit” of the Cyprus dispute remains on the unfinished agenda.Guterres has had a stab at managerial reforms. He shuffled the jurisdictions of UN departments; revamped the role of UN country offices; enhanced oversight of UN Representatives by the deputy SG; and significantly redressed the gender imbalance among senior UN staff. However, such navel-gazing evokes limited interest outside the UN system. These measures primarily appeal to major financial contributors as efforts at enhancing efficiency and lowering expenditure. The UN Charter terms the SG as “Chief Administrative Officer”. That role has grown. More is expected of any incumbent now.The present global environment that the 72-year-old Guterres finds himself in may be akin to what he had hoped for when he threw his hat into the ring in 2016. What then is in store in Guterres 2.0?Unencumbered by the need to go through any more electoral processes, Guterres’s enthusiasm for making a difference is bound to resurface. The realisation about the limitations of UN’s role in major geopolitical issues has meant that Guterres veered in another direction. He turned to the climate crisis as a signature issue, as had his predecessor Ban ki-Moon later in his tenure. An advocacy role is what Guterres thrives on. He is passionate, articulate and genuinely desirous of promoting change for the better. Climate advocacy brings into play his considerable diplomatic skills.Guterres is to report on the challenges the UN faces. This will unveil his thinking about the next phase. Peace and security matters in Africa will remain staples and new roles in hot spots such as Afghanistan and Yemen may emerge.However, it is the big challenges of environment, health, digital technologies, expanding space of civil society and other stakeholders and a host of trans-boundary issues “focusing on people” that will come to the forefront, amidst the perennials. In short, the agenda of Guterres’s second term is likely to be different from that of the first and his profile will grow.Many have faulted Guterres for supporting China’s Belt and Road Initiative and turning a blind eye to Chinese human rights violations. Notwithstanding the US-led western push, a radical change in approach is not likely. In pursuit of his coveted path towards a climate agreement and a forward-looking agenda, Guterres will tread carefully, ensuring that equities with China and other important actors, including Russia and India, are maintained. Without all on board, the climate accord that Guterres desires will not be possible. Further, collaboration on key trans-boundary challenges will be a casualty. This also means that the practice of permanent members retaining key portfolios in the UN bureaucracy will not be fundamentally altered.What does this continuity and change mean for India? The new agenda will open opportunities in tune with India’s mounting concerns on several of these subjects. Without the reticence that binds us to limit engagement on specific political issues, the broader agenda dovetails into our desire to engage and gain from such involvement.The growth of global issues on UN platforms provides more opportunities to play a larger active role. Antonio Guterres often mentions that he considers Indian cuisine as among his favourites. Let’s hope that what he serves as food for thought is also palatable to us in India.Syed Akbaruddin is a retired diplomat who served as India’s permanent representative at the UN. He is now the dean of the Kautilya School of Public PolicyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/unsg-antonio-guterres-is-set-for-a-second-term-this-time-it-will-be-different-101623910874967.html
17-06-2021||Today's||Rahul Gandhi must choose his political path||Critiquing Rahul Gandhi is fashionable. While his opponents in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have caricatured him as an incompetent leader, many of his Congress colleagues, in private, hold him chiefly responsible for the deepening crisis in the grand old party. So let’s cut to the chase and ask the central question. Would a Congress-minus-Rahul Gandhi be in a better position to challenge a Narendra Modi-led BJP?As the two massive Congress debacles in the 2014 and 2019 general elections have shown, the Gandhi scion is a tailormade foil for the Prime Minister (PM) in any presidential-style leadership contest. His identity as a fifth generation dynast allows Modi to play the naamdar-kaamdar narrative to the hilt, with a populist war cry — would you choose a privileged, untested inheritor of a family legacy or opt for the pulled-up-by-his-bootstraps chaiwallah who has become PM after years of toil? For a new young India, built on a meritocratic ideal, the well-marketed Modi journey is far too compelling compared to the pampered existence of a Lutyens’ elite offspring.Moreover, the sustained toxic campaign of the BJP in damning Rahul Gandhi as “Pappu” — through a mix of lies, half-truths, self-goals and yes, a complicit media — has influenced voters. Even when Gandhi raises valid questions, as he has done through the pandemic, his image as an unsuitable leader has stuck.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre over ‘prolonged’ gap between Covishield dosesAnd yet, it isn’t as if the Congress was doing spectacularly well before Rahul Gandhi entered politics 17 years ago. The party’s decline across the Hindi heartland is a late 1980s phenomenon, with its hollow commitment to secularism and social justice ruthlessly exposed by the rising tide of the Mandir and Mandal forces. Besides, an imperious high-command culture that evolved in the Indira Gandhi years meant that more than a generation of regional leaders within the party was systematically marginalised. The unswerving belief that only the Nehru-Gandhi family could hold the party together weakened its leadership structure and atrophied the party organisation to a point of no return.Rahul Gandhi cannot be blamed for the organisational decay and his grandmother’s mistakes. What he can be held responsible for is his failure to recognise that the present-day Congress is neither equipped to be an ideological adversary to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) nor is it a well-oiled election machine that can compete with a Modi-led BJP, an election juggernaut with energised cadres, catchy slogans and thirst for new voters.The Congress, instead, is a loose big tent party of power-hungry leaders, harbouring perennial ambitions for VIP privilege. It cannot be transformed overnight into a revolutionary party of hardened secular activists or a party of like-minded Left-leaning fellow-travellers. Power may be poison for Gandhi, it is tonic for his party. Those who have left the Congress in recent times, including Gandhi’s close aides, mirror the inescapable reality of a political culture that is uneasy with the prospect of being out of power for an extended period. If Gandhi is not seen as a vote-catcher or an astute election strategist, then a large section of the Congress will never fully embrace him.Which is why if Rahul Gandhi wants to genuinely democratise or reform the Congress, then he must realise that he can’t do it while remaining in the Congress. Sharply competitive and resource-intensive contemporary power politics has little space for a moral revolution, intellectual engagement or soul-stirring wannabe Mahatmas. For example, you cannot claim to be a secular fundamentalist and then compromise for power by allying with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra or with an Islamic cleric in Bengal. The Congress is weighed down by too much baggage to be seen as a resolute defender of progressive values.If Rahul Gandhi truly wants to wage an ideological war against the BJP-RSS, then he is leading the wrong army. If he is committed to value-based politics, he must show the courage of his convictions, risk breaking the present Indira-Rajiv-Sonia Congress, and forge his own path with comrades who share his ideals. If he has a vision for a better politics, then he needs to agitate for it, not just by attacking the government on Twitter or interviewing foreign-based academics online but by hitting the streets and connecting with people, replacing the culture of entitlement with that of egalitarianism. Rahul Gandhi must form his own party and lead it according to his principles. That is the only way he can hope to emerge from the dynastic trap and be seen as a formidable challenger to the existing ruling dispensation.Maybe he can draw a leaf from his dadi’s playbook. Indira Gandhi too was lampooned as a “gungi gudiya”. Yet, by 1969, she determinedly broke with the old guard in the Congress and forged her identity with stunning success. She, though, clearly saw herself as an artful 24x7 practitioner of realpolitik. Rahul Gandhi too needs to finally decide — is he willing to play a lead role in the ruthless pursuit of power or else opt out and operate in a more academic universe of ideas? Staying in a status quoist comfort zone is no longer an option for him or the Congress.Post-script: Recently, when Mukul Roy rejoined the Trinamool Congress, Mamata Banerjee was asked about taking back someone who betrayed her. She was emphatic that in politics, there are no “closed doors”. It’s a lesson in no-holds-barred powerplay that the Congress once excelled in and perhaps needs to re-learn. Else, it will be reduced to a feeble rump.Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/rahul-gandhi-must-choose-his-political-path-101623910395401.html
17-06-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Considering a mix and match approach to Covid vaccines||For most vaccine-preventable diseases, two or more shots are needed for both long-lasting and strong immune protection. For example, children require up to five doses spaced over months for diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP). Even in adults, a tetanus booster is recommended every ten years.All currently available vaccines for Covid-19, with the exception of the single-dose adenovirus vector vaccine from Johnson & Johnson, were approved clinically with two doses — a prime to build and train the immune response, and a boost to jolt it into producing even more antibodies and immune cells.In clinical trials for approval of two-dose vaccines, adults were administered a prime and boost regimen with exactly the same vaccine type and dose. The only approved vaccine with a slightly different prime and boost is Sputnik V, which uses different cold-causing adenoviruses in two doses to deliver instructions for the body to make and mount an immune response.Also Read | Shortage of raw material holding up Covovax manufacturingA record-number of different types of vaccines have been approved for Covid-19 already; more are on the way. Some such as Covaxin are inactivated virus vaccines created with traditional approaches. Others such as adenoviruses vector vaccines, RNA vaccines, and protein subunit vaccines use molecular approaches.Right now, those who have received one vaccine should adhere to health guidelines for their second doses. In the United States (US), for example, the only approved two-dose vaccines are mRNA vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna. Those who have received one dose of Pfizer are not typically given a second Moderna dose and vice versa. But the US has not faced widespread shortages of either vaccine. Additionally, the US Food and Drug Administration has unfailingly stuck with the approved clinical trial data for vaccine doses and intervals. Still since the two mRNA vaccines are quite similar, considering administering one instead of the other for a second dose if there is a dwindling supply, is not a stretch.In other parts of the world, mixing different vaccine types for the first and second dose (known as heterologous prime-boost) has been initiated. In particular, the AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccine, which is a viral vector vaccine, is has been associated with a rare blood clot risk in younger populations according to some studies. In addition, there is a higher risk of a rare bleeding disorder. In many European countries, high-risk individuals who received the prime of the AstraZeneca vaccine have been advised to get a boost of Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine weeks later.Currently, most of the data that is available is with respect to mixing the AstraZeneca vaccine and Pfizer/ vaccine. A study in the Lancet published on May 29 found that those who received either vaccine first and a second dose of the other, had higher rates of common side effects such as fever and pain compared to those who received the same vaccine. Reassuringly, there were no major safety concerns.Research from Spain presented on May 18 that has yet to be published found that those who received the Pfizer boost after a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine had higher levels of antibodies than those who received only the AstraZeneca prime.More recently, Barros-Martins and researchers showed in a preprint posted on June 3 that receiving a boost of the Pfizer vaccine after a prime of the AstraZeneca vaccine raises higher levels of neutralising antibodies against tested variants of concern than receiving two doses of AstraZeneca. In addition, those who had two doses of different vaccines had boosted immune cells responses.None of these three studies demonstrates real-world effectiveness or how long protective immunity lasts, but taken together, they show that getting a boost of Pfizer after being primed by a dose of AstraZeneca is safe and results in a robustimmune response. In this case, heterologous prime-boost is the right approach.Countries should test different heterologous prime-boost vaccine combinations to maximise the protection of their populations.First, if one vaccine becomes scarce, those who are partially vaccinated may need to be offered a different boost vaccine for full protection. Second, the safety and adverse effects of mix-and-match vaccines needs to be determined before rolling out broadly. Third, the immune responses and effectiveness of mixing vaccines together needs to be gauged.For other diseases, an unexpected finding is that heterologous prime-boost often results in stronger immune responses and more effective vaccines. This strategy has been beneficial for rabies and for Ebola. And so far, it seems to be the case for some Covid-19 vaccine combinations.To my knowledge, there are currently no published studies on heterologous prime-boost with Covishield and Covaxin, but this research is vitally necessary since these are the two most widely available vaccines in India. Safety or supply issues with either could slow down India’s vaccination drive. We urgently need systematic studies that look at safety, immune responses, and real-world effectiveness of a mix-and-match approach with vaccines.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From FictionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/considering-a-mix-and-match-approach-to-covid-19-vaccines-101623902594284.html
