18-06-2021||Today's||Indian cities need river-sensitive master plans||Last week, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) released the draft Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041 for public review. The plan generated a lot of excitement in the media and among the citizens due to two reasons. First, MPD is the Capital’s master plan, and it can work as a template for other cities; and second, it highlights the importance and significance of urban planning in shaping the development trajectory of cities.A master plan sets out the long-term vision for a city, along with objectives and strategies required to achieve it. Due to the ever-increasing threat of the climate crisis and sustainability concerns, modern master plans have started making the environment an integral part of the planning process. The draft MPD is also an example of this positive trend.Rivers are one of the critical natural assets of cities. It is essential to understand this and integrate rivers in long-term development plans to ensure the harmonious co-existence of the two.A few years ago, the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) realised that river-sensitive urban planning is important for revitalising and restoring rivers, and also as a means to complement its ongoing infrastructure-oriented activities. It embarked on a joint project with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) to create an enabling environment for enhancing the river-city interaction more sustainably.Early into the project, a couple of interesting facets became evident.Also Read | Paradiplomacy: The possibilities, and challenges, of Assam-Bangladesh relationsFirst, managing an “urban stretch” of a river has its unique challenges. This is because while a river needs to be managed as an entire system, a city can only manage what falls within its administrative boundaries. What does it do when the water entering the city is polluted? Or what does it do when there is inadequate flow in the river because of allocation decisions taken by an upstream authority?To address such challenges, NMCG-NIUA developed a strategic framework (Urban River Management Plan) that requires cities to take actions on a common 10-point agenda. Since all cities are required to follow the same agenda, beneficial actions taken by upstream cities will have a cascading effect on the downstream cities. This way, cities act as interconnected units to achieve a shared vision for the river.The URMP framework was launched last year, and Kanpur will be the first city to adopt this framework for making a city-specific URMP.Second, while a master plan is an ideal platform for integrating the river with the city’s development landscape, there are hardly any available master plans that have taken a sustainable approach. To address this, NMCG-NIUA developed a document (Making River-Sensitive Master Plans).Also Read | Can India leverage data to conquer cancer?The document, which aims to help city planners integrate river thinking into master plans, provides seven avenues for planners to tackle different river-related issues in a city. Some of these are conventional challenges related to land use assignment, development control regulations, and norms and standards for activities allowed in flood-plains.Others have a strategic focus such as localising river-related directions stipulated in national/state policies; and developing sector-specific strategies for specific aspects of river management, such as enhancing the river’s economic potential.In the last few years, there has been a marked increase in environmental awareness, with more and more citizens adopting environmentally friendly practices. Given that a master plan is a people’s document, the stage is now set for cities to prepare their river-sensitive master plans.Rajiv Ranjan Mishra is director-general, National Mission for Clean Ganga. Victor R Shinde is senior water management specialist, National Institute of Urban AffairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indian-cities-need-river-sensitive-master-plans-101624021105180.html
18-06-2021||Today's||Paradiplomacy: The possibilities, and challenges, of Assam-Bangladesh relations||Foreign policy is conventionally seem as the exclusive domain of the sovereign State, while paradiplomacy is the common term used when referring to regional or sub-national governments conducting international engagements.In the Indian context, such opportunities for state governments were limited since Article 246 of the Constitution addresses only the Union government when it comes to foreign policy.Yet, the nature of coalition governments consisting of regional parties at the Centre, the impulse for economic reform and trade interests of various states along with the growing need to involve key regional stakeholders in foreign policy discourse have seen substantial international engagements by states in recent times.Some examples of paradiplomacy gaining include the role of Tamil Nadu’s political parties in India-Sri Lanka relations, Gujarat’s economic outreach to the international community, the increasing push from the Northeastern states to be involved in India’s Act East policy and the establishment of a states division in the ministry of external affairs (MEA).Also Read | On China, Modi returns to the Indira eraThe Covid-19 pandemic across the globe in the past one year has accelerated the need for paradiplomacy. States such as Assam procured PPE kits from China and started the process of dialogue with the Royal Bhutanese Government for an oxygen plant via MEA during the crisis. Here, a case for paradiplomacy involving Assam and Bangladesh is of significance.This is the golden jubilee year of India-Bangladesh relations. Bangladesh is India’s most important trade partner in the South Asian region. Its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita and ranking in Sustainable Development Goals have surpassed those of India’s. Under Prime Minister (PM) Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh has initiated action against Indian insurgents taking shelter in the country and settled the boundary issue via the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) signed in 2015.In the post-2001 period, when Assam had began the process of recovery after the tenure of the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which had witnessed gruesome violence during the insurgency and counterinsurgency operations, it was the surrender of a major faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) led by Arabinda Rajkhowa, after Sheikh Hasina became PM, which brought relative peace back to the state.Then chief minister (CM) Tarun Gogoi and Dr Manmohan Singh went to Bangladesh when India had signed the protocol for the LBA in 2011. There was severe opposition to the agreement in Assam but both the governments of Dr Singh and PM Narendra Modi involved the Assam government in a proactive way while finalising the deal.Recently, PM Sheikh Hasina wrote a letter after the swearing-in ceremony of the new Assam CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma, stating the commitment of her government to improving connectivity in the Northeastern region with an invitation to Assam to benefit from Bangladesh’s socio-economic development and growth trajectory.Chief Minister Sarma, in his response, emphasised the need to explore areas of cooperation with Bangladesh. Over the past few years, Assam has enhanced economic cooperation with Bangladesh at the insistence of the Union government. Bangladesh Assistant High Commission has been opened in Guwahati and Bangladesh has opened Chattogram and Mangla port for shipment of goods from the Northeast.Also Read | When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politicsIn the future, with coordination between MEA and the Assam government, the state can push for greater connectivity with Bangladesh via rail, road and air along with a focus on organic food, silk, crude oil, fisheries, tourism and work-permits for skilled youth.A collaborative outreach to Bangladesh by all Northeastern states collectively could produce better outcomes in terms of transportation of goods via inland river waterways.Along with Bhutan and Myanmar, Bangladesh forms a key triangle around Assam. The Union government must encourage and help Assam take advantage of its geographical proximity with these three countries. Assam needs to prepare a vision document for its paradiplomacy endeavours, engage regularly with the Bangladeshi authorities, other Northeastern states and MEA to transform itself from a landlocked region to a land-linked one with the help of Bangladesh.However, the obstacle here is Assam’s struggle to protect its identity and culture against so-called “illegal immigrants from Bangladesh”. The politics of identity and exclusion has animated the social paradigms of the state from before Independence, and more so after the Assam Movement (1979-1985). The Bangladesh government was highly uncomfortable with both the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The new Assam government has reiterated its commitment to the re-verification of NRC in the state. The politics in Assam cannot be divorced from the key question of the rights of the indigenous people. Cooperation with Bangladesh is dependent on how this can be addressed. A flexible political solution, based on the principles of social justice and human rights, should be the way forward.Subhrangshu Pratim Sarmah is an M.Phil research scholar at the Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, Jawaharlal Nehru University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/paradiplomacy-the-possibilities-and-challenges-of-assam-bangladesh-relations-101624019605196.html
18-06-2021||Today's||The G7 deal on minimum corporate tax is flawed||The global minimum corporate tax rate has been variously described as ‘historic’, ‘landmark,’ and a ‘gamechanger’. According to the United States (US) and G7 countries, subjecting companies to a minimum tax rate on a country-by-country basis will end the “race to the bottom” on corporate tax rates, and disincentivise base erosion and profit-shifting (BEPS) practices. But, the proposal is not as straightforward as it seems.G7 finance ministers do not set the global tax agenda. Much of the recent international tax reform has taken place under the aegis of the G20 nations, which include, among others, the US, India and Brazil. The 15-point action plan on BEPS was spearheaded by G20. All major post-BEPS changes have been carried out under the BEPS Inclusive Framework, which includes 139 member-countries and 14 observer nations, including over 70% of non-Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and non-G20 countries and jurisdictions. So, to call the G7 agreement on minimum corporate tax a “global agreement’’ is both misleading and naïve.The BEPS Inclusive Framework has been discussing global minimum tax since 2018 as part of a package deal. The package, bifurcated into Pillar 1 and Pillar 2, aimed at tackling the direct tax challenges posed by the digital economy.Also Read | Where the G7 summit failedThe Pillar 1 approach – on allocation of taxing rights – faced serious objections from developing countries which felt that their taxing rights were not being adequately protected. The Pillar 2 approach – on a global minimum corporate tax rate – will have no teeth of its own in the absence of fair and equitable reallocation of taxing rights in the context of the digital economy.Countries, including India, lose billions of dollars every year to corporate tax avoidance. Large multinational corporations use sophisticated and creative means to avoid paying corporate tax in countries in which they undertake business activities. This is mainly done by way of transfer-pricing, debt-financing and restructuring of intellectual property rights. Profits are taken out of high tax jurisdictions and shifted to those with low or no corporate income tax rate. When seen in this context, the global minimum corporate tax will discourage businesses from adopting preferential tax rate structures and arrangements to some extent.The question that we must ask ourselves is who will the proposal benefit the most? A short answer to that would be the US itself. This is because any “top-up” tax collected from businesses which have paid less than the minimum tax rate in overseas jurisdictions will be go back to the US since most large businesses who benefit from preferential tax rate structures are tax residents in the US. The proposal has also come at a time when the US is seeking to increase its domestic tax rate from 21% to 28% (i.e., higher than the rate in many countries) to finance its $2.3 trillion public works plan. No wonder then that the US has suddenly become the champion of global tax reform.Also Read | When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politicsWe need to see how countries respond to the G7 proposal. The rate of tax – mooted to be 15% – is likely to be a bone of contention. Earlier, the US had proposed a 21% rate, while the OECD insisted upon a rate of 12.5%, apparently to keep Ireland’s interests in mind. The rate of at least 15% may set the ball rolling, but it is too low and will kickstart a new “race to the minimum.”Countries like India have a corporate tax rate of more than 15%, but companies pay much less in tax, thanks to a range of tax incentives and schemes. The idea of a global minimum tax proposal will die sooner than we had thought if countries continue to provide tax incentives.In the past decade, the average corporate tax rate has gone down significantly. One explanation for this is that countries have now come to realise that optimal corporate tax rates attract foreign investment, which will contribute to a nation’s overall growth. The global minimum tax proposal unfairly targets smaller countries that have no option other than low corporate tax rates to attract investments and retain their competitiveness.India must strongly oppose a US- and G7-centric proposal disguised as international tax reform. This is particularly important when India is reeling under economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The tax system should be certain and fair, but also flexible. And that includes making changes in tax rates from time to time to suit the immediate and long-term needs and interests of our exchequer.Ashish Goel and Shilpa Goel are Supreme Court lawyers The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-g7-deal-on-minimum-corporate-tax-is-flawed-101624018525191.html
18-06-2021||Today's||Can India leverage data to conquer cancer?||A recent announcement by the Joe Biden administration to boost science funding has been widely noticed, including in India. The National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest biomedical funder globally, is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the announcement with a planned budget of a whopping $51 billion that dwarfs the scale of any biomedical science-related funding elsewhere.The announcement, welcomed by the scientific community, includes the formation of a quasi-independent entity called the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Health (ARPA-H) with a planned $6.5 billion investment. The idea is to make innovation in treating deadly diseases such as cancer by funding out-of-the-box transformational ideas with little or no administrative processes and peer review.What consequences does it have for India, and can India compete?I am going to argue that India can, and will. While doing this, I acknowledge that much of India’s promise lies on paper, and we need to act fast to realise our true potential. Let us start with the basics.Comparing science funding between the United States (US) and India is a non-starter. India’s gross expenditure on research and development (R&D) is roughly ₹1.25 lakh crore or less than $20 billion, and accounts for 0.65% of its Gross Domestic Product. This covers all the fields and is less than 40% of the proposed budget of the US NIH that looks at health alone.Out of the total R&D expenditure in India, nearly 70% is in the private sector, and space and defence. To be more specific, the total budget of the government’s three flagship departments (science and technology, biotechnology, and scientific and industrial research) is around ₹14,700 crore or approximately $2 billion for 2021-22. Altogether, it is 25 times less than what NIH plans to spend in the coming year.Going by the numbers alone, it does not look good for India. However, numbers only tell part of the story, as I shall describe with one example, in developing innovative solutions to conquer cancer.Also Read | US Covid deaths at 600,000 equal to 2019 cancer toll in AmericaCancer is primarily a genetic disease, and the vast majority of the cases in India are preventable as these are linked to a single risk factor — tobacco. Therefore, grassroots awareness drives and educational programmes, along with aggressive regulation on selling and distributing tobacco products, will bring the cases down significantly. However, implementing any solution in a democratic, large, and heterogeneous county like India is complex. Even after rigorous implementation, thousands of cases will need better diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment.Let us suppose India can turn cancer from a medical problem to a data problem at the discovery stage. In that case, it can leverage the power of information and data science to conquer cancer. This is not to suggest lessening the efforts on the clinical management and treatment of the disease, but to leverage data by pushing a large chunk of India’s public exchequer’s funding towards detecting cancer early rather than treating patients with late-stage disease.How can India achieve this? We can do that by sequencing 15,000 to 20,000 tumour tissues representing the top five cancers in India. Large cancer genomics projects are designed to understand the genetic make-up of individual patient’s cancer tissues by cataloguing all genetic changes and, therefore, help us identify the disease early by using those as markers.Once the genome sequence information is available, it will push the challenge from the experimental clinical labs to data science labs. The petabytes of data generated from such large genome sequencing experiments, along with well-annotated clinical information and longitudinal follow-up data, will make India compete in the space of genomic data science more effectively. India’s information technology and data science strength will help crunch this data to identify markers for early diagnosis and treatment follow-up. This will aid precision medicine at district-level hospitals for the early detection of cancer.A couple of years ago, no one could think of using RT-PCR instruments in hospitals in small towns and at the district level. Covid-19 changed that. Similarly, suppose we can push the burden of early detection to district-level hospitals. The burden on specialised tertiary cancer hospitals can then be reduced and they can focus on cases requiring expert advice from clinical cancer specialists.Also Read | Google CEO Sundar Pichai announces ₹113 crore Covid grant for IndiaLarge genome-sequencing projects in developed economies, like the US, have been expensive. The largest share of the money in these projects is spent on expensive chemicals, instruments and salaries for expert scientific manpower. India needs to do what it did with mobile telephones by leapfrogging from 2G to 4G and bypassing, largely, the 3G network. Similarly, developing inexpensive sequencing instruments and producing reagents indigenously will push the pricing of whole-genome sequencing from nearly a lakh per sample pair to ₹5,000-10,000.Add this to India’s strength of a large number of well-characterised and annotated cancer tissue samples, and exceptional clinical and scientific professionals hungry to solve pressing issues. India can not only compete, but also surpass developing economies in detecting and curing diseases such as cancer. In the game of skills and scale, India will win, but we need to start today for that to happen.Binay Panda is a genome scientist and professor, Biotechnology and Systems Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-india-leverage-data-to-conquer-cancer-101624017865056.html
18-06-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Avoiding the Third Wave||On Friday, the Delhi High Court (HC) warned that we were speeding towards a third wave of Covid-19 because of the irresponsibility demonstrated by many of us after most lockdown restrictions were lifted.The HC was perturbed after seeing large crowds at Delhi markets, with no thought to social distancing and either a complete disregard for masking protocols (you are not supposed to wear the mask below your nose as so many of us do) or the gleeful abandonment of masks, altogether.No sensible person can disagree with the HC. And while it would be foolish to deny that government negligence and incompetence contributed to the second wave, if a third wave does arrive in the autumn/winter, as some experts are predicting, this will be largely our own fault.What people don’t seem to understand is that it is not just their own lives at risk. If somebody wanted to kill himself by not wearing a mask, you could have once argued that it was his business. Except that in a pandemic, it does not work that way. Everyone who is infected will spread the infection to other people. So, you can’t take an individualistic approach to any epidemic or pandemic. All our lives are at stake. And we are in this together.Nor should we take comfort in the fact that the second wave seems to be ending. (The positivity rate in Delhi is down to 0.20%). We made that mistake after the first wave, forgetting that all viruses mutate. When the Delta variant appeared, nobody was prepared for it. Even government health authorities took far too long to admit that a dangerous, more transmissible new variant was causing a second round of inflections.So there is no telling if a third variant will emerge and cut a swathe through our country just as the Delta variant has. Until at least 70% of us are vaccinated (and that is going to take a very, very long time) we cannot afford to let our guards down even slightly.On the plus side, there is good news on the vaccine front. More vaccines are on their way and the current drive has picked up. The increased supply may lead the government to shorten the gap between the two doses of Covishield. Research abroad suggests that the first jab provides only around 33% protection against serious illness caused by the Delta variant. And while everyone is broadly agreed that a long gap between the two doses gives you more protection (though it is not clear how much more), this is no good if you are already dead. Every one of us knows people who have got Covid in the gap between the two doses. And some people have had serious illness, which we were once told was impossible, in that gap period.Moreover, how do you define “serious illness”? We don’t know enough about the long-term effects of Covid and the research that is coming out now suggests that even a so-called mild case can cause lasting damage to your body, including your brain.Presumably, once it has enough vaccines, the government will abandon the long gap between the two doses, citing ‘new research’.The government also needs to do something about Covaxin, the so-called atmanirbhar vaccine. It seems clear to us in India that it works, but the rest of the world is not so sure. Very few countries accept that it is efficacious (compared to say, Pfizer or AstraZeneca).This will cause problems for Indians as we travel abroad. Many countries will insist on vaccine certificates. And they will not treat one issued on the basis of Covaxin shots as valid.The government keeps telling us that Covaxin will soon be accepted all the world. But it does not tell us when.Meanwhile, two other causes for concern. The first and most serious one is the tendency of people to physically assault doctors and medical staff. We read about these cases but the impact it has on medical students and doctors was driven home to me when Ritisha Sarkar, the daughter of a former colleague, wrote to me: “I am a medical student and am scared for my future as a doctor in this country. I am scared for my seniors who are interns and for each and every member of our medical community.”Ritisha asked if I would write about it, “for the sake of every doctor who has ever treated you or your family. Doctors are getting brutally beaten and even killed.”In my opinion, anyone who assaults a frontline medical worker is a true enemy of the community. We should take the strongest possible action against such people. Every attack on a doctor or a medical worker during a pandemic shames us as a nation.One other concern. The guidelines issued by such state governments as the one in Delhi make little sense to me. I could understand why a state government would want to open up markets; shop keepers are an important constituency.But why not open up parks? All research now says that as long as you take basic precautions, the chances of getting Covid in a park are negligible. So how does it make sense to allow you to take your child to Pizza Hut but not to a garden?Is it because trees and bushes can’t vote?Also, the restriction against serving liquor at restaurants is crazy. I can understand the objection to crowded bars. But how does a glass of beer with lunch increase your chances of getting Covid? If you are going to let people eat at restaurants anyway, then why stop them from drinking?I hope that next week’s guidelines will remove these restrictions.But governments move in mysterious ways. And as long as they don’t kill us, this time around, I guess we should just be grateful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-avoiding-the-third-wave-101624013174756.html
18-06-2021||Today's||When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politics||Former United States (US) president, Barack Obama, was often called the first Indian-American president, given the large number of Indian-Americans in his administration, 2009 to 2017. That mantle, of an Indian-American president is ready to be passed on, with some distinguishing embellishment.President Joe Biden’s administration has more Indian-Americans in the White House and in Senate-confirmed positions across federal agencies than any administration in the past — 70 appointed or nominated officials, according to Indiaspora, a leading advocacy group for the community. But, in addition, members of the community also now speak of access to the centre of US power and influence that they have never had under any other president, of either of the two major parties in US politics.Also Read | UNSG Antonio Guterres is set for a second term. This time, it will be different“The community’s access to the White House and the various parts of the administration is unprecedented,” said MR Rangaswami, founder of Indiaspora who participated alongside US Vice-President Kamala Harris in a recent event hosted by the State Department to raise aid for Covid-19 relief in India.Harris, an Indian-American, had made a personal pitch speaking of her relatives still in India. This would have been unimaginable a year ago with vice president Mike Pence, or five years ago with even vice president Biden.Today, it’s different. Shekar Narasimhan, a leading Democratic strategist and donor who has focused on a wider canvas of Asian-Americans, recounted a recent conversation with a reporter. The reporter had called Narasimhan for a story about the perception that the Biden administration was not responding to the devastating public health crisis visited upon India by the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic in the initial weeks. Images of crowded cremation grounds and patients dying in hospitals due to the lack of essential equipment such as oxygen cylinders, had been heartbreaking, and disturbing. And WhatsApp — where the diaspora connects with their childhood friends, mamas and chachas and chittis — brought the tragedy up close.“What are you talking about inaction?” Narasimhan remembers asking the reporter. “When is the last time a problem occurred in India; three days later, we alert them (the White House) about it; three days later, they have a National Security Council (meeting) exclusively on this; one day later, they are acting; and two days later, planes are flying. Have you seen that before? Really, I said yeah it would take one week, well, start to finish.”Relief was indeed on its way soon. An estimated $500 million worth of personal protective equipment, therapeutics, oxygen cylinders and converters have been sent by the US government ($100 million) and the private sector and individual contributors ($400 million).Conversations between the community — around four million, including non-resident Indians — and the Biden White House and federal agencies have been far more intense than ever before. Most of it takes place off camera, off-page one. The Indian government pays professional lobbyists millions of dollars for this kind of access and influence. There is a new organic connection, which is both a reflection and rise of the Indian-American community in the corridors of power in Washington DC.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/when-indian-americans-shape-washington-policy-and-politics-101624013544779.html
18-06-2021||Today's||On China, Modi returns to the Indira era||China is a greater power than India. New Delhi’s perennial concern is managing this fact. India has typically taken two routes to manage the power gap — the Jawaharlal Nehru approach and the Indira Gandhi approach.Beijing’s dominant perception of India is that, as the stronger party, China does not need to make any real concessions. Delhi feels that, as the weaker power, India cannot concede to China, since that would amount to surrender. After Galwan, India concluded that reducing the power gap with China is the only effective way to deal with its northern neighbour. This represents a return to Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri’s approach after the 1962 war.India has three choices in managing Chinese power — bandwagoning; negotiating; and balancing. Bandwagoning means accepting Beijing’s view of the border and its leadership in an Asian sphere of influence. Negotiating implies engaging in discussions to resolve conflict. Balancing entails reducing the power gap to a point of rough equality, either by one own means (internal balancing) or by forging an alliance (external balancing) or both.Also Read | Trump says India devastated by Covid-19, China must pay for its spreadBandwagoning with China is unacceptable to India. Over 70 years, India’s strategy has been to either negotiate or to balance. Though India’s China policy has always been a blend of these two, negotiation has dominated in two eras and balancing in another two eras.Under Nehru, India chose negotiation. It engaged in discussions over the border and Tibet. It attempted to foster a broader relationship, encompassing contacts and commerce. Nehru also wanted the two countries to cooperate in Asia and beyond for peace and stability. The interactions between Indian and Chinese society and cooperation in the international sphere were important in themselves but, in Nehru’s view, they would soften the border conflict and render the power imbalance irrelevant as well.After India lost the war in 1962, Shastri and then Indira Gandhi, turned to power balancing. Delhi refused to normalise relations with Beijing until the two sides reached a border settlement. The Indian military underwent a dramatic expansion. In 1967, at the Nathu La and Cho La battles with the Chinese forces, it gave a much better account of itself.India now drifted into an alliance-like relationship with the erstwhile Soviet Union. The nuclear test of 1974 bolstered India’s emerging military strength. Delhi also attempted to build a closed, self-reliant economy to promote socialism and guard against “neo-imperialist” exploitation. Self-reliance aimed to transform the country into a modern industrial power and influential player on the global stage.India’s China policy shifted back towards a Nehruvian stance under Rajiv Gandhi. His 1988 trip to Beijing signalled that Delhi would no longer hold normalisation hostage to a border settlement. Diplomatic normalisation and border negotiations would go hand-in-hand, with the hope that progress on one would positively impact the other.Another key change was the unshackling of the Indian economy. The pivotal 1991 reforms responded to the financial crisis of the time but had a larger strategic purpose too. China had surged past India economically, and liberalising the Indian economy was also a response to the gap with China.Rajiv Gandhi’s approach became the basis of India’s China policy. With some adjustments, it lasted until 2014, when Narendra Modi became prime minister.Modi’s approach to China is a throwback to Indira Gandhi’s. Rajiv Gandhi’s Nehruvianism came under pressure from at least two sources — little progress in the border negotiations; and rising Chinese border incursions from 2008. Between 2013 and 2017, the two militaries have squared off in Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014), Burtse (2015), Doklam (2017), and then Ladakh (2020).By the time Modi and Xi Jinping met in 2014, as Indian and Chinese troops glowered at each other in Chumar, the Rajiv Gandhi approach in China policy was fast eroding. The border or Line of Actual Control (LAC) was clearly nowhere close to being settled, and India faced the possibility of serious military clashes with China. Galwan climaxed thinking on a new approach.Delhi’s China policy now shifted to power balancing. Parallel to its stance from 1962 to 1988, India under Modi has insisted that diplomatic normalisation and a return to border talks are dependent on Chinese troop withdrawals.In terms of internal balancing, the key has been to emphasise self-reliance in civilian manufacturing but also in arms production. Modi has signalled a move towards self-reliance in the economy, reminiscent of the Indira era. Unlike the Indira period, though, India is still relatively open to trade and foreign investment (even if tariffs have been raised and investment curbs enacted in select areas). Its economic openness is evident even in arms production, where India has raised the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) limit in defence manufacturing projects to 74%.India’s China policy has also sought to quicken the pace of external balancing by partnering with Australia, France, Japan, the United Kingdom, and above all, the United States (US). This soft military-diplomatic coalition aimed against China is equivalent to India’s alignment with the Soviet Union during the Cold War. The four foundational defence agreements with the US, the 2 +2 ministerial dialogue, India’s deepening involvement in the Indo-Pacific, and its membership of Quad form the core of its anti-China coalition building. External balancing is also undergirded by a steady stream of arms imports.How successful atmanirbharta (self-reliance) will prove to be and how well Quad hangs together is uncertain. What is certain is that after Galwan 2020, India was forced into a policy of greater self-reliance and coalition-building against China to counter the growing power gap.The challenge is that self-reliance and internal balancing take time. Coalition-building and external balancing are quick fixes. But they are also more provocative to China, given its rivalry with India’s putative partners. The power balancing game, therefore, requires India to hold its nerve.Kanti Bajpai is the author of India Versus China: Why They Are Not Friends The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-china-modi-returns-to-the-indira-era-101624012584972.html
