19-06-2021||Today's||From 1991, the lessons for the India of 2021||The 30th anniversary of the 1991 reforms deserves commemoration. They dismantled a dysfunctional system of controls, which tied down the private sector and closed the economy to trade and investment.The reforms were opposed by both the Left and the Right. The Left feared they would hurt the poor and lead to unnecessary imports, perpetuating balance of payments (BoP) problems. The Right feared foreign investors would take over the economy, in a replay of the East India Company phenomenon.Both fears were unwarranted. The results took time because policy changes were gradual, delaying the benefits. However, by the first decade of the 21st century, India began to be seen as one of the fastest growing emerging markets. Far from poverty increasing, for the first time, there was a substantial reduction in it.This looks enviable at a time when India is reeling from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) having fallen by 7.3% in 2020-21, and an even sharper decline in per capita GDP because the population has continued to grow. Not surprisingly, unemployment and poverty have both increased.The best way to commemorate the 1991 reforms is to consider what we can learn from them in dealing with the current crisis. The 1991 strategy had two components — reducing the fiscal deficit and implementing structural reforms. Both are relevant today, but with differences.Reducing the fiscal deficit was essential in 1991 because the crisis was caused by excess domestic demand sucking in imports and widening the current account deficit (CAD). A loss of confidence triggered an outflow of funds and financing CAD forced a sharp drawdown in reserves. Reducing the fiscal deficit was an obvious way of containing demand.The crisis today is not caused by excess demand. It has been triggered by a collapse in production following the disruption caused by the pandemic, which, in turn, has caused a fall in demand. Those who lost incomes had to cut consumption. Even those who have not lost income, face uncertainity and have postponed expenditure. Investment, a key source of aggregate demand, has also slowed because of unutilised capacity and uncertainty about growth.Faced with a collapse in demand, it is appropriate to increase the fiscal deficit. The government rightly allowed the fiscal deficit to expand to 9.6% last year, though some of this was statistical, reflecting the inclusion of off-budget items. The question is whether the BE deficit of 6.8 % for 2021-22 is appropriate.Many have called for a stronger stimulus. Is this justified? The budget projection assumed GDP would grow by 11.3%. Those who want a stronger stimulus are not saying 11.3% is not good enough. They are saying that GDP growth will be much lower and, therefore, a stronger stimulus is needed. Most independent analysts say that growth will be much lower than 11.3%.If growth is going to be much lower than projected, there will be shortfalls in both tax and non-tax revenues. If we still try to stick to the 6.8% target, we will have to cut expenditure. This would be unduly contractionary. We should definitely maintain expenditure at the levels budgeted, and let the fiscal deficit rise if it has to. The is also a strong case for providing more funds for vaccination, which is key to reviving growth, and also to cover expanded demand for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which is proving to be a valuable safety net.The government would be well advised to undertake a mid-year review of budget prospects in September, and come up with a revised growth forecast and establish new fiscal targets. We need not fear a loss of international confidence as long as we undertake a credible path for deficit reduction over the next three years. Revising revenue targets to more realistic levels will also have the advantage of not pushing tax officers to achieve unrealistic targets, which only leads to unreasonable assessments.Another important lesson from 1991 is that we need to move away from a “long list of reforms” approach towards a more strategic approach, focussing on the most critical reforms needed immediately.The 1991 reforms succeeded because they were structured around a core package of mutually supportive reforms. The need for mutually supportive reforms was not adequately recognised at the time even by the private sector. Representaives of the private sector asked for elimination of government controls over investment, but did not recognise that this by itself would only mean that investors would have to queue up in the commerce ministry to get licences to import capital goods. Genuine liberalisation required parallel delicensing of capital goods imports, but that could only be done if we had some way of managing the BOP. The obvious solution was to shift to a market-determined exchange rate. All these steps were carefully coordinated and implemented over a very short period.What would a similar priority list look like today?I would put banking sector reforms right at the top. Our banking system is heavily dominated by public sector banks (PSBs) and genuine reform in this area is not in sight. Mergers may help reduce branches, and perhaps monetise excess real estate to boost capital, but it is not a systemic reform. Giving the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) the same regulatory control over PSBs that it has over private sector banks would qualify as a real reform. It is time to take the plunge on this. Vesting the government’s equity in PSBs into a holding corporation run by a board of independent professionals, which then appoints the top management, would also be a serious reform. It was recommended by the PJ Nayak committee in 2015. Implementing it would send a strong signal.The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) is a key reform, but its operation was temporarily put on hold because of the pandemic. While the process will hopefully resume, promoters may try to interrupt it through action taken in the courts. The government can play an important role in signalling to the courts that IBC is a flagship reform that should not be undermined.Another example of implementing mutually supportive reforms is the inter-relationship between moderating the fiscal deficit over the medium-term with the creation of an efficient financial sector. At present, the combined deficit of the Centre and the states exceeds the net savings of the household sector. The combined deficit is effectively financed by the net inflow of foreign capital. Preempting net savings to this extent leaves little scope for financing expansion in private investment, unless it is expected to happen through a further increase in net capital flows, which would only increase the system’s vulnerability.The crowding out of private investment may not be relevant today because investment sentiment is depressed but, in the long-run, making room for expanded private sentiment is essential. This calls for fiscal consolidation for next year onwards, which will require greater buoyancy in tax revenues.The need for buoyancy in tax revenues calls for a second look at the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. GST is a major reform and it was expected to generate greater tax buoyancy. It has not done so. Its rate structure and exclusions need to be reviewed. An important lesson from 1991 is that tax reforms are best evolved by an expert group outside government. Such a group should be set up and asked to review the experience so far, and make proposals for reform which could be discussed in the GST Council. This cannot be left to the revenue department.The 1991 reforms helped the economy stave off a crisis and then bloom. It is time to outline a credible new reform agenda that will not just bring GDP back to pre-crisis levels, but also ensure growth rates higher than it had when it entered the pandemic.Montek Singh Ahluwalia has served as deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission and finance secretary. He was among the architects of the 1991 reforms. He is currently distinguished fellow, Centre for Social and Economic Progress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1991-the-lessons-for-the-india-of-2021-101624118192034.html
19-06-2021||Today's||Kenneth Kaunda: A Gandhian in Africa||In the death of Kenneth Kaunda, we have lost an icon of Africa’s liberation struggles, the last of Africa’s first generation of post-liberation leaders, and one of India’s staunchest and most steadfast friends. KK, as he was known, bestrode the southern African political scene like a colossus. He took over as Zambia’s president in 1964 and handed over power after losing elections in 1991. His leadership of the campaign for Zambia’s independence from British colonial rule drew inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King. The campaign focused on civil disobedience, strikes, and boycotts. In a repetition of Gandhi’s famous act of defiance in South Africa against the “pass laws”, KK burnt his colonial identity card.I was assigned as deputy high commissioner to Zambia in the Indian mission in the early 1980s — and was acting head of mission for a substantial period. This was the first of a number of assignments I held in Africa. In hindsight, Zambia provided the best introduction for a young diplomat to modern African history, and a ringside seat to history in the making.Under KK and his commitment to the end of White minority rule in Africa, Lusaka had become the centre of the liberation movements. It was the headquarters of the South African liberation movement, the African National Congress in-exile, as also the South West African People’s Organisation before it shifted to Angola. As sometime chairman and always the most prominent of the leaders of the frontline states, which were contiguous to the last bastions of White minority rule, Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Namibia, and South Africa, KK kept up the drumbeat of diplomatic, political and material support for the liberation movements. And he was not deterred by the price that Zambia had to pay for this — militarily attacked by the forces of Rhodesia and South Africa, and economically hurt by denial of a transport route to the ports on which Zambia was heavily dependent for its single-important export commodity, copper ore.I still remember the Commonwealth heads of government meeting in 1985 in Nassau. Margaret Thatcher stubbornly held out against imposing sanctions against South Africa’s apartheid regime, but was forced to backtrack by an unstoppable charge led by Rajiv Gandhi and KK. This led to the formation of the Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group to report on the situation in South Africa.To watch KK as a ruler was a lesson in not falling for stereotypes. He was the reverse of the stereotypical “big man” image of the flamboyant, firebrand African leader. Impressed by Gandhi’s asceticism, he was a non-drinker and a non-smoker, and gave up eating meat because people of colour had to shop at a separate window at the butcher’s in the colonial days. He was an orator who could rouse crowds, yet utterly soft-spoken in private, a perfect host pouring out the coffee for guests after a state house banquet. Gifted with a singing voice, his image was inextricably linked with the song “Tiyende Pamodzi” (Let’s pull together).KK banned political parties, and ruled for 27 years in what was a single-party State. For most of this time, Zambians gave his benign one-party rule their loyalty. But the collapse of copper prices and the rise in oil prices ruined the economy, for which he perforce had to shoulder the blame. Forced to bring back the multiparty system under popular pressure, he held elections in 1991, and lost comprehensively. But unlike in other similar situations in Africa, KK congratulated his opponent and handed over power peacefully, the first major African head of state to do so besides an obscure instance in Benin. KK was harassed by his successor, accused of insurrection, threatened with deportation as an alien from Malawi, and yet retained enough respect for the Zambian government to publicly apologise to him in 2004.While the jury is out on his one-party rule, there is consensus about KK’s seminal achievement in providing stability and peace to a nation of over 70 tribal groups. His courage and determination in support of the liberation movements, and his staunch attachment to non-alignment, will be remembered, for old freedom fighters, like soldiers, never die — they just fade away.Shiv Shankar Mukherjee is a retired diplomat The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/kenneth-kaunda-a-gandhian-in-africa-101624116211628.html
19-06-2021||Today's||The roots of the India-China discord||Perhaps I am simple-minded but I prefer analysis that’s clear and focused. Most academics embellish their argument with so much equivocation you’re never certain what they’re saying. Some even resort to language that’s befuddling. They use it to impress rather than express. The book I want to introduce today rises above these failings, which is why it’s easy to read and easier still to understand. Whether you agree or disagree is another matter.I’m referring to Kanti Bajpai’s India Versus China: Why They Are Not Friends. On its opening page, it says “India-China relations are darker and more complex than most observers appreciate or acknowledge”. On the next, it adds “India and China are not friends for four key reasons”. The rest of the book explains the four. They are “deep seated differences over their perceptions of each other”, “their territorial perimeters”, “their strategic partnerships” and, most importantly, “the asymmetry of power”. In Bajpai’s opinion, “mutual perceptions and the power asymmetry” are the most important. I found the chapters devoted to them fascinating and eye-opening. India and China’s mutual perceptions changed pretty significantly over the centuries. China looked up to Buddhist India; a millennium later, India held Imperial China in great regard. The situation changed from the 19th century onwards. China’s respect for India declined, if not withered away, whilst India began to see it through British eyes.Today, we’ve reached the apogee of that trajectory. “Clearly, China does not see India as a fellow great power,” writes Bajpai and, therefore, “from a position of strength China does not see the need to accommodate” India. The opposite applies to India. “From a position of weakness India feels it cannot afford to (accommodate China)” without “loss of standing and strategic autonomy”.It’s in this context Bajpai analyses the power asymmetry. Many will be surprised to read “as a soft power, contrary to the generally held view, China betters India”. But that’s not all. Bajpai also believes China’s lead “looks set to persist for a good long time”. I won’t give away more by telling you why. The answer, however, isn’t unconvincing.More cheering is what Bajpai says about the hard power disparity. We know only too well of the economic gap. What I hadn’t realised is that “compared to the enormous disparities in economic strength, India and China are not as far apart in military strength.” That was a pleasant surprise. “Indeed”, Bajpai adds, “given the stopping power of the Himalaya and the maritime distances, the imbalance is less daunting.”First, however, look how daunting that imbalance is. Although India has the larger army, China has three-and-a-half times more aircraft, three times more submarines and twice as many nuclear weapons. But it’s the difference in indigenous defence production and China’s ability to produce new technologies that gives Beijing the decisive edge. Yet, much of this, Bajpai argues, is checked by geography and strategy. This is why China’s “ability to coerce or defeat India appears limited”.But there are four caveats. First, logistics. “India’s logistics are wafer-thin… because it depends on foreign supplies”. Second, India’s “massive dependence on foreign systems”. We don’t “produce a single major conventional armament, with the partial exception of naval vessels”. Third, “nuclear weapons”. Just as India has escalation dominance over Pakistan, so China has that advantage over us. Fourth, “cyber, automated and remotely operated devices married to artificial intelligence”. Bajpai says the Chinese military is “ahead on all counts”.Which brings me to his conclusions. The lesser: “a good bet there will be more Ladakhs”. He also fears problems in Arunachal, strategically more important because it’s rich in resources. The greater is more disturbing. “China’s comprehensive national power is about seven times that of India”. And “until India substantially closes the power gap, there’s little prospect of a lasting rapprochement.” Finally, is that likely? Here Bajpai suddenly becomes equivocal. To catch up “India will need a near-civilizational change”. His readers have to decide whether that’ll happen.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-roots-of-the-india-china-discord-101624115010255.html
19-06-2021||Today's||G7: A strong message on democratic values||British Prime Minister (PM) Boris Johnson chose one of England’s favourite holiday destinations to host the G7 summit, the southernmost county of Cornwall. And there seemed to be a holiday-like atmosphere at the summit, at least as seen on television. But behind all the camaraderie, serious differences are bound to have surfaced. The issue of the Northern Ireland Protocol, under which Northern Ireland, though no longer part of the European Union (EU) after Brexit, continues to follow many of the EU’s rules, came up. The protocol provides for checks on goods going from Britain to Northern Ireland to prevent them from passing through the region and into the European single market. Johnson has threatened to suspend the protocol for being detrimental to British interests, drawing the wrath of leaders such as Macron who want Johnson to stick to the commitment made when the protocol was negotiated. United States (US) President Joe Biden has made it clear that he is deeply concerned that the dispute over Northern Ireland could endanger the agreement, brokered by his country, which ended hostilities between the Catholics and Protestants. The pandemic, predictably, figured in the discussions. G7 countries agreed that something had to be done to help the poorer countries, which weren’t able to procure vaccines. The outcome was a pledge to supply one billion vaccines for poorer countries till the end of 2022, something experts widely described as inadequate. PM Narendra Modi, attending the summit virtually as a guest, called for support to the Indian and South African plea for a relaxation of the intellectual property rights protecting the manufacture of Covid-related products. But there was no agreement on this contentious issue.So, did the G7 summit amount to nothing more than a pleasant holiday by the sea? Joe Biden did not think so. He saw the summit in wider terms than mere dollars, pounds or even vaccines, important as they are. He saw it as demonstrating the contrast between democracies and autocracies. After the autocratic conduct of former President Donald Trump, Biden was signalling that he was putting the US firmly back on the side of democracies. Modi did the same, describing India as a natural ally of the G7 and claiming that the values of democracy were “enshrined in the Constitution and the civilisational values of India”. He supported the adoption of the summit’s “open societies statement” defending the freedom of expression, off and online. India is undeniably a democracy. It holds regular elections, the exception being the period of the Emergency. Election results have been accepted by defeated parties, as they have been in the case of West Bengal, even if not always with good grace. It has a vibrant Constitution and the institutions that uphold democracy. But there have to be some doubts over one of the essential elements of democracy —freedom of expression. The judges of the Supreme Court who dismissed the case against journalist Vinod Dua and now the Delhi High Court granting bail to the three young activists have made the judiciary’s views on freedom of expression clear. Could the PM’s public support for the values of democracy mean that he now plans to stop his government from veering further towards limiting the freedom of expression?One step he could take is to tell his law minister to drop the new internet rules, and concentrate on long-overdue reforms in the legal system which took away the freedom of those young activists for a whole year before granting them bail. That would be really walking the talk. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/g7-a-strong-message-on-democratic-values-101624114661823.html
