23-06-2021||Today's||India needs a third generation of reforms||In India’s development journey, two major policy departures in its approach to growth and development stand out. In each case, there was an acceleration in growth, which then started petering out. We are at a similar crossroads and it is time to usher in a third generation of reforms.The first generation of economic reforms took place soon after Independence. This was based on planning and import substitution. India’s growth witnessed a notable acceleration from the early 1950s to the mid-1960s, a significant transformation from stagnation of the past. This was followed by policy sclerosis, resulting in a growth downturn over an equivalent period till the late 1970s.The much delayed second generation of economic reforms finally began in 1991, and was again characterised by a growth-oriented approach. India was finally catching up with the prevailing global predominant thinking on development strategy — an open economy market-oriented framework. Fuelled by higher savings and investment, the economy ascended to a higher growth path of around 7% annual GDP growth over the next two decades. Industrial and export growth accelerated, along with a comfortable and stable external sector, and poverty reduced significantly.But, once again, the development engine started sputtering from the early 2010s. The slowdown is broad-based across all the sectors, agriculture, industry, and services. India’s economy is in trouble once again and hence needs a major reboot.There has been an inadequate generation of quality employment for the increasing Indian labour force throughout the development process. There seems to have been almost no net generation of jobs over the past 15 years or so. What is needed now is a special thrust to promote employment-intensive export-oriented manufacturing, which will need continued openness and not increased protection.But the key development failure, right through India’s history has been the lack of adequate attention to nutrition, health, and education. This is hampering the employability of new entrants to the labour force as new economic activities require an increasing level of educational competence. Thus, the next generation of economic reforms needs a special resolve to deliver efficient public services, particularly focused on the long-neglected social needs related to nutrition and health services, primary and secondary schooling, a major quality upgrade of tertiary education, water supply and sanitation, other public infrastructure and urban development; all public services that need enhanced government expenditure and technical competence and ability to deliver. The absence of these services is hobbling the performance of the private sector.The main organising principle of the second-generation reforms was freeing the private sector from the myriad government controls that had hobbled its performance. This process still needs to be pursued. But similar attention has not been given to improving the government’s performance.Also Read | Reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat improved ease of living, writes PM ModiConsequently, the third generation of economic reforms must focus on a similar empowerment of the public sector to deliver growth-enhancing public goods and services for the benefit of all segments of the public, private sector, and corporate entities alike. The “public sector” encompasses all levels of governments from the local, state to national, and their entities which deliver public goods and services, and includes regulatory and standard-setting authorities. They all need to be strengthened.The last 30 years have seen a clear private sector supply response to the increased demand for health, education and other services, reflecting the failure of their public provision in both quantity and quality. The way forward is not so much to restrict this private provision, but to improve significantly both the quality of public services leading to greater trust in the provision of these services, and their scale and quantity to promote universal accessibility. This would free up money in the hands of the less well-off for enhanced demand for growth, promoting other essential goods and services. There must be a renewed clear understanding that it is the government’s role to deliver public goods and services that only it can provide, and that such services cannot and should not be privatised.This kind of quality improvement cannot take place without a significant enhancement of government’s own technocratic competence and implementation capacity. The availability of economic competence enabled the formulation of reforms at the macro level in 1991, and then their implementation in the ensuing two decades. There needs to be a system change in the approach to public administration, away from the traditional colonial approach.Also Read | Moody’s slashes India growth forecast for 2021 to 9.6%The first condition for sustained growth is an enhancement of investment levels, both public and private. This would imply an overall increase in fiscal expenditure along with a shift in composition towards higher public investment for the delivery of public goods and services, which, in turn, would crowd in private investment rather than crowding it out. But buoyancy in the tax-GDP ratio does not reflect the sustained growth in GDP of the past three decades, particularly the stagnation experienced over the past decade. Focused attention now needs to be given, to increasing efficiency and compliance in tax-revenue collection so that India’s overall tax-GDP ratio rises to levels consistent with comparable international experience, to finance the needed enhanced public expenditures.The key departure from current received wisdom that I am making is to emphasise the role of the State in promoting economic growth. Countries that have been most successful in maintaining high sustained growth rates have done so by setting up growth-promoting governmental institutions to coordinate public investments, while also incentivising the private sector to make investments necessary for a growing, dynamic economy. Niti Aayog needs to be strengthened technically, and in its powers to perform such a role.The current government structure is simply not designed to take India to the next stage of development. The third generation of economic reforms must therefore focus on improving the government’s own competence, both administrative and technical, at all levels.Rakesh Mohan was the economic advisor to the government of India in the industry ministry in 1991. He has also served as chief economic advisor, secretary, economic affairs and deputy governor, RBI. He is currently president of the Centre for Social and Economic ProgressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-needs-a-third-generation-of-reforms-101624449223050.html
23-06-2021||Today's||Theocracy and elections: The Iran way||Last Friday, Iran elected its eighth president since the 1979 Islamic revolution that ended the Pahlavi dynasty. As expected, Ebrahim Raisi, the chief of the judiciary since 2019, is set to take over from President Hassan Rouhani on August 3. Given Iran’s complex governance structure of a theocracy with partial elective democracy, the elections are pre-determined, though sometimes surprisingly competitive. This time, a low turnout of less than 50% after extending the voting deadline, showed that even by Iranian standards, the non-contest failed to generate interest.At the top of Iran’s governance structure is the supreme leader, currently 82-year-old Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in power since Ayatollah Khomeini’s death in 1989. He is the commander-in-chief of all armed forces and security services, appoints the heads of radio and TV networks and the judiciary, and half the 12-member Guardian Council (GC). The GC members need parliamentary approval and, in turn, vet candidatures for all elected positions — a 290-member parliament, 88-member Assembly of Experts and the president. In addition, GC also examines all legislation to ensure its conformity with the Sharia. In case of differences, the matter is referred to the 45-member Expediency Council, chosen by the supreme leader. The principal task of the Experts’ Assembly is to approve the new supreme leader.Also Read | US blocks websites linked to Iranian disinformationWhile the supreme leader is there for life (or till he chooses to retire), the president is limited to two four-year terms, defining where the balance of power rests between them. Speculation that a new supreme leader is likely to be appointed in the coming years made this election critical as Khamenei has to ensure a smooth transition while ensuring the preservation of his legacy.Raisi, a hardliner, owes much of his career progression to the supreme leader and is also seen as a potential successor. Incidentally, Khamenei too was president from 1981-89 and shortly before Khomeini died, he anointed Khamenei as his successor.Born in 1960, Raisi was a theology student in the holy city of Qom and joined the anti-Shah movement as a teenager. After the Islamic revolution, he embarked on a legal career as a prosecutor and during the 1980s, moved to Tehran. Following the eight-year Iran-Iraq war, thousands of political prisoners (declared anti-national and supporters of Saddam Hussein), were sentenced to death by a four-member committee that included Raisi. Later he was deputy chief of the judiciary (2004-14) and prosecutor-general. In 2017, he was runner-up when Rouhani won his second term in an election with a 73% turnout, and appointed judiciary chief later.In 2019, both the United States (US) and European Union (EU) imposed sanctions on Raisi on account of his human rights record, for the 1980s executions and lethal crackdowns on anti-government protesters, in 2009 and 2019.Raisi’s victory was clear on May 25 when GC disqualified strong contenders such as the former speaker Ali Larijani and current vice-president Ishaq Jahangiri, setting the stage for him. Many civil society leaders launched calls for a boycott that reduced the turnout to below 49%, and a record 3.7 million votes cast were blank and void. As an Iranian explained, “How do you pick an orange when all that is on offer are five bananas?” Conservatives enjoy over two-thirds majority in parliament after the 2020 election.Rouhani’s eight-year tenure has been dominated by the nuclear issue and relations with the US. Talks began in 2013 but it was Rouhani’s moderate credentials together with foreign minister Javad Zarif’s diplomatic skills that enabled progress. Secret talks with the US in Oman proved invaluable and in July 2015, the nuclear deal was concluded between Iran and P5+1 (US, Russia, China, UK, France, Germany and the EU). Iran accepted certain constraints on its nuclear programme, especially the uranium enrichment activities, in return for sanctions relief.Iran’s economy, hurting under the sanctions registered a 12% growth in 2016 only to start shrinking after Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from the nuclear deal in 2018 and adopted a policy of “maximum pressure” to coerce Iran back to the negotiating table. Iran responded with a policy of “maximum resistance”. The economy has been in recession for three years now, amid rising unemployment and inflation running at 40%. Since 2019, Iran began to step up certain nuclear activities, while emphasising that its actions were reversible if sanctions relief was restored, balancing hardliners at home while putting pressure on the EU.With Joe Biden in the White House, prospects for reviving the nuclear deal improved. Six rounds of talks in Vienna registered limited progress. However, Rouhani’s hands were tied. With only six weeks left before the end of Rouhani’s tenure, Khamenei wanted that a deal, even partial, only be concluded after the elections. Rouhani will be responsible for any shortcomings while any relief credit will accrue to Raisi.Given the situation, the US has played along but the hard negotiation begins now. It will only offer partial relief in return for some Iranian rollback, holding back to engage the new regime in Tehran. With hardliners now dominant, the US expects that internal bickering will end.Meanwhile, talks last month between the Saudis and Iranians in Iraq have raised hopes of movement on Yemen. A change of guard in Israel may provide breathing space in Lebanon and Gaza. The sands in West Asia may be shifting, though ever so slightly.Rakesh Sood is a retired diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow, Observer Research Foundation. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/theocracy-and-elections-the-iran-way-101624439442551.html
23-06-2021||Today's||The Pulwama investigation and its lessons for India on countering terror||In June 2019, Sajjad Bhat, a terrorist belonging to the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed, was killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir. A car procured by Bhat (and filled with explosives)was used by another militant in February in the deadliest terrorist attack Kashmir had ever seen in its 30 years of bloodied history.Pulwama represented a rupture in various ways, including redefining the Indian State’s response to terror attacks. It was also a moment where the ineffective dossiers — international agencies would complain that they looked like Wikipedia entries — prepared by our investigation agencies would give way to solid, evidence-backed investigation.As the National Investigation Agency (NIA) connected the dots all the way to Pakistan, their investigation revealed that Jaish carried out this attack to dent Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image just before the general elections. But not only did it misfire, it also contributed to Modi’s landslide victory. The attack also speeded up his government’s decision to do away with Article 370 later that year.Also Read | AIIMS Pulwama hits a wall as army red flags constructionIn June 2019 when Bhat was killed, however, not much was known about the attack. A few leads came to NIA investigators immediately after the suicide bombing. A few other minor players such as Bhat (who officially joined Jaish a few days after Pulwama) were identified and hunted down with great fanfare. But the security agencies hadn’t cracked the case.With Bhat’s death, the investigation came to a dead end. At that point, NIA investigators started looking for clues beyond what they could find at the site of the attack.It is because of this diligence that the conspiracy began to unravel one puzzle piece at a time, ultimately leading to a man, a ruthless manipulator and killer, trained in the best joint facility of al-Qaeda and Jaish in Afghanistan.It was a meticulous investigation, involving a lot of hard work and some lucky breaks. An investigation where NIA officers, with the help of their colleagues in Jammu and Kashmir Police, used an effective mix of human intelligence and technology.Along with the unravelling of the main conspiracy, other crucial information come to light. The investigation revealed that Jaish was using tunnels along the international border in Jammu to sneak into India with sophisticated arms and explosives.For this, it used a network of local sympathisers who, in at least one case, brought almost three dozen terrorists to the state in a year. The tunnels were an engineering marvel, and along with use of drones to drop weapons, posed a challenge for which India was unprepared. The investigation also confirmed the ugly innards of counterinsurgency, of how men considered informers by intelligence agencies turned out to be dangerous terrorists.But perhaps most importantly, the investigation also highlighted the limitations of our current counterinsurgency model in Kashmir. The hunting down of terrorists is important, and security agencies are quite good at it. But this cannot be the end goal.One of the men, almost a boy, arrested in the Pulwama conspiracy is from an affluent family. Yet the Jaish reached him, turning him into their courier, although behind his back, they mocked him, calling him a bhola (simpleton). Bhola is in jail now — where last heard, he was preparing for his medical entrance exams.If we have to have a long-lasting success in Kashmir, we must do two things. One, we have to ensure the Bholas of the future do not turn radical. Two, we must not stop the chain of investigation once a terrorist on the hitlist is eliminated. Our investigations must go beyond the site of the encounter. This is only the starting point.We committed the same mistakes after the Parliament attack mastermind Ghazi Baba was killed in 2003. He was technically the first Jaish recruit and it was the infrastructure he created that the militant group still uses in Kashmir. What we leave behind carelessly once we have achieved our immediate target comes to bite us in the future in devastating ways. That is the lesson of the Pulwama investigation.Rahul Pandita is the author of The Lover Boy of Bahawalpur: How the Pulwama Case was CrackedThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-pulwama-investigation-and-its-lessons-for-india-on-countering-terror-101624439082949.html
23-06-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Knowing how coronavirus hacks cells will help stop it||Many people are now familiar with the spike protein that the Covid-19-causing coronavirus uses to get inside human cells. All vaccines are designed to prompt the immune system to create antibodies that recognise the viral spike protein. But a lesson from India’s second wave is that in addition to vaccines, we need antivirals to help those who have already infected.The drugs that are currently available for Covid-19 were created with the purpose of treating other diseases. Consequently, many of these drugs have not lived up to the initial promise. To develop new antiviral drugs, last week, the United States (US) government decided to invest over $3 billion. To thwart the virus, we must find where it is vulnerable to intervention.Compared to the process of viral entry, there has been less attention paid to what happens once the coronavirus is inside the cell. This phase of the viral life cycle is important because some successful antiviral drugs might prevent intact virus particles from being made and infecting other cells.Inside the cell, the virus needs to evade the innate immune response and fight for the cell’s resources. But, in many ways, this is where the remarkable capability of the virus to wreak havoc comes into full play. Apart from the spike protein, there are at least two dozen other viral proteins encoded by the SARS-CoV-2 genome.Proteins are both building blocks and molecular engines that speed up living processes. They are made according to specific instructions in the genetic material. Different proteins do different jobs.The virus does not possess the ability to make its own proteins and so it must take over the cell’s protein-making machines, known as ribosomes. Ribosome read instructions in RNA to make proteins.Once viral RNA is inside the cell, it must compete with the cell’s own mRNA. In many ways, viral RNA looks a lot like cellular mRNA, so ribosomes are fooled into making some viral proteins. But the virus needs to ensure that it has preferential access to ribosomes, otherwise it will not be able to increase to massive numbers needed to spread rapidly.Here’s an analogy for how the coronavirus takes over a cell it has infected. If we think of the cell as hardware and viral RNA as malicious software, gaining entry to the inside of the cell is just the first step. The software must subvert the functioning system so that its instructions are preferentially followed.We know that the virus prevents ribosomes from making the cell’s own proteins, including tools of the immune system, and, instead, instructs it to make virus parts. How SARS-CoV-2 achieves this has been a mystery until recently.One of the first viral proteins that is made is called nonstructural protein-1 (NSP1). It is an important weapon in the viral arsenal. Last year, multiple groups showed that NSP1 gums up the channel which is used to read the cell’s own instructions. In addition, immediately after NSP1 is made, it starts to slow down ribosomes, so the cell can’t make proteins needed to minimise viral infection.But shutting down ribosomes completely would be problematic for the virus since it needs its own RNA to be made into viral proteins. The virus might drain the cell’s resources, but also needs to use what is left of the same resources to make proteins for new viruses.A paper published in Nature on May 12 by Noam Stern-Ginossar and colleagues shows that the coronavirus destroys the cell’s mRNA and prevents newly created mRNA from getting to parts of the cell where it can be read to make new proteins. By blocking its competition, viral proteins are freeing up ribosomes inside cells for its own proteins to be made.Last week in research published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Peter Cresswell and other researchers showed that another protein NSP14 also helps shut down immune responses inside the cell by interfering with ribosomes.Using our hacking analogy, the nefarious coronavirus has not one but many kinds of malware that slow down the cellular computer. It shuts down normal programmes, freeing up what’s left of the processor to execute its own instructions to make more viruses.These new results show why the coronavirus initially gets an upper hand after it infects cells. But this doesn’t mean that it is infallible. The virus also has an Achilles’ heel. While viral proteins are being made, the ribosome slips in reading the viral message by a letter. This slip is known as a frameshift, and it is necessary for the RNA to be “read” properly as coronavirus proteins are made.A paper published in Science on May 13 by Nenad Ban’s team describes the process of frameshifting with coronavirus RNA in detail. It also shows that antiviral drugs can disrupt this slip. Research is ongoing to exploit this weakness to prevent the coronavirus from hacking the protein-making machinery of cells. Other drugs might target NSP1 and NSP14 and serve as a firewall against these pesky proteins.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-knowing-how-coronavirus-hacks-cells-will-help-stop-it-101624427382796.html
