24-06-2021||Today's||Vaccination: The State must lead the charge of the enlightened brigade||On April 26, when the murderous second wave was at its peak, my colleagues and I zoom-huddled over an excel sheet. We were trying to understand how informal workers could be readily vaccinated. At the time, we assumed vaccine equity was the single biggest challenge. Our data was counter-intuitive.A fortnight earlier, we had surveyed 4,774 adults from 2,097 families to glean their perceptions about vaccination access. Our respondents were from 14 slums across Delhi and Ghaziabad. Much to our surprise, only 7% of the respondents were willing to be vaccinated.Some of the stated reasons were no surprise. About 20% said since they were well, an “injection” was unnecessary. Some believed they would pull through, since they had survived this long. But 31% described themselves as “afraid” of the vaccine’s aftermath. “Please,” wailed a young man tearfully into his cellphone, “don’t ask me to take the teeka. What will happen to my children?” Evidently, one of the overwhelming fears was of death by vaccination. Vaccine-caused impotency was an additional concern. Most unexpected was a throwback to 1857; Hindus and Muslims believed the shot contained extracts of sacred or banned animals.The role of fake news, rumours and poorly-informed local influencers is palpable. Those who expressed (misplaced) fears claimed they received this information from WhatsApp and general chatter, and claimed that “everyone knew this”. They had not received any other kind of scientific information to encourage them to vaccinate. Such damaging misinformation seems to be filling in an information vacuum.In May, as the second wave persisted, we called 1,200 people to be vaccinated. Of these, only three per cent agreed. Then we enrolled a charismatic leader from a Delhi slum, who convinced 12 people to get the first shot. In the videos she made, they were pleasantly surprised to be unharmed. Yet, women said it was impossible for them to leave their children, figure out centres and reach there. Not only is the digital divide a barrier, but the multiple roles women have had foisted on them, is an additional challenge.Erasing vaccine hesitancy in every pocket is pivotal to closing the chapter on this endless pandemic. What approach might work?The State must lead the charge of the enlightening brigade. Fighting false information is daunting, but possible. Campaigns with influencers such as the local councillor and legislators to celebrities can build confidence. Doctors must weigh in as well. The media and social media should amplify this.Vaccines must be made easily available, especially when we have enough of them. Instead of hoping that the poor will overcome multiple roadblocks and register or forego a day’s earnings in these hard times, mobile units should roll out, on priority, in all slums. Why not use our under-used public transportation buses for walk-in vaxxing?Local leaders have a special role in ensuring this becomes a game-changer, as Mumbai showed us. Currently, camps are held in the clubs and localities of the better-off, mostly organised by themselves. Even when domestic staff is encouraged to attend, it doesn’t touch most of the urban poor. And, remember, much as 40% of the urban population lives in slums. We must reach them more effectively. Some of India’s influential upper-middle-class citizens proclaim that the poor don’t seem to have been hit as intensely by even the second wave, far less the first. In reality, we don’t know. We don’t have credible data. Anecdotal interactions are too local, hiding as much as they reveal. And irrespective of which class got affected to what degree, the simple fact is that each of us has to take the jab for all of us to be safe. With the second wave ebbing, a new vaccine policy framework in place, and a renewed push by governments to encourage vaccination, there is hope. But to see light at the end of this tunnel, India must ferociously identify where vaccine hesitancy still exists and battle this. Bharati Chaturvedi is founder and director, Chintan Environmental Research and Action GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/vaccination-the-state-must-lead-the-charge-of-the-enlightened-brigade-101624542169690.html
24-06-2021||Today's||Design a climate-ready governance system||Countries around the world, including India, face the challenge of building a climate-ready State. Because almost all sectors and many parts of society contribute to greenhouse gases and are vulnerable to its impact, the climate crisis requires an all-of-government and all-of-society response. Because the shifts required must be rapid to address the urgency of the problem, we need strategic ability, including modelling, analysis and direction-setting. And finally, because these shifts will be disruptive, and create winners (renewable energy companies) and losers (coal-dependent communities), a climate-ready State must be able to limit the fallout for those disadvantaged by the transition.There has been a steady chorus calling for enhanced policy and targets by all countries in the build-up to the Glasgow Conference of Parties in November, and climate has been central to global discussions such as the recent meeting of G7 leaders. Yet, there has been too little discussion about how India, and other countries, can get climate governance right. In addition to targets and policies, we need to deepen and enhance systems of governance for the climate crisis, which include dedicated organisations, policy frameworks, capacities, and financing mechanisms.Also Read | Britain risks missing net zero emissions due to lack of policies: ReportThis enormous governance challenge has long been under-addressed, in India, as elsewhere. A national plan, created in 2008, limited itself to eight priority sectors, with uneven progress across the various “missions”. No durable bodies were created to orchestrate a strategic national response over the long run. An advisory council under the prime minister has not met since 2015. An apex implementation body composed of senior bureaucrats has been similarly inconsistent, meeting only six times between 2013 and 2019. India has accumulated a growing patchwork of climate policies, with some benefits, but these are scattershot and untethered to a larger national goal.An eight-country study by the Centre for Policy Research that compares climate governance systems tells us how national governments could tackle the climate governance challenge. It is clear there is no one-size-fits-all institutional framework; different needs, governance systems, and political support all matter. The United Kingdom, with arguably the most well-developed climate governance, has a law-backed independent commission that recommends five-yearly carbon budgets to the government, which filters through to each department. In the fractious climate politics of the United States, after failed efforts at climate law, the federal government has chosen to embed climate capacities across departments. China has a top-down approach that parcels out targets decided at the highest levels of government to lower rungs under threat of sanction. Which approach is right for India?India’s approach must be driven by its development and carbon context. India’s energy needs are growing, and we emit far less carbon per capita than the rich world. Yet, for our own sake, India must meet an increasing share of energy needs from low-carbon sources. And we must ensure that the India of the future, from infrastructure to industrial foundations, is compatible with low-carbon development. As argued in these pages earlier, India should focus on low-carbon development pathways and establish institutions for this.Crucially, they must be able to peer into the future to assess how policy choices today might shape decisions in later stages of growth. A choice between electric vehicles or public transport determines the future carbon-intensity of cities, automobile manufacturing and the electric grid, for example.In a new policy brief, we lay out an institutional architecture capable of crafting such low-carbon development pathways. We ground our prescriptions in the understanding that the system must fill a strategic void through credible information and analysis; that it must be open to voices across society; that it must appropriately address different levels of governance in India; and that it must be able to coordinate ministries pulling in different directions even while working with the grain of existing systems. This is a delicate balancing act.At the core of our proposal lies an independent, non-executive low-carbon development commission (LCDC), anchored in new climate legislation and composed of both experts and stakeholders. It is meant to craft low-carbon development pathways and recommend policy opportunities to ministries, deriving authority from the credibility of its analysis. But equally, its links to key stakeholders — business, labour, civil society — will allow it to embed technical analysis in broad public discourse.To improve chances of uptake, we propose that ministries be made to report to Parliament and the public on their annual plans, goals and achievements. Budgetary incentives for mitigation might speed up the process. To coordinate a growing body of policy, now in a different context, we recommend revitialising the body of senior bureaucrats mentioned above – the executive committee on climate change. The ministry of environment, forests and climate change will continue as the nodal ministry, handling key functions, including monitoring. As climate science advances and India’s developmental position evolves, this architecture must be capable of reimagining itself to address other formulations, including net zero-emission targets.Climate is now firmly entrenched in the global, and Indian, agenda. A great deal of energy goes into debating policies and targets. For these to be strategic, effective, and consistent with India’s development goals, India now needs to also build a climate-ready system of governance.Navroz K Dubash is professor, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New Delhi. Aditya Valiathan Pillai and Parth Bhatia, co-authors of the piece, are associate fellows at CPR The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/design-a-climate-ready-governance-system-101624539589491.html
24-06-2021||Today's||From 1901 to 2011, what the census tells us about India’s population||In recent years, a section of the political class has been stridently demanding a “population control” law.The argument offered in its defence by its votaries is simple: India is experiencing a population explosion. This imposes growing strains on economic resources and contributes to fraying the social contract that holds our society together. Our neighbour, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), has demonstrated how tough population control action over the last 40 years rapidly accelerated its economic transformation and raised a billion people out of poverty. We can only replicate this with decisive (read harsh) legislation.It seems a stretch to make such an assertion at face value. There is a great deal of posturing about the urgency and all the arguments are anecdotal. These anecdotes are coloured by the political proclivities of the proponents. A chief minister (CM) of a major northeastern state wants a particular minority community to decelerate its birth rates as “(population) is the main root of social menace like poverty, land encroachment and we can reduce this social menace if the population is reduced”.A state’s law commission chairman offers this gem. “Population is nearing an explosive stage. It is causing other issues too — related to hospitals, foodgrains, houses, or employment”. In contrast to the CM, he is at pains to add that this has nothing to do with a “particular” community.There is a simple way to separate the wheat from the chaff when we grapple with such questions. Look at what the Census of India is telling us. Let us start by examining how India’s population has grown over the last 12 censuses, from 1901 to 2011.India’s population grew almost five-fold over 110 years.There was only one decadal population decline, of 0.31% from 1911 to 1921. This was the decade that ended in the flu pandemic of 1918. Professor David Arnold of Asian and global history at Warwick University writes in Death & the Modern Empire: The 1918-19 Influenza Epidemic in India, “In India the 1918–19 influenza pandemic cost at least twelve million lives, more than in any other country; it caused widespread suffering and disrupted the economy and infrastructure”.If these lives were to be added to the 1911 population, the decade would have ended at 265 million Indians. In effect, it took a decade’s worth of population growth out of the trend, and the echoes of lives lost in our great grandparents’ generation continue to resonate through India’s demographics, a century later. (This begs the question: Will the ravages of the Covid-19 pandemic scar India’s demographics such that the effects will still be palpable in 2121?)The political will to bring runaway population growth under control is evident in the change in the momentum of growth between 1961 and 2011. The growth rate, which had been accelerating from Independence to the beginning of the third five-year plan in 1961, began to flatten in the next decade and then began falling, for the next 40 years.The momentum of the growth rate (change in the rate of change) dropped from +8.20% in 1961 to -3.84% in five decades. If this trend has persisted through the 2011 to 2021 decade, the momentum would have slipped further, to around -5.3%. This would result in the decadal growth rate dropping from 17.7% to 12.4%, the slowest growth in India’s population since 1931.Using this as a rough and ready number, the 2021 Census ought to come up with an all-India population of 1.358 billion. After adding 180 million per decade for the previous two decades, we would add a mere 140 million, about as much as we did between 1971 and 1981, but on a nearly 90% bigger population base.Things become more interesting if we project a similar momentum to the next decadal Census. If the growth momentum drops to -6.8%, and there are sound trends that support this, the population growth rate to 2031 would be just 5.6%, giving us an estimated population a decade hence of 1.434 billion, a population increase of a mere 76 million people. For context, that was almost exactly the population growth between 1951 and 1961 on a population base that was one-fourth of what it is now.Does this look like a population explosion to you? The demographic changes which India is grappling with, today and in the future, are rather different from the simplistic tropes of “explosion” fear-mongering. They pertain to the real and present dangers of populations beginning to shrink in several states. They pertain to a diminishing pool of people of working age, the “demographic dividend” which our leaders love to boast about. They pertain to an increasing burden of the aged and infirm on the society, economy and health care infrastructure. There are real demographic problems that need to be solved. But they are not what politicians are trying to scare you with.Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurement The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1901-to-2011-what-the-census-tells-us-about-india-s-population-101624533286834.html
24-06-2021||Today's||The fine line that separates judicial transparency and the right to be forgotten||The Delhi high court recently granted relief to a petitioner seeking to exercise his “right to be forgotten”. The petitioner, who was earlier acquitted in a narcotics case, had come before the high court praying for the removal of the judgment of his acquittal from online platforms such as Google and Indian Kanoon.The court passed an interim order granting the relief. Justice Prathiba M Singh, while passing the order, recognised that the case raised an important question of whether a court order can be removed from online platforms to protect an individual’s right to privacy and the need to balance it with the right to information of the public and maintenance of transparency in judicial records.This is not the first case of this kind in India and it will not be the last. With deeper integration of technology and the digitisation of data, the “practical obscurity” that was associated with court decisions is diminishing, and a simple Google search can yield a plethora of information about an individual, including judgments that their names figure in. Cases like these involve the determination of a crucial issue: Can the right to be forgotten (RTBF) be granted in case of judicial decisions?Also Read | Narada case: SC judge recuses himself from hearing Bengal CM’s petitionThe right to be forgotten RTBF is a right to have one’s personal information removed from publicly available sources on certain grounds. While it has its roots in the French right of oblivion which allows for individuals who have been convicted of a crime to prevent the publication of facts about the crime, RTBF gained currency after the 2014 decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) in the Google Spain case.In this case, the CJEU ruled in favour of a Spanish national who had requested Google to remove two links to newspaper articles about him. It held that personal information found to be inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing should be erased, even if it was published lawfully. RTBF went on to be incorporated in Article 17 of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation which came into effect in 2018.RTBF in IndiaIn India, RTBF has not attained legislative sanction yet. However, in the Puttaswamy judgment, which held that the right to privacy is a fundamental right, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul touches upon RTBF in cases where such information has become irrelevant and serves no legitimate interest. That case, however, did not discuss the specific question of whether RTBF can be granted in the case of judgments.So far, the Supreme Court has not dealt with a case directly on the RTBF issue. Different high courts have adjudicated upon such requests. The Gujarat high court refused the application by an accused in 2014 while the high courts of Karnataka (2017) and Orissa (2020) have allowed masking the name of victims in criminal proceedings, recognising their right to privacy. However, the inconsistent approaches adopted by high courts in dealing with RTBF can be illustrated by two recent judgments along with the Delhi high court’s interim order.In January, a division bench of the Bombay high court refused an applicant’s prayer to treat an order recording consent terms in a petition for quashing an FIR as confidential or even block the name of the applicant from the order. The rationale adopted by the Bombay high court was that a request for “blocking the name made after a long gap of four years, cannot be accepted”. It also pointed out that no such request was made when the order was passed and by virtue of the lapse in time, it cannot be agitated that the presence of the order on a Google search will cause prejudice to the applicant.In March, the Kerala high court was approached by an applicant seeking the un-indexing of links of an order passed by the court directing the local registrar to accept her application for marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Since the marriage fell through, the presence of the order online was causing prejudice to her marriage prospects as it appeared on entering her name as a keyword on Google. Recognising the important question of law involved in the case, the court has now referred the case to a division bench. As interim relief, the court has directed the registry to mask the name and address of the petitioner in the cause title of this order.Of judicial decisions and RTBFIt is important to understand that the implications of granting RTBF in the case of judicial decisions are very different from granting RTBF for other content on the internet. This can be seen in the approach adopted in the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. While Clause 20 of the bill includes a right to be forgotten, Clause 36 makes it inapplicable to the processing of personal data by any court or tribunal in India that is necessary for the exercise of any judicial function. The possible explanation for carving out this exception is the need to preserve the independence of the judiciary and maintain transparency.Judgments have always been treated as public records and fall within the definition of a public document according to Section 74 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The principle of “open courts” is crucial to the functioning of the Indian judicial system. Openness does not only refer to access to courts and public hearings, but also includes access to court orders and judgments. Open courts promote transparency and help make the judiciary more accountable. Access to judgments allows the public to critically analyse the functioning of the courts. It is for these reasons that a report by Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy on Open Courts in the Digital Age suggested that RTBF cannot be extended to official public records, especially judicial records as that would undermine public faith in the judicial system in the long run.Balancing the right to know with the right to privacyWhile it is obvious that information on adverse judgments against an individual or an entity might be harmful to their reputation, it is critical that the courts delicately balance society’s right to know with the individual’s right to privacy. The lack of clarity on the grounds on which RTBF can be granted with respect to judgments has turned getting relief from the courts into a lottery. While the Delhi high court has granted interim relief on the ground of the “irreparable prejudice” caused to the applicant, the Bombay high court has rejected such a ground citing lapse of time and lack of promptness on the part of the applicant. The Kerala high court, on the other hand, has noted the public nature of court records but granted an interim order since the matter involved was not of public interest.The diverse approaches adopted by the high courts point to the need for a uniform test to determine requests for delinking court orders or masking names of parties. Though a straightjacket test may be undesirable, there is a need for clear directives on how the RTBF can be applied in specific situations. The Supreme Court is best placed to come up with a policy on the implementation of RTBF by courts.Such a policy needs to balance the competing interests of the public’s right to know, the need for transparency in judicial records, and the individual’s right to privacy. Any such guidelines will have to indicate the time frame within which to approach the court and lay down the factual parameters for which RTBF might be available. Striking the right balance will be key to the development of RTBF jurisprudence in India. At a time when the judiciary is entering Phase III of its ambitious eCourts project, rights such as RTBF will have to be coded into any technology solution that is developed for judicial data storage and management.Apoorva and Jigar Parmar are Research Fellows at Vidhi Centre for Legal PolicyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-fine-line-that-separates-judicial-transparency-and-the-right-to-be-forgotten-101624521826341.html
24-06-2021||Today's||Multi-modal integration: The key to transforming India’s transport systems||In India, urbanisation is increasing rapidly, offering economic opportunities across various sectors. This leads to domestic immigration of the working-class population to these urban centres, boosting its productivity, further leading to more economic activity through the establishment of more business centres and markets. This development cycle, through an analysis of its contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), shows that urban centres are the engines of economic growth, and their contributions to GDP will continue to grow.However, the needs of a rising population in an urban landscape must be met. Rapid urbanisation means more pressure on infrastructure, increasing congestion, rising pollution and unmanageable urban sprawl. In the last few decades, governments have tried to meet the increasing travel demand. But the pace of rising demand has consistently beaten the rate of infrastructure development. Ever-rising transport demand which corresponds with economic growth has been difficult to meet in the absence of integrated planning of land use and transport.Also Read | Reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat improved ease of living, writes PM ModiSupporting infrastructure to keep pace with rising economic activity, therefore, is essential. Along with urban development programmes such as the smart cities mission, AMRUT and housing for all, among others, the focus on mobility infrastructure is equally important to ensure that the economic potential does not get constrained.Policy planners have been advocating public transport solutions to free up Indian cities from traffic congestion and high pollution levels. These high-investment and high-operational expenditure projects have been approved because of the long-term, socioeconomic benefits they bring with them.India has emerged as one of the fastest-growing markets for urban rail systems. The government has invested intensively in urban transport systems such as metros across tier-1 and 2 cities, inter and intra-city high-frequency bus services, monorails and so on. However, despite these projects being successfully implemented, ridership numbers have been far below the projections of the policymakers. These numbers have further been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.From a commuters’ viewpoint, these projects provide an affordable, reliable, safe, fast and green alternative to other transport modes. However, there is scope for improvement in multi-modal connectivity. Unimodal and multi-modal networks involve transfers points where users can move from one mode to another. The walking and waiting time during these transfers discourage people from opting for public transport. Urban transport systems require several functions to be performed in a well-coordinated manner for a seamless travel experience. Unfortunately, there is a lack of coordination among the agencies.Also Read | Shaping India’s urban futureEvery agency is looking at commuters with a myopic view as their exclusive users, and not as one who wants to travel from one point to the other on more than one mode seamlessly. Public Transport agencies operate in isolation and have so far resisted plans of cross-integration in many cases.Public transport platforms such as the Indian railways, metro trains, regional rapid transit system (RRTS), interstate buses, bus rapid transit (BRT) as well as aviation can no longer operate in isolation. There also remains the choice between public and personal transport. This depends on several factors such as duration, route, purpose, fare, convenience and comfort. To ensure that these advanced transport modes become the natural choice for commuters, from every stratum of our society, we need to provide for the end-to-end travel requirements.Addressing these challenges requires enabling the convenience and comfort of door-to-door trips by ensuring integration based on well-established global transport integration frameworks. In an international forum I attended, the transport integration framework was outlined at two levels.First, the physical integration primarily comprising the implementation of efficient interchanges at stations/stops/terminals to minimise back-tracking, walking distances, level changes between services, and provide safe (off-street) and secure (well-lit) and weather-protected facilities.Second, the service integration comprising network structure of route alignments and stoppage locations, level of services, schedules, fare structures and passenger information.Despite an increased focus on the implementation of advanced public transport systems, the lower modal share of these systems has raised questions on the core objectives, not only from the perspective of financial viability but also from the perspective of the economic return from these projects. This includes the impact on the lives of citizens, reduction in pollution and lower congestion on roads. Therefore, solving these challenges calls for focused action with an emphasis on integrating multi-modal services at the planning stage.Also Read | Effect of high temperatures, low productivity on India’s growth prospectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Independence Day 2020 address, emphasised the government’s commitment to bring in a paradigm shift in infrastructure by integrating key modes of transportation. He highlighted that it is critical to move away from the era of “working in silos”. The opportunity is now to make our cities more accessible by enhancing multi-modal integration and improving the commuter’s experience.Hong Kong’s public transport system serves as a good example. Its transport system includes railways, trams, buses, ferries and taxis. With multi-modal integration, Hong Kong has achieved public transit modal share close to 90%. Other great examples include Tokyo, Singapore, London, Madrid and Paris.The creation of the Unified Metropolitan Transportation Authority (UMTA) in Indian states has been advised by the Centre, but hasn’t proliferated across the country. Given that the public transport agencies are still taking a narrow view in many cases and not opening up for integration, empowering the UMTA to take ownership of the transport ecosystem will help reach this goal.It is also the responsibility of the upcoming projects to ensure integration with the existing modes of transport, and at the same time, it is equally important for the authorities to support this. With this in view, at National Capital Region Transportation Corporation (NCRTC), we plan to connect several nodes of NCR, by way of the country’s first RRTS. We have been interacting with authorities to holistically integrate all public transport networks in the region.Multi-modal integration, which is central to our planning, is a key enabler in increasing ridership as it incentivises commuters to shift from private transport. For example, the Sarai Kale Khan RRTS station will be a mega multi-modal transit hub of NCR, where all the three priority RRTS corridors will converge and integrate with the existing Delhi metro station, Nizamuddin Railway station, and ISBT.At NCRTC, commuter convenience takes precedence over ease of implementation. We are committed to combine engineering solutions with top-class technology to provide sustainable urban mobility to the commuters of NCR. Multi-Modal integration and seamless connectivity will remain at the core of our planning and implementation.Vinay Kumar Singh is managing director, NCRTCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/multimodal-integration-the-key-to-transforming-india-s-transport-systems-101624516425918.html
