25-06-2021||Today's||Investigating gender disparities in India’s vaccine rollout||While less than 20% of India’s adult population has received their first Covid-19 vaccine dose, clear gender disparities have arisen in the rollout. A recent analysis by Ashoka University shows that for every 100 men, around 86 women were vaccinated. This is significantly lower than India’s sex ratio of approximately 924 women per 1,000 men. In only three states, women have received equal or higher vaccine shots than men: Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. Union Territories including Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Jammu and Kashmir, and Chandigarh, and states such as Delhi fare poorly. As the vaccination programme continues, addressing these gaps is an urgent priority.When India started its vaccination drive, women comprised a majority of recipients because of their roles in frontline work. However, as the general population started getting vaccinated, these numbers began reversing, with more men being vaccinated. In April alone, 2.4 million fewer women were vaccinated than men.Also Read | Prostate cancer drug may improve Covid-19 survival: StudyHow did we get here?A primary barrier to getting women vaccinated is the limited understanding of the disparate impacts Covid-19 vaccines have on them. While few clinical trials capture the sex-differentiated impacts, those that exist suggest that women experience more frequent and more severe adverse effects post-immunisation.Stories of what might happen post-vaccination reflect the fallacies on the ground. In a study released recently by the Self-Employed Women’s Association, poor women expressed their fears of how the vaccine might inject a virus into them and disable them from using the only asset they have – their health. There are also concerns about the effects on pregnant women, menstrual cycles, and fertility rates. Many public health researchers rue the lack of data on the gendered impacts of the vaccine, making it harder to pass on accurate information on the vaccine’s after-effects.The digital divide worsens the prospects for women seeking vaccinations. The reliance on online registrations (in English only) ignores the lack of access to digital devices and the internet among women. In rural areas, only 33.9% of women have used the internet compared to 55.6% of men, according to the National Family Health Survey-5. Further, only 54.8% of women have their own mobile phone, with far less owning a smartphone.Mobility restrictions further impede women seeking health services, as they tend to rely on male members of the household to accompany them. The burden of unpaid care work also dissuades women from travelling long distances to health clinics. Some women hesitate to get vaccinated by male health workers, stemming from cultural and religious norms. The lockdown has also prevented health workers from bringing elderly women to wait in long queues in vaccination centres.But there is a larger narrative around gender-based inequalities within households and the social norms that structure them. Previous studies show gender gaps in the immunisation of children in India. In a study tracking immunisation rates for male and female siblings, fewer females were immunised when compared to their male siblings. Since the comparison is between children in the same household, the study concluded that the gap cannot be due to household factors that drive immunisation (e.g. poverty or access) and, therefore, could be explained by intra-household gender inequalities. Unfortunately, we are not collecting data on intra-household Covid-19 vaccination rates to confirm this hypothesis.At IWWAGE, we are exploring the links between existing gender inequalities and vaccine coverage. Using data from the government’s CoWin dashboard, we found that states with a higher percentage of female vaccinations are likely to have lower poverty levels, higher female education levels, and a higher share of women reporting intra-household bargaining power.Two indicators stand out. First, the share of vaccinated women is positively correlated with women’s labour force participation rates, and negatively with the share of women not working due to household care work. Second, the political involvement of women in Panchayati Raj Institutions matters as well. Our findings suggest that states performing better on gender outcomes are more likely to have higher female vaccination rates.So what can be done?First, vaccine delivery must account for women’s barriers to information, digital access, and mobility. Greater engagement with community organisations in planning and targeting women, along with effectively communicating with them can help identify barriers and dispel misinformation.Second, vaccinations drives should be planned based on context-specific needs and preferences of women.Third, India needs to rely on its overstretched female frontline health staff to ensure the vaccine’s rollout. But to do so, it must ensure that they are vaccinated, trained, and adequately remunerated.Fourth, sex-disaggregated data needs to be collected to better target vaccines for those in need. On the CoWin dashboard, data on sex has not been reported for nearly 20% of those vaccinated until May. If India were to exclude this population, the share of women receiving the vaccine dips further to 74 women per 100 men.Above all, we must recognise that improving gender equality on other fronts can improve gender-balanced vaccination efforts. Without this, women will continue to face a disproportionate burden of the pandemic, threatening India’s much-needed recovery.Soumya Kapoor Mehta and Steven Walker work at the Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy (IWWAGE), an initiative of LEAD at Krea UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/investigating-gender-disparities-in-india-s-vaccine-rollout-101624626595289.html
25-06-2021||Today's||Challenging patriarchy in religion||When the pujari (priest) at the Durga temple in Nalluthevanpatti village, Madurai, fell ill and could no longer perform the ritual pujas, his only child, a daughter, Pinniyakkal, stepped up. Two years later, when he died in 2006, she staked her claim to be the full-time pujari, a hereditary position at that temple.The local populace was appalled. Even though the temple deity was female, tradition dictated the pujari could only be male. So, Pinniyakkal went to court. Agreeing with her claim, Justice K Chandru of the Madras high court ruled: “The altars of the God must be free from gender bias.”Some 15 years later, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s state minister of temple administration announced earlier this week that women — and non-Brahmins — can apply for positions as temple priests, provided they have undergone training in “agama sastra”, the manual that lays down rituals of prayer and worship. “Women must be given opportunities to participate in every sphere of life, whether spiritual or material,” Justice Chandru, who retired in 2013, said to me on the phone.Also Read | In their quest for power, UP’s Brahmins keep parties guessing about 2022The idea of women and non-Brahmin priests is not new. In 2006, the DMK set up training centres for non-Brahmins. In Maharashtra, training centres for women were first established in Pune and Ahmednagar. In Mumbai, Anjali Kale, now 82, founded the Rudrani Purohita Mandal in 1990 and has trained 250 women priests, including her daughter Kshama Mangesh Joglekar, who has a day job at the Life Insurance Corporation. “I sought her out because I believe that if women don’t support women then who will?” said Dr Manisha Nadkarni, a Mumbai-based gynaecologist who has been using Joglekar’s services for over a decade.Scholars say Hinduism does not ban women from becoming priests. But over time, patriarchal notions have seeped into some practices —prohibitions on women during “impure” menstruation, for instance. These are being challenged by younger feminists and the Sabarimala judgment that lifted the ban on women of menstruating age was hailed as a landmark in feminist jurisprudence.Women priests are adapting to changing times but are treading with caution. When couples ask Mumbai-based Anagha Mule, 70, to officiate at their weddings, they often ask her to do away with rituals they find abhorrent: The bridegroom’s feet being washed by the bride’s mother, or the kanyadaan. She is happy to accommodate those requests. “I understand that a woman is not a thing to be given away,” she said. But, if she’s asked to do puja at a home that already has a male family priest, she won’t go as she doesn’t want to take away another person’s livelihood, she added.While a growing number of women are finding acceptance as private priests who conduct rituals, they are almost never seen in the larger, public temples. Now, the Tamil Nadu government has acknowledged their right to do so. It’s not as if women are waiting to storm the breach, but the move certainly signals the beginning of the end of another male stronghold.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/challenging-patriarchy-in-religion-101624626355563.html
25-06-2021||Today's||After the storm, when Delhi and Kashmir meet||What leaps out first from the photograph of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi flanked by varied representatives of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), in the first such outreach since the effective abrogation of Article 370, is the sheer irony of it all. In 2019, some of these very men and women were treated not just as political pariahs; they were regarded as dangerous to law and order and placed under prolonged detention. Today, the very fact of the three-hours plus discussion — one that someone present at the meeting described as “emotional and full of pain” — is an inevitable acknowledgment of the limitations of realpolitik and past failures of both the Centre and Kashmir Valley’s mainstream. For the Modi government, the calls for a “Naya Kashmir” has paradoxically led them right back to old established political parties after a failed experiment at propping up an “alternative” regime in the form of the Apni Party and other such flirtations. This is not the first time that the imprint of intelligence agencies is seen on the political fabric of the Kashmir Valley. But after the dramatic developments of August 2019, the fact that the PM had to call this meeting is an admission that the government’s move to treat elected representatives as if they are criminals, apart from being morally questionable, brought no tangible gains at all. It has had to offer respect and legitimacy once again to the very politicians it dissed and dismissed. Also Read | Bridging Kashmir’s ‘dil ki duri’ with DelhiIn this, the government must come to terms with the fact that its bluster and aggression eventually has to be tempered with softness. For the Kashmiri politicians among the group — because the faultlines have been wrenched open in the Valley and not in Jammu — the decision to engage with those who humiliated them is not just an expression of pragmatism. It is also a tacit acknowledgment that irrespective of who leads the government in Delhi next, the special status of J&K is almost certainly never coming back. To that extent, the BJP has been able to set the boundaries within which a new framework has to be found for dialogue. Despite the maximalist articulation of demanding the restoration of Article 370, these stakeholders are far too experienced to not recognise the inevitable outcome — the middle ground will be found in giving J&K full statehood again and possibly some exceptionalism with domicile rules similar to what a few other states enjoy. The mainstream will need to confront the fact that its arrests and the unfairness with which it was treated was not able to rally popular opinion. Piecing together what was said behind closed doors, one now knows that the PM did reference the 2019-2020 detentions that lasted up to eight months, but within the larger context of the power of India’s democracy. According to those present at the meeting, Modi remarked that despite those arrests, here they all were, around the same table, talking again. This, he said, is what makes democracy so remarkable. But what also makes democracy remarkable is that within J&K, thousands of political workers have risked their lives and often paid with it, just to participate in the electoral process. Unlike the rest of us for whom a streak of indelible ink on our fingers is material for a cliched selfie, for those in the mainstream of J&K’s politics, both voting and contesting can literally be a matter of life and death. And so, among the leaders present in the room, Sajjad Lone, the first separatist to turn mainstream when he fielded proxy candidates in the watershed election of 2002, also the man who likened Modi to an elder brother, is reported to have underlined that words used by either side could be either enablers or obstacles. He is understood to have also underlined that even as the ideological quarrel over the Kashmir issue is not likely to get resolved in a hurry, other deliverables for the people of the erstwhile state should not stop. This round of dialogue should be seen perhaps as a moment of chastening all around. It is a reminder that in the ferocious contestation of dogmas, a sledgehammer only goes so far and no further. The call by the Prime Minister to end “both Dil Ki Duri and Dilli Ki Duri” is also a testimony to how the more things change, the more they remain the same. But above all, it is a calling out of the shamefully bigoted prime time hatemongers who never missed an opportunity to demonise the Kashmiri people and mainstream politicians. It is their stunned silence today that speaks volumes. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/after-the-storm-when-delhi-and-kashmir-meet-101624625575140.html
25-06-2021||Today's||Bridging Kashmir’s ‘dil ki duri’ with Delhi||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s meeting with the leaders of various political parties from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) is significant for several reasons.First, not a single invitee skipped or boycotted the meet. Second, this was perhaps the longest all-party meeting held on J&K in several years. The leaders spent close to four hours with the PM and his team. Third, not one of them has complained about the proceedings. On the contrary, everyone, including Mehbooba Mufti, admitted that the meeting was cordial, and they got the opportunity to candidly convey their views without anybody contradicting or interrupting them.Delhi should draw the right inferences from it. Although delayed, as the PM admitted, this was an important move by him to complete the process initiated two years ago by annulling Article 370 and 35A. The response of the political stakeholders at the meet, especially those from the Valley, should be seen by Delhi as a reflection of the current sentiment among the people.Also Watch | ‘Not ready to accept...’: After Modi meet, Omar, Mehbooba raise demandsKashmiris have been fed on the staple of special status, autonomy, and similar rhetoric for decades. There will continue to be the echoes of it for some more time. But, broadly, the urge today is for restoration of political authority. That dominant sentiment was expressed by majority of the leaders at the Delhi meet when they talked about the restoration of statehood, formation of new legislature and return of the reins of power to people’s representatives.Condescension should not be the way to look at this important change of heart, nor should Delhi gloat derisively over the “capitulation” of the Kashmiri leaders. Instead, it must be understood as their willingness to leave behind contentious issues and move on. In that, the most important message that the Valley leaders have delivered to Delhi was that they trust the leadership.“Kashmir needs a stern state,” Jagmohan told me in early 1990s soon after he served as the governor of J&K. “We have pampered it like a mother. We should also be stern like a father”, he explained. Delhi has shown its sternness in the last couple of years. Kashmiris have got the message. Now is the time, not for pampering, but for positivity.Mufti Mohammad Sayeed had made an important submission at the time of the formation of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Peoples Democratic Party government that by agreeing to join hands with the BJP, six million Kashmiris had placed their trust and fate in the hands of a party that they perceived as Hindu. “Dil ki doori” can be bridged when Delhi understands the message of the present meeting also, not from the hyperbole of 9 pm television news, but with a pragmatic eye.The Delhi meet was also significant because of the prominence given to the political leadership by relegating non-political operatives, including officials and agencies, to a backseat. The travesty of J&K has been that it was sought to be handled through non-political players over all these decades. The metaphorical “Delhi ki doori” was a result of this cockeyed handling only.One of the achievements of Mufti-BJP government, during its short-lived stint of less than a year, was to restore primacy of the political leadership. PM Modi gave a clear indication of similar intention when he said at the meet, “Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen, and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to its development trajectory.”The annulment of Article 370 was the first step in building a “Naya Kashmir”. The next natural step should be to build a “Naya Agenda”, new agenda. The PM had set the tone for it at the meeting calling for a “corruption-free, developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered”. ‘All-round growth’ also meant attending to the injustices meted out to sections of the population such as the Kashmiri Pandits, people of Jammu, refugees, among others.The scrapping of Article 370 has paved the way for that. But the traditional Valley parties have an aversion to this agenda. They thrived on an agenda of separatism and hate. Some of them continued to peddle that fake agenda by invoking issues such as the restoration of Article 370 and special status at the meet. But these parties have increasingly lost their relevance in the state over the last few years. People are in no mood to fall for their jumlabazi anymore.That should lead to the rise of a “Naya Netritva”, new leadership, in the state. Indications of the rise of that new leadership were discernible at the Delhi meeting itself where the traditional players such as the PDP and National Conference were seen sharing the platform with relatively new entrants such as Sajjad Lone and Altaf Bukhari, with all getting an opportunity as equal stakeholders.There was a time when the Valley’s politics was dominated by one party and one family. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee years brought a new player – PDP – into the ring. The time has come for more such parties to occupy political space in the state. Some in Delhi expect the new players to be the amplifiers of Delhi’s ruling establishment. National parties such as Congress and BJP are there for that. What the state needs are not “mouthpieces” of Delhi, but genuine representatives of the people. The PM’s message that “it is the people, especially the youth, who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled” should be understood in that spirit.Ram Madhav is a member of the national executive of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and member of the board of governors of India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bridging-kashmir-s-dil-ki-duri-with-delhi-101624617174569.html
25-06-2021||Today's||In their quest for power, UP’s Brahmins keep parties guessing about 2022||One has to travel back in time to probe the Brahmin community’s alienation from its old flame, the Congress, its flirtations with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), and the reignition in 2014 of a courtship with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which, some believe, could now be reaching a breaking point in Uttar Pradesh (UP).With an approximate 12-14% share in the population, Brahmins, who continue to be opinion leaders at various societal tiers, have for years been a leaderless community in the key Hindi state.The era of titans such as GB Pant, Kamalapati Tripathi, HN Bahuguna, Umashankar Dikshit, ND Tiwari (all from the Congress stock) and the BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who hailed from Madhya Pradesh but contested several times from UP, has long passed. This perhaps explains the community’s vagrant ways in the race for political space in a socially competitive polity.In the post-Mandal phase, the community lost as much relevance as did its original safe harbour, the Congress. It was left to fend for itself as the BSP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) ran away with the Dalit-Muslim components of the party’s once-formidable social compact. The resultant churn nudged the Brahmins into the Hindutva tent in the course of the Ram Temple movement. That has been a long-term legacy of the short term VP Singh regime the BJP propped up in conjunction with the Left after the 1989 polls. It was Singh’s government which enforced the Mandal Commission report in 1990.The crisis of leadership It is their broader social acceptability that has helped the Brahmins fare better than other forward identities in moving subaltern groups with them. In the Hindutva sweepstakes, the community’s superior adaptability faced pushbacks from the Rajputs and certain Hindutva-aligned, Mandal-empowered Other Backward Classes (OBC) sub-groups.Notable among them were the Lodhs and Kurmis, besides sections of the Yadavs. In the resultant tussle for prime political space, two Brahmin BJP leaders widely considered as chief minister material met with untimely, unnatural deaths.The first to go in 1997 was Brahmdutt Dwivedi. A Kanyakubj Brahmin and a sitting Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Farukkhabad, he had clout in the Doab area between Braj (Mathura-Vrindavan) and Avadh (Lucknow-Ayodhya-Allahabad). What made him a celebrity of sorts was his chivalrous rescue of Mayawati during the 1995 Lucknow guest house assault involving elements from Mulayam Singh’s SP.Also Read | In Indian politics, a crisis of leadershipDwivedi was a favourite of Vajpayee. The latter’s rise as prime minister could’ve earned him the chief ministerial spurs. But that was not to be. Instead, Kalyan Singh, a weighty Lodh leader whose administration was dismissed after the Babri mosque demolition in December 1992, held the office twice while Vajpayee ruled Delhi in the politically uncertain late 1990s.In 2004, another notable Brahmin in the BJP’s ranks, Ghanshyam Shukla, died in mysterious circumstances. A freak road accident had his family alleging murder. Be that as it may, the tragedy came with political repercussions. The deceased leader was popular among the sizeable Brahmin electorate in the Barabanki-Balrampur stretch including Bahraich, Gonda, Sitapur, Ayodhya and Shrawasti.The area is famous for political turf-battles between the Brahmins and Rajputs. The Jana Sangh had pockets of influence there even when the Congress was the dominant force. Vajpayee first entered the Lok Sabha from Balrampur in 1957. Located at nearby Gonda is the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) icon, Nanaji Deshmukh’s Deendayal research institute for rural development.In the 2007 assembly polls, the Brahmins went on a rebound to Mayawati against this backdrop. She won them over with her seemingly inclusive cry of “Haathi nahi, Ganesh hai, Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesh hai”. The slogan marked a 360-degree turn from her reactionary anti-forward caste chants of “Tilak tarazu aur talwar, inko maaro jutey chaar.”The Brahmin value-add got her a majority of her own. In seeking to expand her base, Mayawati learnt perhaps from her bitter rival and Yadav chieftain, Mulayam Singh, who forever kept by his side three prominent upper-caste faces: Janeshwar Mishra (Brahmin), Rewati Raman Singh (Bhumihaar) and Mohan Singh (Rajput). A reminder at once of his socialist pretence, their companionship lent his image an inclusive touch beyond the sectarian.How the Congress squandered the 2009 gainsIn the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, the BSP (20) came third after the SP (22) and the Congress (21) in terms of the number of seats they won. The results signalled the preference of Brahmins for the Congress over regional parties, notably the BSP, in parliamentary elections. It indicated as much their search for a pan-Indian platform other than the BJP.The thaw between the Congress and the Brahmins — who brought with them sections of the Dalits and Muslims — has to be contextualised to dissect the reasons for its short life. The party failed to nurture and expand the ground-level narrative which yielded electoral dividends across the state, especially in the Brahmin strongholds. The parliamentary seats the Congress wrested included eastern UP’s Barabanki (won by PL Punia), Faizabad (Nirmal Khatri), Bahraich (Kamal Kishor), Shrawasti (VK Pandey) and Gonda (Beni Prasad Varma).The phase also marked the last electoral win of Jitin Prasad — who recently crossed over to the BJP — from Dhaurehra in Lakhimpur Kheri adjoining Bahraich. But more on that, later.The eastern UP areas where the Congress did well have a sizeable presence of the omnibus, geographically identified Kanyakubjs and their sub-group, the Saryupari Brahmins. The broader identity inhabits several north Indian states; the latter hail from across the Saryu river near Ayodhya. Of their strength, the Kanyakubjis are also a factor in Farukkhabad (Salman Khurshid’s constituency) and the Saryuparis in Khushinagar (RPN Singh) besides Basti, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Ballia, Ghazipur, Varanasi and Mirzapur.From 1997 — when Dwivedi was shot dead — till 2012, when Akhilesh Yadav of the SP became the chief minister, the Brahmins weren’t en bloc in the BJP camp. The community was on the prowl for a respectable sinecure. Its 2009 rapprochement with the Congress happened after its disillusionment with the BJP and Mayawati. The Congress’s campaign in those elections was led by the Manmohan Singh-Sonia-Rahul Gandhi trinity which seemed a reassuring mix of experience, inclusivity and youth in the aftermath of the 2008 global economic crisis.The entente broke when the Congress projected a Kurmi leader, Beni Prasad Varma, then the sitting Member of Parliament from Gonda, as its face in the assembly polls. Akhilesh Yadav won by a thumping majority.Also Read | 30 years later, the life and legacy of Rajiv Gandhi“Had the Congress showcased a Brahmin leader in those elections, they could’ve built on the 2009 success,” said Amresh Misra of the Rashtravadi Kissan Kranti Dal.The times had changed but not the Brahmin investment in self-respect and search for leadership. The party failed to provide the influential community with even a hint of the sense of belonging reminiscent of free India’s early decades. That apart, the Congress didn’t come across as fighting for an honourable defeat leave alone a victory against a charged-up BJP under Narendra Modi.The BJP’s wooing of Brahmins: A replay of 2014As the 2014 general elections drew closer, the Congress remained inert while the critical importance of Brahmin support dawned early and tangibly on the BJP. The party of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement appointed Meerut’s Laxmikant Bajpai as its state unit chief in December 2012. His clean image and organisational skills worked well for Modi‘s prime ministerial challenge. The party won 71 of the 80 Lok Sabha seats.Not surprising that Bajpai was among the multiple contenders projected as a possible BJP CM face in the 2017 assembly polls — there was no official CM face - after making room for an OBC leader, Keshav Prasad Maurya, the current deputy CM, as the party’s UP president. What put paid to the possibility was the Brahmin leader’s shock defeat in Meerut against the run of the electoral play. Besides him, Kalraj Mishra, a Saryupari Brahmin from Deoria, who is now the governor of Rajasthan, was retained as a central minister in the run-up to the UP elections. In order not to annoy the Brahmin electorate, he was allowed to continue beyond the age of 75, the limit set for active politics by Modi.Had Bajpai not run out of luck, UP could’ve got a Brahmin CM after a quarter century; the last to occupy the office (1988-89) was the Congress’s ND Tiwari. A testimony to the BJP’s flagging support in the community is the call made recently on Bajpai by Swatantra Dev Singh, the party’s incumbent UP chief and a vocal supporter of the beleaguered CM, Yogi Adityanath.It’s difficult to guess where Jitin Prasad fits in the broader BJP plan — except being an ornamental Brahmin face. He lacks the heft to be a catalyst for his clansmen’s rapprochement with Yogi, who is seen as partisan to his Thakur (Rajput) base. Such is the deficit of trust that the Brahmins view as a “caste encounter” the killings of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey and his cohorts. The UP Police had gone after the gang after suffering casualties in an earlier gun battle.Also Read | From 1991, the lessons for the India of 2021Not just that, the Yogi regime’s 2017 decision to cancel Parshuram Jayanti as a state holiday has also become an issue in the lead up to next year’s polls. “In response to the BJP’s Jai Sriram, the Brahmins’ chant Jai Parshuram,” said Misra of the RKD. Jitin Prasad was among the leaders who appealed to the CM in recent years to restore the jayanti its due place on his government’s calendar.The pleadings that haven’t hitherto been heard might find consideration in the ongoing season of political expediency. The Brahmin rebellion came to the fore in the recent panchayat polls in which the BJP did poorly. In Shrawasti for instance, the party gave 20 candidates from the community. All of them lost.A joke doing the rounds in UP these days is that the CM could have become PM had he not lacked Vitamin B (Brahmin). The messaging turns serious when read with another jibe, that of Yogi running a (Thakur) T-series in UP.It is a bit early to say how much of a force multiplier would he be. But the lateral induction in the UP BJP of AK Sharma (a former IAS officer perceived to be close to Modi) has had the grapevine working overtime. It’s a flashback of sorts to the leadership search after the 2017 polls which brought in circulation the name of Manoj Sinha, currently the Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. But Yogi had his way.The bureaucrat-turned-politician initially tipped to take over as deputy CM is, like Sinha, an eastern UP Bhumihaar who claim to be Brahmins. Their caste-moniker suggests their land-owning status.Yesteryear BrahminsHistorically, the one Brahmin defection that changed the course of an election in UP was that of HN Bahuguna in the post-Emergency 1977 polls. He quit the party to set up the Congress for Democracy with Jagjivan Ram and Odhisha’s Nandini Satpathy. The fledgling outfit merged later with the Janata Party. A keen political observer and former student leader of Allahabad University, Baba Abhaya Awasti rated the event as the “beginning” of the party-hopping phase that has since turned from the sublime to the ridiculous.Bahuguna famously justified the switch with the reasoning that only the dead and the foolish don’t change their line of thinking: “Sirf murdey aur murkh hi vichardhara nahi badalte.” The cryptic one-liner is part still of Allahabad’s oral history.Also Read | The politics of foreign aid in IndiaBelatedly though, Bahuguna walked out not as much on Indira Gandhi as on her autocracy, her actions that vilified democracy. In so deciding, he did not show himself as a Brahmin leader — but a leader who happened to be a Brahmin.What was true of Bahuguna — who took pride in a riot free UP on his watch as the CM — applied to many leaders of the early generation. Their stewardship wasn’t driven by primordial caste identities. Their acme was their strong moral fibre, their probity, progressive learning and personal integrity. The Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha, a Maithil Brahmin from Bihar, said the regressive journey began some three decades ago; caste predominance cleaving the polity into silos and leaders into votaries of inward-looking social groups.Exemplifying that is Bahuguna’s progeny that moved from the Congress to the BJP the way Jitin Prasad has. The one thing common between them is their commonplace curriculum vitae. The retrogressive metamorphosis is visible across parties, more so in the vastly diminished Congress.Little wonder then that the Brahmins are leaderless. And it is this search for leadership that continues to drive their political calculations, keeping all of UP’s major political players in suspended animation about how the community would swing in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-up-the-story-of-brahmin-politics-and-community-s-quest-for-political-leadership-101624615914730.html
25-06-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: The Strange High Command Culture||For all of this week, political observers have been enthralled by the spectacle of the Congress setting fire to the best part of its own house. Punjab is one of the few North Indian states where the Modi wave has made no real impact. The Congress’s charismatic and experienced Chief Minister (CM) Capt. Amarinder Singh has not only kept the BJP at bay, he has also left the Akalis in disarray and prevented Aam Admi Party from growing.His reward for all of this was on display last week when the Congress high command which had nourished and encouraged Navjot Singh Sidhu, the celebrated former cricketer and former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP, decided to treat Sidhu and Amarinder as being on par. It listened respectfully to the CM’s detractors, did not act against Sidhu when he called the CM names and made Amarinder seek the approval of an internal committee of mostly second division leaders. The Gandhis, who have known Amarinder for decades, did not meet him.While Indian political observers wondered why the Congress might want to destabilise one of the few states where it is comfortably placed only a few months before an election, observers of Indian politics from abroad had a different question.“What exactly is a high command?” they asked.Good question.In fact the concept of a high command is one of India’s many contributions to global democracy. In most countries with a Westminster-style system of government, there is no such concept. Nor is it common in countries with a federal structure. In the United States, for instance, a Democratic governor may respect President Joe Biden but he knows the President does not have the power to remove him or even, to discipline him.So why do we have high commands in India? Does the term, with its martial associations, really have any place in a democratic society?Well, in Jawaharlal Nehru’s time, the Congress had no high command to speak of. The prime minster (PM) had an enormous moral stature (throughout the country, not just in the Congress party) and the party president was usually a well-respected figure. But state CMs were also powerful men with their own political bases. Some of them even openly disagreed with the PM who respected their views and their right to do things their own way.The Congress developed a high command structure only under Indira Gandhi. When PM Lal Bahadur Shastri died suddenly in Tashkent in 1966, it was the powerful state CMs and Congress leaders who selected Indira Gandhi to be his successor. But the leaders expected her to do their bidding and within three years Mrs Gandhi had rebelled.In 1969, she split the Congress, calling her faction the Congress (R) while the state leaders controlled the organisational faction called the Congress (O).Mrs Gandhi wiped out the Congress (O) in the 1971 election and never again allowed any powerful state leaders to grow too strong in the Congress. Assembly elections were fought in her name and she would nominate CMs herself. Generally, she chose people who had no independent support bases and owed their positions only to her.All important decisions were referred to Delhi and the concept of a high command to which these obedient lance naiks reported, took hold in the Congress.In 1977, Mrs. Gandhi was ousted from the Congress after a massive defeat following the Emergency, so she split the Congress again, calling her faction the Congress (I). In the 1979/80 election, the Congress (I) emerged victorious and the high command structure reasserted itself. It remained that way through Rajiv Gandhi's reign too.While PMs liked the idea of the high command that kept state CMs in their place, this concept only worked if the PM could win elections for the state leaders. The deal was: I get you elected and you do whatever I say.This arrangement collapsed towards the end of Narasimha Rao’s term when it became clear that he was no election-winner. State leaders realised the central leadership could do nothing for them.So they rebelled. For instance, Mamata Banerjee walked out and started her own party. In Tamil Nadu every Congressman of note left to found the Tamil Maanila Congress.When the Congress finally returned to office eight years after Narasimha Rao led the party to defeat, the high command structure re-emerged but it was no longer as strong as it once had been. For instance, the Congress leadership needlessly alienated the family of the late YS Reddy (YSR) which led to the emergence of the YSR Congress, founded after Jagan, YSR’s son, walked out of the Congress. In 2004, Andhra had been the key to the Congress’s victory. Now, after the exit of the YSR faction, the Congress hardly counts for anything in the state.Ever since its collapse in two successive general elections, the Congress has struggled to impose the high command model on its states. In Madhya Pradesh, it disregarded Jyotiraditya Scindia’s claims and appointed Kamal Nath as CM. In Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot was appointed over Sachin Pilot’s objections. Only in Punjab, was there no other obvious candidate for the job so Amarinder became CM.But the high command model did not work. Scindia departed for the BJP leading to the collapse of the Madhya Pradesh government. Sachin Pilot rebelled and the government survived only after he had been mollified. His aides now suggest that the high command has not kept its end of the bargain and Rajasthan remains a ticking time bomb for the Congress.In Assam, the high command model led to Hemanta Biswal Sharma leaving for the BJP after he had an unsatisfactory meeting with Rahul Gandhi. (He is now CM and the BJP has won two elections in a row in Assam.) In Maharashtra despite the high command’s reservations (if not outright objections) the Congress’s MLAs, opted to join a coalition with the Shiv Sena.So, in many ways, Punjab is the last gasp of the high command model. Amarinder Singh is old-school enough to make the journey to Delhi to explain himself. But another leader in his place (say, Sidhu, who has form in this regard) could simply threaten to walk out of the party, as so many others have done, so successfully.None of this is to say that the growing failure of the High Command model within the Congress is a triumph of inner-party democracy. It is much more pragmatic than that. If the High Command wants people to listen to it, then it must assure them that their legislative seats are safe, that they can win elections in the name of the High Command. This was why the model worked in the Indira-era.The problem is that the present Congress High Command is not able to offer any such assurances. The Congress’s electoral record is dismal, while many of those who have left have flourished outside the Congress. (At least five non Congress Chief Ministers are people who walked out of the Congress complaining about the High Command.)If Rahul Gandhi can demonstrate that he is a vote winner, then the high command model would seem strong and unchallenged again. But, as of now, this has not happened.But the high command model remains one of India’s great — if slightly dodgy—contributions to global democratic practices. It may be dying in the Congress but just look at the BJP.As the party continues its transition to becoming a mirror image of the Indira Gandhi Congress, the high command model has never seemed stronger. Nothing of note happens in the BJP without the involvement of Narendra Modi or Amit Shah who appoint all CMs. State leaders know who the bosses are.So yes, the Congress high command model is on its way out. But the BJP’s high command model looks set to rule and rule.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-strange-high-command-culture-101624610570952.html
