26-06-2021||Today's||Across religions, include women in the clergy||When Tamil Nadu Hindu religious and charitable endowments department minister, P K Sekar Babu, announced recently that women could also be appointed as priests in temples following stipulated training, it caused consternation.The importance of women priests in all religions cannot be overstated. The government and civil society should encourage more women to take up this profession and facilitate this. The clergy plays an important part in lessening social prejudices, an example being the Sikh clergy coming out strongly against female foeticide.There is huge potential in women priests from all religions becoming game-changers in gender inclusion in contemporary times. They could play a vital role in erasing vaccine hesitancy, tackling the upsurge in domestic violence during the pandemic, and addressing issues which affect women. In a deeply religious society, advice from the clergy carries significant weight.While there is no data on practising Hindu women priests, there are about a dozen formal institutions which train women for priesthood. The Jnana Prabodhini in Pune is among the oldest, and its Sanskrit Sanskruti Sangshodhika department, established in 1975, has a department to train men and women for priesthood, regardless of caste, unusual in a profession traditionally dominated by Brahmins.Manisha Shete, 51, who works as a priest and is the coordinator at the institute mentioned in an interview to a newspaper that when she began her training at Jnana Prabodhini in 2006, around 50% of the students were women. The institute encourages single women, divorcees, widows and women who are unable to have children to study there, most of whom are usually not accepted as equals in a traditional society. Excluding women from worship and carrying out religious rituals on the basis of biological functions, according to Shete, is a misinterpretation of the scriptures.The blurring of gender divisions in the clergy has also been seen among Muslims. A decade ago, the All India Muslim Women’s Board appointed two women, Hena Zaheer and Maria Fazal, as qazis in Uttar Pradesh. The progress since then has been heartening and steady. In 2016, the Bhartiya Mahila Muslim Andolan (BMMA) began training women to be qazis; today there are six in Mumbai who run sharia courts, solemnise marriages, try and resolve marital and inheritance issues, and counsel women facing domestic violence.In an interview with TV channel Al Jazeera, Noorjehan Safia Niaz, the founder of BMMA, said that the syllabus for studies of female qazis is carefully curated so as to not cater to the misogynistic rituals and principles that usually dominate religious studies. These women study the Koran from a female perspective, alongside the Constitution, to make better decisions that are gender-sensitive and in sync with the law. This means that the women are likely to be far more open and gender-inclusive when conducting rituals. According to several wedding planning portals, women priests are much more in demand today than ever. Google searches which were once limited to 10 for female priests a month in 2016 registered at least 200 per month in 2020, usually from brides who do not want to be subjected to patriarchal rituals such as vidaai and kanyadaan. Women priests are also seen as not being as judgmental as men when it comes of interfaith and multicultural couples. Women must have a greater role in the rituals that govern all our lives from birth to death.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/across-religions-include-women-in-the-clergy-101624711986273.html
26-06-2021||Today's||Soft infrastructure, and a tablet for all, can catalyse India’s development||At Independence, India was a large, poor, illiterate, country, with disparate religions, languages, races, food, and culture, coming together against imperial domination, not much else. It was not expected to survive, much less succeed. But the 15 years after Independence created the foundations of India that stood the test of time.A democracy based on full adult franchise was institutionalised, a Constitution agreed upon, a federal structure created, and, an independent judiciary and media were given protection.The State addressed the lack of basic economic infrastructure by building capital industry and nationalising the key pillars of financial sector, State Bank of India, and Life Insurance Corporation. It created institutions of higher learning, controversially retained the merit-based bureaucracy, subordinated the Army to the civil State, and, despite being poor, managed to find a voice on the global stage and created the concept of non-alignment. Any fair assessment of that period will score it well.The political economy of India subsumed everything else between 1960-1991. It was India’s moment of reckoning with “full adult franchise” in a poor democracy. Early in the period, banks were nationalised and forced to open deposit-collecting rural and semi-urban branches, deposits used to buy government securities to fund the planned expenditure. Credit was directed at identified priority sectors, and industry was allocated credit through the credit authorisation scheme.The government’s control of the economy was stifling, more and more sectors were nationalised, and the private sector was shackled with price controls, but supported by high tariffs and entry barriers in an era aptly called the license-raj. Unsurprisingly, Indian product quality was poor, we enjoyed the glacial “Hindu rate of growth” with massive disguised unemployment, and exports were not sufficient to meet our imports, finally leading to a major balance of payments problem in 1990.By 1991, India was on the verge of default and the then government rapidly employed policies fashioned on the International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s structural adjustment playbook, to obtain a five billion special drawing right facility.Steps were taken to unshackle the economy. Interest rates were decontrolled, tariff rates reduced, and the exchange rate set closer to the market rate. Licensing was eased and entry barriers were reduced. The economic unshackling changed India’s economic growth trajectory, which averaged a healthy 7% for over 25 years. Since then, successive governments of different persuasions have continued economic reforms. Even those with a welfarist orientation (which introduced or continued with Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and a range of subsidies) have prevented slippage.In fact, in the last 30 years, governments have introduced reforms in the areas of direct taxation, telecom, labour, banking and capital markets; expanded infrastructure (roads, airports and ports); increased foreign ownership limits in controlled sectors; attempted privatisation of State-owned and conceptualised and rolled-out Aadhaar. Currently, some noteworthy measures include the Goods and Services Tax, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy code, agricultural reforms (which, to be sure, have generated resistance but are overdue nonetheless) and sanitation and hygiene.Yet, to me, the biggest enabling reform for the future has to be the JAM trinity — opening bank accounts for all Indian households, getting 1.2 billion Indians enrolled onto Aadhaar and getting almost all Indians a mobile phone.To make India future-ready and to provide equal opportunity to its citizens, India must adopt technology fully in the next phase. My top five areas of reform are the following:One, address the digital apartheid. The government must ensure a “smart device for life” to all Indians, with adequate bandwidth and data. The equivalent of a mini iPad as a passport to equal opportunity with connectivity, providing access to education, health, training, upskilling and financial inclusion. This is the first requirement for aatmanirbharta (self-reliance).Two, ensure equal access in education. Virtual schooling in the pandemic has demonstrated the possibility for a much fairer future for our children. Using digital in education via the smart mini device should be the weapon and all public schools should be taught by the same teachers (by language), and their current teachers should become class monitors to ensure attendance and good behaviour.Three, revolutionise health care. The same device should provide access to health centres. All health records in India need to be digitised and centrally stored. We can address privacy issues and recreate our health care delivery in India from “absent” to “personalised”.Four, use water wisely. Managing the environment is a complex subject and India is both a victim and a perpetrator. Yet mispricing (or free) power and water has led to perversions in agriculture and lowered the water table to unforgivable levels. Exporting water-guzzling rice and sugar is like exporting food during a famine. And finally, speed up justice. At its core, this means that our courts must work faster, and jails should house criminals and not those who are undertrials. It is unjust for 60% of the inmates of jails to be undertrials.In the next phase of our journey, the defining focus must be soft infrastructure. We need to provide equal opportunity to citizens with basic access to nutrition, sanitation, health, and quality education. This will improve our economic productivity. In the digital era that is unfolding, without access to the benefits of technology among all citizens, our productivity will lag global benchmarks. Inequality will be socially threatening to our full adult suffrage-based democracy.Digital access should be the weapon to rethink our future. We now have the tools and India’s poor are waiting impatiently. Janmejaya Sinha is chairman, BCG-IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/soft-infrastructure-and-a-tablet-for-all-can-catalyse-india-s-development-101624711983421.html
26-06-2021||Today's||Capturing the complexity of conservation in cinema||Conservation and the climate crisis are loaded words. While writing the film, Sherni, the greatest challenge for me was understanding the dimensions of such complex and delicate topics, and then weaving them into a story.Through months of research, it became clear that for such a story to be understood, the overarching philosophy had to be clear: The world does not need singular heroes, but community builders to tackle the climate crisis. Another aspect of the film was understanding the cluster of issues that give rise to human-animal conflicts.I realised that the only way for me to approach the topic was with sound methodology. My research associate and I set about studying various case studies on human-animal conflict and then collating data to ascertain patterns. I referred to the work of Michel Foucault (Biopolitics) and read works of postcolonial scholars such as Achille Mbembe (Necropolitics), among others, and built on that.When we talk about marginalised communities and initiatives such as health care, mental health or ecology, it is important to remember that the exchange of knowledge and information should always be a two-way street. There is more to learn from communities that have lived through and coped with challenges of various kinds, and to then build on their knowledge. The approach must be to promote leadership rather than force-feed them with an approach that is likely to fail.The main character in the film, Vidya Vincent, is in a limbo at both her job and personal life, and is struggling to find meaning in her job. But a field-posting as a district forest officer jolts her into a world where the challenges faced by the local community and wildlife are immediate and stark. But Vincent is not a saviour, the character is self-aware and knows that her job will not allow her to stay in the same place for an extended period. She also knows that her role is to form local allies, engage with the communities dealing with these issues, and arrive at a long-term solution. While the task is to trap and tranquillise a tigress and move her to a national park nearby, that is just the tip of the iceberg for her. She finds allies in Noorani (a zoologist) and Jyoti (a community leader), who share her sentiments on conservation.The key insight was that there are no quick fixes to the issues of conservation and the climate crisis. It requires sustained efforts for any change to take place. It takes a different mindset to work in this field, since the climate crisis affects everyone in different ways. It was important for me to include and engage younger sections of the population. Gen Z is at the forefront of these conversations the world over, because it directly impacts their future. Therefore, the idea of “forest friends”, as a group working with Vincent from within the local community, was added.The opening and closing of the film have strong surrealistic undertones, and that was intentional. I wanted to open the film with a perspective on the issue. As the silhouette of the beast in the frame reveals a human imitating an animal, the symbolism is meant to make the audience self-reflect.Initially, the ending of the film was supposed to give Vidya Vincent closure. But the Covid-19 pandemic necessitated a big picture perspective on the issues of conservation. Therefore, I decided to write an eerie, metaphorical ending meant for audiences to reflect on. What is human existence without nature? What will we tell future generations about the feeling of walking through a natural forest and hearing the sounds of birds and insects, rivers and creeks? We are all a part of nature, all human creations are inspired by nature. To be in harmony with nature is the essence of being alive.This is not something that we can buy back. There is no price tag on nature, once we lose our forests, mountains, rivers and seas, it is lost forever.Aastha Tiku is the story and screenplay writer of the Vidya Balan-starrer Sherni, a recently-released film on wildlife and conservation issues The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/capturing-the-complexity-of-conservation-in-cinema-101624711980343.html
