27-06-2021||Today's||Engaging with the Taliban is necessary||India’s “quiet visit” to meet with the Taliban in Doha, confirmed by Mutlaq bin Majed al-Qahtani, Qatar’s special envoy for counterterrorism and conflict resolution, marks a significant shift in India’s approach towards Afghanistan. For decades, New Delhi refused to engage with the Taliban. The group’s dependence on Pakistan, its religious extremism, and support for transnational jihadists, including Kashmir-centric outfits, are the core reasons for India remaining distant. But the decision of the United States (US) to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan triggered a shift.Before unpacking the costs and benefits of engaging with the Taliban, it is worth reiterating the central driver of India’s Afghanistan policy i.e., to ensure a strategic balance between Kabul and Islamabad. The asymmetry of power between these countries notwithstanding, India wants to ensure that nationalist Afghan opinion — critical of Pakistan’s interventionism — remains alive and assertive. This is why New Delhi persisted with its advocacy of an “Afghan-owned, Afghan-led” reconciliation process. Talking to the Taliban, then, is as much an exercise in preventing harm to India’s interests, as to gauge the depth and breadth of the group’s nationalism.The benefits of this successful outreach are apparent. The Taliban acknowledges India’s constructive role in Afghanistan, and would not want a reduction in its diplomatic presence. There is no guarantee that it will prevent the use of Afghan soil by anti-India militants, but it has certainly expressed unwillingness to support such elements. Careful about not being caught between an India-Pakistan crossfire, the Taliban wants to distance itself from the Kashmir imbroglio. The outreach in Doha, then, has instilled cautious optimism among Indian officials that the Taliban may not openly hostile, and may even seek stronger ties in the medium-term.But the outreach is not risk-free.One, the Taliban could go back on its promises and, with a nudge from Pakistan, target Indian interests. If not this, then the Taliban interlocutors India is engaging with (the same figures the US is talking to, such as Mullah Baradar) could be sidelined, or worse, replaced by pro-Pakistan hardliners such as the Haqqanis. This is a considerable risk. After all, families of Taliban leaders reside in Pakistan. This offers the host valuable leverage, and Islamabad’s desire to reduce India’s presence in Afghanistan is well known.India still feels the humiliation of the 1999 IC-814 hijacking, when India’s northern allies were busy with infighting as the Taliban harassed India in Kandahar at Pakistan’s behest. Taliban factions on the ground have not broken ties with the al-Qaeda and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. Notably, they are also sheltering anti-Pakistan Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan elements as an insurance. In this context, the closure of India’s Jalalabad and Herat consulates due to persistent threats offers good reason for scepticism.Two, outreach to the Taliban could expedite Kabul’s fall, and complicate India’s relations with existing allies. This argument has been potent enough to prevent an India-Taliban channel to develop at various moments since 2010, when the idea of talking to the Taliban became internationally acceptable. In 2012-13, the then president Hamid Karzai’s pushback against the US’s engagement with the Taliban put an end to India’s own outreach. Silent in nature, the idea of talking to the Taliban then was the same as now i.e., to assess their desire for autonomy from Pakistan and attitude towards India as the US announced its departure in 2014.Despite these risks, there are compelling reasons for India to talk to the Taliban. For one, these concerns would remain valid regardless of India’s outreach. If nothing else, India’s absence in the Taliban’s calculus would make it even more expendable if the Islamic republic collapses.India’s support for Kabul and consolidation of relations with powerbrokers such as Marshall Dostum, Muhammad Mohaqiq, Ustad Atta, Ahmad Massoud, Ismail Khan, Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, Hamid Karzai and others, reduces the risk of dislocating its relationship with existing allies. These figures, barring an isolated president Ashraf Ghani, have been encouraging India to open channels with the Taliban. Aimed at supporting an inclusive setup in Kabul, India’s outreach to the Taliban is not at the expense of its allies, and they know it.There is an argument that the outreach should have been kept secret.Often unaccounted for, and prone to manipulation, covert contacts don’t build enduring alliances. If India seeks a politically inclusive Afghanistan and builds relations with all ethnic communities, then its outreach to the Taliban requires openness. India’s calibrated leaks have demonstrated the existence of this channel, which the Taliban has not denied, without outing specifics. This is loaded signalling for multiple audiences.For India’s strategic community, this suggests that New Delhi will not forget IC-814, but it cannot keep its Afghanistan policy hostage to that episode. For the Taliban, this is a signal of intent i.e., India is willing to accept the Taliban’s rise, but only as long as the Taliban respects Indian interests. Once in power, targeting India will not be cost-free for the Taliban (if New Delhi augments support for its allies), and over-dependence on Pakistan won’t take them far as administrators.The critical signal is for Pakistan i.e., India can absorb temporary setbacks, but will stay the course in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s notional strategic depth in Afghanistan will not help achieve its objectives vis-à-vis Kashmir. If anything, India’s outreach to the Taliban might complicate Pakistan’s relations with the Taliban once the latter comes to power and faces the pressures of governance and administration.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/engaging-with-the-taliban-is-necessary-101624803847518.html
27-06-2021||Today's||A roadmap from the Congress: Four pillars to fight the coronavirus||On May 28, the Union government announced that it will vaccinate all Indians by December 31, 2021. Nearly 10 million doses must be administered every day to achieve this target. Last Monday saw over 8.6 million vaccinations. The daily rate has since fallen to the five to six million range.A cumulative vaccination deficit is ballooning as there are massive vaccine shortages. The government did not place timely and adequate orders, perhaps because of its “smart vaccination strategy” that did not entail universal vaccination as it announced to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health in October 2020. It was later dropped, heeding the advice of scientists to adopt universal vaccination.Cynical headline management and announcements without a detailed roadmap distract from crucial measures that the government needs to implement immediately to prevent devastation on the scale seen during the first two waves.The Congress, in contrast, continuously provided concrete policy suggestions, and party workers provided crucial relief throughout the pandemic. Recently, Rahul Gandhi released a comprehensive “White Paper on the Management of COVID-19 by the Government of India”, and suggested four pillars to undergird the government’s pandemic response going forward.The first pillar is to identify mistakes and correct course, which the white paper does by holding a mirror to the government about its management of the pandemic.The second pillar is to prepare for third and future waves by focusing on ramping up vaccination, health care infrastructure and genome sequencing. Free, universal vaccination must be implemented in mission mode, not used as opportunities for self-promotion. We need systematic processes that ensure that procurement and distribution happen transparently, efficiently and equitably. Critical errors such as announcing victory before containing the pandemic cannot be repeated.This also requires setting up oxygen beds, increasing testing capacity and availability of doctors and paramedics, especially in rural areas. We need extensive genome sequencing to keep track of emerging variants of concern, to provide early warnings and ensure rapid responses. Effective risk communication must convince people to observe safety measures continuously and overcome vaccine hesitancy.The third pillar recognises that Covid-19 is both a public health and an economic crisis. While the economy was on a downward spiral before Covid-19, the pandemic led to a severe contraction in FY 2020-21. Estimates suggest a sharp rise in poverty and unemployment, and a shrinking middle class. Loss of incomes will impact demand thus slowing down recovery. Economic assistance through cash transfers for the vulnerable is a moral imperative and makes economic sense. A minimum income guarantee scheme will provide succour to those hurt and boost demand. Such interventions, along with wage subsidies for micro, small and medium enterprises, will revive businesses and regenerate employment. The fourth pillar involves a Covid-19 compensation fund to assist families of those who succumbed. In March 2020, the Union government centralised the fight against the pandemic by invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. It also notified ex-gratia relief but inexplicably reversed it within hours. The government must reinstitute relief of ₹4 lakh for bereaved families. India has the economic strength to do this. It will also help our country arrive at accurate assessments of the Covid-19 death toll, which has been tragically, perhaps deliberately, undercounted.A vibrant democracy requires the Opposition to hold the government accountable through constructive criticism of its policies. It also requires the government to be open to sound advice, whether it comes from experts or the Opposition. We are all together in this national mission to combat the pandemic. That is the essence of the white paper and the Congress’s constructive approach.MV Rajeev Gowda is chairman, AICC research department and a former Member of Parliament The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-roadmap-from-the-congress-four-pillars-to-fight-the-coronavirus-101624801758009.html
27-06-2021||Today's||For a fresh beginning in Jammu and Kashmir||They invited us... He is our prime minister, we have to trust him. We the people of Kashmir know it better than anybody else that dialogue is the best way... If you lose faith in the institution of dialogue, in a place like Kashmir, an alternative to it will be violence.” These are the words of Sajjad Lone, chairman of the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference, after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s all-party meet with leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on June 25. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader, Mehbooba Mufti, and the National Conference (NC) leader, Omar Abdullah, both former chief ministers (CMs), too found the talks positive and meaningful.It would seem that there was no other option for the 14 leaders of state’s political parties. Jammu and Kashmir’s residents may not have completely accepted of the loss of full statehood along with Article 370, but they too know that changing times call for changing resolutions.I say this based on my visit to the Kashmir Valley in March where I found that people are fed up with violence, and the young felt that this was crippling their chances at a normal life. At Tungmurg, Baramulla, a young man told me: “We know that nobody from another part of the country will come to purchase land in the Valley, but we need our statehood back and more job opportunities for local residents”. The Modi government had done a lot of preparatory work to implement its long-standing agenda. Let us go back two years. Mehbooba Mufti had lost her political heft when she formed a government with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). New parties in the Valley were waiting in the wings. Farooq Abdullah’s NC was arguably the strongest party on August 5, 2019, but the people of Jammu and Kashmir wanted something beyond these two families. This opened the doors for New Delhi to step in.New Delhi had also done its homework on the administrative front, and kept a sharp eye on the cultural plurality of the state. Barring the Hindu-majority areas of Jammu, the Gujjars in the border areas of Poonch and Rajouri had no sympathy for the conflict in the Valley. The minority Hindus in both these districts were also expressing their opinions in full force. In Kargil and the other scattered Shia settlements in the Valley, there never was any affinity with the Wahhabi-dominated separatists. The signal was clear that the situation could change for the better.The biggest challenge before the administration at that time were crowds gathering at the funerals of terrorists, a negative signal to the younger lot. The late Dineshwar Sharma, then the Centre’s interlocutor in Jammu and Kashmir, once asked a Kashmiri officer how to deal with this. The officer told Sharma that, often, even family members did not want funeral processions of their relatives killed in encounters. For this, graves could be prepared in relatively quiet places. If security forces were to kill a terrorist, he could be buried there with religious rituals in the presence of his family. This would both combine respect for religious sensitivities and family sentiments. This was done. And the result was palpable. Similarly, stone-pelting was also brought under control. The state police were given the freedom to deal with it, with a directive to find a long-term solution. Young pelters, they found, were being paid for this act. So, those who were paying this money were identified and picked up. A list of stone-pelters was made with the help of these people. Lookout posters of some of the hardcore pelters were pasted on the streets. As a result, most of them, who were not fundamentally extremist by nature, fled the Valley.About a year ago, Manoj Sinha was appointed to streamline the administration. He made his presence felt across the state, whether it was the replacement of power transformers during inclement weather in the Valley or other issues of public interest. Every week, he made an effort to boost public confidence by holding janata darbars (public courts) to convey that the government is there for the people’s service. This also helped overcome vaccine hesitancy.At the same time, there were other societal changes taking place. Many young people in Jammu and Kashmir were doing well in administrative examinations. This also made them feel that they could serve their people by becoming part of the power structure. That is why when the zilla parishad elections were announced, all the political parties participated, and the 51% voter turnout proved that Kashmiriyat believes in jamhooriyat (democracy). However, it is also a fact that fewer votes were cast in the Valley than in the Jammu region. Was this because of resistance or fear? Of course, it is too early to say that the situation is under control. In the early hours of Sunday, two explosions took place at an airport run by the Indian Air Force in Jammu, a high-security area. This shows how separatists are now banking on desperate measures to disturb normalcy. They are clearly agitated at the beginning of the political process after a significant reduction in terrorism-related incidents. They also have financed sporadic terror attacks on security forces and political activists to show their strength. Such elements are still employing the use of rumours to spread dissonance. Despite the ceasefire at the border, the role of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence can’t be ignored in nursing such outfits and individuals as we have seen Jammu-like incidents after almost every peace effort.The only way to deal with this is forming an elected government at the earliest and restoring full statehood. Hopefully, the dialogue in New Delhi will prove to be the change from Dilli ki doori (distance from Delhi) and dil ki doori (The distance from the heart) to something much closer. Kashmir has been waiting for a new dawn for a long time.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-a-fresh-beginning-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101624801750901.html
