28-06-2021||Today's||In Punjab, the Congress is its own worst opponent||In 2014, it took Sonia Gandhi just one phone call to make Captain Amarinder Singh agree to be the Congress candidate against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Arun Jaitley in Amritsar. Disinclined though to contest the Lok Sabha elections, he agreed without demur.The Captain won and was appointed the party’s deputy leader in the House under Mallikarjun Kharge. He exited Parliament before the 2017 assembly polls, leading the Congress to a thumping victory in Punjab, mopping up 77 of the 117 seats in a triangular fight with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).For some inexplicable reasons, it was only in the closing phases of the poll campaign that Rahul Gandhi, who became Congress president later that year, projected Singh as the party’s chief ministerial face at a rally in the SAD’s Amritsar stronghold of Majitha. Very much present at the stage then was Navjot Singh Sidhu.The wheel has since moved full circle. In the changed scenario, Sidhu is seeking to anchor the opposition within and Kharge is leading a three-member in-house audit of the chief minister’s delivery record on poll-time promises. The dissidents include a clutch of ministers and members of the legislative assembly upset with the bureaucracy’s disproportionate clout. But Sidhu is most vociferous in the attacks on his 79-year-old senior he accused of being a habituated liar in an interview to this newspaper.Also Read | Navjot Sidhu to meet Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi amid Congress infightingThe cricketer-turned-politician has raised many issues of malfeasance and unkept assurances. Of greater political import is the quashing by the high court of a botched police probe into the 2015 sacrilege incidents under the previous SAD regime. A new special investigation team (SIT) constituted on the court’s diktat in May is mandated to submit its report in six months on the impiety that led to police firing on outraged protesters.The officer who steered the first SIT, which incurred the judiciary’s wrath, joined AAP during Arvind Kejriwal’s recent visit to Amritsar, where the latter was all sugar and honey about Sidhu who had ambled up and then quickly distanced from the AAP in the lead up to the last elections. Quite clearly, the internal Congress discord and the spectacle the central leadership has made of the stock-talking exercise have afforded openings to its rivals to fish in troubled waters.The issues on the table came to a head after the court verdict in the desecration case which was a major factor in SAD’s electoral rout and the loss of the recognised-opposition status to the AAP. Sidhu’s in-the-face accusation of the CM being in cahoots with the Akali leadership has muddied the waters at a time the Congress should be preparing for next year’s elections. His swashbuckling ways, which are an electioneering asset, haven’t helped the patch-up efforts.Given that the differences were resolvable behind closed doors, the blame for the exacerbated crisis rests as much at the doorsteps of the central leadership. The Captain, for his part, has kept his counsel even as the inquirers and the dissidents are generous with sound bytes to TV channels. Having twice appeared before the Kharge panel, he has reasons to be displeased with the top leadership’s lack of contact with him amid a series of meetings Rahul Gandhi has held with ministers and legislators from the state.Equally unpalatable for the elected CM are suggestions that the committee has handed him an 18-point “to do” list. The claims made in interactions with the media will be ready-made talking points for the party’s opponents in the upcoming elections.Factionalism within was one reason why the Congress lost in Assam and Kerala. The malaise could similarly inflict the party in Punjab where even the Captain’s worst detractors rate him as its best bet in the 2022 battle. The emerging picture defies commonsense and realpolitik, more so when the CM is a phone call away from Sonia Gandhi and has passed most electoral tests post-2017, including the local body polls amid the farm agitation.In Punjab, the Congress is clearly its own worst enemy.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-punjab-the-congress-is-its-own-worst-opponent-101624889293290.html
28-06-2021||Today's||Tri-service commands: Use a strategy of persuasion||India is all set to create four new theatre commands and, in all likelihood, this will be announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi from the Red Fort on August 15. These new commands will be raised and operationalised over a two-year period and will be viable by August 2023.The new commands will include the integrated maritime theatre command (IMTC) and the integrated air-defence command (IADC), which had been earlier described as a low-hanging fruit in the radical rewiring of India’s higher defence management, a policy initiative that has been in stasis since the 1999 Kargil War. The other two commands will be China- and Pakistan-specific.PM Modi announced the creation of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in his August 2019 Independence Day address. The first incumbent, General Bipin Rawat, assumed office on January 1, 2020, and this was welcomed as a much-needed but long-delayed first step in the reorganisation of India’s higher defence management (HDM).Also Read | Leadership, asset split key concerns for air force on theaterisation moveThe lack of “jointness”, integrated planning and synergy between the three armed forces, has been a distinctive feature of the Indian military. In particular, there here has been less-than-satisfactory utilisation of airpower, perhaps due to a degree of diffidence and lack of clarity in the use of trans-border military capability embedded in Indian strategic culture. India did not use its modest-but-credible airpower in October 1962 when China chose to teach Jawaharlal Nehru a lesson in realpolitik.And for the record, there was no reference to airpower in Galwan of 2020. Similarly, the 1999 Kargil War and the 1987 Indian Peace Keeping Force operation in Sri Lanka saw less than optimal integration of airpower in the military effort.Thus the need for more effective jointness/synergy among India’s three armed forces was acknowledged post-Kargil and the report of the Group of Ministers (2000) recommended the creation of the post of a CDS and a VCDS as the “first major step in establishing synergy and ‘jointness’ among the Armed Forces”. Very soon, the first integrated, tri-service command was established in Port Blair as the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), with then Vice-Admiral Arun Prakash as the first Commander-in-Chief. It was expected that, progressively, greater jointness/synergy would be nurtured and that India would move towards setting up such tri-service commands, wherein the sum of their individual assets under a single commander would be more effective than that of their individual verticals that were disparately located.However the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, at the time, was unable to pursue these initiatives with the requisite resolve and this went into the back-burner for over a decade. To his credit, PM Modi, after an indifferent scorecard in his first term in the domain of defence management, accorded this high priority in his second term, and hit the ground running.In August 2019, CDS was announced. In August, the new commands are on the anvil and the directive is that these commands should become operational in August 2023. This taut timeline and the visible political direction is commendable, but this long-delayed reform towards enabling greater jointness in India’s HDM will call for making haste slowly, and only after objective deliberation among the principal stakeholders.Recent media reports refer to a degree of dissonance within the military and the Indian Air Force has been painted as the dog-in-the-manger in the creation of the new commands. This is unfortunate and undesirable, whatever be the truth behind such aspersions.India’s integrated tri-service commands (one is hesitant to use the word theatre) can become truly effective only when all the interlocutors are brought onto the same page consensually and by persuasion. The reforms in HDM and related military command structure cannot be effectively realised by political diktat. Compliance can be ensured, albeit in a sullen manner, for, in a democracy, the political direction must be obeyed by the military but giving all the three forces a robust sense of ownership would lay stronger foundations.Thirty years after economic reforms, there are lessons for India as it embarks on the next phase of reforms in the defence domain. A combination of political leadership, technocratic talent, and willingness to build on work left behind by previous governments helped steer through the reforms. PM Modi has given the necessary direction and priority to reforming India’s defence management. Defence minister Rajnath Singh has an onerous responsibility and, given his political experience both as former party president and home minister, he would be able to provide the necessary political leadership and heft. But the rigorous staff work and internal deliberations within the government will have to be undertaken objectively and without any rancour and in a non-partisan manner. Effective and enhanced jointness to prevent another Galwan/Pulwama must be the objective.Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/triservice-commands-use-a-strategy-of-persuasion-101624888993405.html
28-06-2021||Today's||Reforms for a new India in the 21st century||This year, we mark 30 years of the deregulation of the Indian economy. It began, as some would argue, under the compulsion of the Fund and the Bank, with a looming balance of payment crisis. By then, the economy was almost completely constricted by the rule of licences, quotas and discretion, with no breathing space for enterprise. Suffocated as it was, the economy welcomed the breath of fresh air with the liberalisation of 1991. We recall the political will of Prime Minister (PM) PV Narasimha Rao and an abiding finance minister (FM) Dr Manmohan Singh for having pulled it through.If we commend that leadership for rescuing India from “falling off the cliff”, we also should condemn them for losing an entire decade for India, when they, under the leadership of the former FM-turned-PM, failed to carry on that momentum. It was a matter of sheer absence of political will and commitment.Just before that lost decade, PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee showed this political will and commitment in planning for the Goods and Services Tax (GST). However, that failed to take off between 2004 and 2014. Both GST and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) were passed by the Narendra Modi government in its first term.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), under PM Modi, believed and committed itself to deregulate our economy. It was stated in “minimum government, maximum governance”. The simple guiding philosophy, Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas meant that there shall be no discretion or appeasement on any ground — no “first charge on the treasury” exclusively to anyone.Minimum government, maximum governance implies that both structural reforms and ease of doing are being undertaken. Disinvestment, deregulation, monetisation are happening equally as archaic laws are being banished, compliances are being brought down in number, and greater transparency is infused by the adoption of technology.Archaic laws, irrelevant even as they may be, were useful instruments for unscrupulous regulators. In the first term itself, PM Modi ensured the weeding out of 1,200 such laws, discarding 58 more in the second term.There were over 6,000 compliances affecting the common man’s daily life, spread between the Centre and the states, and across several departments. Working together with the states, we plan that by August 2022, the 75th anniversary of our Independence, citizens will have relief from these.Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas is the all-inclusive, non-discriminatory empowering objective. It clears out all the pitfalls and biases of all earlier attempts at welfarism. Equally, it settles the debate of welfare-versus-reforms for development. It is a philosophy which believes in empowerment and discourages patronage. The previous government’s emotional but stand-alone call to remove poverty, garibi hatao, failed because it was not well thought-through. It did not simultaneously build the necessary ecosystem for aspirational growth and choice for individuals.This is clear especially in how the PM Jan Dhan Yojana, coupled with the near saturation achieved in the Aadhaar, and spread of mobile usage — JAM, the triad for financial inclusion — in addition to Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), proved effective during the Covid-19 pandemic. This is especially stark, when the world over, governments were struggling to reach their poor, but in India, we repeatedly succeeded in crediting, at the click of a button, the necessary assistance and relief so needed by them.Not just JAM, a host of measures, carefully planned and executed with no discrimination, built the necessary environment for the poor to feel included without having to beg for it. Every eligible and volunteering household got electricity (Ujala), a toilet (Swachhata) and a clean cooking medium (Ujjwala). Individuals and families receive cashless health care (Ayushman) and Life and Accident cover (Jeevan Jyoti Suraksha Bima). The smallest of businesses who have no security to offer can avail Mudra loans from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh. Svanidhi scheme, which was launched during the pandemic, gives street vendors and small eateries collateral-free credit up to ₹10,000. More than 2.5 million such vendors have availed this through the banks. Using drones, accurate land records are being created. In rural areas, it is particularly empowering for the poor to be given a “record of rights” of their possessions, whatever their size.The remarkable feature of each one of these schemes is in its execution. Unless somebody refused a benefit, every eligible citizen received it, a granular approach to inclusion. The scale of coverage and the last-mile delivery within five years can be studies in governance.Factor market reforms are crucial for development. The three Farm Acts were undertaken after extensive consultations. Forty-four labour laws are simplified to become four codes.The pandemic posed a challenge but did not deter or dilute the conviction with which India has to leap forward. It needs transformational, not incremental changes. We have to make up for that lost decade as well. During the pandemic, even as we extended relief and assistance to the poor and the needy, we did not miss out on the opportunity that the times presented for reform.The health sector and its regulations are being ramped up. Power sector reforms are being undertaken to bring in private sector efficiencies and comply with sustainable environmental goals. The importance of one nation-one ration card being achieved through digital technologies cannot be lost on any of us. Migrant workers and their families so deserve it.Even during the pandemic, systemic reforms were undertaken with the cooperation of the states. This was made possible because states were allowed enhanced borrowing as an incentive, for each of the milestones achieved. PM Modi, in his post on LinkedIn, titled Reforms by Conviction and Incentives, listed some of these reforms. They are one nation-one ration card; automatic, online and non-discretionary licence issuance under seven Acts; notifying floor rates for property tax, water/sewerage charge to be in line with stamp duty guidelines; and DBT in lieu of free electricity supply.Prepared in the midst of the pandemic, for lifting the economy out of the hardships faced by this unprecedented situation, Budget 2021 gave a leg up for infrastructure spending. It also lays a policy prescription for public sector enterprises and provides a road map for financial sector reforms. Professionalising banks is on course. Bond markets are being deepened. Using technology, tax administration is becoming faceless — discretion leading to harassment is being removed. An asset monetisation pipeline is ready. Greater disclosures and better regulation are instilling confidence in domestic retail investors, drawing them to the markets.The 1991 reforms were the 20th-century story. Being undertaken today are the reforms for a New India of the 21st century.Nirmala Sitharaman is India’s finance ministerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reforms-for-a-new-india-in-the-21st-century-101624888753330.html
28-06-2021||Today's||E-commerce: Excessive regulations can undermine the sector’s growth potential||The past few years have witnessed numerous regulations that have been proposed to streamline/regulate the e-commerce sector. The government has released multiple drafts of the e-commerce policy and, in parallel, has also brought out clarifications of foreign direct investment (FDI) norms and the draft Personal Data Protection Bill, all of which have a direct or indirect bearing on the sector.While there is no denying that streamlining the growth of the sector is important given its market potential, one has to be mindful that this is a nascent sector and accounts for only four per cent of the total retail market in India. Over-regulation tends to curb competition and create monopolies instead of ensuring its holistic growth dovetailed with fair competition. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been highlighting the need for self-regulation in place of statutory/administrative regulations. This is the approach required for this sector as well.The most recent addition to this long list of regulations trying to govern e-commerce are the proposed amendments to the E-commerce Rules under the Consumer Protection Act. These amendments, on the face of it, would make the operating framework for e-commerce entities in India much more complex due to the compliance requirements that may be covered in existing regulations as well.Also Read | Improve the ease of doing civil society workThe proposed amendments seem to have an overlap with existing regulations under FDI norms and Competition Law. Clauses about related party transactions and exercising control over sellers, in case of marketplaces, have been addressed through existing FDI press regulations.For instance, the current amendments propose that “Every e-commerce entity which intends to operate in India shall register itself with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) within such period as prescribed by DPIIT for allotment of a registration number”..“Provided that the DPIIT may extend the period for registration of such ecommerce entity for sufficient reason, to be recorded in writing”.E-commerce firms in question are already registered in India with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), with the government having access to the requisite data. Unlike any company that is registered only once, does this imply that e-commerce firms will be registered for a certain time period only and would have to go through the process again, every time the registration deadline comes up? One can say with certainty that this could not have been the intention on the part of the government as it will create a licensing regime for the sector, which may again limit competition and become detrimental for consumers.While the intent behind enacting these regulations is noble – to protect consumer interests – these complex regulations may result in bogging down a sector that has thrived and expanded to empower both consumers and sellers over the past few years.Over the past 10 years, e-commerce has empowered consumers probably more than any other intervention. Through its network, it has reached every corner of the country and has created a parity between consumers from all sections, social and geographical strata. Consumers across the country have more and equal choice, increased accessibility, and convenience. With the plethora of choices available at a click of button, it has helped products/brands to reach even the remotest corners of the country.Also Read | Soft infrastructure, and a tablet for all, can catalyse India’s developmentIn the past year and a half, even as we live through the pandemic, e-commerce emerged as the hero in keeping the economic engine running by supporting MSME sellers to replenish inventories as well as catering to consumer demand during lockdown. Sellers have more access and ease of selling with reduced inventory and logistics costs.Governments and private players across the globe are making efforts towards ramping up e-commerce capabilities and infrastructure to leverage this revolution and ensure that the economy at large benefits.At this juncture, the government’s endeavor should be to create an ecosystem that helps the sector thrive as opposed to creating regulatory uncertainty and complexity. The government has repeatedly promised to facilitate ease of doing business, to do away with unnecessary compliance requirements, and encourage technology adoption. These proposed amendments, however, seem paradoxical to this promise and reminiscent of the license raj days.When the time is ripe to open up the economy to encourage investments, these amendments will act as a disincentive for e-commerce companies and sellers.Lalit Bhasin is the President of Society of Indian Law FirmsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ecommerce-excessive-regulations-can-undermine-the-sector-s-growth-potential-101624870092222.html
28-06-2021||Today's||Gender equality must be central to Covid-19 recovery plans||Even after decades of work and attention, gender inequality remains a significant barrier to human development. Women and girls worldwide are still discriminated against in accessing healthcare, education, political representation, and employment, impeding the realisation of their rights. In India, persistent gender inequality is a consequence of deeply entrenched patriarchal norms, which disproportionately impact girls and women. While these challenges have existed for centuries, the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated them significantly, especially for young girls from marginalised communities.The crucial role of gender equality is underscored by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which recognises it as not only a fundamental right but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Addressing gender inequality, therefore, requires recognition of the complex factors that enable it. Patriarchy and gender inequitable attitudes have ensured that decision-making power is predominantly held by men and has been observed in most societies, including India.Also Read | Investigating gender disparities in India’s vaccine rolloutSocietal control on women’s and girls’ autonomy and choice is often reinforced by patriarchal norms, which is reflected in practices such as early and coerced marriage, limited contraceptive choice and preventing adolescents from receiving comprehensive sexuality education. These practices place an undue burden on women’s and girls’ bodily autonomy and agency to prevent teenage pregnancies and childbirth, unsafe and coerced sex, unsafe abortion, and intimate partner and gender-based violence.A recent study reveals that two million adolescent girls in India have an unmet need for modern contraception and 78% of abortions among teenage girls are unsafe. Sexual and reproductive health and rights have a direct bearing on bodily autonomy and integrity for women and girls.A girl who cannot define whether, when or how many children to have, or choose to stay in school instead of marrying at a young age, or who accepts domestic violence as her fate, stands little chance of completing schooling, faces reduced opportunities for paid employment or entrepreneurship, and experiences diminished decision-making in other spheres.Among the most critical determinants affecting women and girls’ decision-making about their sexual and reproductive health is the education level of both partners. Global evidence suggests that there is a direct bearing of education on reducing child marriages, teenage pregnancies, and maternal deaths, in addition to empowering girls to take control of their lives. In fact, nutrition, education and health of girls are interconnected, and improvements in one area help others: Better nutrition leads to improved learning, better retention in school, job opportunities and delayed marriage.Despite the evidence and significant progress in girls’ access to school in India’s most remote villages, an estimated four million girls remain out of school, denied their fundamental human rights. The reasons range from safety issues to deeply entrenched, discriminatory social norms, from a lack of access to toilet facilities and menstrual hygiene to poverty and the need to work. Even when in school, quality remains an issue and both content and classroom practice remain steeped in a culture that fails to recognise girls as equal.The problem was persistent before Covid-19, but with the ongoing lockdown, progress has been reversed. Forced out of school because of Covid-19, girls are back to the old ways – they eat last and least, fall into domestic servitude, and any remote learning opportunities are denied because of a digital divide that is worse for girls. School exclusion is at its highest where patriarchy, poverty, and policy gaps intersect.Yet programmes are often designed and implemented in silos and viewed as the domains of separate ministries and agencies. Funders often back siloed programmes, implementers work in silos, and policy makers create policies in departmental isolation. Making advances in gender equality requires facilitating convergent action across stakeholders and sectors. This in turn would increase economic opportunities for girls and women and address their health, education and safety needs.Girls are best served when traditional boundaries are crossed. The barriers of silos need to be broken so that stakeholders – including girls and women themselves – can come together and address issues like violence, child marriage, child labour, menstrual hygiene, health and education.Government, civil society organisations and funding agencies must identify priority issues together and link stakeholders to provide cross-sectoral, collaborative solutions to meet the multiple, intersecting needs of girls and women. Lessons from such a convergent approach to programming in India would be instrumental in developing tools for the global application of a scaled-up convergent response for gender equality.Gender equality is a moral, economic, and health issue that demands urgent action. As such, gender equality must be central to Covid-19 recovery plans and should prioritise sexual and reproductive health and rights, equal access to education and jobs for women and girls.The Generation Equality Forum in Paris (June 30 to July 2), which commemorates the landmark 1995 Beijing Conference on Women and Development, unveiled blueprints that illustrate the critical actions needed to secure transformation in gender equality. It calls upon governments, the private sector, civil society, philanthropies and CSOs, youth, and allies to accelerate change and intensify global ambition for gender equality.In the future, donors, implementers, and policymakers need to adopt a unified-yet-complementary approach and put inclusion at the heart of their efforts to improve the lives of girls and the most vulnerable communities.We need to break the intergenerational cycle of poverty and build stronger economies and social systems. While recognising that women’s and girl’s empowerment is a moral imperative, investing in academic, vocation, and life skills for girls and young women represents one of the most significant opportunities for sustainable and inclusive development and smashing patriarchy.Poonam Muttreja is executive director, Population Foundation of India, and Safeena Hussain is founder and executive director, Educate GirlsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/gender-equality-must-be-central-to-covid-19-recovery-plans-101624867571970.html
28-06-2021||Today's||Sharpening India’s vaccination strategy||The months straddled by the second wave of Covid-19 stand out for tumultuous and vagarious changes in vaccination policy.In April, the central government released a liberalised vaccination strategy which expanded the eligibility to the 18-45 years age group. Pure confusion pervaded about our objectives with the strategy. Were we trying to combat the ongoing second wave (which was impractical) or to prevent a future third wave (which didn’t warrant such a hurried, knee-jerk response)? Were we primarily trying to dampen mortality or infections or both? Much of such confusion still persists despite the partial reversal of the liberalised strategy in June.Nonetheless, with the second wave apparently departing and with some invaluable time in hand, there arises a crucial opportunity to sharpen and focus our vaccination strategy in order to best prepare for an imminent third wave. Although vaccine supplies are projected to increase in upcoming months and many states have recently shown some improvement in vaccination performance, the current indiscriminate approach to vaccination is least desirable.Also Read | Covishield’s green pass matter being taken up at highest levels: Adar PoonawallaThere is a need to prioritise vaccine recipients based on vulnerability and epidemiological profiles so as to maximise population health gains, in case the increase in vaccine supply does not suffice.This applies mainly to the 18-45 years age group, though undoubtedly also to the remaining age groups. Apart from persons with comorbidities, certain other categories such as hawkers, vendors, and rickshaw drivers have been frequently argued as meriting targeted vaccination since they could act as super-spreaders apart from being prone to infection.However, there is a need of adopting a broader definition of who is vulnerable. Those with lesser access to health facilities; those with fewer luxuries to practice isolation and social distancing; and the rural population, for example, are important vulnerable categories, since they can contribute to greater morbidity and mortality.Many targeted strategies, such as user fees exemptions in public health facilities, have traditionally been characterised by pervasive inclusion and exclusion errors. For the very same reason, they have been held as inefficient from time to time. The challenge at hand is magnified when it comes to targeting vulnerable groups for vaccination. Identifying these vulnerable groups, most of which belong to the informal sector, can be an exacting exercise and may come with a greater likelihood of inefficient targeting and leakages. However, unlike in the case of user fees, there is a strong case for a targeted vaccination strategy despite the potential inefficiencies. The most practicable, expedient, and least resource intensive methods to identify and target vulnerable sections have to be conceived for this purpose.Since segregating these vulnerable groups is difficult, certain readily available proxy means could be adopted for targeting these groups.Take for example the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), which covers more than 100 million families based on certain deprivation and occupational criteria, from the Socioeconomic and Caste Census (SECC). Until June 25, nearly 160 million PMJAY e-cards had been issued. A cursory look at the deprivation and occupational criteria shows that most categories of PMJAY beneficiaries would meet one or more criteria for vulnerability. It should be relatively easy and efficient to target these populations given the infrastructure that is already in place. Also, nearly 80% of PMJAY beneficiaries are from rural areas. A similar precedent already exists from last year, wherein PMJAY officials identified and traced high-risk beneficiaries from their database through call centres to facilitate early diagnosis and treatment.There is a particularly strong case for subsidising Covid-19 vaccines under the PMJAY health insurance scheme, given the positive externalities, low moral hazard, and other such desirable traits. Public and private empanelled hospitals can be roped in for the purpose, and measures such as temporary “express empanelment” of private hospitals may be envisaged as was done last year. The fact that the central government has already conceived a vaccine pooling mechanism for small private hospitals in the country can only be complementary. This could also promote more equitable utilisation from the 25% share of vaccines that has been reserved for the private sector, which is disproportionate and inequitable in existing circumstances.Anticipation of colossal implementational challenges shouldn’t form a pretext to condone inefficient and indiscriminate policies or practices. Neither should one be driven by pedantic notions of idealism and perfection. Sagacious and resourceful use of existing capacities should be the motto.Soham D Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor of The Indian PractitionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/sharpening-india-s-vaccination-strategy-101624863792192.html
28-06-2021||Today's||The cautionary tale behind population control||The Covid-19 pandemic may have fast-tracked the oncoming peak of a global population decline by at least a decade, according to a recent Bloomberg report. The pandemic has slowed the already slowing global birth rates, from the United States (US) to China, experts estimate. Is this good news or bad?In recent weeks, at least two Indian state governments – Uttar Pradesh and Assam – have advocated aggressive population control, with the chief minister of Assam asking Muslims to adopt family planning and also declaring a policy that large families will stand to lose certain state benefits.Population control, grounded in classic economic theories, has been a double-edged sword. It has both advantages and costs. In over half of the world’s nations, the rate of population growth is falling behind replacement rates, and, perhaps for the first time, the growth rate in the world’s population is projected to be zero by the end of the century, according to United Nations (UN) data.Also Read | From 1901 to 2011, what the census tells us about India’s populationMy colleague, Roshan Kishore in a data-backed piece titled, Why India can shed its population obsession in Hindustan Times, has provided useful insights into the country’s demographics, which has been a hot-button political issue, urging new economic thinking on the issue.The economic foundations of population control policy The economics of population, which started with Malthus, is now undergoing revisions. One example is that China hopes to reverse a fall in its population by raising the maximum allowable number of children per household from two to three.Some well-known economic hypotheses led governments to aggressively control population to spur growth, the objective of growth being central to the politics of all low- and middle-income countries.Malthus had predicted that the world’s population would grow at a faster rate than the rate of food production. He was right in flagging these concerns in the Principle of Population in 1798. The population tends to grow exponentially (geometric growth), he argued, but food supply grew in a slower arithmetic ratio. Malthus thought England was foredoomed.Malthus was ultimately proved wrong as breakthroughs in agricultural technology made countries, such as India, net food surplus. Amartya Sen showed that famines killed millions in Bengal, but some famines were caused not by the absolute lack of food, but its high price.Harvard economist Harvey Leibenstein had demonstrated, with his famous big-push theory (also called critical minimum effort thesis), how population growth tends to erode incomes.The main economic argument that follows from Malthus’s warnings was that if per capita income (or pcy, y being the shorthand for “income” in standard equations) is low, then people are too poor to save. Since investment is taken to be equal to savings, low savings would mean the economy doesn’t grow.Malthus had argued that if per capita income is greater than subsistence level (defined as the bare minimum income that one needs to survive), then the population starts growing initially, but there’s a physical limit to the population growth of around 3% beyond which population growth flattens.Leibenstein’s main argument was that countries have to invest beyond this level at which population growth stabilises or levels off. This is the famous big-push theory. So, investments need to be beyond this level because population growth will swallow up any small increases in per capita income, according to Leibenstein.These are the intellectual foundations of population-control policies. And as is clear, they have more to do with economics than politics.However, while these theories increased our understanding of population economics, many of these theories were later found to have many flaws. Later economists showed there’s no one-on-one correlation between per capita income and growth in y (or income).The big-push theory did not consider the distributional aspects of income. Higher per capita income may not lead to more savings (and, therefore, investments) if income is not well-distributed.It is possible that two countries may have the same per capita incomes, but different levels of investment. If investment is very capital intensive, it will lead to inequality. The most important critique is that the big-push theory calls for just that — a massive one-time injection of capital to raise per capita incomes beyond the population growth rate. But capital, as we know, is always scarce.The reality of population dip The UN’s data is clear that the decline of the global population has started. This entails serious economic consequences.“For instance, there would simply not be enough people to work for the economy, (you can have) a large non-productive aging population to support, the government may not have enough resources to support pensions and this would lead to de-industrialisation, as with Japan,” said Arup Mitra, an economist with the prestigious Delhi School of Economics.Mitra, referring to economist Kuznets, said India is at a stage of demographic transition where mortality rates were declining and fertility rates would decline in the next two to three decades or so.“There is still scope to cut population growth because India still has a positive growth rate, but our population policy should keep in the mind the larger consequences of zero population growth. You will need some positive growth in population happening to not end up like Japan,” he said.Once a country falls below the so-called replacement level, which is 2.1 births per woman — the level below which population decline sets in — then it is very difficult to come back up. There can be series of economic fallouts, such as declining demand.Of 86 countries where fertility fell below the replacement level, only Tunisia managed to raise its fertility back up, according to data cited by David Fickling in Bloomberg.Many economists have started a rethink of some of the old ideas. As far back as 1937, iconic economist John Maynard Keynes gave a lecture on “Some Economic Consequences of a Declining Population”. His key worry was poor demand for investment in places where companies encounter a falling population of consumers.Although India has not yet hit the replacement level, many developing countries, such as Iran and Brazil, have. And therein lies a cautionary tale for India.In a new paper, The End of Economic Growth?, Stanford University professor Charles Jones has modelled the opposite of a Malthusian world, or what could happen in a nation where population growth goes into free fall. According to his model, overall output and living standards fall and ultimately humans simply vanish from that place.“We are nowhere near that level of crisis. We still have a large population that needs to be controlled with incentives and disincentives. But disincentives for families not following population norms should never be retrospective,” said Anindita Sen, a professor with Calcutta University.Analysts have argued that India’s current economic demographic dividend, more young people than old, needs to be tapped fast as economic resources before it vanishes, and the country enters what demographer Wolfgang Lutz and colleagues call the “Low-Fertility Trap Hypothesis”. The hypothesis states that low fertility in one generation caused low fertility in the next, creating a demographic dead-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-cautionary-tale-behind-population-control-101624862531828.html
