29-06-2021||Today's||With its economic policy, the government confronts political risks||On June 28, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package to deal with the adverse effects of the second wave of the pandemic. The contours of the package are similar to what was announced last year when the pandemic first erupted.The actual fiscal cost is only a fraction of the headline number attached to the package. The bulk of the support is in the form of credit guarantees, which means the government only pays in case there is a credit default. This approach is different from what most major economies have adopted, where the fiscal component was a much bigger part of the stimulus.Will this approach work? This question is best addressed by asking another question. Did the policy response to the first Covid-19 wave and the nationwide lockdown work?Unfortunately, it is difficult to arrive at a definitive view on the latter. Those sympathetic to the establishment argue that had it not been for the second wave, the economy would have been in a much better shape. Those who disagree claim that even the sequential recovery which was achieved was profit-led and inequality-generating in nature.Also Read | The ripple effects of an ageing population on an integrated global economyThis question can be approached in another way. What does a programme of credit guarantee for distress-ridden sectors seek to achieve? The short answer is that it offers a low cost option to a firm to prevent going bankrupt in the short-term. But it is also important to keep in mind the main reason for the distress — a harsh lockdown completely disrupting business, and deficient demand (which predates the pandemic). This means that unless there is a revival of demand, repeated credit guarantees to protect distress-ridden business is tantamount to kicking the can down the road.The government, while choosing to offer credit guarantees rather than direct fiscal stimulus, is banking on recovery of demand by the time the loans have to be paid back (or written off). Is the government on the same page with private capital on this question? Results of listed firms do not suggest this (see https://bit.ly/3hkGV9D for details). While their profits surged, companies have used the money to deleverage (reduce debt) rather than undertake fresh investments. This implies that companies do not see the need to create more capacity to cater to what could be extra-demand in the future. The economic shock of the second wave, both for businesses and household finances, has made things worse on this front.This approach to fiscal policy needs to be seen together with a pro-cyclical fiscal stance in the last fiscal year. Provisional data from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) shows that Union’s gross tax revenue increased between 2019-20 and 2020-21, despite a contraction in nominal GDP. This otherwise impossible feat was achieved by a massive hike in union excise duties on petroleum products even as receipts from other tax heads fell. This has had a particularly regressive impact in an economy (see https://bit.ly/3Ac8ytM for details). Policies such as withholding dearness allowance payments to government employees have added to such pro-cyclical moves. As petrol-diesel prices hit new highs every day, inflation will generate further headwinds for incomes and demand, especially for those at the bottom of the pyramid.The “tax petrol-diesel route” to fiscal prudence is also self-defeating in another way. It is a fact that fuel inflation has a cascading impact on business and household costs. With inflation inching up gradually, expectations of a roll back of the currently accommodative monetary policy (even though rates do not go up immediately) will gain further traction. Whether or not the current levels of low interest rates and liquidity signify the new normal in India is a question which needs to be debated seriously. The majority view is unlikely to endorse any such opinion. This makes the current monetary policy window more suitable to making windfall gains by deleveraging rather than accepting long-term commitments.None of these arguments are new or difficult to grasp. And policymakers are acutely aware of these debates. Which warrants another question. Why is the government not convinced?The only possible explanation is that the government may be scared of its own populism. Any large-scale fiscal relief such as a cash transfer programme or a pro-poor counter-cyclical intervention could be seen as potentially difficult to withdraw, especially in the run-up to the 2024 elections. Many economists see the delayed withdrawal of the fiscal stimulus after the 2008 crisis by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government as the major reason behind the macroeconomic crisis which followed in the second term of the UPA government.Technocrats are perfectly justified in taking such a position. However, is this a politically tenable position?There is enough research and anecdotal evidence to know that citizens, at large, are not engaged with questions such as fiscal deficit or current account deficit. In India, what they are most concerned about is inflation, perhaps even more than growth. Take an example: growth actually started going up towards of the end of the UPA-II period, but inflation that did not come down. The Congress paid heavily for this in the 2014 elections. To be fair, the inflationary spike under UPA was a result of sharp spike in crude oil prices.The current government may think it is being prudent in not letting the fiscal situation go out of control by refusing to expand its fiscal stimulus, but it is actually actively fuelling inflation by refusing to cut taxes on petrol-diesel. This is risky from the political point of view.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/with-its-economic-policy-the-government-confronts-political-risks-101624971977514.html
29-06-2021||Today's||As crude drones change the nature of terror, India needs to prepare better||The attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu, reportedly conducted using crude drones not far from the Line of Control with Pakistan, highlights the introduction of a new phase of threats faced by India’s military installations. The writing was on the wall, of asymmetric warfare eventually finding its feet in the volatile Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) region as well.In 2018, Hmeimim Air Base near Latakia in Syria, operated largely by Russia, came under attack by drones. The attack gave a view of the proliferation of this technology, usually synonymous with United States’s counterterror policies, led by the silhouette of the infamous MQ-9 Reaper, as a weapon that was now accessible to terror groups as well. The Hmeimim attack is closest to what happened in Jammu, as Russian jets and other equipment placed at the Syrian base reportedly faced significant damage in the attack. Moscow claimed it had taken down some of the drones using a mixture of short-range anti-aircraft missiles and radio jammers.Also Read | Drones spotted again over military installations in JammuHowever, the fact that drones made from scrap and duct-tape carrying improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were able to damage conventional aircraft on ground, worth millions of dollars, brought forward a new set of challenges for defence policymakers.The history of drones in the hands of militant and terror groups can be traced back to the villages of Syria between 2013 and 2015 when well-educated and technology-savvy fighters from Europe and beyond joined the then fledging Islamic State (IS) juggernaut, bringing with them the ideas of how to have an air wing. This began first with drones made from scratch, using scrap found in the war zones of Syria and Iraq, and then modifying commercially available quadcopters to carry IEDs and other similar explosives.During the height of IS’s run, quadcopters used for shooting film or sport, purchased from everyday electronics shops from around the world, made their way into Syria and Iraq via smugglers. In fact, according to Conflict Armament Research, a drone purchased in India in August 2016, and activated in the United Kingdom in October of the same year, was eventually found in Tal Afar, northern Iraq, a few miles from the then IS stronghold of Mosul. Later that year, IS had claimed that its fleet of drones had killed or wounded 39 Iraqi soldiers in a one-week period. And beyond the kinetic effects, many IS drone attacks were also recorded by on-board cameras, providing fodder for the group’s tremendous online propaganda outreach.However, there are caveats in deciphering the threat perceptions. While the successful use of Turkey-manufactured Bayraktar TB2 drones by Azerbaijan against Armenia in the Nagorno-Karabakh war last year did present a significant upscaling of use of drones in warfare, it cannot be compared to the Jammu incident. The Azeri–Armenia war was conventional, between states, and the Bayratkar drones are designed outrightly for military purposes and are not crude drones. This comparison, often used in Indian public discourse, needs course correction.The use of crude drones over the past years has only escalated. In 2019, reports suggested even Maoists had used a drone to conduct surveillance over a paramilitary camp in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar. From attacks on oil refineries in Saudi Arabia on the sidelines of the Yemen war to an assassination attempt against Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro in 2018 using exploding drones, the proliferation of this technology, balancing itself between civilian and military use, has already become a challenge.The threat of asymmetric warfare such as crude drones from an Indian perspective is not new. In fact, the air force chief highlighted rogue drones as a risk in December 2020. This should have already been factored into base protection and response. While technology itself is at the core of a response, Jammu is a reminder that technologies themselves are not exclusive to a military or a State anymore.Kabir Taneja is fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, and the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South AsiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-crude-drones-change-the-nature-of-terror-india-needs-to-prepare-better-101624962497593.html
29-06-2021||Today's||Learn from the second wave, be cautious and get vaccinated||Caution holds the key in the long and steady march to normalcy as we continue our collective fight against Covid-19, with the government driving the vaccination programme with urgency on a mission mode. As experts have pointed out, vaccination is the only protective shield when it comes to curbing the spread of the pandemic. Community awareness and involvement, summed up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “Jan Bhagidari” and “Jan Andolan” lie at the heart of effective pandemic management on the ground.The Government of India’s decision to provide free vaccines to the states for all citizens above the age of 18 years, from June 21, has lent a powerful impetus to the ongoing vaccination rollout. Simultaneously, the vaccination drive has to be backed up by the other four proven elements in the strategy to stem the spread of the virus: Testing, Tracing, Treatment and following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Working in close coordination, both the Central and state government are leaving no stone unturned to educate people on the importance of vaccination, as also the need to conform to appropriate behaviour. However, all of us have to be a part of this mission by getting ourselves vaccinated, spreading vaccine literacy, and taking all the necessary precautions.Also Read | Gender equality must be central to Covid-19 recovery plansIn recent days, media reports have appeared on instances of crowding with the easing of lockdown restrictions in many parts of the country. This makes for disturbing news as a steep rise in cases during the second wave could be ascribed to the widespread non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, among other reasons. Images of milling crowds at markets and bazaars in the past few days, tell us that we, as a society, have learnt very little from the grim lessons that the virus taught us in the first two waves. This must change, we must not let down our guard.With cases starting to ebb, there is a greater need to be vigilant. Experts have emphasised the importance of developing immunity to defeat the challenge posed by the virus. Adopting a healthy lifestyle with good dietary habits, regular physical exercise and adequate sleep will go a long way in improving immunity and protecting oneself.The virus’s transmissibility can be cut down only if everyone observes the dharma of wearing a mask, maintains social distancing, hand hygiene and adheres to Covid-19 protocols. Scientists have also been warning that mass gatherings create a perfect condition for the virus to thrive. This must be avoided.Following the virulent surge in infections in the second wave, the Centre and state governments have been actively ramping up health infrastructure, ensuring sufficient supplies of oxygen, essential medical supplies and ventilators, among other things. Data emerging from the vaccination drive among health care workers battling the second wave of Coronavirus reflects a much lower need for hospitalisation, oxygen therapy, and admission to ICU. There is no doubt among specialists that in the current scenario, vaccine is indeed a game-changer.While, as a society, we may be better prepared today to countenance another spike in infections, compared to where we stood when we were battered by the tsunami of the second wave, the challenge is formidable. We should not be lulled into a false sense of security by the dipping numbers. We cannot turn away from the bitter fact that everyday life will not be the same for some time as the overall situation continues to be dynamic and unpredictable.Community support is critical to controlling the transmission of the virus, as well as quickening the pace of the vaccination campaign. Rising above party lines, people’s representatives at all levels and civil society groups should collaborate actively and act as social influencers on the ground to dispel vaccine hesitancy in some sections of the population, especially in our rural areas. Leaders of all parties, setting political differences aside, should come together as members of Team India, share knowledge, and collaborate in promoting best practices for better management of this unprecedented global health crisis.The pandemic has had a devastating impact on the lives and livelihoods of people and to mitigate the suffering of the common citizen, the government has been widening the net of social safety measures and welfare initiatives.The raging pandemic crippled the economies of the wealthiest nations in the world and put their health systems to test. Our health care infrastructure came under severe stress as well. Yet, our medical fraternity including doctors, para-medical staff, health and sanitary workers, as also our valiant police personnel, ASHA workers in villages, our scientists, innovators, entrepreneurs, researchers and vaccine manufacturers, rose to the occasion working indefatigably to save precious lives. I salute our scientists, who, through proactive research developed Covid testing kits and essential equipment in real quick time.Commendably, our scientists and vaccine manufacturers, racing against time to develop vaccines against this deadly virus, have successfully come up with safe and effective vaccines.The government has expedited the process of acquiring more vaccines to fast-track the ongoing vaccination campaign. This will widen the vaccine pool and help the national campaign gain momentum so that all eligible Indians are vaccinated by the year-end.The unprecedented health crisis has forced students and educators to go online and this in itself, has turned the entire learning experience into a challenge for both the teachers and the taught. According to mental health experts, the pandemic recorded a number of instances of heightened anxiety and irritability among children, as one of the inevitable spinoffs of being compelled to stay at home. New as they are, these issues will need to be studied and addressed by experts.Working together, the Centre and state governments need to evolve a calibrated strategy factoring in human behaviour, as we attempt easing of lockdowns and a return to normalcy. Aggressive surveillance in hotspots and mini-lockdowns where necessary will help break the chain of transmission. Collectively and individually, we need to tread cautiously, as a highly infectious, fast-mutating virus renders large swathes of our unvaccinated population vulnerable and defenceless. Finally, all of us must do our bit to ensure that India meets its target of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of this year.M Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice President of IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/learn-from-the-second-wave-be-cautious-and-get-vaccinated-101624961777180.html
29-06-2021||Today's||The ripple effects of an ageing population on an integrated global economy||While growth has had many vectors, the largest contributor was a growing number of younger people joining the workforce year on year. They generate incomes, afford a better life for themselves and a better tax base for governments to build infrastructure. This is what drives developing sectors to create a pattern. What if all this were to stop? This is a reality we are now confronting.Author Darrell Bricker in a recent article in the World Economic Forum, Humanity will be a lot smaller and a lot older than it is today, said that from six working-age people to one retired in the 1960s, we are at 3:1 today, and soon, we will be 1:1.This shift over 50 years has steadily gotten to a point where it’s not just a few countries, but the whole world — developed and developing countries alike. This goes beyond race and religion too. Bangladesh’s fertility rate of 1.7 has fallen well below the replacement rate of 2.1. India is at 2.1, Indonesia 2.0, the United States, 1.6. China is an astonishingly low 1.3, which is why, with the government relaxing its two-child policy, they’re now allowed to have three children. A recent New York Times article stated that land is being repurposed in many countries across the world — with school playgrounds being changed to old-age communities.Also Read | Reforms and Indian capitalismWhat will this mean for the global economy?At the outset, a significant labour redistribution will occur, which will impact immigration policies on the one hand, and the costing-pricing of goods on the other. The accelerating pace of automation and robotics will enable a lesser reliance on manual labour in many areas. But not every dimension of life can be automated, and thus, globally, the currency for labour — skilled or unskilled — will increase. Immigration will be easier for manual labour, and families with children will be even more welcome than they already are.As a result, industries with a heavy reliance on labour will see their output priced more equanimously globally — with lesser extremes of high-cost countries and low-cost production bases — since the basis of that difference (labour) has become mobile. Thus, labour-intensive sectors will see common price points in agriculture, mining, hospitality, and so on.For what can be automated, there will be no stopping it. In the same way that Covid-19 took away excuses for an “always-on, remote work” environment, shrinking demographics will take away excuses for automation. Skilled-but-monotonous jobs are getting automated fastest of all, and this pace will increase. These may include scripted interactions like those in customer care call centres or maker-checker jobs in service industries.In the private sector, jobs have long been moving from permanent to temporary, and now to transactional jobs which are fuelled by the gig economy. Productivity can only do so much replacement to offset the steep deficit that will be caused. More fundamental resets to established habits and practices will be needed — I see a combination of possibilities stemming from what we have so far considered the secondary workforce or the secondary economy — women, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), elderly people, and students.More women will be drawn to work, and even more so with the pandemic-induced convenience of work-from-home. SMEs will see a natural resurgence with their agility and focus — they have the potential to become highly-specialised value additions in complex supply chains with larger organisations motivated to move more work to them. But most interesting will be the need to expand the longevity of a workforce — with students entering jobs early, and seniors retiring (if at all) in their 70s.Early start to jobs will need schools having mandatory vocational content, with the need to do a few years of work before enrolling in colleges — not very different from how the war-era made military service mandatory in many countries. The longer people work, before getting back to education, the more benefits and tax structures they can avail.Right now, a seven-year-old consumes more data and technology than a seventy-year-old. This will change. For this too, the pandemic has been the driving force. The elderly have steadily become friends with technology — from ordering food and services online, to engaging with others, and for entertainment — they are learning how these technologies work. This adoption of technology will enable seniors to extend their stay in the workforce. Companies, therefore, could choose a multitude of possibilities — from reduced hours and reduced compensation to on-demand retainerships. For the very reason that accountants, doctors, and lawyers don’t retire, across skill-sets, seniors will stay in the workforce longer. Pension plans and retirement benefits will be re-adjusted to factor this in.Governments will not be immune to these changes. Trust will be the basis for a big shift in governance. A huge workforce in government is dedicated to the adherence to policies and rules — from taxes to law and order. This will change. Technology will have enough algorithms and alerts to be smarter in the case of violations, but in spirit, governance will change to trust and deterrence rather than an inspect- and verification-based system. Taxation will go through interesting innovations — as reducing workforces become more mobile, and as cloud-sourced work continues to defy physical jurisdictions. Governments will compete to make social benefits and tax breaks a big part of citizenship attractiveness.The innovation landscape is already getting ready for this. Innovations are happening yearly, and are visible every day — better transportation, better health care, a sensor rich world, ever-evolving financial products, better waste and recycling management, efficient real estate, clean energy and so on. What’s less visible but ongoing is innovation in the interoperative ecosystem that helps us learn, work, live, and age better in this changing world. Here, whatever can’t be automated is on-demand, and whatever is specialised, is highly curated with the three ₹— ratings-rankings-referrals. A digital services economy on the backbone of trusted discovery with certifications is already in play. Identity theft possibilities exist, and cybersecurity still has a long way to go, but blockchain technology is creating a foundation for counter-party verifications. Even today, digital handshakes happen before physical handshakes, and we will soon have trusted-party verifications precede a digital or physical handshake. And to back the last bit of fear, micro-insurance will ride alongside every transaction.These demographic changes will cause a reprioritisation of the innovation agenda and capital. There will be a heightened focus on innovation for elders, given how large a customer base they will be. Longitudinal data will be the ground on which companies will be ready to offer discounts and loans. Hence, “the longer I know you, the more I can underwrite you” will drive capital to managed marketplaces, which so far has been predominantly to open marketplaces. Cyber-identity and security will continue to dominate the innovation agenda for decades to come. It will be the basis on which the financial, health, and work dimensions of our lives have seamless mobility.After having suffered for the larger part of the last century for population overgrowth, a smaller humanity might be better for the planet. We are shrinking and we need to be ready for it, for it will touch every aspect of our lives much sooner than we imagined.Rohit Bhayana is co-founder and managing partner, LumisThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-ripple-effects-of-an-ageing-population-on-an-integrated-global-economy-101624961537096.html
29-06-2021||Today's||Reforms and Indian capitalism||India marks 30 years since the 1991 reforms at a moment when its economy is on the precipice of another crisis. 1991 ushered in an era of high growth, declining poverty, a burgeoning, aspirational middle class and the very real possibility of a seat on the global stage. By the early 2010s, those heady days of high growth were fast becoming history and long ignored fragilities within the Indian economy, of cronyism, structural inequality, regional concentration, were increasingly visible.India has reached the end of the road of the gains made from the 1991 moment and the ravages of Covid-19 have thrown this into sharp relief. Finding our way out of the crisis and on to a growth trajectory requires an honest appraisal of the past, a debate that goes beyond Gross Domestic Product to focus on the real economy and a reform imagination that is willing to confront the realities of our political economy.Also Read | Debt at 58.8% of GDP as economy contractsNurturing Indian capitalism by breaking it free from the shackles of the licence-raj through de-licensing, market competition and opening up was the dominant framework of the 1991 moment. What has emerged, as economists Michael Walton and Rohit Chandra have argued, is capitalism with two faces; partly dynamic, competitive and productivity-oriented, but coexisting with an increasingly visible, dark side entrenched in rent-extracting cronyism that privileges political deals over rules-based business.Corruption scandals under the United Progressive Alliance regime, the twin balance sheet problem, the consolidation of capitalist oligarchies and increased opacity in electoral finances under the current government are illustrations of this entrenched cronyism, notwithstanding reforms such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. India’s path to capitalism is yet to credibly create markets that embrace competition and create conditions for widespread prosperity. And it is this lack of credibility that lies at the heart of the scepticism and resistance toward deeper factor market reforms in land, labour, and agriculture that impact the everyday economic prospects of ordinary Indians. The fears and anxieties of losing bargaining power when confronted with an entrenched State-business nexus are far more genuine than our debates on economic reforms have cared to admit.The credibility deficit of Indian capitalism is partly due to the weaknesses of the regulatory regime. Author Gurcharan Das’s famous quip, India grows at night while the government sleeps, encapsulates the animating spirit of 1991. But in the rush to get government out of the way, scant attention was paid to ensuring we had good government where we needed it. India’s regulatory regime, despite initial investments in institutions such as Securities and Exchange Board of India, mirrors the very infirmities of government that the 1991 reforms hoped to escape. Robust regulation required building technical skills, creating an enabling legal regime, instituting checks and balances against unrestricted power and ensuring public accountability. Instead, we enabled a weak and politically vulnerable institutional landscape. Sustainable growth requires credible institutions. Investing in the State and its regulatory institutions rather than wishing it away will ultimately be the real driver of growth.Weak regulation, however, is only part of the challenge. Markets in India operate in the context of deep structural inequalities. Our 1991 economic imagination responded to these realities by framing the debate in false binaries of growth versus inequality. This gave India comfort in its unusual structural transformation, one that skipped manufacturing, despite abundant low skilled labour, growing instead on the back of a far smaller high-skilled services sector. A trend economists Arvind Subramanian and Rohit Lamba have called “premature deindustrialisation, precocious servicification”.The distributional consequences of this became apparent even before the pandemic. Informality, under-employment and low inter-generational mobility persisted through the heady days of growth eventually contributing to the pre-pandemic slowdown. Economist Sam Asher and colleagues have shown in a recent paper that mobility is highest in places that are economically better off — southern, urban and with high education levels. Poorer regions and poorer people have failed to catch up. There is no trade off. Inequality has hampered growth. The pandemic has only exacerbated this trend. Addressing structural inequalities requires a radical shift in our frameworks of economic policymaking. While there is widespread consensus that India needs to change direction and focus on employment-intensive manufacturing, the policy tools, framed by 1991, remain focussed on de-regulating factors of production, visible in the rush to push farm laws without addressing structural vulnerabilities which fuel market scepticism. To make markets work for the poor, the State needs to invest and build markets even as it clears the regulatory maize. This includes physical market infrastructure, supply chains, and risk management through safety nets. Small towns and rural areas, which contribute to half of India’s manufacturing value addition and non-farm employment (Census 2011), have to be the priority and not just “smart” cities. None of this is viable without decentralised, local economic planning. Strengthening local governments for better governance has to be at the heart of the agenda. Finally, the colossal failure to invest in human capital, health, education, nutrition, worse, treating these as an afterthought, a luxury of high growth. This is both an economic and a moral failure. There can be no sustainable growth without first investing in people and enabling them the opportunity to be active participants in the economy. If there is only one lesson to be learnt from the 1991 moment, let it be this.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive of Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reforms-and-indian-capitalism-101624960517214.html
