30-06-2021||Today's||A century later, the Chinese Communist Party is at the crossroads||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is celebrating its grand centenary on July 1. Founded by Bolshevik Russia-inspired Chinese Marxists in Shanghai in 1921 amid the chaos of China’s post-imperial fragmentation, the CCP survived, seized power, restored order, outlasted its mentor, the Soviet Communist Party, and became the arbiter of the destiny of not just China, but in some ways, of the world.So daunting were the early challenges to the Party from a plethora of opposing armed political factions that only two out of the thirteen delegates who attended the first CCP Congress in 1921 lived to see the proclamation of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in 1949. One of them was Mao Zedong, whose ruthless beliefs that “a revolution is not a dinner party” and that “political power grows out of the barrel of a gun” gave the CCP an edge over its competitors. When Mao’s PRC was established in 1949, it was through such a bloody process against all odds that the new State’s outlook was militaristic and hostile. Following in the footsteps of Vladimir Lenin’s “revolutionary terror”, Mao never hesitated to brutally safeguard his revolution and forcibly transform “backward” China through the catastrophic Great Leap Forward (1958-1962) and Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). Tens of millions of Chinese perished in these social re-engineering experiments, laying bare contradictions between the CCP’s motto — “serve the people” — and the people’s unwillingness to be railroaded and sacrificed at the altar of the Party’s ambitions.Despite Mao’s colossal errors, the CCP hung on to power during its first three ruling decades due to sustained State repression and the aura of the 1949 revolution. After Mao, the Party could not count on prolonging its rule without drastic reforms. In came Deng Xiaoping, who embarked on the “second revolution” that saved the CCP from decline and decay.The economic liberalisation Deng introduced in the 1980s was an unprecedented experiment in State-guided capitalism, reliant on foreign investment from the West. Although this was a far cry from Maoist dogma, flexibility had been a hallmark of the CCP’s history throughout. Before 1945, it partnered with arch adversary, the Kuomintang (KMT), against imperial Japan, and in the early 1970s it aligned with the capitalist United States (US) to thwart the communist Soviet Union. Pragmatic adjustments at timely junctures explain the resilience of the CCP.Yet, there is an intransigent core which has been key to the CCP’s self-preservation. When the Soviet Communist Party imploded in 1991, many expected the CCP to follow. But Deng and his successors never let up on authoritarian tendencies for fear of losing control. The CCP’s merciless crackdown during the Tiananmen Square uprising in 1989, and its campaigns of harsh suppression of ethnic minorities in Tibet, Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia, were justified as necessary for the Party to sustain its rule. China’s “modernisation” under the Party came at a heavy human and ecological cost. Since becoming the CCP’s boss in 2012, President Xi Jinping has re-tightened control over civil society and the private sector, and launched a ferocious disciplinary clampdown against corruption by “tigers and flies” in the Party. Xi has revived glorification of Mao by imposing “a correct view of history” and resurrected China’s ancient Confucian values and imperial traditions — a mix of old and new — to consolidate his power and propel China’s rise to the centrestage in world politics.A coldblooded politician like Mao, Xi has amended China’s constitution to indefinitely remain at the helm. His “Chinese Dream” comprises achievement of two centenaries – a “moderately well-off society” by the CCP’s centenary in 2021, and a “fully developed nation” and “strong country” by the PRC’s centenary in 2049. In February 2021, Xi declared that China had accomplished the “arduous task of eradicating extreme poverty”. With sights set on the 2049 milestone, he has launched audacious international projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and flexed military muscle against rival nations. Can the CCP carry on as China’s almighty institution until 2049 and beyond? Sinologists Minxin Pei and David Shambaugh assess that Xi is overplaying his hand and setting the CCP up for doom. Multiple contradictions are arising between a Party operating under Xi’s megalomaniacal cult of personality and a fast-changing, relatively well-off Chinese society that will not willingly accept neo-Maoist propaganda or be satisfied with grandiose nationalistic visions of China as the number one power in the world.The fate of the CCP also depends on the wary international community. The global backlash against China’s mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic and its human rights abuses, and the intent of the US and its partners to halt China’s push for global hegemony, indicate harder times ahead. Xi warned the CCP in 2020 of a “period of turbulence” when “we will face more and more headwinds in the external environment.” Still, like his hero Mao who steered the Party through extreme difficulties in its formative decades, Xi welcomes a fight and thrives on confrontation.After 72 uninterrupted years in power and no immediate threat to overthrow it, the CCP can congratulate itself as the most successful communist party in history that single-mindedly converted a weak and poor China into a technologically advanced superpower. But if the CCP forgets its past and fails to reform once again, the “third revolution” of Xi Jinping could be the Party’s swansong. Sreeram Chaulia is a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International AffairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-century-later-the-chinese-communist-party-is-at-the-crossroads-101625051061152.html
30-06-2021||Today's||Lessons from the AIDS epidemic to help India fight Covid-19 equitably||In a recent address at the international AIDS society to mark 40 years since HIV was first reported, Dr Anthony Fauci juxtaposed the chronic AIDS crisis with the contemporary Covid-19 pandemic. Fauci, who spearheaded global health interventions even during AIDS, noted that in the four decades, 76 million people had been infected by HIV in contrast to one year of Covid-19 which saw more than 91 million infections. In terms of fatalities, 2% of those with Covid-19 succumbed to the disease, whereas 43% of people died of AIDS and other HIV-related illnesses.Reiterating the urgency of ending HIV, Fauci acknowledged the debt Covid-19 vaccinologists owed to decades of ongoing HIV research. Nearly 90% of Covid-19 vaccines developed at a record pace today used diagnostics, animal models and clinical trials networks from previously “unsuccessful” HIV vaccine trials. HIV genomic sequencing also inspired stabilising the Sars-CoV-2 “spike protein” resulting in “maximal immunogenicity”, crucial for efficacious vaccines today.India, with the third-largest HIV epidemic in the world (2.1 million infected people), the second-highest Covid-19 infections and third-highest Covid-19 deaths, must heed important lessons from the global AIDS crisis while combating Covid-19.Also Read | India’s vaccine strategy is neglecting the vulnerable, poor. There is a way outFirst, AIDS established the epidemiological value of involving affected communities in the planning and implementation of research and care. Not only does emergency medicine require community trust to be effective but it also enhances public health based on a collaborative approach. India’s response to AIDS integrated the granular, social expertise of “target communities” (such as sex workers, and people from the transgender community) and their everyday assessments of risks. India’s Covid-19 responses must likewise engage vulnerable communities (for example, the rural poor) not only with the aim of securing medical compliance with vaccines but importantly building a bottom-up, community-based public health system. This includes incorporating the abilities of vulnerable groups to anticipate infections and fortify local care networks. In a health emergency, such a system can play a vital role in communicating risk and protective guidelines in terms people easily recognise and encouraging local forms of behavioural surveillance led by community leaders and grassroots health ambassadors.Second, AIDS established the practice of “harm reduction”, which entails lowering risk behaviours in the absence of total risk elimination. Harm reduction is imperative because biomedical risks are always socially patterned and located within structures where inequalities and stigmas are rife. The mutating Sars-CoV-2 pandemic is ideal to harness harm reduction approaches especially for marginalised groups by building their structural capacities during health emergencies and in everyday life. Harm reduction propagates that disproportionate risk and suffering necessitates differentiated health interventions. Vulnerable groups in India facing challenges to physical distancing, overcrowding, nutritional deficits and infectious disease burdens must be aided by State interventions for income support, debt relief, cash-transfers, free food rations, internet data (for telemedicine) and door-to-door pharmacies throughout lockdowns. Despite structural constraints, vulnerable populations also create their own harm reduction strategies, which must be recognised without shame or blame. The same logic can also crucially help contain and address vaccine hesitancy in which hesitant communities are encouraged to see vaccination as a form of harm reduction rather than a threat or hazard.Also Read | In India, ‘woke’ politics a liability: Pew surveyThird, the AIDS experience morally compels India to nuance its health data. Metrics have the potential to allow vulnerable groups to make sovereign claims on public health. The moral and material force of “grassroots metrics” comes from evidence and risk assessments from vulnerable communities themselves. Indian public health data during Covid-19 insufficiently reflects binaries like urban/rural, young/old, compliant/hesitant, which while functional fail to ensure an intersectional approach to health justice or take into account the shifting nature of categories. Indian health data must also make space for vulnerabilities beyond just age and comorbidities, accounting for the socio-cultural and politico-legal textures of at-risk groups. Vulnerability metrics must reflect the intersections of caste, class, gender, ethnicity and religion and how they react with specific forms of labour, occupational exposures, residential segregation, welfare exclusions etc. To scale up socially viable primary healthcare, Indian data must first deepen our understanding of the social world.Fourth, AIDS reinforced the need for evidence-based non-pharmacological interventions (NPIs). These are crucial for multiple reasons: To reduce the everyday burden on fractured medical systems including hospitals; to build public health infrastructure based on community health strategies even after vaccinations; to counteract catastrophic out-of-pocket expenditures caused by neoliberal pharmaceutical markets (including black markets for oxygen and life-saving drugs) on vulnerable people’s lives; to respect people’s refusals of biomedical care premised on personal histories of violence and harm by profit-oriented medical systems; to encourage ethical and effective home-based care; and to reduce post-treatment toxic infections and mental health withdrawals. NPIs in Covid-19 must complement biomedical and biosocial public health responses.Also Read | Scientifically Speaking : 20 years later, what we know about the human genomeFifth, AIDS put social justice at the heart of disease control. Globally, between 1996-2003, when anti-retroviral therapy (ART) was extensively promulgated most beneficiaries were in high-income countries while a majority of HIV patients were in low-income countries. Ironically, this was also the period of maximum AIDS deaths. India must negotiate neoliberal vaccine regimes by transforming its trounced vaccine nationalism to ensure that lack of Covid-19 vaccines doesn’t maim the marginalised at any cost. Social justice during infectious disease outbreaks involves recognising the nuances of where an individual is structurally placed and requires social epidemiological models to predict and propagate last-mile health services for communities which have barriers to health access and retention.Learning from the injustices of AIDS, India’s Covid-19 response must frame its health and development agenda within concrete socio-cultural determinants of harm, healing and well-being. Critical inter-epidemic lessons must drive equitable global public health in India.Nikhil Pandhi is a doctoral candidate in medical and cultural anthropology at Princeton University. A Rhodes Scholar, he ethnographically researches global health and the structural and social determinants of health in India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lessons-from-the-aids-epidemic-to-help-india-fight-covid-19-equitably-101625048783183.html
30-06-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine strategy is neglecting the vulnerable, poor. There is a way out||Are we pushing our older and vulnerable population into harm’s way and delaying vaccination for the poor?The government says that a third wave is a distinct possibility in the near future. It has consistently maintained that older people, i.e., 45+ and among them, the 60+ are especially vulnerable to severe outcomes, reiterated in the new affidavit to the Supreme Court. Also, recent studies show that a single dose offers only limited protection against infection from the Delta variant and somewhat better, but still low protection, against hospitalisation. Two doses are needed for sufficient protection, especially for older persons.Yet, currently, three out of four first doses and two out of three total doses are going to the youngest 18-45 age group, while the vulnerable 60+ get just one out of 10. 90% of all jabs are first doses. We are vaccinating very few of the 60+ and also delaying their second dose, leaving them vulnerable to the third wave.Also Read | In India, ‘woke’ politics a liability: Pew surveySince May 1, the youngest have got over five times the number of doses given to the oldest and most vulnerable age group (60+). If these doses had gone to the oldest instead, we could have had 100% coverage (first doses) of the most vulnerable 60+ by now. As it is, less than half of them have received one jab and the delay in the second lifesaving dose has meant that only one out of six are fully vaccinated.Some states show it’s possible to be more responsible. In Rajasthan, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Mizoram and Goa, more than three-fourths of the 60+ have got their first dose. Achieving these levels needs hard work and rural outreach, taking vaccines closer to people. But states, especially now, are chasing numbers and the young are many and easily available.How soon can we reduce the gap? Given the improved supply, we can, by the end of July, give first doses to all 60+ and second doses to all who got their first jab more than eight weeks ago. The first cohort needs about 40 million doses and the second cohort about 35 million, a fair 60% share of the planned 120 million that the Centre’s affidavit says will be available in July, and a much smaller share of the 220 million expected by the chair of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India.Like in the United Kingdom, which inspired the 12-week gap (we extended it up to 16), we should reduce the gap between doses for the oldest age group and fully vaccinate them as quickly as possible. Among the 18-45, those with co-morbidities can be prioritised, as done for the 45+ earlier.Not just the young, the new vaccination policy also privileges the rich. For a family of five, Covaxin costs ₹14,000 in the private sector while it’s free in the public sector. If you can afford it, you can get vaccinated faster because the private sector has vaccine stock while the public sector often does not. As the health minister said on April 25, “Undoubtedly, the private and corporate sector route will empower a large number of people to get themselves quickly vaccinated … those who can afford to get them at the private and corporate sector rates shall go ahead.” A faster vaccination schedule for richer people is thus part of stated policy.But private presence is limited and very spatially concentrated. Half the districts have no private vaccination sites and over three-fourths have less than five. On June 21, when we vaccinated more than eight million people, nine states accounted for eight out of ten private sites and in each of them, most sites were in a few major urban districts. For example, in Telangana, Hyderabad and its surroundings accounted for 150 of 157 sites, while Kolkata, its neighbour, North Twenty-four Parganas and West Bardhaman, made up 212 of 241 sites in West Bengal.We need to reduce the private allocation or revert to the previous arrangement. Private sites can still vaccinate. Their supplies should be replenished based on use. The continuing reservation of 25% of vaccine production for less than 4% of vaccination sites is mindless. Low private demand will not even help to cross-subsidise, which the government has openly admitted as an objective in the latest affidavit.Also Read | Learn from the second wave, be cautious and get vaccinatedBut, it’s not all bleak.Crowded vaccination centres and long waits usually deter women from vaccination. The changes since May 1 led to rising gender inequity. The gender ratio worsened in almost all states (Andhra Pradesh a notable exception), with a higher share of 18-45 in vaccination associated with a worse gender ratio. Four out of five districts saw worse gender outcomes. Perhaps, men were more likely to go and women dissuaded from going to paid urban vaccination sites, which had much of the vaccine stock in May. However, as vaccines became available at public vaccination centres, this inequity has reduced and is now back to levels of late April.The other improvement is in spatial equity. Even in April, about 35 districts accounted for 25% of all vaccinations and 113 districts (about 15% of all districts) for half the vaccinations. Many of these are large urban centres with richer people but also admittedly with a high share of infections. Over May and till June 21, this became worse and in early June, only 25 districts were responsible for a quarter of all vaccinations. Since June 21, this has improved. And last week, about 47 districts accounted for a quarter and 148 for half the vaccinations, indicating that vaccines are being spread out more widely.A more equitable vaccination policy is achievable, especially after the ramp-up post June 21. Two of four major inequities, gender and geography, have been mitigated to some extent. We need to fix the other two, by focusing on the vulnerable and the poor.Partha Mukhopadhyay is a senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-strategy-is-neglecting-the-vulnerable-poor-there-is-a-way-out-101625042180759.html
30-06-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | 20 years later, what we know about the human genome||Twenty years ago, the first draft of the human genome was published in Nature and Science. The Human Genome Project was the most costly and ambitious biological enterprise in history. Astoundingly, it came in under the budget of $3 billion allocated by the United States Congress in 1990.In 2003, a more complete genome was publicly released, but gaps remained. At the time, eight per cent of the most challenging and repetitive parts of the 3.057 billion chemical letters of DNA that make up the human genome remained unmapped. Those challenging gaps were finally sequenced and posted this May to much less fanfare.In the early days of the Human Genome Project, DNA sequences were handwritten in notebook pages and faxed between groups. Keeping pace with early history of the Internet, the Human Genome Project sparked collaboration, open sharing of data, and made bioinformatics mainstream to all biologists.Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Knowing how coronavirus hacks cells will help stop itHowever, the race to sequence the human genome didn’t simply catalyse the creation of the infrastructure and tools needed to handle large amounts of data. It also accelerated the development of new fields such as genomics, systems biology, and computational biology. Today, sequencing genomes is a million times cheaper than it was two decades ago. Consequently, millions of people have had their genomes sequenced.Genomes have helped in ancestry analyses and in identifying risk factors for diseases. With faster and cheaper DNA sequencing, we have entered the era of personalised medicine, which allows for individualised therapies that target molecular signatures of diseases that vary from person to person. Next-generation sequencing has also allowed us to design molecular vaccines, and to track mutations in viruses and variants during the current pandemic.Genes are the functional units of the genome that contain instructions for how to make proteins. Scientists initially thought that the human genome would contain 50,000 to 100,000 genes. It came as a surprise to us that our genomes are nowhere close to being the largest, nor do they contain the most genes. With a genome of 43 billion base pairs (14 times larger than the human genome), the Australian lungfish — an air-breathing distant relative of the first fish that walked on land 380 million years ago — holds the distinction of the largest animal genome sequenced.Humans have around 20,000 to 30,000 gene (depending on how a gene is actually defined) and each gene gives rise to three proteins on average. But even at the higher end of the range, this means that genes make up only one per cent of our genomes.We made pivotal discoveries in the first decade of the draft human genome. We know that the 99% of the genome that doesn’t code for genes is not fluff. Parts of it act as dials controlling the activity of genes. We also know there are switches that aren’t embedded in DNA which can respond to environmental signals to change the fate of cells. This extra layer on top of our genetics is spawning research in the field of epigenetics.But in my view, the biggest development in genomics came in the second decade of the century from outside the field, with the discovery of the tools to edit the genome itself. This genome editing technology, called CRISPR, which won its discoverers the Nobel Prize in Chemistry last year, allows us to edit any part of the human genome.Earlier this year, the New England Journal of Medicine published landmark research on two patients who received CRISPR gene-editing based therapy for sickle-cell disease and beta thalassemia. Both patients seem to have been cured of these severely debilitating genetic disorders, a truly monumental breakthrough. Doctors removed stem cells from bone marrow and edited a faulty gene using CRISPR. Billions of gene-edited cells were introduced into patients’ bodies.On Saturday, the same journal published interim results on the treatment of amyloidosis with CRISPR. With the ability to edit genes inside the body directly, we have entered the genome editing era.We know we can edit human genomes. But we do not know enough about the effects of making gene changes for complex diseases. Most diseases are not like sickle cell disease and beta thalassemia: they do not have a clear relationship between one gene and its effects. Instead, most diseases progress through the effects of multiple genes and environmental factors.Right now, much of the medical applications of genomics are geared to genes of known function. But there are many genes for which we don’t know function yet. An ambitious goal for the next decade would be to find out what the remaining genes actually do. An even more ambitious (and likely unachievable) goal would be to map the network of how genes interact with one another and with the rest of our cells.In addition, some of the unbridled optimism that many diseases would be cured easily once the genome had been sequenced is gone, firmly replaced by the understanding that human biology is more complex and messy than we had realised back then.Finally, we cannot lose sight of concerns in science that correlate with inequities in broader society. Who benefits from discoveries made from genomics? People of African ancestry, for example, are the most genetically diverse people on the planet. The rest of us are descendants of small populations that survived the journey out of Africa around 60,000 years ago. Yet people of African ancestry are underrepresented in genomic databases, which contain a disproportionate number of sequenced genomes of people of European ancestry. Just as vaccines are a common resource for all humans, so should genomes be.Anirban Mahapatra, a microbiologist by training, is the author of COVID-19: Separating Fact From Fiction. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/scientifically-speaking-20-years-later-what-we-know-about-the-human-genome-101625022559607.html
