01-04-2021||Calcutta||Corporate houses and welfare associations of housing complexes make jab bookings||Corporate houses and welfare associations of housing complexes are approaching private hospitals to vaccinate their employees and residents who are 45 or above against Covid-19. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above can get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. Hospitals, too, have decided to approach the companies with whom they have agreements on hospitalisation and routine check-ups for vaccination. Hospital officials feel the need for a structured approach to inoculation as the Centre’s decision on people aged 45 or above has created a bigger target population for vaccination. Since those who are in their late 40s and 50s are stepping out regularly for work, it is important to vaccinate them as quickly as possible, the officials said. Several private hospitals in Calcutta have been approached by private corporations, banks as well public sector units (PSU) that are keen to get their staff vaccinated. “We have received confirmations from five companies who will get their employees vaccinated at our hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east) of Narayana Health, which owns the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “We have also finalised agreements with three housing complexes that will send their residents to our hospital for the jabs. We are actively promoting the message that vaccination for anyone who is 45 or above is now open. They should come and take the vaccine.” Ventakesh said they were also offering prospective recipients time slots of their choice. “Many employees of companies want to take jabs after work, so we are offering them slots between 5pm and 9pm.” Two housing complexes that will send their residents to the hospital are Ekta Heights at Ganguly Bagan and South City Gardens in Tollygunge. AMRI Hospitals have tied up with three private corporations for the inoculation of their employees. The group has also received requests from associations representing various communities. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said they would be prepared to vaccinate up to 1,500 people at their hospitals in Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. “We are vaccinating about 900 people daily. We will remain prepared to take the number up to 1,500 a day from Thursday. If we get an adequate number of vaccine vials, we can reach that target. This will help vaccinate the 45-and-above population faster since we have to cover a very large population,” said Barua. AMRI, he said, is offering working people slots between 4pm and 7pm to take the jabs. The ILS Hospitals, too, have been approached by three companies and two professional associations to vaccinate their employees and members. “An association of chartered accountants is among those that have approached us for vaccinating their members. We have not yet finalised any agreement because we want to have an idea of the turnout in the first few days. We are actively promoting the vaccination in social media, informing people that they can get the jabs at our hospitals in Howrah, Salt Lake and Dum Dum,” said Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals. Peerless Hospital has decided that it will approach private corporations and PSUs with whom it has a tie-up for the treatment of their employees. The management will also approach the housing complexes in the vicinity of the hospital. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital, said they would first approach the companies with whom the hospital has a tie-up for several years. “We will approach those companies that have a significant strength in Calcutta and have a relationship with us for several years,” he said. Several hospitals have extended their jab hours anticipating a far greater turnout from Thursday. At the Rabindranath Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, vaccination will continue till 9pm from Thursday, instead of the usual 5pm. Vaccination starts at 8am. The AMRI Hospitals will administer doses between 10pm and 7pm from Thursday. Till Wednesday, vaccination continued till 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||Archdiocese of Calcutta issues guidelines for Holy Week and Easter||The archdiocese of Calcutta has issued a set of guidelines for the Holy Week (March 28 to April 4) and Easter. The guidelines state that the church or the hall where the service is being held should be well ventilated. People should not remain inside to “meet and greet”. Churches and halls must be sanitised after each major service, the guidelines state. The guidelines, which were sent to all 65 Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese on Wednesday, listed the safety protocols with respect to sanitisation, maintaining physical distance and wearing of masks. It was also mentioned that the guidelines should be read “in conjunction with the latest Covid-19 government advisory”. The guidelines state: “Clergy should generally avoid standing by entrances or exits to meet and greet people as this can create bottlenecks and bunching…. Announcements should be made to inform people not to remain in the church premises for meet and greet, but to exit immediately.” Regarding communion, the guidelines state that the priest and the server must wear “face covering/mask”. “Strictly observe guidance on the administration of Holy Communion (in the hand only),” the guidelines state. For the “Veneration of the Cross”, the guidelines state that “the usual way, i.e kissing, should be completely avoided. A short genuflection or bow with folded hands could be used.” Appropriate measures should be taken to “ensure the lines for veneration are short. Row-by-row proceeding is advised”. Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta, said: “Last year people could not come to the churches during the Holy Week. This year they are longing to come but with the rise in infection, we have to be careful about the safety protocols. We have sent this as a reminder to all churches on Wednesday.” As for vaccinated individuals, the guidelines state: “Even where a whole congregation has been vaccinated, there should be no relaxation of risk mitigation measures.” The vicar general has said that during the Seven Churches Visitation on Thursday, one must maintain distance from others, regularly sanitise hands and wear a mask.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST students seek rethink on onsite test||The IIEST students’ senate has appealed to the director to reconsider the decision to hold supplementary exams on the campus from May 5 at a time Covid cases are on the rise across the country, an official of the institute said. The students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, wants the test to be held online. It has written to director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti that as many of the students were from worst-affected states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it would not be advisable to call them back to the Shibpur campus amid a renewed surge in the epidemic. Asked about the prospect of holding the test on the campus amid the recent spurt in cases, the director said: “As of now the decision to hold the test stands, but we will review the situation from time to time. Based on that assessment, we will proceed.” The senate of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology — the highest academic body of the institute – had decided in mid-March that supplementary exams at the undergraduate level would be held on the campus from May 5 to 10. Supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November. The Covid situation has sharply worsened and the supplementary exams should be held online, like the regular semester exams, Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the senate told The Telegraph. Around 270 students are scheduled to write the supplementary exams. “Recalling students amid the rising number of cases could pose a health risk. We have students from worst-affected states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. How will they travel to the institute in the current situation?” wondered Kumar. “The parents of many students have written to me to take up the matter with the IIEST authorities so that the students are not made to travel to the campus. This prompted the senate to make the appeal. The director has told us that the issue will be discussed at the next meeting of the senate (the academic body).” A member of the highest academic body said they were fearing travel restrictions could be reinforced to contain the spread of the virus and that might stand in the way of the examinees’ return to the campus. Asked about the appeal, IIEST deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya said: “The representatives of the students’ senate were present when the IIEST senate had decided to hold the test on the campus. They should have raised their objections there.” Kumar said: “We had raised our objections at the senate, but the authorities cited the instance of the November exams and approved the decision. The response from the students and the guardians... prompted us to again raise our objections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs 982 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 472 on Wednesday, to 5,775. This was the 20th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 508 Covid recoveries, but 982 new infections were detected. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, 380 and 212 new infections, respectively, were detected. The state's death toll rose to 10,329 as two more patients succumbed to the infection, it said. The two fatalities, caused due to comorbidities, were reported in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. As many as 5,70,811 people have recovered from the disease to date. The state has so far tested over 91.72 lakh samples for COVID-19, including 23,537 in the last 24 hours, it said. A total of 51.45 lakh have been vaccinated thus far, including 1.35 lakh on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||$8-million connect with city||Former Gilead Sciences boss John C. Martin, who passed away on Tuesday, had a $8 million connection with Calcutta, where his money helped set up a liver hospital that caters to underprivileged people. Martin, who died at the age of 70, was an American billionaire businessman and philanthropist who had served Gilead Sciences, a biopharmaceutical major, as the CEO from 1996 to 2016 and the company’s chairman from 2008 to 2019. He had donated $3 million to set up the Indian Institute of Liver and Digestive Sciences at Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of the city. He had also pledged another $5 million to build a research centre at the institute. Abhijit Chowdhury, the secretary of Liver Foundation, which has built the Sonarpur hospital where people are treated at a subsidised rate, narrated to Metro on Wednesday how Martin had helped them build the facility. “John C. Martin was the first big donor for the project. It was after his donation that other donors came forward to help the $5 million project,” said Chowdhury, also the head of the Institute of Liver Diseases at SSKM Hospital. Chowdhury, who heard the news of Martin’s demise at 4am on Wednesday, said he had first met him at a conference on liver diseases in Barcelona in April 2012. “I had walked up to him and said, Hi John, I want to take five minutes of yours to share a thought. We are planning to develop a healthcare facility for liver diseases which will be built based entirely on philanthropic donations. So, we are looking for people who could be with us and have heard you are a philanthropist. We have the knowhow and the desire but don’t have money, so if you can help us and join our venture by donating money,” Chowdhury recalled. He had heard that Martin had supported HIV and hepatitis programmes in Africa. “Why five minutes? I would love to have dinner with you and let’s discuss the idea,” Martin had told Chowdhury and they had a detailed discussion about the project. Chowdhury met Martin again in November 2012, this time in Washington DC. “By this time he had collected information about us and told me he wanted to have more discussions,” said Chowdhury. The next month Martin had come down to Calcutta and wanted to see Liver Foundation’s outreach programmes. He and his wife Lily had gone to Birbhum. “Lily’s mother was born in Kalimpong, so she has an emotional connect with Bengal,” said Chowdhury. In January 2013, Martin had sent a team to inspect the hospital project and a week later, he called up Chowdhury. “John, by then John Da to me, said he was calling to say he wanted to support our project with USD2 million without any pre-conditions. He said he would prefer we didn’t tell this to many people as he didn’t want publicity,” Chowdhury recounted. “I told him I understood his philosophy but John C. Martin’s name would add credibility to our mission. After much persuasion he agreed.” The institute was inaugurated on February 27, 2016. Martin was present at the programme. The Liver Foundation approached Martin when the project ran into a funds deficit and he gave another $1 million in 2018. Liver Foundation then planned to build John C. Martin Center for Liver Research and Innovations. “He asked me why we were naming it after him. I said he was a great scientist and philanthropist and his name would give credibility to the institute,” said Chowdhury. Martin agreed and the foundation stone was laid in December 2018. The next year he pledged $5 million for the research centre. He loved to visit the Sunderbans and Chowdhury had taken him there twice. “He also loved Bengali cuisine and his favourite was ilish maach. He would request me to take him to a restaurant where he would get authentic Bengali food,” said Chowdhury. Chowdhury last met Martin in February, when the Friends of Liver Foundation was founded in California. Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and Martin inaugurated the US chapter of the Liver Foundation there. Chowdhury said Martin was planning to visit Sonarpur in December. “He would always ask me about the progress of the project. He was happy when I told him we set up a nursing college there,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||LED lights across New Town ||The New Town authorities have decided to install LED lights across all three action areas, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said on Tuesday. The LED streetlights will be fitted along the sidewalks of all block roads of New Town, the official said. Although nearly all the main roads of New Town, including the 10.5km-long Major Arterial Road (MAR) that connects New Town with Salt Lake on the one end and the airport on the other, are lit up by LED lights, there are places where sodium vapour lamps as well as CFL lights and tube lights are in use. According to a senior NKDA official, the decision to replace all streetlights with LED lights was taken to reduce power consumption and carbon footprint. Some of these lights will be fitted with sensors. The luminance of such a light will increase by up to 40 per cent if the sensor detects an approaching vehicle. These lights turn on automatically when it gets dark and can turn off when there is ample daylight, said an official of NKDA. Streetlights all over Calcutta are, at present, controlled manually from several operating centres. “We will replace all streetlights with LED lights. We had installed quite a few smart streetlights and the results have been quite satisfactory. We intend to replace all the conventional LED lights in phases. There are 6,971 streetlights in New Town,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. “Each 180-watt LED streetlight has a main control panel at the top that acts as its ‘brain’,” a Hidco official said. The control unit has infrared sensors and controllers to detect vehicle movement. The lights will operate at 60 to 80 per cent of their capacity when traffic is thin and become brighter when vehicle movement increases. The units are equipped with photosensitive sensors that can measure the ambient light around it. Sen said the smart LED lights would help save electricity by ensuring optimum usage in various conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities hold contest to encourage better living||The New Town authorities on Wednesday announced the winners of a contest that was organised to encourage residents of the area to try and make the township a better place to live in in terms of cleanliness and adherence to Covid-19 protocols, among others. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said the idea of such a contest was to encourage the residents to play an active role in community development and make their housing complexes and residential blocks a better place to live in. “In most places residents blame the urban local body, which provides civic services in the township, if a road is not swept or if someone spits on a road,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. “We have organised this contest to change this concept and to make the residents feel that even their efforts can make a huge difference.” NKDA had announced the contest in October last year and asked residents to list activities, with pictures, they had undertaken since January 2019 to improve the condition of the township as a living space. New Town has 50 gated communities and 30 residential blocks, comprising co-operative societies and standalone buildings, across all three action areas. The gated communities that were felicitated include the Uniworld City, Sunrise Point and Alaktika Housing Complex. The residential blocks that made it to the top are BA, BE, and BD. Anjan Sen, the secretary of the Kolkata Uniworld City Apartments Residents’ Association, said they had taken a host of measures to ensure that waste segregation was done properly. To ensure that residents segregate waste, “Tower Champions” have been appointed from among apartment owners and other residents. “We had adopted strict measures when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. We have also asked people not to bring in plastic bags...,” said Sen. In BA Block, residents took measures like assigning volunteers to perform tasks such as supervising the cleaning of the streets and empty plots and keeping in touch with senior citizens who live alone. “Our volunteers had also helped those who had tested positive for Covid-19 to get food and medicines at their doorsteps. We also carry out regular tree plantation drives,” said Prabir Majumder, the secretary of the BA Block Residents’ Association. The blocks as well as the gated societies were monitored from January 1, 2019, till December 31, 2020 by NKDA officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
01-04-2021||Calcutta||International course for VI to VIII at Heritage||A city school will introduce an international curriculum in Classes VI to VIII from the next academic session, starting in April. The Heritage School will offer Cambridge Lower Secondary, a curriculum of the Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE), and the middle school students have started opting for it. The school has been offering an international curriculum in Classes IX to XII and is now expanding it to lower classes. “We have NRI children who come to the school seeking admission in lower classes and the school will meet their requirements and demands,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. The school had started the IBDP (International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme) for Classes XI and XII in 2012 and the IGCSE (for Classes IX and X) in 2013. “We are doing it step by step and next year we will move down another level and offer the international curriculum from Class V. We were looking for a certain number of students before we could start the Cambridge Lower Secondary (in Classes VI, VII and VIII) and once we had that we started. We have also recruited teachers for this curriculum,” said Sapru. The curriculum is “holistic, experiential and it allows students to think and reason and question,” a school official said. The school chose the Cambridge Lower Secondary, instead of the Middle Years Programme (MYP) of the International Baccalaureate, because there is no formal exam in the MYP. “If you have a public exam, you get to know where you stand as a school. Also, parents in India want to know how their children have fared in comparison to others,” said a school official. When the school started offering the IBDP nine years ago, it was because they were losing students to other schools — sometimes in other cities — offering the IB curriculum. There are some schools in the city — such as Calcutta International School, The Cambridge School, Gems Akademia International School and Vidyanjali International School — that offer international curriculums like the CAIE. Some schools offer the Cambridge Lower Secondary in some classes, while others have aligned their syllabi according to the international curriculum. At least two of the schools offer the Cambridge Lower Secondary in Class VIII, instead of in lower classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
01-04-2021||Calcutta||International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance organises Rang Meet||Scores of entrepreneurs met on Saturday to build an alliance to develop their businesses with the support of each other. Rang Meet, in association with The Telegraph, was organised by the Calcutta chapter of the International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance (IDEA). The participants had come from diverse backgrounds. A tour operator networked with a wedding planner and a fashion designer exchanged business ideas with a nutritionist. “The amount of enthusiasm and business opportunities generated by the city-based entrepreneurs is way beyond definition. This is what makes IDEA ever growing,” said Divyang Sikaria, adviser, IDEA Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
01-04-2021||Business||Pakistan rejects proposal to import sugar from India: Report||In a volte-face, Pakistan's Cabinet on Thursday rejected a proposal of the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) to import cotton and sugar from India, according to a media report. The decision comes a day after Pakistan's new Finance Minister Hammad Azhar on Wednesday announced to lift a nearly-two year old ban on the import of cotton and sugar from India after a meeting of the ECC chaired by him. However, a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday rejected the ECC proposal to import cotton yarn and sugar from India, Geo TV reported, citing sources. There was no official word on the decision of the Cabinet. Ahead of the Cabinet meeting, Khan's close aide and Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari said that all ECC decisions have to be approved by Cabinet and only then can they be seen as "approved" by the government. "Just for the record - All ECC decisions have to be approved by Cabinet & only then they can be seen as "approved by govt"! So today in the Cabinet there will be discussion on ECC decisions including trade with India & then the govt decision will be taken! Media should be aware of this atleast," Mazari, known for her hawkish stand on Kashmir, tweeted. Azhar's announcement on Wednesday to import cotton and sugar from India had raised hopes of a partial revival of bilateral trade relations, which were suspended after the August 5, 2019 decision of New Delhi to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. India is the world's biggest producer of cotton and the second biggest sugar manufacturer. In May 2020, Pakistan had lifted the ban on import of medicines and raw material of essential drugs from India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in Pakistan. Subsequent attacks, including one on an Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The ties strained further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. India's move to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August, 2019 angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business||Stock markets start new fiscal on a high||Indian equities started the new fiscal year on a strong note on Thursday, with the BSE Sensex surging over 520 points to settle above the 50,000-level on across-the-board buying by participants amid positive global cues. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 520.68 points or 1.05 per cent higher at 50,029.83. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 176.65 points or 1.2 per cent to settle at 14,867.35. On the Sensex chart, 25 shares ended with gains. IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and Ultratech Cement were prominent gainers. On the other hand, HUL, Nestle, HDFC Bank, TCS, Titan and Tech Mahindra suffered losses. Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, said, Domestic equities shrugged-off COVID-19 spikes on favourable global cues and recovered sharply mainly led by strong buying in financials and automobile stocks. Strong monthly volume for March helped auto stocks to attract investors' interest. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.6 per cent lower at USD 63.95 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses clocked gains as the announcement of US infrastructure stimulus plan boosted investor sentiment globally. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 1,685.91 crore in the Indian markets on Wednesday, exchange data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business|| GST collections at record high of Rs 1.23 lakh crore in March||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday. "GST revenues crossed above Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post pandemic," the ministry said. Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over last few months, it added. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of March 2021 stood at Rs 1,23,902 crore, of which central GST is Rs 22,973 crore, state GST is Rs 29,329 crore, integrated GST is Rs 62,842 crore (including Rs 31,097 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,757 crore (including Rs 935 crore collected on import of goods). "GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since introduction of GST. In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over past five months, the revenues for the month of March 2021 are 27 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business||Sensex spurts over 390 points in early trade on wide-spread buying||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 390 points to surpass the 49,900-level in opening deals on Thursday, supported by across-the-board buying by participants amid positive global cues. Starting off on a positive note, the 30-share index swung 434 points on the higher side before easing some gains. It was quoted higher by 391.14 points or 0.79 per cent at 49,900.29. Likewise, the NSE Nifty advanced by 113.55 points or 0.77 per cent at 14,804.25. On the Sensex chart, HCL Tech emerged as the top gainer with over 2.61 per cent rise, followed by Titan, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Auto and NTPC. Barring Nestle, ITC, HDFC Bank and HUL, all shares traded in the green. On Wednesday, the Sensex had ended lower by 627.43 points or 1.25 per cent at 49,509.15; while the broader NSE Nifty slumped 154.40 points or 1.04 per cent to close at 14,690.70. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.93 per cent lower at USD 62.98 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses were trading with gains as the announcement of the US infrastructure stimulus plan boosted investor sentiment globally. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 1,685.91 crore in the Indian markets on Wednesday, exchange data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Govt rolls back interest rate cuts in postal, savings schemes||The government withdrew steep cuts in small savings rates early on Thursday, with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman declaring that the orders that would impact schemes ranging from the National Savings Certificates or NSC and Public Provident Fund or PPF, were issued on Wednesday by “oversight”. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the government of India shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted on Thursday morning, reported PTI. The rollback came on a day the second phase of voting was on for assembly elections in Bengal and Assam. On Wednesday night, the government dropped the bombshell that interest rates on postal deposits and schemes had been slashed by 40 to 110 basis points. The interest rate on the popular public provident fund (PPF) scheme was cut from 7.1 per cent to 6.4 per cent, a 46-year low. The PPF interest rate would have  tumbled below 7 per cent for the first time since 1974. The sharpest cut was announced in the one-year time deposit where the rate went down by a whopping 110 basis points to 4.4 per cent. A hundred basis points make one percentage point. The interest rate on the postal savings deposit was slashed to 3.5 per cent. The rate had been steady at 4 per cent since December 2011. The move to pare rates came on top of last year’s sharper rate reduction of 70 to 140 basis points and would have left small savers with no real place to preserve a nest egg as retail inflation stubbornly stays above 5 per cent. The rate cuts were supposedly in line with the fall in the yield on the 10-year government security to which they are linked. Curiously however, the yield on the 10-year gilt ruled at 6.17 per cent on Wednesday. Last year, when the small saving rates were cut, the yield on the 10-year bond was 6.14 per cent. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had suggested that the interest rates on the various small savings schemes should be 25-100 basis points higher than the yield on the government bonds of similar maturity. The government has not always followed that dictum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Interest rates on postal deposits and schemes slashed by 40 to 110 basis points||Small savers will no longer be able to dodge the falling knife: interest rates on postal deposits and schemes have been slashed by 40 to 110 basis points. The interest rate on the popular public provident fund (PPF) scheme has been cut from 7.1 per cent to 6.4 per cent, a 46-year low. The PPF interest rate will tumble below 7 per cent for the first time since 1974. The sharpest cut is in the one-year time deposit where the rate goes down by a whopping 110 basis points to 4.4 per cent. A hundred basis points make one percentage point. The interest rate on the postal savings deposit has been slashed to 3.5 per cent. The rate had been steady at 4 per cent since December 2011. The move to pare rates comes on top of last year’s sharper rate reduction of 70 to 140 basis points and will leave small savers with no real place to preserve a nest egg as retail inflation stubbornly stays above 5 per cent. The savage cuts mean that interest rates on small savings schemes have been reduced by a total of 120-250 bps during the current financial year. Senior citizens will be hit really hard: the interest rate on the savings scheme specially designed from them will go down by 90 basis points to 6.5 per cent. In April last year, the rate had been slashed by 120 basis points from the 8.6 per cent they earned till March 31, 2020. At the shorter end of the maturity spectrum, the State Bank of India pays more on 1-year and 2-year deposits at 5 per cent and 5.1 per cent, respectively -- an unthinkable proposition until now. The rate cuts are supposedly in line with the fall in the yield on the 10-year government security to which they are linked. Curiously however, the yield on the 10-year gilt ruled at 6.17 per cent on Wednesday. Last year, when the small saving rates were cut, the yield on the 10-year bond was 6.14 per cent. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had suggested that the interest rates on the various small savings schemes should be 25-100 basis points higher than the yield on the government bonds of similar maturity. The government has not always followed that dictum. However, the Modi government has finally decided the bite the bullet under pressure from the banks, which have complained vociferously against the high interest rates on small savings. Bankers like Uday Kotak have often said they are unable to compete against a postal system that is spiriting away people’s deposits. This is not borne out by the facts, with the banks seeing their time deposits swell by 11 per cent over the past year to Rs 139.89 trillion as of March 12. The latest data available with the Reserve Bank of India shows that overall, small savings amounted to a modest Rs 10.46 trillion as of February 5, 2020. The popular Monthly Income Scheme saw the interest rate tumble by 90 basis points to 5.7 per cent. It had been cut last year by 1 percentage point to 6.6 per cent. The Kisan Vikas Patra received a double whammy: the rate was slashed by 70 basis points -- the same as last year -- to 6.2 per cent while the maturity tenure was extended to 138 months from 124 months earlier. The scheme meant for the girl child -- Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana– has been whacked with a cut of 70 basis points to 6.9 per cent. “The reduction in administered interest rates has happened across the board. This is consistent with the prevailing interest rate structure in the financial markets. While this is a market-friendly measure, it could hamper savings which is already low due to various shocks that the economy has been facing over the past four years,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bangalore-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE). Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said: “After keeping rates largely unchanged over the last few quarters, the government has effected a substantial lagged revision in small savings rates, mirroring the moderation in interest rates in the wider economy seen over the last year.” SPJIMR’s Ananth Narayan said: “CPI Inflation has averaged over 6.1 per cent over the past 18 months. While it has come down in February, core inflation is still at 5.9 per cent, and inflation worries still persist. In this context, low and repressed interest rates, despite a huge government borrowing programme, pose big problems for savers. What makes it worse is that the interest is taxable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||SBI raises additional $1 billion loan from Japan Bank for International Cooperation||The country’s largest lender, the State Bank of India (SBI), on Wednesday said it has raised an additional $1 billion (around Rs 7,350 crore) loan from Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to help Covid-hit Japanese auto manufacturers in India. In October last year, the SBI had signed an agreement to raise a loan of $1 billion. Therefore, the latest borrowing takes the total amount of loans raised from JBIC to $2 billion. The SBI said in a statement that the loan is in the form of re-finance against the funding support provided to the manufacturers, suppliers and dealers of Japanese automobiles in India whose business activities were affected by Covid-19. The bank added that the loan is intended to promote smooth flow of funds for the whole range of business operations of Japanese automobile manufacturers in India. JBIC is a policy-based financial institution, wholly owned by the Japanese government. “At a time people are preferring personal mode of transport, this collaboration between the SBI and JBIC will help the bank in extending loan facility to the entire supply chain of Japanese automobile industry, including suppliers, dealers and ultimately the end users,” SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Adani Group to consult authorities and stakeholders on Myanmar port project||India’s Adani Group said on Wednesday it would consult authorities and stakeholders on its port project in Myanmar, after human rights groups reported its subsidiary had agreed to pay millions of dollars in rent to a military-controlled firm. A military coup in Myanmar on Febuary 1 and an ensuing crackdown on mass protests in which hundreds were killed have drawn international condemnation and sanctions on military figures and military-controlled entities. Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd in 2020 won a bid to build and operate Yangon International Terminal, which it has said is an independent project fully owned and developed by the company. The Australian Centre for International Justice and Justice for Myanmar on Tuesday released a report citing documents purporting to show that an Adani unit will pay up to $30 million in land lease fees for the project to Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC). MEC was one of two military-controlled conglomerates sanctioned by the United States last week, and other international firms, including Japanese brewer Kirin, have cut ties with the conglomerates since the coup. Adani did not comment on the lease payments detailed in the report, but said the land acquisition for its project was facilitated by the Myanmar Investment Commission under the now-ousted civilian government. “Much like our global peers, we are watching the situation in Myanmar carefully and will engage with the relevant authorities and stakeholders to seek their advice on the way forward,” an Adani spokesman said in a statement. The spokesman said the company condemned violations of human rights and was working with independent think tanks to mitigate any human rights risks. Adani’s port projects in Australia and India’s southern Tamil Nadu state have also been criticised by activist groups, politicans and locals over environmental concerns. Adani said it was building “sustainable” and “critical port infrastructure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||UltraTech Cement prepays long-term loans of Rs 5,000 crore||AV Birla group firm UltraTech Cement on Wednesday said it has prepaid its long-term loans of Rs 5,000 crore. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, UltraTech Cement said the loan repayment has been done through free cash flows generated over the last few quarters despite the pandemic. “The company last week prepaid its long-term loans amounting to Rs 5,000 crore,” it said. The cement major added that this is in line with its endeavour to maintain an optimal capital structure. Shares of UltraTech Cement on Wednesday ended marginally lower at Rs 6,737.30 — a drop of 0.78 per cent or Rs 52.95 over the previous close on the BSE. UltraTech Cement reported a revenue of Rs 40,649.17 crore in 2019-20 and is the largest manufacturer of grey cement, ready mix concrete and white cement in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Srei receives interest from global investors for capital infusion||Srei Equipment Finance on Wednesday said it has received interest from global investors for capital infusion into the company. The board of Srei Equipment Finance said a strategic committee consisting of independent directors have been constituted by the company to coordinate, negotiate and conclude discussion with potential strategic and/or private equity investors to raise fresh capital for the business in consultation with the management. “The proposed capital infusion is expected to strengthen SEFL’s capital base and help the company emerge out of pandemic induced stress in Indian financial services space,” said Srei Equipment Finance in a statement. The committee will be headed by independent director Malay Mukherjee and other members including independent directors Suresh Kumar Jain, Tamali Sen Gupta, Uma Shankar Paliwal and Shyamalendu Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||SpiceJet signs initial pact with New York-based Avenue Capital Group ||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Wednesday said it has signed an initial pact with New York-based Avenue Capital Group to help finance and acquire 50 new planes to be ordered by the airline. The memorandum of understanding signed between the two partners sets out the next steps and conditions under which Avenue will assist with placing of SpiceJet's new aircraft portfolio, including sale and leaseback of up to 50 planes. The airline, however, did not name the type of aircraft it was looking to acquire. Sources said the MoU, apart from covering the present order that the air carrier has, may also include a new order. Founded in 1995 by Marc Lasry, the multinational firm is a pioneer in distressed debt besides having expertise in aircraft leasing. The company has identified the new planes to be ordered by the airline as a unique opportunity for investment, SpiceJet said. “We are delighted to enter into this strategic alliance with Avenue Capital Group and we look forward to closely working with them. This alliance will ensure a seamless induction of the planes in our fleet and help us plan better for the long-term,” SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Exporters anxious about RoDTEP rate of reimbursement||The government on Wednesday extended the foreign trade policy by six months till September but did not announce the rates on a duty relief scheme for exporters that was announced  in January. Exporters were disappointed that the government did not notify the rate of reimbursement for the new scheme — Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) . “The FTP extension in the current fluid situation is quite understandable as the deferment may provide a better understanding of the aftermath of the pandemic and instruments to deal with it. However, the pending claims of MEIS/SEIS should be released immediately in the new financial year along with RoDTEP rates so as to ease liquidity to exporters who are most hard pressed for it,” Ajay Sahai, the director-general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said. Prop for food processing In a move to boost the food processing sector to meet the global demand, the government on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the sector involving an outlay of Rs 10,900 crore. “The PLI for the food processing sector with Rs 10,900 crore-incentive has been approved. The decision is a fitting tribute to our farmers,” food minister Piyush Goyal said . ECLGS extended till June 30 The government has extended the Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) by another three months till June 30 and also widened its scope to new sectors, including hospitality, travel, and tourism. The ECLGS 3.0 would involve extending credit of up to 40 per cent of the total credit outstanding across all lending institutions as on February 29, 2020 against 20 per cent earlier, the finance ministry said in a statement. The tenor of loans granted under ECLGS 3.0 would be six years, including a moratorium period of two years. $1 billion to every chip maker India is offering more than $1 billion in cash to each semiconductor company that sets up manufacturing units in the country as it seeks to build on its smartphone assembly industry and strengthen its electronics supply chain, two sources have told Reuters. “We’re assuring them that the government will be a buyer and there will also be mandates in the private market (for companies to buy locally made chips),” a source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Benchmark index tanks 627 points on last day of financial year||The benchmark index on Wednesday tanked 627 points on the last day of the financial year as investors remained cautious amid rising Covid-19 cases. The rupee, however, witnessed some volatility but closed nearly 26 paise higher at 73.12 against the dollar. Analysts are of the view that stocks are likely to consolidate over the immediate term and the focus of attention will be Covid cases in the country, the vaccination drive, the upcoming results season and the monetary policy that will be announced on April 7. While Maharashtra, which is one of the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, has indicated that it will not go for a complete lockdown, it is felt that the rising number of cases could limit gains and lead to intermittent corrections. Rupee gain In the forex markets, the rupee closed higher by 26 paise at 73.12 against the dollar. Tracking stock gains during the year, it ended 2020-21 on a strong note with a gain of over 3 per cent though the domestic economy felt the pinch of the pandemic. In Wednesday’s trade, the domestic currency saw some volatility as it opened at 73.56 against the greenback and hit an intra-day high of 73.05 and a low of 73.58. It finally ended at 73.12 against the greenback, registering a rise of 26 paise over its previous closing. On Tuesday, the rupee had settled at 73.38 against the dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.10 per cent to 93.20. The domestic currency markets will remain shut for the next two sessions for annual bank closing and Good Friday holidays. The Sensex opened lower at 50049.12 and hit a day’s low of 49442.50. It closed below 50000 at 49509.15 — a drop of 627.43 points or 1.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||RBI extends auto debit rule deadline||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday extended the deadline by six months to September 30 for various stakeholders to comply with its directive on recurring payments made in online transactions. However, it issued a stern warning that any further delay in ensuring complete adherence to the framework beyond the extended timeline will attract stringent supervisory action. The rules were first proposed in August 2019 and the deadline was to expire on March 31, 2021. It covered recurring payments made by credit or debit cards, wallets or unified payments interface (UPI) in third party merchant websites such as utility bill payments, mobile bills, insurance premiums and even subscription of OTT platforms. Debit from a person’s bank account such as EMIs on home or auto loans was not counted. It was framed to improve the security of such recurring payments. However, various players have been unable to meet the March 31 deadline. Therefore, many credit and debit card customers received text messages asking them to make direct payments to the merchants for continuous services. Some of the players approached the RBI seeking an extension. “It is, however, noted that the framework has not been fully implemented even after the extended timeline. This non-compliance is noted with serious concern and will be dealt with separately,” the RBI said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business||Centre to borrow Rs 7.24 lakh crore in the first half of 2021-22||The Centre on Wednesday said it would borrow Rs 7.24 lakh crore (trillion) in the first half of 2021-22 which is 60 per cent of the total gross borrowing of Rs 12.05 lakh crore for the fiscal, in line with its previous strategy to mop up the bulk of its requirements in the first half of the fiscal (frontloading). The announcement came on a day data showed India’s fiscal deficit at the end of February to be 76 per cent of the revised estimate, an indication that it is likely to remain within the projections made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. Sitharaman had revised upwards the fiscal deficit projection for 2020-21 to Rs 18.48 lakh crore or 9.5 per cent of the gross domestic product  (GDP) from the original budget estimate of Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of GDP. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday set the Ways and Means Advances (WMA) limit at Rs 1.2 lakh crore for the central government for the first half of the financial year beginning April 1.  WMAs are temporary advances given by the RBI to the government to tide over any mismatch in receipts and payments. With the fiscal deficit lower than the revised target, the government is set to start 2021-22 with a comfortable cash balance, Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said. “Accordingly, even though the government of India has chosen to frontload its borrowing programme, with 60 per cent of the amount to be raised in the first half, this works out to a 5.5 per cent decline relative to its market borrowings in the first half of 2020-21,’’ she said. She said a large supply of dated government securities and state development loans are expected in the coming months which will jack up yields in the absence of sizeable and frequent open market operations along with the possible firming of global interest rates. “In our view, the benchmark 10 year G-sec yield may harden to as much as 6.35 per cent by the end of the first quarter of 2021-22.’’ The yields of the benchmark 10-year security on Wednesday closed at 6.16 per cent. According to its borrowing calendar, the government will raise money through securities ranging from 2 years to 40 years with fixed interest rates along with floating rate bonds. In April alone, the Centre will raise Rs 1.16 lakh crore. Current account deficit Data from the RBI showed the balance on the current account recorded a deficit of $1.7 billion or 0.2 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP)  in the third quarter of 2020-21 after a surplus of $15.1 billion or 2.4 per cent of GDP in previous quarter and $19 billion (3.7 per cent of GDP) in the first quarter. Amnesty plan ends The deadline for filing declaration under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad se Vishwas ended on Wednesday. The  tax department had last month extended the last date for filing a declaration and making payment till March 31 and April 30, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business|| Indian economy bounced back amazingly from Covid-19 pandemic: World Bank||India’s economy has bounced back amazingly from the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown over the last one year, but it is not out of the woods yet, the World Bank has said. In its latest South Asia Economic Focus report, the Washington-based global lender forecast that the country’s real GDP growth in fiscal 2021-22 could range anywhere between 7.5 and 12.5 per cent. The report, which was released before the annual Spring meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, said the Indian economy had already been slowing when the pandemic struck. After reaching 8.3 per cent in 2016-17, growth decelerated to 4.0 per cent in 2019-20, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business||Govt asks RBI to maintain status quo on retail inflation targeting at 4 per cent||The government on Wednesday asked the Reserve Bank to maintain status quo on retail inflation targeting at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side for another five-year period ending March 2026. “The inflation target for the period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026 under the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934 has been kept at the same level as it was for the previous five years,” economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra, said: “The continuation of the MPC’s inflation targeting band at 2-6 per cent is welcome as an upward revision could have contributed to an unanchoring of inflation expectations.” To keep inflation under a specified level, the government in 2016 decided to set up the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor and entrusted the panel with the task of fixing the benchmark policy rate. The six-member MPC, which had its first meeting in October 2016, was given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021 with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. The 400 basis points within which the central bank has sanction to operate is the widest in Asia, matched only by Turkey and surpassed by Argentina. The RBI had previously faced criticism for largely overstating inflation with its forecasts used to underpin a hawkish policy stance. The recent stubborn inflation has forced the central bank to pause interest-rate cuts despite the economy needing more stimulus after entering an unprecedented recession, analysts said. A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) working paper has recommended that maintaining the inflation target at 4 per cent is appropriate for the country. The paper, authored by Harendra Kumar Behera and Michael Debabrata Patra, finds that there is a steady decline in trend inflation to 4.1-4.3 per cent since 2014. Setting an inflation target below the trend may impart a deflationary bias to monetary policy because it will go into overkill relative to what the economy can intrinsically bear in order to achieve the target, says the paper titled Measuring trend inflation in India. “Analogously, a target that is fixed above trend renders monetary policy too expansionary and prone to inflationary shocks and unanchored expectations. Hence, maintaining the inflation target at 4 per cent is appropriate for India,” it said. MPC schedule The Monetary Policy Committee will meet six times during the next financial year, the RBI said on Wednesday. The first meeting of the six-member MPC to decide on the first bi-monthly monetary policy statement for 2021-22 will be held from April 5 to April 7. The policy will be announced on April 7. The second meeting of the MPC in the next fiscal will be held on June 2, 3 and 4. The third meeting  will be August 4, 5 and 6. The fourth meeting will be from October 6 to October 8, the fifth from December 6-8 and the sixth meeting February 7-9, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||India|| Congress questions timing of giving Dadasaheb Phalke Award to Rajini||The Congress on Thursday questioned the timing of Dadasaheb Phalke Award to superstar Rajinikanth, saying the government should not do anything that unnecessarily drags celebrities in political controversies. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said the government should not try to take political advantage out of everything and be wary of such actions. "This award should have been given to him long back, why is it being given this year," he said. "The government should not do anything which unnecessarily drags our celebrities in political controversies. Rajinikanth is a respected film personality. The BJP and the government should be wary of this and it should not try to take political advantage out of everything," Shukla told reporters. He alleged that the government doing anything with elections in view is not proper, but noted that people know everything. "The government should not try to take political gains out of everything it does. If the government has done this with the intention of making political gains and with elections in mind, then this is not appropriate in politics," he said. Rajinikanth is a widely respected film personality and we all respect him, as his career has been very successful. Superstar Rajinikanth will be honoured with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Thursday. The announcement comes days ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, where the 70-year-old Rajinikanth resides and has a massive following among the people. Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema's highest honour for an artiste, for the year 2019, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Rajinikanth for his contribution to cinema while congratulating him on the honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||EC bars DMK’s A. Raja from campaigning for 48 hours||The Election Commission on Thursday banned DMK leader A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours after finding him guilty of violating the model code of conduct by making derogatory remarks against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami. In its order, the poll panel reprimanded Raja for violation of the model code of conduct, delisted his name from the list of star campaigners of the DMK and debarred him from campaigning for 48 hours "with immediate effect." Assembly polls will be held in Tamil Nadu on April 6 in a single phase for which campaigning would end in the evening of April 4. "The Commission also advises you to be watchful and not to make intemperate, indecent, derogatory, obscene remarks and lower the dignity of women in future during election campaign," the order read. On Wednesday, Raja responded to the EC’s show cause notice by saying that he has been 'falsely accused' of making derogatory comments. The former union telecom minister in his 'interim explanation' said he had not spoken anything 'obscene' or which would lower the dignity of women and motherhood. Also his speech was not violative of the Model Code of Conduct or any other law, he argued. Raja claimed he used 'simile' to trace the political evolution of his party chief M K Stalin and Palaniswami and using such comparison was accepted in Tamil oratory. He compared the two leaders to 'babies' for easy understanding of the common people to refute Palaniswami's allegations that Stalin never worked hard to rise to his present position. "Hence, if the full text is considered by the committee, I am hopeful that it will wipe out the insult and consequent injury inflicted on me." Also, he claimed that Palaniswami quoted him out of context on this matter and he became emotional too at a public meeting here on March 28. Following this, he apologised if his remark had been 'misconstrued' and 'misunderstood' and also had said he had not intended to insult the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Centre decides to keep vaccination operational throughout April||Seeking to exponentially expand the countrywide anti-coronavirus inoculation drive, the Centre has decided to keep all public and private sector Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) operational throughout April, including on gazetted holidays. The Centre wrote to all states and union territories on Thursday and asked them to make necessary arrangements for this, the Union Health Ministry said. "This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the states and UTs on March 31 to optimally utilise all Covid-19 Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination. "This decision is in line with the graded and proactive approach employed by the government of India along with the states and UTs for Covid-19 vaccination," the ministry said. The vaccination exercise continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it highlighted. The government opened up the Covid-19 vaccination drive to include everybody above 45 years of age on April 1 based on a recommendation of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC). A countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first, and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 to cover people above 60 and those in the age group of 45-59 but with specific comorbid conditions. More than 6.5 crore (6,51,17,896) vaccine doses have been administered through 10,86,241 sessions across the country so far, as per the provisional report till 7 am, according to the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Amit Shah lambasts A. Raja for his comment on women||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday hit out at the DMK for its leader A Raja's alleged vulgar remarks against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami's mother, saying it showed the party had no regard for women. The "mothers and sisters" of the state should teach a 'lesson' to the DMK in the April 6 Assembly polls, he said. Addressing an election rally at Thirukoyilur, Shah charged the DMK with aiming to romp home in the hustings by 'hook or crook.' Referring to Raja's alleged offensive remarks targeted at Palaniswami, leader of the BJP's ally AIADMK, Shah also slammed the Congress and DMK for corruption and dynasty politics. "I saw the statement by DMK leader A Raja. The kind of statement he made against a deceased woman. I think they (DMK) have no regard for women and want to win this election by hook or crook," he said. "In the past, DMK made such bad remarks against (the late Chief Minister) Jayalalithaa ji. I appeal to the mothers and sisters of Tamil Nadu-- teach a lesson to the anti-women DMK in the polls," the BJP veteran said. The electoral battle was between the NDA which was walking the path of development and the UPA which was into corruption and dynasty politics, he said. Both the parties were not bothered about the people of Tamil Nadu. Congress President Sonia Gandhi was "worried" about her son Rahul and DMK chief MK Stalin was "worried" about his son Udhayanidhi, Shah charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Congress questions govt's U-turn on interest rate order||The Congress on Thursday hit out at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman after she ordered withdrawal of the interest rate slashing order and asked whether the U-turn was an "oversight" or an "election-driven hindsight". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the small saving rates would be reduced soon after elections. "There was already a loot on petrol and diesel and soon after the elections end, the small saving rates will be reduced and there will be a loot on the savings of the middle-class. "This government is of jumlas (rhetoric) and the loot of common people," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag "oversight". Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "Really Nirmala Sitharaman 'oversight' in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven 'hindsight' in withdrawing it?" Party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hit out at Sitharaman and said she has no right to continue as the finance minister. "Madam FM, Are u running a 'Circus' or a 'Government'," Surjewala asked. "You have no moral right to continue as FM,," he said. "One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an 'oversight'. Who is the competent authority referred in order," he said on Twitter. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said when inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 percent hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt. "The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of 'inadvertent error'," he said on Twitter. "Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing 'inadvertent' about its release on 31st March," he also said. After the government issued fresh interest rates, Sitharaman in a tweet said, "Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases since early October||India recorded its highest daily rise in COVID-19 cases this year with 72,330 new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of cases to 1,22,21,665, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 11, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,62,927 with 459 daily new fatalities, the highest in around 116 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 22nd day in row, the active cases have increased to 5,84,055 comprising 4.78 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.89 per cent, the data stated. As many as 74,383 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11, 2020. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,74,683. The case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,47,98,621 samples have been tested up to March 31 with 11,25,681 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 459 new fatalities include 227 from Maharashtra, 55 Punjab, 39 from Chhattisgarh, 26 from Karnataka, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 15 from Kerala and 11 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,62,927 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54,649 from Maharashtra, 12,719 from Tamil Nadu, 12,567 from Karnataka, 11,027 from Delhi, 10,329 from West Bengal, 8,811 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,217 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,868 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha revives Parliament march plan||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the nationwide protests against the three farm laws, on Wednesday revived the plan to march to Parliament which it had called off in January-end after the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally. A date is yet to be finalised but the march is tentatively scheduled for the first fortnight of May, depending on when farmers complete their harvest-related work. Haryana-based farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni told a news conference at Singhu that the farmers will converge at Delhi’s borders, from where they will march to Parliament. Chaduni said: “We will not take any vehicles into Delhi to avoid the confusion of the tractor rally when the police had diverted us on to another route and some others had gone their own way, leading to what followed.” Participation would not be restricted to farmers alone, he added. “Workers, the unemployed and women will take part. Our mothers will, in fact, play a big role in this,” the Morcha leader said. It was unclear whether the plan is to march to Parliament and return to Delhi’s borders, where farmers have been protesting for more than four months since November 26, or to picket the legislature. All the details — including how to respond if the police stop or arrest them — will be worked out over the coming weeks, Chaduni said, stressing time and again that the march would be peaceful like their movement has been, but said they would not be stopped by barricading. “We will break through the barricades,” he said. Asked if they would seek permission to conduct the march to Parliament, Chaduni said: “Do you think they will give us permission to march to Parliament?” Prem Singh Bhangu, who heads the Morcha’s legal cell, said since this was not a rally like the one on January 26, there was no issue of permission. “It is our democratic right to go to Parliament,” Bhangu said, adding that farmers were now more vigilant than they were before Republic Day. The march had originally been planned for February 1. The Morcha announced that the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on April 14 would be observed by farmers as Save the Constitution Day. Members of the socially marginalised communities will man the stage at all the protest sites on that day. “The BJP is mounting an assault on democracy and secularism,” Bhangu said, adding that the Modi government had made it clear that it would not tolerate minorities. On that day, the farmers will also demand repeal of laws like sedition, UAPA and those that centralise power in the hands of the Union government. Other programmes being planned include FCI Bachao Divas when farmers will gherao offices of the Food Corporation of India across the country to protest new rules requiring land documents to be furnished for transferring payment for procurement, and another blockade of the KMP Expressway on April 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Question in BJP: Victory will be Amit Shah’s, defeat?||Amit Shah is leading the Bengal campaign from the front so he can claim full credit if the BJP wins, sections of BJP leaders feel while wondering whether he would own responsibility in defeat. The Union home minister’s complete control over the BJP’s Bengal campaign gives the impression that he is the de facto party president and undermines incumbent J.P. Nadda’s authority, many in the party feel. “Shah is the chief strategist for Bengal and Assam. If we win Bengal and retain Assam, he will naturally get the credit,” a BJP senior said. “But if we lose, Naddaji alone shouldn’t be made to own responsibility.” Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party’s mascot in every election, Shah has been the most visible face of the BJP campaign, particularly in Bengal. Many in the party fear that if the BJP fails to wrest Bengal and loses Assam, Nadda would have to take the rap. But if the party wins Bengal, then — even if it loses Assam —Shah would be projected as the chief architect of the victory. Some others defended Shah saying there would be nothing improper in his claiming credit for a win in Bengal. “Amitbhai has been preparing the ground in Bengal since he was party chief. It was under his leadership that we won 18 Lok Sabha seats from the state,” a BJP source said. However, a senior BJP politician said it was not good for the party that Shah was being allowed to run its affairs instead of focusing on his job as home minister of the country. Sources suggested that just as Modi remained the topmost leader of both party and government, Shah wanted to be number two in both. Even after joining the government in 2019 and stepping down as BJP president in January 2021, he has been leading the party in key electoral battles and taking crucial party decisions. Many in the BJP see this as his way of making sure he succeeds Modi. Last year’s Bihar Assembly polls were an exception: Shah didn’t campaign for a single day. Some BJP sources suggested Shah had deliberately avoided Bihar because of unfavourable reports from the ground. To Shah’s surprise, the NDA won and the BJP emerged as the largest party ahead of senior partner JDU. It prompted Modi to publicly congratulate Nadda. Shah doesn’t want to miss out this time, particularly because he knows the importance of the trophy called Bengal, party insiders said. “Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, we lost four important states — Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — under Shah’s leadership,” a BJP leader said. “Later the same year we lost Maharashtra and Jharkhand and barely managed to hold on to Haryana.” “Amitbhai is now looking at Bengal, hoping to make up for all the losses and shine again,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||DU teachers reject request for feedback on Higher Education Commission of India||Delhi University teachers have largely rejected the varsity authorities’ request for feedback on the proposed Higher Education Commission of India, which will become a single overarching regulator for higher and technical education. The teachers say the one-week deadline that acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi gave them to respond is too short. “Any hurried exercise can only be seen as a way to suppress opinion and a manipulation to show consensus at the ground level to the imposed policies, when there is none,” DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray has written to Joshi. The National Education Policy (NEP) provides for the creation of the HECI through an act of Parliament. The education ministry and the University Grants Commission have started consultations on the subject. Joshi had written to the deans, principals and teachers of the university on March 23 asking them to study the concept note on the proposed HECI and send their feedback by March 30. On March 29, the DU Teachers Association wrote back to Joshi seeking a deadline extension. Joshi has not responded yet. Members of the staff association of a DU college said their association had decided not to send any feedback. They have passed a resolution saying implementation of the NEP should be withheld till the widest possible consultations had been held. The teachers believe the NEP will encourage privatisation of higher education, shutting its doors to the poor and the marginalised. Former DU executive council member Abha Dev Habib said the teachers needed time to hold workshops to debate the issues related to the HECI. An email sent to Joshi on Wednesday afternoon seeking his response to the teachers’ concerns remained unanswered till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Survey starts to fill migrant worker black hole||The Centre on Wednesday launched a survey to track the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers and their shifting job preferences, months after facing flak for the lack of official data on these workers that is believed to have worsened their sufferings during the lockdown. The Labour Bureau, an arm of the labour and employment ministry, will undertake the sample survey. A committee chaired by S.P. Mukherjee, professor emeritus with Calcutta University, has designed the methodology. Labour economist Amitabh Kundu, co-chairperson of the committee, said the results would come in six months. “The idea is to collect data about the conditions of migrant workers before the Covid outbreak (and during) the middle period of the pandemic (for a) comparison with the current situation,” Kundu said. “Data will be sought on how they had coped with the Covid crisis, (whether) they could access the entitlements like rations, healthcare, education for their children and anything more (that the government had announced for them as lockdown relief).” After the lockdown was abruptly imposed from March 25 last year, lakhs of suddenly jobless and penniless migrant workers had attempted to walk hundreds of miles home, often without enough food and water. Many died on the way of exhaustion and illness; some got run over by a goods train as they slept on tracks. The Centre had faced severe criticism from Opposition parties and civil society groups in September after it told Parliament it had no data on the migrant workers who had died during the lockdown. A 40-year-old law mandates the registration of migrant workers in their home states as well as the states where they live and work. However, several committees including a parliamentary standing committee have found that the law was never implemented in most states. Researchers believe the lockdown-hit migrants’ trouble in finding food, water and shelter at the places where they worked, which partly forced them to attempt the walkathons, could have been mitigated had the central and state governments possessed data about them. In a reply to Parliament, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had quoted post-lockdown data provided by state governments to say that nearly 1.14 crore migrant workers had returned to their native places during the lockdown. On Wednesday, the Centre also started a survey to collect the primary (direct) job creation numbers from 1.5 lakh companies to understand the employment environment and the pandemic’s impact. “This survey will (track) the employment and unemployment situation and changing sectoral composition of the labour force.... It will provide data parallel to that coming from employment surveys of the NSS (National Sample Survey),” Kundu said. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the working class was still struggling to recover from the job losses and indebtedness suffered during the initial days of the pandemic. He said heavy industries were yet to get back to their pre-Covid level of operations. The employment situation was fluctuating every month, adding to the uncertainty, he added. “The workers are largely confused because of the fluctuations in the job market. Now that many states are imposing night curfew and a partial lockdown, the job sector will be further affected,” Sundar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Eight hooch deaths in dry Bihar during Holi||At least eight persons died and several others were battling for their lives in hospitals after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in two separate incidents during Holi celebrations in dry Bihar. The state is gearing up to celebrate the fifth anniversary of total prohibition next week and the incidents have put a huge question mark on the success of the ban on liquor, one of the pet projects of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Six persons were reported dead at Gondpur and Kharidi Bigha villages in Nawada district and eight were hospitalised after allegedly consuming hooch on March 29 and 30. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Yadav, Ramdeo Yadav, Dinesh alias Shakti, Shailendra alias Shalo Yadav, Loha Singh, Prabhakar Gupta and Gopal Kumar. The villages come under the Bhadauni panchayat and are close to Nawada town. Aabda Azmi, the mukhiya of the panchayat, said the deaths were due to consuming spurious liquor and alleged that prohibition was being rampantly flouted in the area. “All the deaths have happened due to consuming spurious liquor. It is easily available in the area. Eight persons in serious condition have been taken to different hospitals at Nawada and Patna,” Azmi said. Priyanka Devi, a native of Kharidi Bigha who lost her husband, told reporters: “He died after consuming liquor outside. There is no other reason. He was not ill. Liquor is available in these parts.” Chamar Chaudhary, a native of Kharidi Bigha, has lost his eyesight in the hooch tragedy. He is undergoing treatment at Nawada Sadar Hospital. “I had consumed liquor to celebrate Holi but felt uneasy afterwards. I was taken to hospital. I am fortunate to be alive but have lost my eyesight,” he said. Police and district administration officials rushed to the two villages but refused to talk about the reason behind the deaths. Calls by The Telegraph to Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena and superintendent of police D.S. Savlaram were not answered. Two youths lost their lives and another was hospitalised in serious condition after consuming liquor at Gudhiyari village in Begusarai district on Tuesday night. The deceased have been identified as Rajkumar Sahni and Paremshwar Chaudhary, while Birju Sahni is undergoing treatment in hospital. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar told this newspaper: “Two persons have died. It is almost certain that they had consumed something due to which they lost their lives, but their family members and doctors have not confirmed the consumption of liquor. We will wait for the post-mortem report before arriving at any conclusion.” The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal attacked the Nitish government over the liquor deaths. “More people are dying of poisonous liquor in this state with the so-called prohibition than the entire country where liquor consumption is allowed. What benefit is Bihar deriving from this failed ban on liquor?” the RJD tweeted from its official handle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Amarnath invite to seers for upcoming pilgrimage||Jammu and Kashmir government-run Shri Amarnath Shrine Board is going all out to invite prominent heads of Hindu religious bodies across the country for participation in this year’s proposed pilgrimage, which could be the first yatra after the 2019 abrogation of Article 370. The board chief executive officer Nitishwar Kumar, who is also principal secretary to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, personally took the letters on Tuesday to Haridwar  to invite two prominent religious heads for the upcoming pilgrimage. The 56-day Amarnath Yatra is scheduled to start through the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28. The registration of pilgrims is beginning on Thursday. An official source said the decision to invite top seers across the country has no precedent “for as long as I can remember”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||India||Activists, academics and social workers call to release ailing Stan Swamy||A group of more than 2,500 activists, academics and social workers from India and abroad have issued a public statement demanding the release of ailing Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 84, languishing in a Mumbai jail for over five months in the Bhima Koregaon case. Swamy’s bail plea was rejected by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Mumbai on March 22. The public statement, whose signatories include people from Jharkhand and other parts of India and also citizens of countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, has also demanded that the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act be repealed. “The UAPA charges against Swamy must be dropped. Stan Swamy is a symbol of the plight of thousands of undertrial prisoners who languish in jail for years under fabricated UAPA charges, often aimed at harassing those who stand up for the underprivileged or oppose the government. The conviction rate in UAPA cases is extremely low (2.2 per cent between 2016-19 as mentioned in Parliament), confirming that many of the charges are baseless. Rejection of the bail of an elderly and ailing person, with limited mobility and no history of violence against others, is beyond comprehension,” the joint statement said. Swamy is one of 16 academics, lawyers and activists arrested in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case involving caste violence in which one person died and an alleged plot to assassinate the Prime Minister. Swamy was picked up from near his home in Namkum near Ranchi. Swamy suffers from acute Parkinson’s disease along with several other age-related ailments and had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had failed to establish his involvement in the case. “We know Stan as an exceptionally gentle, honest and selfless person. We have the highest regard for him and his work. He has spent decades in Jharkhand working for the rights of the Adivasis and underprivileged. It is ironic that while public support for Stan Swamy continues to grow, the court rejected the bail application in the ‘community’s interest’. Adivasis, gram sabhas, civil society, several political leaders and parties, and Jharkhand’s chief minister himself have condemned Stan’s arrest and expressed support and solidarity with him,” the statement said. “The recent Arsenal (Consulting) report, prepared on the basis of electronic evidence collected by the NIA, has exposed how fake documents were planted into the computers of the accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Stan himself clearly told the NIA that some so-called extracts allegedly taken from his computer were fabricated and that he disowned them. It is disturbing that the court decided to ignore this evidence of fabrication as it rejected the bail application. We appeal for immediate bail for Stan Swamy, repeal of UAPA and a return to the normal where bail is the rule, not the exception,” the statement concluded. Some of the prominent persons to have signed the joint statement are Jean Dreze, Admiral Laxminarayan Ramdas, Aloka Kujur, Alpa Shah, Anand Patwardhan, Anuradha Talwar, Apoorvanand, Aruna Roy and Yogendra Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||India||One thousand sadhus to join the Naga sect at the Kumbh||One thousand sadhus will join the Naga sect at the Haridwar Kumbh on April 5, attaining the status after a three-year trial period. They will discard their clothes to become one with nature and start carrying a dandi (stick) and kamandal (reliquary). “Over 3,000 sadhus had applied to become Nagas but we have selected 1,000 after watching their behaviour closely for three years,” Sri Mahant Mahesh Puri, international secretary of the Sri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, told reporters in Haridwar on Wednesday. Ordinary sadhus can be awarded the Naga status by their akharas (monasteries) only during a Kumbh, an occasion that occurs once in three years. Such anointment is one of the highlights of a Kumbh. Each of the akharas in the country has its own Naga sadhus but only the Juna Akhara is anointing fresh Naga sadhus during this Kumbh, a month-long festival beginning in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, on Thursday. “It’s mandatory to be a member of an akhara for three years before a sadhu qualifies to become a Naga sadhu. The considerations for selection include their health and approach towards their fellow men and women living in the akharas’ ashrams.” Akharas have committees that watch the applicants secretly round the clock. “During the three-year period, they are trained to use batons and swords. Attaining perfection in these arts is necessary because they are protectors of the religion and are considered warriors,” Puri said. The sadhus become “mahapurush” (great men) after three years of training at the akharas. If selected to become Nagas, they take the holy dip in the Ganga and discard their clothes. “A mahamandaleshwar (supreme sadhu) hands them a stick and a kamandal. Certain secret rituals are held through the night below the akhara’s flag. The sadhus are washed with milk and ghee. They again take a bath in the Ganga and become Nagas. These processes will start on April 4,” Puri said. Adi Shankaracharya, the eighth-century philosopher, had founded seven akharas: Mahanirvani, Niranjani, Atal, Avahan, Agni, Ananda and Nirvani. Six other akharas — Nirmal Panchayati, Nirmohi, Digambar, Juna, Udasin Bara Akhara and Udasin Naya Akhara — were formed over the centuries. Several newer akharas have come up in recent years, including a Kinnar (transgender) Akhara. The country has about 4 lakh Naga sadhus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||India||MBBS quota for Odisha government school students||The Odisha government on Wednesday issued a notification for reservation of 15 per cent seats in medical and engineering colleges for government high school students. The decision follows an announcement made earlier by the government and cabinet approval for the reservation of seats. The notification issued by the skill development and technical education department said that as the government high school students are in a disadvantageous position compared to their counterparts in private schools while appearing in entrance examinations like the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), the state government had constituted a high-powered committee on January 8 under the chairmanship of Justice A.K. Mishra, a retired judge of Orissa High Court, to make necessary recommendations regarding reservation of seats for them in engineering and medical courses in Odisha. Acting on the committee’s recommendations, the government has directed that 15 per cent seats in medical and engineering colleges of the state shall be reserved for students who have passed the Class X examination under the Board of Secondary Education (BSE), Odisha, and also passed the Class XII examination under the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE), from any Odisha government higher secondary school/government junior college. Such reservations shall be horizontal covering all vertical reservations as well as the unreserved group, the notification added. The notification further said government high school includes the aided high schools, higher secondary schools and junior colleges of the state as defined in the Odisha Education Act, 1969. Medical courses in relation to a medical college include MBBS and other courses, while the engineering courses in relation to an engineering college include BTech, BE and BArch, it added. It further said that the eligible students shall also be entitled to compete for the unreserved seats and in case, adequate number of such eligible students are not available for seats so set apart, such unfilled seats shall be filled up by the other students of respective categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||India||BJP will be the kingmaker in Kerala: E. Sreedharan||“Metroman” E. Sreedharan is convinced that the BJP will come to power or at least be the kingmaker in Kerala, a month after joining the party and deciding to take the electoral field in Palakkad. It doesn’t matter to the 89-year-old technocract that the BJP is faced with two formidable opponents in the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front that holds the Palakkad seat. “I will certainly win and am expecting the BJP to touch at least 40 seats. We may go up to even 75,” Sreedharan tells The Telegraph without batting an eyelid while taking a break from his hectic campaign schedule in Palakkad on Sunday. He adds, scaling down his expectations a tad bit: “I feel the BJP has got a good chance to come to power, or at least be the king maker…. The BJP will decide who will rule Kerala.” For a party that has so far won just one Assembly seat in Kerala, Sreedharan’s ambitious prediction is certain to befuddle even the most optimistic of Sangh parivar supporters. “There is such a massive switchover to the BJP,” he says when asked what makes him so confident that a party that has historically struggled to carve out even a toehold in Kerala will cross the majority mark of 71 in the 140-seat Assembly. That’s not all. “The image of the BJP is different now, particularly after my joining the party,” Sreedharan says, adding that many educated people have flocked to the party “because they find a person like me who has reputation, calibre and stature has joined BJP”. He has certainly climbed down from his earlier position that he will become chief minister if the BJP is elected to power. “That is for the BJP to decide. I have not asked for it. If they want, I will take it,” says the celebrated technocrat whose entry into the BJP has enlivened the contest in the prestigious Palakkad Assembly seat currently held by the Congress. But unlike his party, which has been banking heavily on the dispute over women’s entry into the Sabarimala hill shrine, Sreedharan insists it is not an issue in Palakkad. “Only the media is thinking about it. None of the people I have met during the campaign has raised the Sabarimala issue,” he says. What he lacks in mobility and physical endurance, Sreedharan hopes to make up with his image of being a much-sought-after technocract who has lead teams of engineers to build railway lines and Metro train networks. Clad in a traditional Kerala kasavu mundu — off-white dhoti with gold-threaded borders — and formal shirt, Sreedharan has been making more than a dozen stops each day, attending meetings organised by small groups of residents. “I do only these meetings with groups while my party takes care of house visits,” he says. Pramod says. Sreedharan is pitched in a tough political landscape that has an industrial belt and a high concentration of minorities and backward classes who have been traditional supporters of the Congress and the CPM. The incumbent lawmaker, Shafi Parambil, 38, of the Congress is known to be a dynamic youth leader trying for a third consecutive term as MLA. The CPM’s C.P. Pramod is also pulling out all the stops to regain the seat from UDF. “No doubt he is a good technocract, but we are fighting an election,” Shafi tells this newspaper in between visiting churches on Palm Sunday. “We don’t think this whole support base will shift to the BJP just because he (Sreedharan) has entered the fray,” says Shafi, whose rapport with the general populace is never denied even by his staunchest opponents. “I have been at the forefront, raising various issues in and outside the Assembly and have managed to develop a distinct connect with the people here. I have worked for two consecutive terms and naturally enjoy an edge here,” Shafi says. Even the LDF candidate, Pramod, acknowledges the “rapport” Shafi enjoys with the people. “Yes, he has a certain level of rapport. But that hasn’t translated into performance,” Pramod quips. A lawyer by profession, Pramod doesn’t consider a big hindrance the fact that the Left had finished third in Palakkad in 2016 when N.N. Krishnadas could muster only 38,675 votes, against the BJP’s Shobha Surendran who polled more than 40,076 votes and Shafi who bagged 57,559 votes. “The poor showing in 2016 was just an aberration. The LDF has a very good chance this time,” Pramod says, adding that the fight is between the LDF and the UDF. “Sreedharan is not a serious contender although the media gives him a lot of space. I have great regard for his achievements as a technocract,”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||India||In the shadow of Sabarimala||Konni, a quiet little town tucked away in the eastern hill region of Kerala, has been catapulted as the centrepiece of the Sabarimala puzzle rankling the ruling Left Democratic Front. The five Assembly constituencies in Pathanamthitta district being a significant catchment area for the Opposition Congress and BJP that are leveraging on the Sabarimala women’s entry issue, the LDF that holds all the seats is engaged in a pitched battle to retain these pocket boroughs. With BJP state president K. Surendran once again entering the fray from Konni, where a part of the Sabarimala hill shrine is located, it is a contest that the sleepy town and its electorate had seldom expected. While the BJP leader is also contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasaragod in north Kerala where he lost by 89 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls, he is apparently trying to make a statement in Konni by capitalising yet again on the Sabarimala issue after finishing third in the 2019 bypoll in the constituency. The keenly contested battle brought Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Konni last Saturday, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a rally on April 2. Konni went to the LDF with the CPM winning the October 2019 bypoll necessitated by the resignation of Congress lawmaker Adoor Prakash who had held the seat for 23 years before getting elected to the Lok Sabha that year. Sixteen months after turning the tables on the Congress, K.U. Jenish Kumar of the CPM is trying to retain Konni. But it’s the entry of Surendran that has added to the buzz rarely seen in Konni. Sabarimala has become one of the key electoral issues in Konni where a significant chunk of voters are Hindus, many of whom support the tradition of not allowing women of child-bearing age into the hill shrine just about 70km from the centre of the town. In a September 2018 verdict, the Supreme Court had lifted all age barriers for women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple. While both the Congress and the BJP had initially welcomed the verdict, the two parties quickly changed their stand and launched a massive agitation for the upkeep of the tradition. Saraswathi, who works in a textile shop at Konni, is certain the temple issue is hot once again. “We cannot forget how the communists had tried to push young women activists into our temple,” said the woman in her thirties who is ready to wait until she turns 50 to visit the hill shrine. But there are those like small-scale farmer Anil and his wife, Ambili, who wouldn’t think twice before voting for the LDF. “Sabarimala is not that big an issue. I am more worried about running my kitchen,” Ambili said, alluding to the rising price of cooking gas. As of now the LDF continues to hold the edge in the other four Assembly constituencies of the Pathanamthitta Lok Sabha seat — Thiruvalla, Ranni, Aranmula and Adoor. Determined to recapture its longtime bastion, the Congress has fielded local favourite and Pathanamthitta district panchayat member Robin Peter from Konni. “The people will never forget how the LDF government got police to escort activists to the temple, violating the core of the tradition,” Peter told The Telegraph . The Congress has already brought out a “draft bill” to preserve Sabarimala traditions. “I will go by my party’s promises to the people,” Peter said. Kerala BJP secretary P. Raghunath, who is among those supervising the party’s campaign, told this newspaper: “We are sure of winning this time with the support of the people who want a legal framework for protecting religious traditions at Sabarimala and other temples.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-238
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Left stands vindicated on truth behind Nandigram killings, says CPI(M)||Days after Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused her then confidant and present rival Suvendu Adhikari of being involved in the 2007 violence in Nandigram, the CPI(M) on Thursday said the remarks vindicated the party's stand and "exposed the truth about the incident" in which 14 people lost their lives. "From the right-wing RSS, the fundamentalist forces to the ultra-Left and the Maoists -- all ganged up, brought in illegal arms to create this unrest in Nandigram in 2007. Now, everything is exposed. Both Mamata and the Adhikaris have confirmed this," said Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. At a public meeting on Sunday, Mamata accused both Suvendu Adhikari and his father Sisir Adhikari of allowing the police to enter Nandigram in 2007. She also accused the father-son duo of allowing "police wearing slippers" to enter the village in West Bengal's East Midnapore district. Fourteen villagers protesting against land acquisition in Nandigram were killed, many by police firing, on March 14, 2007. The Left Front, led by the CPI(M), was in power in Bengal then. Reacting to Mamata’s remarks, Yechury said the comments finally "vindicated" his party's stand on the incident that occurred more than a decade ago. "There are reports that Suvendu Adhikari has claimed Mamata knew the value of every bullet that was fired and the names of those on whom they were fired on. This is the fact, we had said it then and it was correct. The truth has been exposed but it took them more than 10 years to admit this," Yechury told PTI. He also said Thursday's violence in Nandigram will have an effect on polling. "Violence is still underway in the town and people are not being allowed to vote. The Election Commission is silent on the matter," the Left leader said. Speaking of Mamata’s letter to Opposition parties, calling for a unified fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said the CPI(M) was pushing for such a stand from all the secular, non-BJP parties in the run-up to the 2019 general election. But he added that his party had not received any such letter from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo. The CPI(M) was quick to latch on to Mamata’s comments to train its guns on the TMC. On its verified Facebook page, the party wrote that Mamata’s speech had proved that "her TMC" plotted a deep-rooted conspiracy and the then Opposition party in Bengal was behind the killings of the 14 villagers in Nandigram in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: EC acting at behest of Amit Shah, says Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Thursday that Central forces deployed in her constituency were helping the BJP under instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah hours after she was holed up in a polling booth to look into allegations of rigging. Mamata alleged that the Election Commission was following instructions of Shah and not acting on complaints of alleged irregularities that she and her party had lodged. She also threatened to move court. "The CRPF, BSF are acting under the instructions of Home Minister Amit Shah....they are only helping the BJP," she told reporters outside a polling station in Nandigram constituency, according to PTI. Despite sporadic violence and accusations of vote fraud in Nandigram, the TMC supremo said she was confident of victory from the constituency where she had a decade-and-half ago led a farmers' movement against a chemical hub planned by the then Left front government. She demanded that Shah, who had earlier campaigned for Suvendu Adhikari, her rival in Nandigram, must "control the BJP goons brought from outside". "This is shameful. The people will give them a befitting reply. The way even women journalists have been heckled is disgraceful," she said. Earlier, as voting began for the second phase of elections, Mamata chose to stay indoors at her rented house in Reyapara, and monitor proceedings. But in the afternoon, after receiving word about trouble brewing at Boyal Maqtab primary school booth number 7, a known trouble-spot in the constituency, she decided to move out. Her convoy left for the Boyal school around 1.10pm. There she barged into the polling booth and asked the presiding officer why there were so many complaints. She also spoke with the booth agents and others, who alleged that the BJP had captured the booth since morning and were not allowing anyone to vote. From the booth, Mamata spoke with Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and wrote a two-page letter to the Election Commission of India. “I am the candidate here, so this letter has to be treated as an FIR," Mamata was heard saying. While the chief minister was inside, there were clashes between rival camps.  More police personnel were rushed to the school to prevent an escalation in violence. The chief minister's presence seemed to encourage the Trinamul supporters to get aggressive. "I am afraid of the safety and security of the local people once polling is over. There are many outsiders who are in the area and they pose a threat to the locals. I cannot leave now," Mamata said. Two observers from the Election Commission met Mamata at the booth and tried to pacify her, but she wouldn't budge. EC special observer Nagenra Tripathi also arrived at the spot and gave a patient hearing to Mamata. Voting which started in the booth at 7.00am ended at 6.30pm. Later, Mamata slammed the Election Commission for "inaction" despite her party lodging several complaints and threatened to move the law courts over it.  "We have lodged 63 complaints since morning. But no action has been taken. We will move the court over it. This is unacceptable," the chief minister said seated, in a wheelchair outside booth 7 in Boyal.  "The EC is working on the instructions of Amit Shah," she alleged. "Goons from other states are creating ruckus here," she added. The chief minister, however, said she is more worried about the fate of democracy given the use of money and muscle power than her personal victory. "I am not worried about Nandigram, I am confident of victory. (But) I am worried about democracy," Mamata said as she showed the 'V' for victory sign to a gaggle of press photographers. The feisty TMC boss said she would win a majority of the 60 seats that had gone to polls in the first and second phase. Mamata is battling her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, who has crossed over to the BJP, in the prestigious Nandigram constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Don't believe in seasonal faith: Modi’s jibe at TMC leaders||Making a strong Hindutva pitch at the hustings in Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday attacked TMC leaders for calling those wearing saffron, sporting tilak and choti as "rakshas", and declared he does not believe in "seasonal faith". He also said a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal where the party will win over 200 of the state's 294 assembly seats. "Earlier, Mamata Didi had issues with chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', over immersion of Durga idols. Now TMC has problems with people wearing saffron, sporting tilak and choti (tuft of hair), they are calling them 'rakshas' (demons)," Modi told an election rally in Joynagar. He was referring to the recent public declaration by Mamata Banerjee of her "gotra" (clan), an unusual thing for the Bengal leader to do, during the campaigning for the Nandigram seat. The revelation had prompted Union Minister Giriraj Singh, who sports a choti, to ask," Do you consider Rohingyas and other infiltrators as 'Shandilya' (Mamata's gotra) and offer them the red carpet." Singh's comment invited a sharp retort from TMC MP Mohua Moitra. "Giriraj says Mamata's from the Rohingya clan. Proud of it. Far better than being from the chotiwala rakshasa clan," Moitra tweeted. Singh often identifies himself as "Shandilya" on social media. The prime minister also hit back at the TMC for calling his Bangladesh trip unethical and violative of the model code of conduct for elections and defended his visits to temples there. The TMC had written to the Election Commission alleging that Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh violated the model code of conduct in place for the Bengal Assembly polls and some of his programmes there were "intended to influence the voting pattern" in certain constituencies. "I visited one of the 51 Shaktipeeth Jeshoreshwari Kali temples in Bangladesh. TMC has taken umbrage. Is it wrong to pay obeisance to Shri Harichand Thakur (founder of the Matua sect) at Orakandi? "I don't believe in showing seasonal faith (shraddha). We always take pride in our faith and tradition," he asserted. The Matuas, a Dalit community, wields considerable influence in several districts of Bengal and can tilt the scales in favour of any party in quite a few seats. He also mounted a scathing assault on the TMC supremo for her accusations against "people of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh". "You have taken oath of the Constitution which doesn't permit you to speak against other states or people of other states," he said, obviously referring to Mamata's claim that BJP has brought goons from UP and Bihar to influence the outcome of the election in Nandigram where she is pitted against her former confidante-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari. Taunting Mamata for her decision to relinquish her Bhawanipore seat and contest from Nandigram, Modi said she is now realising that she committed a mistake. "The mood that prevails indicates Nandigram is doing at the very outset what Bengal wants to do," he said. Nandigram is among the state's 30 Assembly seats where polling is underway on Thursday. The prime minister said Mamata’s appeal to 14 leaders of other parties to unite against the BJP stemmed from her anxiety over impending defeat. "She is seeking support from people who in her eyes are outsiders and tourists and whom she would not have the time to meet earlier," Modi said. "For Didi, Bengal is a playground, but for BJP the state will be the ground for development, education and industries," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata camps at booth after word spreads about 'rigging'  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee walked in and stayed put at a polling booth in Nandigram on Thursday afternoon amid complaints of rigging and booth capturing during the second phase of voting in Bengal. Contesting from Nandigram, Mamata stayed indoors at her rented house in Reyapara, when she received information about trouble brewing at Boyal Maqtab primary school booth number 7, a known trouble-spot in the constituency. Around 1.10pm, Mamata's convoy left for the Boyal school. She was there for over 39 minutes till reports last came in.  Voting started in the booth at 7.00am and is supposed to continue till 6.30pm. Mamata barged into the polling booth and asked the presiding officer why there were so many complaints. She also spoke with the booth agents and others, who alleged that the BJP had captured the booth since morning and were not allowing anyone to vote. From the booth, Mamata spoke with  Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and wrote a two-page letter to the Election Commission of India. "I am the candidate here, so this letter has to be treated as an FIR," Mamata was heard saying. While the chief minister was inside, there were clashes between rival camps.  More police personnel were rushed to the school to prevent an escalation in violence. The chief minister's presence seemed to encourage the Trimamul supporters to get aggressive. "I am afraid of the safety and security of the local people once polling is over. There are many outsiders who are in the area and they pose a threat to the locals. I cannot leave now," Mamata said. Two observers from the Election Commission met Mamata at the booth and tried to pacify her, but she wouldn't budge. EC special observer Nagenra Tripathi also arrived at the spot and gave a patient hearing to Mamata. Earlier in the morning, Trinamul sources had said Mamata would leave for North Bengal on Friday morning instead of Thursday evening. Throughout the day there were reports of clashes and intimidation in different parts of Nandigram. A Trinamul polling agent refused to return to the booth after being forced to leave facing intimidation. When the police personnel went to bring him back, his family members said the forces from the central agencies could not protect him forever. In neighbouring Chandipur, a BJP worker Gour Pradhan was critically injured after being allegedly attacked by one Nantu Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata monitors Nandigram amid reports of violence and booth jamming||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday visited several booths across the high-profile Nandigram constituency, where she is pitted against her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, as sporadic incidents of violence and allegations of booth jamming marred the voting process in the second phase. According to the TMC sources, Banerjee, who had earlier decided to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the polling ended at 6:30 PM on Thursday, changed her plans this morning. "She has decided to stay back and leave tomorrow. Banerjee will monitor the situation in the area, and if needed, she will go to spots," a senior TMC leader accompanying her had said. After monitoring the situation in the assembly segment, where local TMC leaders complained that their election agents were not being allowed to enter booths, Mamata left her rented residence at Reyapara around 1 pm. She then visited polling centres at Sonachura, Reyapara, Balarampur, Boyal, Nandigram block 1 and 2. "She will also travel to various villages and booths in areas where there have been reports of threats, intimidation and jamming," Mamata’s election agent Sheikh Sufiyan said. In the Boyal area in Nandigram, villagers alleged that BJP supporters stopped them from going to polling booths. As soon as Mamata reached Boyal, BJP supporters chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans. Supporters of the two parties then indulged in violence, as TMC leaders demanded re-polling in booth number 7, police said. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the situation, they added. Meanwhile, Adhikari's convoy was allegedly attacked with stones at two places while visiting booths in the assembly constituency. His motorcade was also gheraoed as TMC supporters shouted slogans against the BJP leader. Security forces patrolling the area dispersed the mob, making way for his convoy to move onwards. "I am used to such protests by TMC goons. They are all followers of Mamata begum. Let them do whatever they want till the results are out on May 2," Adhikari told reporters. According to TMC sources, Mamata, who was scheduled to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the end of polling at 6.30 pm, changed her plans this morning. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144 to avoid any untoward incident. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP claimed that Dubey had suspectedly ended his life, as he was being constantly threatened by the TMC goons. The ruling party in West Bengal termed the allegation as "baseless". A team of police personnel has been deployed there to avoid any untoward incident. The second phase of polling in Bengal's eight-phase elections, including in the high-stakes Nandigram seat, recorded a high voter turnout of 71.07 per cent till 3 pm. Though the situation was tense in a few areas with a few skirmishes reported, tight security cover in all 30 constituencies which went to polls averted any major incidents. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has been ensured in all places, officials said. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144, to avoid any untoward incident. In another incident, a person was detected with a fake voter ID and was subsequently arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata locked in her war room in Reyapara as fierce battle rages on||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee decided to stay at her war room in the Reyapara area during the polls on Thursday in the Nandigram assembly constituency where she is locked in a fierce prestige battle with confidante-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. She is monitoring the situation in the high-profile constituency where polling began at 7 am as local TMC leaders complained of their election agents not being allowed to enter several booths, according to the party sources. There have been no reports of violence or clashes among political activists in the constituency, barring an incident in the Bhimkata area in Nandigram where the BJP candidate faced an agitation by a group of TMC workers who shouted slogans against him, an Election Commission official said. Around 17 per cent of electors exercised their franchise in the first two hours of the polling in the agrarian constituency in Purba Medinipur district, he said. According to the TMC sources, Banerjee, who had earlier decided to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the polling ended at 6:30 PM on Thursday, changed her plans this morning. "She has decided to stay back and leave tomorrow. Banerjee will monitor the situation in the area, and if needed, she will go to spots," a senior TMC leader accompanying her said. Banerjee, who has camped in Nandigram since March 27, had on Wednesday alleged that goons from other states have come to Nandigram to foment trouble and intimidate the voters. Meanwhile, the TMC alleged that its polling agents have been threatened by the BJP in various booths in Nandigram Block 2. "Our agents were not allowed to enter several polling booths in Nandigram Block -2. Voters have also been stopped from exercising their franchise in some areas. We will lodge complaints with the EC," a TMC leader said. The BJP, however, denied these allegations. Adhikari cast his vote soon after polling began on Thursday morning and exuded confidence of winning the seat by a record margin. "I am confident about my victory and not here to make any personal attack like my opponent. You have seen how people were coming out in the area as I went there to cast my vote," he added. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP claimed that Dubey had suspectedly ended his life, as he was being constantly threatened by the TMC goons. The ruling party in West Bengal termed the allegation as "baseless". A team of police personnel has been deployed there to avoid any untoward incident. The second phase of polling in Bengal's eight-phase elections, including in the high-stakes Nandigram seat, recorded a high voter turnout of 58 per cent till 1 pm. Though the situation was tense in a few areas with a few skirmishes reported, tight security cover in all 30 constituencies which went to polls averted any major incidents. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has been ensured in all places, officials said. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144, to avoid any untoward incident. In another incident, a person was detected with a fake voter ID and was subsequently arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: At Nandigram, voters must choose between ‘Begam’ and ‘Gaddar’  ||A little over 200m is what separates chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former confidante-turned-bete noire Suvendu Adhikary in Nandigram’s Reyapara. The residence where Mamata is staying on Wednesday night is on the same road linking Nandigram block-II with neighbouring Chandipur, where Adhikary has an election office. On Wednesday evening, Adhikary wasn’t in at his Reyapara office. Those at the office without the mandatory protection against the novel Coronavirus could not care less. The battle they have in hand on Thursday could decide the fate for Bengal, though in the second phase polling will be held in 29 more Assembly seats. Ever since the 2007 anti-land acquisition movement, which made Nandigram a household name across the length and breadth of the country, the land here has acquired a terrifying silence. Wednesday has been no different. From 2008 onwards, Nandigram has rejected the Left and stood firm with Trinamul in elections. Adhikary, BJP’s most prized catch this election, had received 66.79 per cent of the total votes in 2016. His nearest rival from the CPI had around 26.49 per cent, while the BJP then had a measly 5.32 per cent of the vote share. In the Lok Sabha polls three years later, Trinamul’s vote share in the Nandigram Assembly segment of the Tamluk parliamentary seat was above 62 per cent, while the Left vote had shifted en masse to the BJP, which notched up a little less than 30 per cent. Some portion of the Trinamul vote too appeared to have gone to the BJP. For Adhikary contesting on any party symbol a victory would have been assured, had it not been for his rival, the state chief minister who decided to contest against him. The Left has fielded a rookie Minakshi Mukherji, with support of the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, but that fight is likely for another day despite a very spirited campaign by the young politician. The battle for Nandigram is between Mamata and Adhikary, where the Left may or may not get to play a role. The total number of voters in Nandigram is around 2.70lakh with around 62,000 Muslim voters. For years since the 2007 movement, the Adhikary family have been running the show in the two adjoining Midnapores. What has happened this time in the district is reminiscent of the time when Mamata had floated the Trinamul Congress, and her immediate support base was so wide that in several places the Congress office signboards had to be changed. The leaders, the workers remained the same. The 62,000 Muslim votes would have been assured for Mamata, though the Peerzada of Furfura Sharief, Abbas Siddiqui, the chief patron of the Indian Secular Front, a partner of the Left-Congress alliance, has campaigned here for Mukherji. The question remains how far can the Peerzada split the Muslim votes that could be a threat to Mamata. The run up to the polls has been testimony to the bitter acrimony between the two rivals. Mamata addresses Adhikary as “Gaddar (traitor)”, while he reciprocates with the epithet “Begum” for the chief Minister, accusing her of Muslim appeasement. “Muslim clerics never asked for allowance, she gave it on her own. She has been bribing the community to keep her vote bank intact. She is the aunt of Rohingyas and illegal immigrants,” Adhikary has repeatedly said. On the other hand, Mamata has squarely blamed the Adhikary family for the March 14, 2007 violence in Nandigram when 14 villagers were killed in alleged police firing. That incident is seen as the turning point in Bengal’s politics that sounded the death knell for the CPM-led government. Mamata’s claim that the police could not have entered Nandigram without a nod from the Adhikarys even when the Left was in power has raised questions why the chief minister had not broken her silence till now? Both Mamata and the Adhikarys owe their political power to the Nandigram movement. On Wednesday, a number of Trinamul leaders complained about the presence of outsiders in the area to the election commission and the police. “In areas like Birulia our voters are being threatened by goons from the BJP,” said a local Trinamul leader. Birulia bazaar is where Mamata had injured her leg on March 10 during the early days of the campaign and has been since moving around in a wheelchair with her leg plastered. The BJP on the other hand complained that the Trinamul was bringing in outsiders via the river-route _ Nandigram is accessible from both Howrah and South 24-Parganas. Despite the complaints, there was hardly any movement by the central forces in the area. No one in Nandigram seems to be willing to take any chances. The Left which was left dangling with just 4.49 per cent votes too alleged to have received threats from both its rivals. “We have filed 1,717 complaints with the authorities,” said a CPM local committee member. In the remaining 29 seats, BJP had emerged as the number two in most places (some Assembly segments like Kharagpur Sadar, Narayangarh, PIngla and Debra it led in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls). This time none of the seats would be an easy contest, but all eyes will be on Nandigram. The authorities in Nandigram have imposed Section 144, prohibiting assembly of more than four people around 500metres from the booth from 6am on Thursday. Will that be enough in a high-pitched battle?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: The price of polarisation in Nandigram ||Sheikh Yasin, 29, chokes with rage as Suvendu Adhikari’s voice carries to his Asadtala home in Nandigram from a ground around 1km away on Monday evening. The BJP candidate, who is contesting against his former leader Mamata Banerjee, is delivering a speech pockmarked with innuendoes aimed at polarisation that have typified his campaign. In his 25-minute address to a gathering of 1,500 three days before polling in Nandigram, Suvendu refers to Mamata as “begum” and declares that “a small Pakistan” has been created at some gram panchayats in Nandigram. Yasin, a tailor, could hear Suvendu over the sound system from his Asadtala home. “I was born here. I grew up here. Suddenly, I hear that I am a Pakistani. Not just me, all the Muslims living here are being called Pakistanis. Who has given him the right to call us Pakistanis?” asks Yasin, seething. Yasin and many others then gather on a road in Asadtala to protest in front of Suvendu’s convoy as it leaves the Hindu neighbourhood in the Boyal II gram panchayat at Nandigram. The protesters, including several women holding Trinamul flags, raise slogans against Suvendu while his followers retort with “Jai Shri Ram” chants. Tension simmers but central forces and the local police intervene just in time. It’s now namaz time for Yasin and the others. As the group queues at a source of piped water for their ablution, several of its members share with this correspondent their sense of insecurity and anxiety stemming from the sudden change in Nandigram, where Hindus and Muslims had together taken part in the anti-land-acquisition movement of 2007 that hastened the fall of the Left government. “I have more than 100 Hindu friends with whom I grew up…. Today, I feel awkward interacting with them as it plays at the back of my mind that some of them may consider me a Pakistani. He (Suvendu) has to explain why he calls us Pakistanis,” Yasin says. Sheikh Sirazul, in his early sixties, nods. “We have always taken part in pujas and the Hindus in our festivals…. Muslims here had always facilitated immersion processions passing through our neighbourhood. During azan, the Hindus used to tune off the celebratory music (during their festivals). Today, many of them shout ‘Jai Shri Ram’ while passing by the mosque. Some of them have threatened to pull down the mosque and construct a temple there. The sense of amity has gone and this change has happened so fast, in less than three months,” says the carpenter, puffing at a beedi. Yasin, Sirazul and Asma Bibi repeatedly underscore that they had never been involved in politics, their daily struggle for existence keeping them busy. “Today, we don’t have a choice…. Only Didi can save us and we are with her,” says Asma, who could not study beyond Class XII because of poverty. ‘70:30’ game The air of insecurity in the Asadtala slums contrasts sharply with the environs of Suvendu’s air-conditioned and fortified election office in Reyapara. The two-storey building is abuzz with activity. Young men and women, many of them speaking in Hindi, hunch over laptops, keying in data with the help of local people conversant with the geography of Battleground Nandigram that has over 2.57 lakh voters. “The polarisation of the minorities is complete. But the question is over the extent of reverse polarisation. How far are the Hindus polarised in our favour?” asks a youth in Hindi, sifting through demographic data from Nandigram I and II, the two blocks that make up the Assembly constituency. Others present in the room, including some of Suvendu’s closest aides, smile in affirmation, indicating that if the Muslims in Mohammadpur, Kendamari, Samsabad, Daudpur and Kalicharanpur in Nandigram I — the minorities make up over 40 per cent of the population here — are backing Trinamul, the Hindus in Boyal, Khodambari, Amdabad and Birulia in Nandigram II — where Hindus total 75 per cent — are behind the BJP. One of Suvendu’s aides checks internal reports on his smart phone and says the BJP nominee is sure to win with a margin of at least 20,000 votes. “The Hindus will overwhelmingly vote for Dada, the mathematics is simple,” he says, confirming again how the attempt at overt religious polarisation has poisoned Bengal politics. BJP poll strategists busy with micro-level calculations based on voters’ religious identities is perhaps the abiding picture of the fight in Nandigram — and the rest of Bengal. Gone are the days when the polarisation agenda — not new to Indian politics — used to be executed covertly. Suvendu, and the BJP in general, has been blatant in the objective of sowing divisions, his publicly stated mission being to engineer a 70:30 split of the electorate to facilitate a formidable Hindu consolidation. Not only has Suvendu, a Trinamul deserter, made an overwhelming number of temple visits this poll season, he has also surpassed the most extreme Hindutva leaders with his polarising speeches. Sample these: ⚫ If begum comes back to power, the state will turn into a mini-Pakistan. ⚫ They have created a small Pakistan at various gram panchayats in Nandigram and they burst crackers when Pakistan wins (in sporting events). Which chief minister in India goes to an Id prayer wearing a hijab? ⚫ If begum wins, you won’t be able to read the Lakshmi Panchali, you won’t be able to put teeka on your forehead or wear kanthi (beads). ⚫ Begum loves Bangladeshis and Pakistanis, she is an aunt of the Rohingya. ⚫ Her slogans have been copied from Bangladesh. “Maa-Mati-Manush” was a slogan with Khaleda Zia, “Joy Bangla” was Mujibur Rahman’s slogan, “Khela hobe” was the slogan of Narayangunj MP Shamim Osman. Some BJP insiders feel that even Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Hindutva poster boy known for his overtly communal agenda, has been more restrained during his Bengal campaign. Many Muslims in Nandigram say the communal speeches by Suvendu, who had represented the area as a Trinamul MLA, have shocked them. “He was the apple of our eyes…. We could have given our lives for him. He has changed so much,” says Sheikh Jased, sitting at a tea stall in Samsabad Meer Bazar. This correspondent approached Suvendu after the Asadtala meeting and asked whether such divisive addresses were fair. The BJP leader did not offer a direct answer. He smiled and said: “I will win.” He left amid chants of “Jai Shri Ram” from his supporters. Will it work? Armed with a well-oiled polarisation plan and the financial heft of the saffron ecosystem — Bengal never before saw the flexing of such money muscle in an election — Suvendu has undoubtedly scripted a new chapter in the state’s politics. Several Trinamul leaders this correspondent spoke to admitted in private that the manner in which Suvendu’s campaign had taken off while Mamata’s had suffered following her injury in Nandigram and brief return to Calcutta, had left them unnerved. “We hadn’t expected him to resort to such extreme polarisation. We had been slightly on the back foot even two to three weeks ago,” says a source. The question, however, is whether Suvendu’s polarising campaign, and its rub-off effect on the rest of Bengal, will yield the desired result. Unlikely, insist Trinamul insiders. Suvendu’s Hindutva agenda has firmly brought the Muslims under the Trinamul fold. Even staunch Left supporters have said they would vote for Mamata to keep the BJP at bay. Mamata appears likely to receive over 90 per cent of the 68,000 Muslim votes. The community makes up over a quarter of the electorate. Of the 1.9 lakh Hindu votes, Suvendu has to corner close to 70 per cent, which seems a tall order given Mamata’s appeal among women and Trinamul’s core support base in different parts of Nandigram, according to Trinamul supporters. Others feel Suvendu might get more Hindu votes if his polarisation attempt succeeds in complete consolidation, in which case the contest can become too close to call. But Ranjit Jana, a businessman favourably disposed to Trinamul, says: “Suvendu’s polarisation plan is working to some extent. I would say, out of 10 friends, four or five have been swayed, but not everyone. The election arithmetic is in Didi’s favour. Even in the worst case scenario, she will win by around 15,000 votes.” According to him, the anti-incumbency facing Trinamul can be attributed largely to Suvendu and his aides, and his departure will help Mamata. If Suvendu exudes confidence, so do Trinamul leaders. They feel the margin will not be less than 40,000 because they think Mamata has derailed Suvendu’s divisive agenda with her inclusive campaign and repeated reminders of how she had led the movement to protect the land of the local people. “The 2007 movement is still very close to the hearts of the people of Nandigram…. To pursue his aspirations, Suvendu has not only dumped many of the people who were the faces of the anti-land-acquisition movement, he has also used his clout with the Centre to restart cases against them. This will boomerang,” a Trinamul source says. The Trinamul leader, however, is cautious against complacency — being aware of the challenge Suvendu poses with his poll management skills and use of money and muscle. “That’s why Didi is camping here even on polling day so that he can’t play his tricks,” the source says. Third angle Far away from the high-pitched duel between Mamata and Suvendu, CPM candidate Minakshi Mukherjee, president of the party’s youth wing, comes across as a calm face with a conscience. “This binary that the battle is between the BJP and Trinamul is so wrong…. It has been created by a section of the media,” says the young candidate who has earned plaudits with her astute arguments at rallies. The focus on religious identities is aimed at diverting attention from the bread-and-butter issues that affect the poor people of Nandigram, Minakshi says. That Nandigram needs a better deal is clear if one speaks to the youths. There are hardly any employment opportunities in the organised sector in the area. The returns from agriculture are so low that the people who had protested against land acquisition 14 years ago have started leasing out their land to businessmen to convert them into fisheries. The shape the Nandigram contest has taken has obscured several issues, key among them being whether a plural Bengali society can afford such blatant polarisation along religious lines. “I can’t comment how far Suvendu will go as a politician, but he will surely enter the history books as someone who brought hatred out in the open in Bengal politics,” said a social scientist, requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||CRPF jawan’s body reaches home in Jalpaiguri||Hundreds of residents at Paschim Salbari in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district mourned Jagannath Roy, 33, a CRPF jawan who died in an ambush last week by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, as his mortal remains reached his village on Wednesday. On March 25, a CRPF team had been attacked by a group of terrorists at Lawaypora on the outskirts of Srinagar. Two CRPF personnel had died on the spot while Roy sustained severe injuries. He succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Senior officials of the CRPF carried his mortal remains in a convoy from Bagdogra. As it reached Jurapani village in Dhupguri block, hundreds of local youths rode bikes ahead of the convoy that was headed for Roy’s village Paschim Salbari. At Paschim Salbari, his body was first taken to his home and from there to a nearby ground where hundreds of people paid Roy their last homage. Officials of the civil and police administration of Jalpaiguri, leaders of political parties and people in general offered their last respect to Roy. Then, CRPF officials paid their tribute and a gun salute. Later, his last rites were performed in a location near his home. The deceased CRPF jawan is survived by his wife, a three-year-old son and 60-year-old mother, said residents. “He had left for Jammu and Kashmir on February 13 and he had planned to visit his family again after a couple of months. His death is really an unfortunate incident. We are with the bereaved family,” said K.K. Kalyani, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Horse trading or internal feud? ||Terracotta horses of Bankura are facing tough competition from politicians, who have jumped over political hurdles with alacrity in the run-up to the Assembly elections in Bengal. Mahadeb Kumbhakar, a 45-year-old terracotta craftsman, is immersed in making a pair of horses at his one-storey house in Panchmura village. The order has been placed by a Calcutta boutique and despite the March afternoon heat, Mahadeb cannot afford leisure as he has to meet the deadline. “I am very busy now. I have to deliver this order within three days. I am just finishing the clay work. Now I need to paint and burn it,” says Mahadeb, working on the terrace. “I have more orders to finish within a week,” he adds, showing a few unfinished works kept a few metres away and near a wall flaunting an appeal to vote for the Trinamul candidate. Panchmura village, around 24km from its subdivisional town Bishnupur and 165km from Calcutta, is famous for its terracotta works, mainly the long-necked horses that are internationally famous. There are more than 270 craftsmen like Mahadeb in Panchmura village — families that have been involved in the craft for generations. The artisans say the terracotta crafts have their roots in the 7th century AD during the time of the famous Malla dynasty of Bankura’s Bishnupur. The journey has been long and the art got its first national recognition in 1969 when artisan Rashbihari Kumbhakar received a National Award from then President Dr Zakir Hussain in New Delhi. Aditya Mukhopadhyay, a researcher on terracotta horses, however, says: “The long-necked horses were used as decorative art during the Malla dynasty. It evolved over centuries and around 200 years ago Panchmura village became the hub of the craft when the horses began to be used at religious events. This practice opened up a market for these horses.” Mukhopadhyay, who is the author of the book Ashwanama, has penned the history of long-necked horses. Bhutnath Kumbhakar, the great grandson of Rashbihari, is now secretary of the Panchmura Mritshilpi Samabai Samity. Bhutnath says the demand for terracotta horses have increased during Mamata Banerjee’s tenure as chief minister. “The demand has gone up because the state government has publicised our work by organising fairs and selling our crafts at Biswa Bangla kiosks,” he says. Mahadeb, who used to earn Rs 80,000 annually till 2012, now earns around Rs 2.3 lakh. Asked about the popularity of terracotta horses, Trinamul spokesperson Dilip Agarwal gives a political twist to the query. “Why only terracotta horses, there is demand for our (Trinamul) horses in the BJP as well,” Agarwal says, referring to Trinamul leaders switching sides this poll season. The conversation soon veers from clay horses to horse-trading. Asked what made Trinamul leaders defect to the BJP, Agarwal says: “Those who went to the BJP camp had either been rejected or had not been doing well in our party. As soon as they joined the BJP, they ran into protests from old-timers in the saffron camp.” The BJP had lead in all the 12 Assembly segments of Bankura in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Four seats in Bankura voted on March 27. Trinamul hopes that when the remaining seats go to polls on April 1, the deserters will taste defeat because of discontent with them within the BJP. The BJP’s experience with Trinamul’s “horses”, Agarwal says, has not been a happy one with old-timers in the saffron camp rebelling against the new inductions. Trinamul turncoat Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, 70, who has served as chairman of the Bishnupur municipality, been the local MLA and also a minister in Mamata’s cabinet, has been facing fierce opposition since the day he joined the BJP in December. BJP workers openly protested Mukherjee’s induction and he was driven away when he turned up at the party office in Bishnupur town. Later, posters were put up allegedly by BJP old-timers, warning the party of trouble if Mukherjee was nominated from Bishnupur. Sensing the mood, the BJP did not make him a candidate and he has so far kept himself away from political activities. Left in the lurch, Mukherjee made a futile attempt to meet Mamata on March 15 during her visit to Durgapur. The overture was refused. Not all Trinamul deserters have met the same fate as Mukherjee. The BJP has fielded Tanmoy Ghosh, another Trinamul warhorse, as its Bishnupur candidate against Trinamul’s Archita Bid. A popular businessman, Ghosh had been a Trinamul councillor in Bishnupur and got the BJP ticket within 24 hours of joining the party. Ghosh’s induction brought another wave of protests by BJP workers. Sujit Agasty, the party president of the Bishnupur organisational district, however, says: “The anger of old-timers is now history. We sat with our party workers and resolved the issues. Now our entire force is working to ensure the victory of Tanmoy Ghosh in Bishnupur. We will win all seats in Bankura.” Another Trinamul turncoat and the BJP’s nominee for the Taldangra constituency, Shyamal Sarkar, also faced resistance from saffron old-timers. “A large number of BJP workers are against Sarkar for two reasons — one, as a Trinamul man he had been harsh in confronting BJP workers two years ago; two, he is an outsider as he lives in Khatra,” a BJP insider said. Sarkar, however, brushes aside the internal feud. A “storm” in favour of the BJP will ensure his victory, Sarkar says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal target: 5 lakh Covid jabs a day||The Bengal government has decided to upgrade its infrastructure to a point where five lakh people can be administered the Covid-19 vaccine every day in a bid to counter the rising number of positive cases in the state, once the required number of vaccine vials are made available by the Centre. “Right now, we have the capacity of administering more than three lakh vaccines a day,” said a senior state government official. “But we want to ready our capabilities to administer five lakh vaccines a day so that we can give more vaccines to all eligible people as soon as we get the required number of Covid-19 vaccines from Delhi. This will help us tackle the virus that is spreading once again in the state.” The number of Covid-19 positive cases has again started rising in the state in the past few weeks. The state government has started preparing the groundwork to tackle the situation amid the poll season to ensure that the situation does not spiral out of control. In the third week of March, a total of 2,400-odd Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state. But the figure jumped to 4,400-odd in the fourth week of March. In October 2020, when the pandemic was at its peak in the state, the state had over 37,000 active cases. The number of active cases is rising again. It reached 5,000 from 900 within two weeks. The situation may turn critical as large gatherings are seen in political rallies during the ongoing poll season where Covid-19 safety protocols are hardly followed, said sources. Though most positive cases are found mainly in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and areas surrounding Asansol in West Burdwan these days, officials fear the fresh wave might hit other districts too with political rallies in districts and leaders and political workers travelling to different districts from Calcutta and its adjoining areas. Along with preventive measures to contain the spread of the infection, the state government is putting stress on vaccination. The more people are vaccinated, the more efficiently can the spread of the infection be arrested, officials said. “So far, 50 lakh doses of vaccines have been administered. Six lakh people have got both the doses of vaccines. We want to reach out to three crore frontline workers, the aged people and people with comorbidities within a short period. Nowadays, we are giving vaccines to some 2.5 lakh people a day and that’s why we are readying infrastructure to give 5 lakh vaccinations a day,” said a source. The state government has also once again started restoring Covid-19 hospital beds in government hospitals and in private hospitals that had been requisitioned by the government. “About 20 to 30 per cent of the 12,000-odd beds in these hospitals had been released as the number of Covid patients had gone down (earlier this year). But gradually, these beds are being brought back to treat Covid patients,” said another official. The health department also held a meeting with the private hospitals to restore their Covid-19 beds in Calcutta and its surroundings as the number of cases are rising in the city and its outskirts. “During the peak in October last year, we had 3,000 Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. The number went down to 900 but again slowly the beds are being brought back to treat Covid-19 patients,” said a source. Though the requirement for hospitalisation is comparatively less in this phase, the health department is not ready to take any chance. “Out of the 5,000 positive cases, only some 800 are in hospitals. Of them, 10 per cent needed ICU support. But we have to keep infrastructure ready to deal with more cases in the hospitals, if the need arises,” said a source. The health department is also working to increase the number of daily tests to arrest the spread of the virus. This time, the department has upgraded its laboratory facilities to conduct more RT-PCR tests compared to the rapid tests. “During the peak of the pandemic, we had conducted 42,000-odd tests a day and we are gradually increasing the number of tests again,” said a health official. “A total of 17,869 tests were done on Tuesday. The number of tests will be increased and now 70 per cent of the tests would be RT-PCR tests, which was less than 50 per cent last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Veteran Siliguri face joins BJP ||Nantu Paul, a veteran politician of Siliguri and a former Trinamul councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, joined the BJP in Calcutta on Wednesday. It is Paul’s fourth political party in his political career that spans 33 years, and started from the CPM. The CPM and Trinamul apart, he was also in the Congress briefly. Paul and his wife Manjushree, also a former councillor, were inducted into the BJP by the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya along with some other Trinamul leaders. “My only aim is to work for Siliguri’s progress. Without central assistance, it can never happen. That is why I joined the BJP,” Paul said over the phone. In 1988, Paul was elected ward commissioner of the then Siliguri municipality on a CPM’s ticket. In 1994, when the civic body was upgraded to a municipal corporation, he was elected councillor. He stayed with the CPM till 2004 when he joined Trinamul. After a couple of months, he joined Congress, and in 2006, contested from the Siliguri Assembly seat and lost to Asok Bhattacharya. In 2014, he rejoined Trinamul and stayed on. But last month, as the Trinamul leadership announced Omprakash Mishra as its Siliguri nominee, Paul quit Trinamul and announced that he would contest as an Independent from Siliguri and filed his nomination on March 24. But on Wednesday, Paul said he would withdraw his nomination and support the BJP’s Siliguri  nominee Shankar Ghosh. Asked for his reaction, Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said Paul was expelled from Trinamul after he submitted nomination as an Independent and violated party rules. “He has lost is credibility….his presence in the political arena will not affect our party in any manner,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata sets Opposition unity ball rolling against the BJP||Mamata Banerjee has raced off the blocks to offer to work “wholeheartedly” with several like-minded parties for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution. “We can win this battle only with unity of hearts and minds, and by presenting a credible alternative to the people of India. After the conclusion of the ongoing Assembly elections, I suggest that we deliberate on these issues and chart a plan of action,” Mamata said in a letter to a host of non-BJP parties. Mamata’s letter, dated March 28, has been sent to Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti, Jagan Reddy and Arvind Kejriwal. The Bengal chief minister has written to Sonia although the Congress, in alliance with the Left, is fighting the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. However, Mamata did not send the letter to the CPM. She chose to send the letter to CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, whose party had differed with the Left Front on the issue of identifying BJP as the “main enemy” in the ongoing Assembly polls. “…I strongly believe that the time has come for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution. As the Chairperson of All India Trinamul Congress, I shall work wholeheartedly with you and all other like-minded political parties in this battle,” Mamata wrote in the letter. The chief minister has made the first move without waiting for the Assembly results, prompting some to suggest that she has realised first hand the peril of letting the BJP go unchallenged. Others felt that Mamata was positioning herself at the forefront of a possible Opposition platform against the BJP, regardless of the outcome of the Assembly elections. In the letter, the chief minister explained in detail how the BJP was trying to establish a “one-party authoritarian rule” in India by diluting the powers of state governments. “It was surprising that no party has raised its voice against the recent developments that will hurt the federal structure of the country. The chief minister took it on herself to ring the alarm. She is looking at a larger coalition of forces in her battle against the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. He added that Mamata’s immediate need to sound out her possible allies about the resolve to fight the BJP stemmed from the BJP’s all-out offensive in the 2021 battle for Bengal. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mamata had made a similar attempt to cobble together an anti-BJP alliance across the country and reached out to key Opposition leaders. “We want all Opposition parties to work together. We should help the strongest Opposition party in a state to fight the BJP (in the Lok Sabha polls),” Mamata had then said after one of her several parleys with Opposition leaders in New Delhi. Although her 2019 initiative failed to make much progress after the BJP swept the parliamentary polls, Mamata this time cited the example of the National Capital territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill to underscore the need to fight the BJP. Mamata said in the letter:  “With this law, the BJP government at the Centre has snatched away practically all the powers of the democratically elected government of Delhi, and vested them in the hands of Lt Governor, a nominee of the Centre.…” Mamata pointed out how the central agencies like the CBI and ED were being unleashed against leaders of non-BJP parties or how the Centre was deliberately withholding funds for non-BJP states. “Predictably, these institutions target only non-BJP leaders, and never those belonging to the BJP,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Why no action on my attackers, Mamata asks Election Commission ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Election Commission of India of not taking any action against those who allegedly attacked her car on Tuesday when she visited Nandigram’s Balarampur, the charge made on a day the poll panel deployed 30 women central force personnel for her rival, BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari. “Armed goons from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have taken shelter in Nandigram to foment violence. I am tired of complaining with the Election Commission. Today the police are under their (commission) control. Why didn’t they take action against goons when they attacked my car and heckled me yesterday (Tuesday?” Mamata asked in her campaign rally in Hooghly’s Goghat on Wednesday. She alleged that bike-borne goons threaten voters through the night in areas like Boyal, Gokulnagar and many others. “If I ask my boys to chase them (BJP people), you will run away. Don’t think it is because of my weakness that I am not asking (them) to do so. I want to complete the polls peacefully. I have recorded the names and taken the images of those goons... After the polls, we will bring them to book even if they hide in Delhi or Uttar Pradesh,” said a visibly angry Mamata. Several BJP supporters had banged on the bonnet and the windows of Mamata’s car and heckled her when she visited Balarampur on Tuesday.  She was also heckled at two points in Reyapara and Tengua earlier in the day. Trinamul sources said the alacrity with which the EC acted on the BJP’s complaints smacked of favouritism. The EC on Wednesday deployed 30 women constables of the central forces for Adhikari — Mamata’s aide-turned-rival in Nandigram that votes on Thursday — following reports that he faced protests by women wherever he went to campaign. “It was found that Adhikari faced agitation and was chased by a group of women with brooms and ladles at many places during his campaign. Accordingly, the commission deployed women personnel for his security. The team will guard Adhikari when he moves on the day of poll tomorrow (Thursday),” said a senior district official in East Midnapore. The EC also deployed four armed constables (not from central forces) for the security of Nandigram’s CPM nominee Minakshi Mukherjee and gave a Y-category security ring for BJP’s Moyna candidate and former cricketer Ashoke Dinda after they were attacked allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons on Tuesday. “The security of several political persons has been increased as per necessity,” said Smita Pandey, East Midnapore district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll paper filing triggers Trinamul-BJP fight||A Trinamul supporter suffered a bullet wound and 27 others from his party and the BJP were injured during a clash in front of the subdivisional administrative office here on Wednesday afternoon. Police had to lathicharge the Trinamul and BJP supporters who came for the filing of nomination papers by Trinamul’s Barrackpore nominee Raj Chakraborty and BJP’s Bijpur nominee Subhranshu Roy — at the SDO office. Trinamul supporter Siraj Ali, who got a bullet on his leg, was admitted to the BN Bose subdivisional hospital along with a dozen others. Chakraborty’s leg was hurt during stone-pelting by the mob. Roy’s car was allegedly vandalised by Trinamul supporters. Police sources said a country-made pistol was recovered from the spot from which at least three rounds were fired, but the Barrackpore police commissionerate refused to confirm firing. So far, police have arrested six persons, including four BJP activists, on attempt-to-murder charges. The Election Commission has sought a report from North 24-Parganas district administration. Police and local sources said trouble started at 3pm when Trinamul’s candidate Chakraborty was leading a rally after filing his nomination papers and BJP candidate Roy was entering the administrative building to submit his papers. Chakraborty claimed theirs was a peaceful rally till BJP supporters attacked them. “BJP supporters began pelting stones and opened fire. It was a planned attack as the BJP is fast losing ground here. All these happened in front of the police who were mute,” he added. Trinamul’s Naihati nominee Partha Bhowmik also blamed Roy and his men. Roy refuted Trinamul’s allegations. “Everyone knows who organised the attack. One of its candidates who did not want me to submit my nomination organised this attack. I was the target and they wanted to kill me today,” Roy alleged. “They first tried to prevent me (from filing papers), but somehow the police took me away. When I was coming out of the administrative building, I heard Trinamul supporters’ abusive slogans against me,” Roy said. He alleged that despite the situation going out of control, the police remained silent and kept the central force inactive. “It remains a mystery why jawans of the central force were made to wait despite Trinamul goons going on a rampage,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Mamata voices poaching fear||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked people to ensure that the Trinamul Congress got handsome majority as she apprehended that the BJP would employ poaching tactics if her party won the Assembly polls by a slender margin. “I can only form the government if our candidates like Becharam Manna, Ashima Patra and Dilip Yadav win the election. We can’t form a government if I win alone. We are contesting 291 seats and our friends in the (Darjeeling) hills are contesting the remaining three seats. I have to win at least 225-230 seats and I can’t form a government if I don’t win those,” said Mamata at rally in Singur on Wednesday. “Otherwise, the BJP will buy some traitors for Rs 5 lakh or Rs 5 crore. So, you have to cast more votes for Trinamul candidates for the party to win more seats and save it from traitors.” Opposition parties had been saying the BJP would buy out Trinamul MLAs to form the government if the ruling party got a marginal majority. Trinamul insiders said the party leadership had already discussed the issue of the BJP’s possible ploy to buy their MLAs as it had been hit by defections in the run up to the polls. The ruling party leaders referred to the incident of Karnataka where the BJP allegedly employed horse-trading to topple the Congress government and grab power. “The BJP is using its money power to grab power in Bengal by any means. So, it is important to make more MLAs win in this election. We have a doubt that if we have 155-170 MLAs, the BJP will indulge in horse-trading to form the government,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata had expressed the fear of horse-trading in a letter written on March28 to anti-BJP leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav and M.K. Stalin. “The BJP has amassed unlimited resources from questionable sources, which it is using to topple duly elected non-BJP government and to engineer defections in non-BJP parties,” Mamata has written in her three-page letter. A section of Trinamul insiders said Mamata’s move to express her fear was a political alarm for the people of Bengal amid the poll season and a threat for the BJP if it even tried to do horse-trading after the election. “What our chief minister told at her Singur rally is also a pre-emptive attempt to foil any foul play by the BJP. We are getting advantages in a few seats where the BJP has fielded Trinamul turncoats as old timers in their camps are very annoyed with the practice,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. The BJP criticised Mamata for her apprehension of horse-trading saying all such allegations were nothing but her signs of defeat. “First, she had said outsiders were going to loot the polls. Then, she said the ECI was conspiring against them. Then, the narrative shifted to EVM hacking and now, she is alleging possible horse-trading. All these are signs of her inevitable defeat,” said BJP’s chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Mamata on Wednesday held three back-to-back rallies in Hooghly’s Goghat and Singur, and Howrah’s Uluberia and accused the BJP of parachuting leaders from outside with cash to influence voters with an appeal to the Election Commission to conduct raids on hotels where the BJP leaders were staying. “The goons from outside are staying at resorts in Arambagh with bags full of cash. Snatch the bag of cash from them. I will reward those who will help to seize the bag with cash. They can’t fight alone against Mamata. They can’t fight against a daughter here. You will inform police and the Election Commission about the goons,” Mamata said at the rally in Goghat. Mamata said in Singur that her government would set up agro-industries on government land in Singur and later would work towards setting up large-scale industries. “We have earmarked a stretch of 11 acres of government land in Singur where we will set up agro- industries and it will create jobs. After setting up agro-based industries, we will go forward to set up large scale industries,” said Mamata. Mamata’s proposal drew sharp criticism from her rivals, including the CPM candidate at Singur, Srijan Bhattacharya. “Mamata Banerjee must apologise to former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and people of Bengal as she ruined the hope of youths by destroying an industry that was almost complete in Singur. She is now planning to set up an agro-industry on 11 acres of land after ruining an industry that would have given jobs to thousands of people,” said Srijan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Kafeel Khan endorses CPM duo||Kafeel Khan, the Gorakhpur doctor who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and emerged as a symbol of resistance against state oppression, on Wednesday issued a video message to back two young CPM candidates in Bengal — Dipsita Dhar and Aishe Ghosh. Dipsita is standing from Bally in Howrah and Aishe from Jamuria in West Burdwan. “...At such a young age I’ve seen the zeal to take up the nation’s responsibility in them. I’ve seen them working hard…It is my request that you elect them so that our nation develops…Come out of the politics of hatred, of violence, of caste and of religion and make them win,” Khan said in the clip. Speaking to this paper, Khan said he believed democratic institutions of the nation such as the Parliament and Assemblies needed strong voices for public representation, and Dipsita and Aishe had it in them to be those voices. “I’ve known Dipsita for three-four years and Aishe for about a year and a half. I know the kind of work they have done in JNU…I’m not speaking for any party. I’m speaking for these individuals. We need people like them in the Assemblies, who are politically, socially, economically aware, who have plans for the betterment of the people,” Khan said. Khan shot to national prominence in 2017 when many child deaths happened at the BRD Medical College in UP’s Gorakhpur, after the hospital’s oxygen supply was disconnected on August 10 apparently over non-payment of dues. Khan, a lecturer at the department of paediatrics in this college, spent his own money to arrange for oxygen cylinders. Hailed as a hero by the media, Khan was arrested on September 2, charged under several sections and removed as the nodal officer in charge of the encephalitis ward on charges of dereliction of duty and carrying out private practice. The toll because of lack of oxygen mounted to around 63. Acquitted of all charges on September 27 2019, Khan was re-arrested on December 13 from Mumbai by a special task force of UP police under the National Securities Act in relation to an anti-CAA speech he had made at the Aligarh Muslim University. On September 1, 2020, Allahabad High Court dropped all NSA charges against him and he was released. JNU students, including Dipsita who is a national joint secretary of the SFI, and Aishe the incumbent president of the varsity students’ union, stood by Khan during his arrests and demanded justice for him. Aishe led an anti-CAA protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar in February 2019 and demanded Khan release from there. In November 2019, when JNU students protested against an alleged fee hike, Khan stood by them. During the 2019 polls, Khan had campaigned for former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar and Shashi Tharoor. Kanhaiya contested and lost the Lok Sabha polls on a CPI ticket from Bihar’s Begusarai and Tharoor is the Congress MP from Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram. Asked if he would campaign for the two in Bengal, Khan said he was busy till April 6 in some legal work but was willing to campaign for the two once free. “It was very nice of him to take this initiative for wishing us good luck. I’ve known him since he was first arrested in 2017. Individually and from the SFI we had staged several protests demanding his release. He has also expressed his wish to campaign for us,” Dipsita told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nadda flags 39 closed mills, insiders demur||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda said at a poll rally in Hooghly’s Dhanekhali on Wednesday that 39 of the 60 jute mills in Bengal were not operating, but sources in the industry said the figure was wrong. Although no one came on record, sources in the Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA) said Nadda had been wrongly briefed. Bengal has some 67 jute mills, with five permanently closed. However, 60 mills are running fully or partially, an IJMA source said. Nadda also said the Hastings Mill in Rishra and the Brook Mill in Champdani, both in Hooghly district, were closed. However, both are operational, said the highly placed IJMA source, and pointed out that Nadda had possibly been referring to Northbrook jute mill at Champdani as “Brook”. “Northbrook jute mill, which is at Champdani, is partially operational,” said the IJMA source. “The BJP leader may have mispronounced Northbrook as Brook.” Hastings Jute Mill was fully operational, he added. “This area which is known for jute industries…jute business…This is an industrial belt. But here under the rule of Mamataji (chief minister Mamata Banerjee), 39 out of 60 jute mills are closed. Am I right? (She) ruled for ten years…39 out of 60 mills closed. Now Trinamul’s chapter will also be closed,” Nadda said. “Friends, the Hastings Jute Industry in Rishra has closed down. The Brook Jute Industry in Champdani has closed down…and work was suspended here leaving about 10,000 workers jobless…” Nadda added. He said Mamata couldn’t start the Dunlop factory in Hooghly after promising to do so. Goutam Chatterjee, BJP’s organisational chief for Hooghly district, tried to justify Nadda’s claims. “The mills running currently are almost dying. That is what Naddaji meant. Most workers are employed on contract basis and paid less than what they should get. If the BJP comes to power, we will change all this,” Chatterjee told this paper. BJP leaders, including Nadda, on Wednesday claimed the Centre under Prime Minister Narendra Modi allowed 100 per cent packaging of food grains like wheat and rice in jute bags to support the industry. However, packing food grains in jute bags was made mandatory by the Jute Packaging Materials Act of 1987. Nadda also said that workers at jute mills were not given provident fund benefits and minimum wages. Though jute worker unions agreed they didn’t get provident fund, they blamed the Centre for it. “Provident fund benefits have been destroyed by the policies of the Centre,” said Nagendra Pandey, joint general secretary of Jute Workers’ Federation, who added that most mills were operational. IJMA sources, however, said provident fund for workers had been regularised and arrears of around Rs 20 crore was stuck in litigation. On Wednesday, Nadda also participated in two roadshows in Bally and Pursurah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: 22 companies for Nandigram voting||Twenty-two companies of central forces were deployed for area domination and Section 144 was imposed to avert any law and order problem in the Nandigram constituency which will go the polls on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting the seat where the BJP has fielded her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari. Sources said the forces were being guided by the East Midnapore district administration to watch sensitive areas of Gokulnagar, Haripur and Boyal, all of which, according to the chief minister, were “overrun by outsiders”. Ensuring a free and fair election in Nandigram has become a top priority for the Election Commission as Mamata Banerjee, following a visit to Balarampur in East Midnapore where she was heckled, has lashed out at the BJP for “widespread voter intimidation”. Trinamul has alleged that bike-borne criminals are roaming around Nandigram to intimidate party voters and accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to create trouble in the area. “All land routes are being monitored and vessel movement from Haldia has been shut off since afternoon. Central forces have been directed to keep an eye on the homes of 62 Trinamul leaders, excluding election agent Sheikh Sufian, as they are not allowed to vote,” said a source, referring to the most recent blow suffered by the ruling party in the area when investigations against 63 leaders in connection with the 2007 land agitation were reopened. Sheikh Sufian was later exempted from the same owing to his appointment as the election agent prior to the case’s reopening. “The family members of these leaders, who are absconding, have been informed that they are not to be seen in the area as they can be arrested on sight,” said a police officer, explaining that all presiding officers of the area’s 355 booths had received a list of names. From Wednesday morning, no outsider was allowed into Nandigram, which has had a history of violent agitation and has been in the throes of communal sentiment last week owing to incendiary BJP rallies. Government officials had also completed installing CCTVs and microphones at several “sensitive” booths, with sources saying the rest would be provided with “micro observers”. State police were also monitoring drones deployed over forested areas as of Wednesday evening. “We are going to be observing the live webcast from a few booths. If there are any signs of trouble, we will act immediately,” said district magistrate Smita Pandey.The Election Commission replaced the sub-divisional police officer of Haldia and the circle inspector of Mahisadal late on Tuesday. The Election Commission has attached two IPS officers — Praveen Tripathi and Nagendra Tripathi — with the newly appointed ADG (western zone) Rajesh Kumar for better coordination and supervision of the second phase of elections. EC officials said Praveen had been given the charge to supervise the election in the entire East Midnapore district on Thursday, except Nandigram where another IPS officer Nagendra has been deployed separately. The choice of officers has gained significance given the fact that a few months ago, the Union government had recommended central deputation for Praveen Tripathi as an alleged act of punishment after allegations of negligence had surfaced against him in supervising a road show by BJP leader J.P. Nadda in Bengal. The convoy of Nadda had been attacked during the road show. Following the recommendation of the central deputation, the state government transferred Praveen from the post of DIG (presidency range) to a relatively lesser significant post of DIG (provisioning). Senior officials in the state home department said Nagendra Tripathi’s deployment to monitor election in one of the most sensitive seats was also considered significant because five years ago, when he was a deputy commissioner in the Calcutta police, the Mamata Banerjee government had shunted him as officer on compulsory waiting following allegations of police excess during the 2016 Assembly elections in Calcutta and made him to wait for months before he was reinstated in a policing post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Drones to keep tabs on voting in Sunderbans||The Election Commission will use nine drone cameras for aerial surveillance of the nine islands that fall under the Gosaba Assembly constituency in South 24-Parganas district during the second phase of the Assembly polls on Thursday. On Wednesday, officials of Baruipur police district conducted trial runs of drones at a few strategic locations. “The trial runs have been successful. The drones will be extensively used on Thursday morning when the polling begins,” said Kamanashish Sen, superintendent of police, Baruipur police district. Gosaba is one of the four Assembly segments, apart from Kakdwip, Sagar and Patharpratima, where polling will be held on Thursday. Polls to the remaining 27 seats in the district will be held on April 6 and 10. Gosaba, one of the major delta islands in the Sunderbans, is covered by several creeks. There are at least nine major islands in the delta. Gosaba is the last inhabited place ahead of the deep forest of the Sunderbans. Because of their riverine location and distance, the islands have become safe havens for goons. “We will use drone technology to ensure free and fair elections. The feed sent by the nine drone cameras from the nine islands will be monitored centrally by a police team. The drones will keep a watch on the vulnerable polling stations identified by the Election Commission,” Sen told The Telegraph. “Our aim is to ensure free and fair polling even at remote locations in Gosaba in the Sunderbans,” Sen added. To sanitise the area and as part of the administration’s confidence building measure, the police, with the support of central paramilitary force, launched a combing operation on the islands under Gosaba Assembly seat from Tuesday night. Gosaba has been under the Election Commission’s scanner since the beginning of the poll process owing to its poor law and order and crime records. Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, have lodged several complaints about alleged stockpiling of arms and bombs by the Trinamul Congress in the area. On March 5, one person was killed and five injured in a blast when they were allegedly manufacturing bombs at Arampur in Gosaba. Local sources said police operation had begun on Tuesday night, a few hours after campaigning ended. A large police team led by SDO, Canning, Gobinda Sikdar, and officer-in-charge of Gosaba police Soumen Biswas conducted several raids at Gosaba and Pathankhali. A senior police officer said: “The combing operation was undertaken as part of a confidence building measure. There has been no arrest. But we are clamping down on unauthorised gatherings. In the past one month, we conducted raids at several places in Gosaba and seized arms. We have arrested many suspected criminals also. So, we launched a fresh drive to ensure that people don’t panic and they participate in the polling process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Abhishek, Mithun keep north poll pot boiling||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP intensified their election campaign in north Bengal on Wednesday with Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee and actor Mithun Chakraborty holding rallies for their respective parties. Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek held three public meetings — two in Cooch Behar and one in Alipurduar district where elections would be held on April 10. “The BJP has failed to meet aspirations of people living in two districts even though it has been in power at the Centre for the past seven years. People have elected BJP MPs from the region but they have not done anything. Ahead of the elections, the BJP MPs are promising cash and trying to use money power in an unscrupulous manner,” the Trinamul MP said. He also challenged BJP leaders to come up with a report card on what the central government had done for Bengal since 2014. “While Mamata Banerjee is seeking support from people over the agenda of development and has elaborated what she has done for the state in the past 10 years, the BJP is trying to hoodwink voters with other issues. That is why they do not have anything to speak about, given their miserable performance at the Centre,” said Abhishek. In the Assembly elections this year, both the BJP and Trinamul are persistently focussing on north Bengal, a region with 54 seats which can be the game-changer for any party. While the BJP, which had won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019, intends to retain its lead in different Assembly segments, Trinamul is striving to revive its support base. While addressing the public meetings, Abhishek also asked voters to “teach a lesson” to turncoats. One of his targets was Mihir Goswami, the former Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar South, who had defected to the BJP and is contesting as the BJP candidate of the Natabari (also in Cooch Behar) seat. “Some people who have enjoyed all benefits while being in Trinamul have betrayed Mamata Banerjee and joined the BJP. These people should be taught a lesson in the elections,” he said. He also obliquely referred to Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, who had defected from Trinamul in 2019. This time, Pramanik is contesting from Dinhata Assembly seat. “Those who have been removed from Trinamul have become the BJP’s candidates. When they could not find anybody, they fielded the MP. This person should be defeated,” Abhishek said. Mithun, who has been pitted by the BJP as a star campaigner, also addressed voters of both Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts. “Those who are contesting the elections should not make false promises. Many people dangle lollipops before the polls….. we should abstain from it and make such commitments to people which we can meet while seeking their support,” the veteran actor advised BJP candidates. He was speaking at a public meeting in Gayerkata under the Madarihat Assembly constituency in Alipurduar district. He also elaborated on some of the points mentioned in the BJP’s election manifesto, which include revision of daily wages for tea garden workers. In Alipurduar, results of three of the five Assembly constituencies depend on the support of the tea garden population. In Cooch Behar, he attended a public meeting at Dinhata in support of Nisith Pramanik. At the meeting, he raised questions over chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s promise to deliver food grains, provided under the PDS, at doorsteps. “We have heard that rations would be delivered at homes. But I have doubt whether the manpower that is required for this exercise is available here…. whether government employees or police or Trinamul supporters will distribute the ration is not clear. This is nothing but a lollipop,” Mithun said. Later, he also attended a road show in Tufanganj. Hundreds had gathered at the road show to catch a glimpse of the actor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
01-04-2021||North East||‘My name is not Modi, I don’t lie,’ Rahul told voters in Assam ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday told voters in Assam he was not like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who “lies to India 24/7”. Addressing an election rally at Chaygaon constituency in Kamrup district, Rahul said: “I haven’t come here to lie to you. My name is not Narendra Modi. If you wish to hear him lie about Assam, farmers or any other issue, switch on the television. He lies to India 24/7. If you want to listen to the truth, hear me out.” The Congress had waived farm loans within six hours of assuming power in Chhattisgarh, as it had promised before the elections, he said. The former UPA government led by the Congresshad waived Rs 70,000 crore in agricultural loans on therequest of farmers, headded. “People from different languages, ethnicities and ideologies are peacefully listening to me. This is Assam. But the BJP makes one brother fight another and spreads hatred. They give tea garden contracts to outsiders. “Assam will elect its own chief minister when the Congress comes to power. The state won’t be governed by Nagpur (RSS headquarters) or Delhi,” he said. Rahul said the Congress had made its poll promise of five guarantees in consultation with tea garden workers, youth and women. Referring to Dipanjal Das, an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protester from Chaygaon who was killed in police firing in Guwahati during in December 2019, Rahul said: “Dipanjal had stood peacefully for Assam but the RSS-BJP shot him dead. For what he sacrificed his life, we will never allow that (CAA) to be implemented.” At another rally in Barkhetri constituency in Nalbari district, Rahul alleged that Modi had dried up employment avenues, particularly in Assam, through demonetisation and imposition of the GST and other taxes. “Modi has finished all employment avenues and handed over your airports, tea gardens and even oil to his two-three industrialist friends,” he said. Voting in 39 Assembly constituencies will be held in the second phase on Thursday. Forty seats will go to polls in the third and last phase on April 6. Around 79.97 per cent of 81.09 lakh voters had exercised their franchise in the first phase of voting in 47 seats on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-04-2021||North East||Assam poll seizure  value tops Rs 110cr||Assam broke all previous records in seizures of cash, liquor, drug and other goods after the Assembly polls were notified with several agencies confiscating items worth over Rs 110 crore, state chief electoral officer Nitin Khade said on Wednesday. During the 2016 state polls, central and state agencies had seized goods worth less than Rs 20 crore. Khade told a news conference: “After the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) came into force on February 26 in view of the Assam Assembly elections, cash and other valuables worth Rs 110.83 crore have been seized till date. Till now, seizures of drugs and narcotics worth Rs 34.29 crore, over 16.61 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 33.44 crore, cash amounting to Rs 24.50 crore along with gold, silver jewelleries and gold bars worth Rs 3.68 crore have been made.” Freebies and other items like foreign-origin cigarettes, poppy seeds, black pepper, areca nuts and pan masala worth Rs 14.91 crore have also been confiscated, Khade said. “So far, 50 FIRs have been registered across the state related to expenditure violation and 5,234 FIRs lodged in connection with violation of excise rules,” the CEO said. However, he did not share the number of persons detained and arrested in connection with the FIRs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-04-2021||North East||Amit Shah swipe at Congress, Ajmal over infiltrators||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday accused the Congress and the AIUDF of hankering for power in Assam to open the borders for infiltrators and said emphatically that the BJP will not allow the state to become a hub for illegal immigrants again after freeing the land encroached by them during last five years. Taking a swipe at All India United Democratic Front chief Badruddin Ajmal for claiming that the “lock and key” (AIUDF symbol) of forming the next government in the state is in his hands, Shah said the people would decide who will run Assam. “Kaan khol kar sunlo Ajmal, Assam ko ghuspetiyo ke adda phir se nahin banne denge (Ajmal listen carefully we will not allow Assam to become a hub for infiltrators again),” Shah said. He began the day with a rally at Bijni constituency in Chirang district that comes under Bodoland Territorial Region followed by public meetings at Hajo in Kamrup and Dispur in Kamrup (metro) districts. “Ajmal claims that the ‘lock and key’ of forming the next government is in his hands and he will decide who will form the next government in Assam, but he does not realise that the ‘taala aur chabi’ Assam ke janta ke haath mein hain (the lock and key is with the people of Assam),” he said. Shah accused the Congress of failing to stop infiltration, and urged “haame aur paanch saal de dijiye, aadmi toh kya parinde bhi ghus nahi sakenge (give us another five years, and we will ensure that not only the infiltrators but even birds cannot enter illegally)”. At the rally in Sonapur, Shah said that if there is a government of Congress and Ajmal, there will be no stop to infiltration and they “want to come to power with the hope to open the locks of the borders to let infiltrators in. “The keys, however, will remain in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he will not allow a single illegal person to come in. So (Badruddin) Ajmal mian, ‘aap din mein sapna dekhna bandh kijiye (Ajmal stop day dreaming)’.” Former Congress chief minister Tarun Gogoi had dismissed Ajmal saying “Who is Ajmal?” but now Rahul Gandhi says that the AIUDF is “Assam’s identity, but we will not allow this at any cost”, Shah said. He also accused Rahul, who is on a visit to the state to address election rallies on Wednesday, of coming for tourism purpose and talking about Ajmal being Assam's identity. “It is Kamakhya temple, Vaishnav saint Srimanta Sankaradeva and Madhavdeva, brave Ahom general Lachit Barphukan Bharat Ratnas Gopinath Bordoloi and Bhupen Hazarika who represent Assam’s identity and the Congress and Ajmal will not be allowed to change this,” Shah said. He claimed that it is the BJP’s double-engine government at the Centre and chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal which successfully ended violence and agitation in the state and took it forward on the path of development. “Five years ago, I as the party president had come to you and promised to make Assam free from violence and agitation and ensure development. We have fulfilled our promises and give us another five years and we will make the state infiltrator-free and flood-free,” he said. In the Assam elections there are two groups — one of BJP-AGP-UPPL which promises development — and the other of Congress riding on Ajmal’s shoulders which will bring in more infiltrators who will take away not only the food, land and other resources of the Assamese but also destroy the culture and identity of the people, he said. “It is now for the people of Assam to decide whether they want to vote for Modiji’s Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Assam or for Maulana nirbhar Assam,” he wryly said. The home minister accused the Congress of not solving the problem of insurgency, leading to the death of so many people. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi took initiative for signing of the Bodo Accord, paving the way for permanent peace in the state, he said. “I assure everybody that clauses of the Accord will be fulfilled by 2022 and we have already done two-thirds of these,” he added. Shah further accused the Congress of dividing the Assamese society on different lines like Bodo-Non Bodo, Hindu-Muslim, Assamese-Bengali, Upper-lower Assam besides tribes and non-tribes. “It is the Congress culture to divide and make people fight amongst each other. On the other hand, the Prime Minister believes in ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas’ and all people, irrespective of any community or religion can avail benefits of all government schemes,” he added. Shah said that the bamboo available in Assam can be supplied to the paper industry in the entire country and assured that the closed paper mills in the state will be reopened while bamboo products will help youths to take up self-employment. At the venue of the two rallies in the suburbs of Guwahati, Shah assured that the city will be developed as the “start-up capital of Southeast Asia”. Guwahati will also be developed as a sport hub so that it can bid to host the 2038 Asia Games, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
01-04-2021||Opinion||Blind to love: Abuse of POSCO||Laws can be abused, but how they are abused depends on the prevalent attitudes of a culture. In India, the law against abduction is often evoked against the relationship of two consenting adults when their families want to prevent a union for reasons of caste, community or background. Thus, a committee studying the steep rise in the number of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 noted, among other things, the use of the law to criminalize consensual relationships between two teenagers. This is a razor’s edge. The committee recommended that teenagers over 16 be tried as adults over 18 for sexual crimes, while mentioning the problem of punishing under-18 consensual sexual relationships. The recommendation for lowering the age for trial as adults was prompted, presumably, by the increasing sexual abuse of girls of three or four by teenage boys. But the law tars all teenagers with the same brush. Sexually active young people can have consensual relationships: is the POCSO Act meant to punish such non-criminal activity? This question is the focus of a recent case, in which a teenage girl had first accused a slightly older boy of rape and cheating, but later sought to depose before the Madras High Court that the relationship was consensual. When it broke down, she was urged by the State to charge the boy. The high court dismissed her plea, holding that crimes under the POCSO Act were non-compoundable — not open to compromise. The trial court had sentenced her erstwhile partner, who has since petitioned the Supreme Court. Reported statements from co-ordinate benches of the high court as well as the Supreme Court indicate that the higher judiciary is fully aware of the consequences of the POCSO Act’s silence on romantic relationships below 18. Sending a boy to prison for being part of a relationship of mutual love cannot be fair; it is as unfair as viewing innocent relationships as alien or unnatural. A law that seeks to punish the sexual abuse of minors has to be nuanced. Removing the non-compoundable element of the law in cases of relationships above 16 could have its own problems in a society that is happy to have rapists marry survivors. But crime must be distinguished from love in spite of the confusions produced by hindsight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||No end in sight: Myanmar crisis ||Sir — The latest round of international condemnation of the Myanmar army comes with the defence chiefs of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Japan and nine other nations denouncing the Tatmadaw in the wake of the brutal killings of over 100 civilians on the country’s Armed Forces Day (“Bloodbath”, March 30). Even as the Myanmar military chief, Min Aung Hlaing, mouthed platitudes about protecting the people and restoring democracy in the country, the armed forces continued with their ruthless repression of the protesters by firing indiscriminately at people, including children. It is ironical that the parade held last Saturday was to commemorate the start of Myanmar’s military resistance against Japanese occupation in 1945, but now the military is oppressing the citizens of its own country. But China and Russia are yet to criticize the Tatmadaw. This could make it difficult for the United Nations security council — where both countries hold the power to veto — to take action against the junta. The military, which overthrew the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi, has killed hundreds of civilians so far and lacks legitimacy. The absence of a strong international response, thus far limited only to sanctions against the top military brass and two companies it deals with, may be worsening the situation. These incidents should draw a harsher response from the international community. It is time that India — it was one among the eight countries that sent representatives to Myanmar on the occasion of the Armed Forces Day — forgoes its old ties with the Tatmadaw. Many people are having to flee the country. It behoves India to uphold democratic traditions and stand up for the basic human rights of the Myanmarese people. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that India, one of the largest democracies in the world, chose to send its representatives to Myanmar for the Armed Forces Day parade. It turned out to be one of the bloodiest days in the history of the country with at least 114 civilians losing their lives. The other countries that sent their representatives to attend the event in Naypyidaw are Russia, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand. Many are justifiably wondering why the Narendra Modi government chose to participate in the event rather than condemning the Myanmar military. Perhaps it would help to remember that India’s relationship with Myanmar has been complex. During the tenures of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, India prioritized its commitment to democratic values but was mostly neutral in its approach towards Myanmar. However, Indian foreign policy saw a marked change in the 1990s. The government of P.V. Narasimha Rao recognized the geopolitical importance of Myanmar and took significant steps to engage with it politically while also strengthening economic ties. Subsequent governments — both the United Progressive Alliance as well as the National Democratic Alliance — continued to build India’s relationship with Myanmar. In light of the recent developments, it is perhaps time that the Indian government rethinks its approach towards the country. We must honour our commitment to democratic traditions. On the other hand, there is no doubt that alienating Myanmar will be a problem as it is strategically positioned. The country’s growing relationships with Pakistan and China are a matter of concern as well. India must reconsider its strategies keeping these things in mind. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Moment of glory Sir — In a remarkable turn of events, ace Indian paddlers, Achanta Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra, made history by securing the Olympic berth in the mixed doubles category in table tennis after defeating the Korean pair, Sang-Su Lee and Jihee Jeon, ranked fifth in the world, at the Asian Olympic Qualification Tournament finals. The most impressive part of this encounter was the way Kamal and Batra — they are ranked 18th — turned the game in their favour after starting the match 0-2 (11-8, 11-6) down against their higher-ranked opponents. The Indian pair won six points in a row in the third game. This led to a slow but steady comeback. While the mixed team event in table tennis is being introduced at the Olympics for the first time, the Indian duo had played against Lee and Jeon earlier and defeated them during the 2018 Asian Games. Kamal and Batra must be lauded. It is an outstanding feat in a country where cricket is the only sport accorded any importance. C.K.R. Nathan,Ghaziabad Take care Sir — A recent study found that a food preservative used to prolong the shelf life of processed food items is responsible for compromising our immune system. The chemical, tert-butylhydroquinone, was shown to have ill effects and offer no health benefit. One of the researchers pointed out that before the pandemic, chemicals that may harm the immune system did not receive sufficient attention. While it is heartening that there is now a renewed focus on public health, it is unfortunate that it took a global health crisis for experts to be alert. We must prioritize health in order to deal with future pandemics efficiently. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls 2021: Caste matters||Religion, inveterate Marxists insist, is the opium of the masses. The comrades have their own fix — fixation— as well. Class, the myth goes, has been central in shaping Bengal’s politics. There is now data to suggest that caste — “a state of mind” in the Indian context, according to B.R. Ambedkar — has been as, if not more, influential in directing the political winds in the former fief of the Left Front. Consider the following facts. At around 24 per cent of Bengal’s population, scheduled castes hold a disproportionate sway over a significant number of assembly seats. According to one estimate, around 60 recognized SC communities make up more than 25 per cent of the population in nine districts, which, in turn, decide the fate of as many as 127 assembly seats. Seventy-eight constituencies in six other districts are at the mercy of SCs. Little wonder then that the Trinamul Congress and its principal rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party, have profited electorally by creating support bases among these subsets. In 2011, the year that the Marxists were shown the door from power by Mamata Banerjee, the TMC had won 37 of the total reserved seats; it increased its kitty to 50 in 2016. On both occasions, the TMC’s grip on the SC community was instrumental in its overall electoral dominance. This year, Bengal’s ruling party has fielded as many as 79 SC candidates, 11 more than the total number of reserved seats in the state. That may be because the momentum has shifted in favour of the BJP in more recent times and the party’s ambitions of conquering Bengal are undoubtedly fuelled by its phenomenal rise in assembly segments that have a notable presence of not just citizens from SC groups but also members of scheduled tribes. Indeed, the Union home minister has been on record, saying that the BJP has performed very well in the first phase of the Bengal polls that covered the districts that constitute south Bengal’s tribal belt. This only goes to show that unlike the claims of the foggy-eyed bhadralok, Bengal, like other parts of India, has been equally accommodating of the pulls and pressures of identitarian politics. The comrades may have only muddled up on one dimension of identity-based aspirations, putting the cart of class before the horse of caste. In fact, the capitulation of the Left may be attributed to its failure to meet the changing demands and aspirations of Bengal’s caste groups. This myopia catapulted its rivals who have now sapped the formidable sickle and hammer of their political potency in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Red alert: No moral highground for CPM||In entering a pre-poll alliance with Abbas Siddiqui, the cleric of Furfura Sharif, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) believes it has done what every political party is supposed to do in electoral politics — give itself the best chance of winning votes. However, in being opportunistic — here’s the rub — the party has lost the moral and ideological high ground that it claims to occupy. A decade after losing power, the once invincible CPI(M) has been reduced to an also-ran in Bengal. Its vote share plummeted from 30.08 per cent in 2011 to 19.74 per cent in 2016 to 6.34 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The party seems to have decided to put ends over means to stay relevant politically. And that is where Siddiqui comes into the picture. Behind the magnanimity of leaving 40 or more seats to the Indian Secular Front lies the mathematics that even if Siddiqui can fetch 10 to 15 seats in Muslim-dominated pockets of rural south Bengal, it will make the alliance a decisive factor in the case of a hung assembly. This, one may argue, is the rise of the New Left, to which the communalization of politics is no longer an anathema. An alliance with a Muslim cleric may not be harmonious with the essence of a communist party but for the Left, existence precedes essence. If religious sentiments can fetch votes, it is now ready to let people be intoxicated with that opium. It has done this in the past but not with the brazenness of a pre-poll alliance and a joint Brigade rally with a pirzada. Viewing the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bengal and Tripura as a premonition, the Kerala CPI(M), too, decided to go for soft Hindutva. In 2019, the Kerala state committee had urged its workers to involve themselves in religious activities and the management of temples. After the debacle in the Lok Sabha elections, it even decided not to press for the rights of women to enter the Sabarimala temple. The CPI(M)’s acting state-secretary, A. Vijayaraghavan, has been criticized by civil society members for making Islamophobic and xenophobic comments. Even in Bengal, as long as it was in power, the Left endorsed the ‘Hindu common sense’ propagated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh while succumbing to pressure from Islamic fundamentalists on issues such as the granting of political asylum to Taslima Nasreen. The Left’s campaign for the Bengal election is focused more on uprooting the Trinamul Congress than stopping the BJP. The CPI(M) has clearly differed from Dipankar Bhattacharya’s theory of BJP being the greater adversary. It has even rejected the ‘No Vote to BJP’ campaign as it believes that the campaign will sway voters towards the TMC. Intoxicated with the dream of settling scores with Mamata Banerjee for the electoral bashing of 2011, the CPI(M) has held the hands of Siddiqui who promises to eat into Banerjee’s Muslim vote bank, arguably her biggest strength. Little wonder then that Siddiqui repeated Sitaram Yechury’s view that in order to stop the BJP, one has to remove Banerjee first. The CPI(M)’s ‘pragmatism’ will help the BJP by polarizing voters further and attracting the anti-TMC vote. At the Brigade rally on March 7, Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders touched upon these issues. As long as the Left thinks that the BJP does not pose an immediate threat, it will pursue an opportunistic line. Fascism is the price one pays for the sin of opportunism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Questions galore||The outcome of the ongoing elections to the West Bengal legislative assembly will have important implications for the working of not just the state’s polity but on the future of democracy in India. If the Bharatiya Janata Party is able to come to power for the first time in Bengal, there will be no stopping Narendra Modi’s relentless drive to create an Opposition-mukt Bharat and his unabashed endeavour to establish what can best be described as an ‘electoral autocracy’ in the country. Even if the BJP fails to ‘obtain’ a majority of seats in the assembly and form the government in the state, it would certainly improve its position and claim a ‘victory’ of sorts. Is it then a win-win situation for Modi whatever be the outcome of the polls? Not really. If a non-BJP government led by the Trinamul Congress (on its own or with the support of others) returns to rule Bengal for five years, it would temper Modi’s ambitions and constrain the BJP juggernaut, at least for a while. That would indeed be a welcome development for those opposed to the right-wing, Hindu-nationalist political party and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Over the last seven years and especially during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, voters have voted very differently in state elections and national elections. Social scientists like Abhay Dubey of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies describe this phenomenon as the sarkarikaran — ‘governmentalization’ — of politics in the country in which the incumbent regime (at the Centre or in the states) has an advantage. This is what makes Bengal so important for the BJP even if there is good reason to believe that things are far from hunky-dory for the party and that it would be very challenging for it to repeat its impressive performance in the Lok Sabha elections two years ago when it won 18 out of the 42 parliamentary seats with a roughly 40 per cent share of the votes polled. There are huge imponderables and a number of questions the answers to which would be known only when the election results are declared. Which way would the anti-TMC vote go? Would it get split between the BJP and the Left-Congress combine, thereby helping the ruling party in the state? Or would the votes of those opposed to the BJP, including the votes of Muslims, get fragmented in a manner that would help the saffron party the way it did in 2019? There are theories galore and speculation is rife but no political pundit really knows what the outcome would be or even whether the electoral contest would be close or one-sided. I recently spoke to a number of political observers and I am summarizing the views of three of them here, simply because I agree with much of what they say. The political scientist, Suhas Palshikar, argues that the outcome of the Bengal elections is important because it would determine whether the BJP is able to spread its narrow notion of nationalism further and whether its version of electoral autocracy (chunauvi tanashahi) would get a ‘booster dose’. Indeed, in the BJP’s scheme of things, all those opposed to the elected Supreme Leader have to be branded as anti-nationals. During its rule, the use of the colonial-era anti-sedition law has multiplied manifold. One estimate by Article 14 indicated that 96 per cent of the sedition cases filed against 405 Indians for criticizing political leaders and governments over the last decade had been registered after Modi came to power in 2014. The website, which tracked sedition cases in the decade between January 2010 and December 2020, stated that 149 people were accused of making “critical” or “derogatory” remarks against the prime minister and 144 were accused of making remarks against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath. The author and journalist, Sagarika Ghose, said that the 2021 assembly elections in Bengal can be compared to the Battle of Plassey when the army of the East India Company led by Robert Clive defeated the much larger force of the then Nawab of Bengal, Siraj-ud-Daulah. Clive succeeded because he was not just a military leader but also a strategist who won over the nawab’s commanders like Mir Jafar. The BJP, too, has won over key commanders of the TMC like Suvendu Adhikari. Even if there are some who would describe her contention as exaggerated and consider her analogy stretched, few would disagree that the impact of the Bengal elections would be pivotal to Indian politics and its after-effects may be felt for decades. The political psychologist, Ashis Nandy, said that in these elections the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, is pitted against a man “who is presiding over the destiny of 1.3 billion Indians”. The question that Nandy and others have raised in the larger political context is whether voters perceive political parties and leaders not in binary black-and-white terms but as ‘lesser’ or ‘greater’ evils while preferring the former. Will such perceptions influence voting trends in the Modi versus Mamata battle? One of the biggest changes that Modi has brought about is that India’s multi-party elections have been converted into an American-style contest between two personalities. Hence, his party’s frequent reference to Rahul Gandhi. The BJP, on its own, increased its vote share from around 31.3 per cent to 37.4 per cent between 2014 and 2019, while that of the National Democratic Alliance went up from approximately 37 per cent to around 45 per cent implying that in 2019 more than half of those who voted did not support either the BJP or its partners. But the ‘personalization’ of politics cuts both ways, particularly in Bengal. Just as Modi is bigger than the party he leads, so is Mamata Banerjee. She is the TMC. In this electoral battle between the two, there is a difference however. Didi’s emotional appeals to voters in general and to women in particular may give her an edge over the BJP. And this is where parochial appeals could matter. Subterranean understandings and covert coalitions cannot be ruled out. If the outcome of the polls is close, a variant of the ‘Maharashtra model’ could be replicated in Bengal, again with a difference because the BJP has no allies in Bengal like the Shiv Sena. One famous quote that Bengali ‘exceptionalists’ still love — while others pour scorn over it is — the one attributed to the ‘moderate’ Congress leader from Maharashtra, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, who died at the young age of 48 in 1915. Both Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Mohammed Ali Jinnah considered Gokhale to be their mentor. But the economic decline of Bengal began soon afterwards with the capital moving from Calcutta to Delhi followed by the bloody partition of the subcontinent and the de-industrialization of the state. Will Gokhale be proved right or wrong more than a century later? The answer to this question would depend on the ideological predilections and perspectives of the particular reader. How many voters in Bengal are cognizant of the national importance of their franchise? I wish I knew. Will May 2 provide us the answers? The wait could be excruciatingly long, like the elections conducted over eight phases in the state for the first time. The author is an independent journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||State surpasses 2021’s highest single-day-spike with 693 cases||The state on Wednesday surpassed the last highest single-day-spike in Covid cases this month as at least 693 people, including 351 in Ranchi, were found positive on Thursday. On Tuesday, the state reported 418 fresh cases of infection, the highest in a day in 2021. On Wednesday, only 129 Covid patients recovered from the infection, and the active caseload reached 2825. According to the National Health Mission bulletin, the active Covid caseload in Ranchi alone was 1562 after Wednesday’s findings, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in the state. Even though the state did not report any fresh Covid casualties on the day, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand further increased to 0.26 per cent from 0.21 per cent on Tuesday. Jharkhand’s Covid growth rate was less than 0.10 per cent in mid-March. The growth rate of infection in the state was, however, lower than the national average of 0.36 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. In the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 infection among lawyers, the Principal Commissioner of District Civil Court in Ranchi on Wednesday ordered only virtual hearings from April 1 to April 8. No physical hearing will be held at any of the district courts during this period, and the decision was taken in accordance with the demands of the Ranchi District Bar Association. East Singhbhum also reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. With 121 fresh cases and only 22 recoveries, the active caseload in the district reached 363. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, none of the remaining 22 districts reported a triple-digit-spike. According to government data, as many as 1,24,201 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, and 96.82 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has also dropped from over 98.60 per cent in mid-March to less than 97 per cent at present. At the current rate, it would take 268.4 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate of infection in the state was above 2500 days in the beginning of March, and it has witnessed a significant drop in the past one month. The national doubling rate on Wednesday was 192.48 days. The state government managed to administer the first dose of Covishield vaccine to only 18,494 people, achieving 39 per cent of the day’s target, stated a report released by the NHM. As many as 3,588 beneficiaries, including 847 senior citizens and 162 middle-agers with comorbid conditions, were administered the second dose of the vaccine on the day. According to government data, over 14.23 lakh people in Jharkhand, including more than 7.70 lakh senior citizens and 2.31 lakh middle-agers with comorbid conditions, have received the first dose of the vaccine. The second dose has been administered to over 2.38 lakh beneficiaries, and 847 of them were senior citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel MD, his wife take first vaccine dose in Jamshedpur ||Tata Steel managing director T. V. Narendran and his wife Ruchi  took their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Tata Main Hospital here on Thursday. Praising the process of vaccination, Narendran said,  “I am happy to get the first dose of Covid vaccine today (Thursday). It is a simple and painless process. As Covid-19 cases in India are rising I urge everyone to come forward and take the vaccine to protect themselves and their families. With this small step, we can control the spread of Covid-19.” Narendran went in to say that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols including wearing of mask, use of hand sanitisers, adhering to social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Tata Main Hospital, a private hospital run by Tata Steel, started the online slot booking facility for Covid vaccination through the TMH Vishwas portal. Vaccination is being made available to those eligible as per the existing guidelines of the Union ministry of health and  family welfare. As per the government guidelines, all those above the age of 45 years, irrespective of the comorbidities, is eligible for vaccination from April 1. Advance appointment at the TMH can be booked through cowin.gov.in. Apart from the MD and his spouse, several senior officials of Tata Steel also took their first dose of the vaccine on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's special athlete finds employment again||Sanjeev Kumar Das can finally look forward to better days. The Jamshedpur-based former special athlete, who had been running from pillar to post for a job, has been called back by his employers in Gujarat. He re-joined Sodexo Facilities Management Services in Ahmedabad, Gujarat on Thursday. Das, who is married and has an infant son, was working with Sodexo Facilities Management Services in Baroda last year but the company shut business owing to the global pandemic. He had been jobless since then and was forced to return to Jamshedpur. "I am extremely glad to have found employment. I faced a lot of problems and was finding it hard to sustain my family," Das said on the phone from Ahmedabad. Das, who represented India’s handball squad in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Dublin, in 2003, and later assisted bronze-winning Jharkhand’s special handball athletes who participated in the next edition of the Games held at Shanghai in 2007, was not even in a position to afford a train ticket to Ahmedabad. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area Satbir Singh Sahota arranged his train ticket and also helped him out with Rs 2,000. "Das requested me for help since he was asked to join duty in Ahmedabad. Das had no money at his disposal and I was glad to help him out. After all, he has donned India jerseys and also mentored Jharkhand handballers. Das badly needed a job. We are very happy and wish him the best," Sahota, a former international cyclist said. He informed that Das will be getting Rs 18,000 as monthly salary with free accommodation. "It's a huge development for a man who had been unemployed for nearly a year. His (Das) wife and son would join him in due course of time," Sahota said. The hapless former special athlete has received financial aid from different quarters. Das was stuck in Baroda for nearly two months after the nationwide lockdown was first imposed on March 25 last year. He was anxious to go to New Delhi to be by his pregnant wife’s side. He was finally able to board a special train thanks to SOJ, who requested Gujarat Special Olympics to arrange a train ticket and necessary medical documents for Das. Moreover, Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which works for the promotion of the intellectually impaired, also helped him out with Rs 10,000. Former Jamshedpur Football Club goalkeeper Subrata Paul also chipped in with Rs 5,000 for the treatment of his (Das) son last month. Sahota and Arjuna awardee Bagicha Singh also extended monetary help. Earlier, Das worked on a part-time basis for a few organisations in Surat, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad but had to return to Jamshedpur a few years ago due to unrest in Gujarat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant tweet spurs Dhanbad police lathicharge probe||Dhanbad police on Thursday started a probe into police lathicharge at the family members of a deceased employee of a private mining company at Ena Colliery of BCCL. The probe was initiated on the instructions given by chief minister Hemant Soren after the incident was brought to his notice by a Dhanbad resident who tweeted a video of the lathicharge where Jharia inspector, P.K. Singh is shown manhandling the elder brother of the deceased. Mohit Srivsatava of East Basuria area went missing on March 29. His body was found at Nimiaghat Police station area of Giridih district about 60 km from the workplace on March 30. Family members suspect foul play in his death. A police team led by officer in charge of Jharia Police station, P.K. Singh resorted to lathicharge on Mohit’s family members, relatives and local residents at the mining site of R.K. Mining Company on Wednesday while they were staging a protest demanding compensation for the dependents of the deceased. Former chief minister, Raghubar Das while retweeting the same video of the lathicharge wrote- Sthithi arajak hoti ja rahi hai Jharkhand men; ek or apradhi bekhauf hokar rojana vardaat kar rahen hain; dusri or polie nirdosh nagrikon par apna ruab dikha rahi hai; kabhi kisano par lathicharge to kabhi muawja ke liye pradarshan kar rahe logon ki pitai; yah kya hai (the situation is turning anarchic in Jharkhand; On one hand criminals are carrying out incidents without any fear of law and on the other hand police is expressing its prowess against common people; sometimes  lathicharge on farmers and on other occasion beating of people demanding compensation; what all is this? DSP of Sindri, Ajit Kumar Sinha visited the Ena Colliery and took details of the incident from the family members and the private contractor R.K. Mining Company. He also visited the Tetulmari area where the motorcycle of the deceased, Mohit Srivastava, was recovered. Mayur Shekhar Jha, social media in-charge of Congress, in his tweet addressed to Hemant Soren suggested structural changes to improve the style of police functioning. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad meanwhile also visited the site of the private mining company at Ena Colliery of Jharia and took details from the family members of the deceased as well as the officer in charge of Jharia police, P.K. Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Two steel city schools shut after students test positive ||Two English medium schools and the chief judicial magistrate court remained closed on Thursday after three persons including a ninth standard student tested positive for Covid-19 in the steel city on Wednesday. The schools, both located in Kadma locality, are DBMS English School and Andhra Association School. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) city manager, Ravi Bharti who looks after Covid control measures on behalf of the administration said authorities will seal both the schools so as to prevent the spread of the virus. "As a large number of students used to come to these schools, there is always a great chance of the virus to spread to other students. We have decided to seal these schools and are waiting for the deputation of a magistrate for the job, "said Bharti to The Telegraph Online. "Though a ninth standard student tested positive on Wednesday, the student in question was at his home when this happened. Moreover, we have kept the school closed on Thursday keeping in view of the district health department's directive," said Rajni Shekhar, principal of DBMS English. She said following administration's directive they have intimated parents of all the students from standard VIII to XII to get a Covid test. At the Andhra Association School, a teacher tested positive, leading the school management to close the school from Thursday till further instructions by the administration. The court of chief judicial magistrate was also closed on Thursday after a judicial clerk tested Covid positive on Wednesday. A special drive was carried out throughout the East Singhbhum district on Wednesday where 121 Covid cases were detected. Suraj Kumar, deputy commissioner, held a meeting with health department officials on Thursday afternoon where it was decided that the Covid test drive will have to be increased immensely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi imposes strict home isolation rules amid Covid surge ||Covid positive residents of the state capital must either get official sanction for home isolation or move to a dedicated Covid care facility within 48 hours of testing, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Thursday. Chairing a meeting with all incident commanders in the district, Ranjan said that Covid patients in the district will not be allowed to stay in home isolation without the consent of the local Incident commander, who will inspect facilities available at the residence of the patient and then take a call accordingly. Owing to a sudden spike in Covid cases, the district administration has decided to ensure strict adherence to home isolation norms, said Ranjan, adding that medical teams will inspect all patients in home isolation at least twice every week. “Covid cases are rapidly rising in Ranchi, and we need to be ready with all details regarding the number of beds available in hospitals, Covid care facilities and isolation centres,” said Ranjan. “We need to ensure that all home isolation rules are followed before any Covid patient is allowed to stay at home,” he added. Home isolation was not a default right of every Covid patient, but a privilege given only to those who fulfil all the parameters set by the government, officials said, clarifying that hospitalisation should be the ideal approach towards treating Covid patients in Jharkhand despite a crisis of hospital beds. Only asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients will be allowed home isolation, officials added. Owing to the rise in cases, the deputy commissioner also directed that posters be put up outside homs of Covid patients. When Covid cases peaked in the state last year, the government started pasting warning posters outside the residence of infected people and used barricades to prohibit entry of outsiders in such properties. “Start installing barricades and pasting posters outside houses of Covid patients as and when required,” Ranjan told the circle officers of Argora, Kanke and Badgain. The deputy commissioner also directed teams in the district to hold surprise inspections of containment zones and ensure that the rules regarding containment zones are not flouted at any cost. As per government data, Ranchi alone accounts for more than half the active Covid cases in Jharkhand. Of the 2,825 active patients in the state, at least 1,562 are residents of Ranchi. The active caseload here has skyrocketed from 198 in the last week of February to almost 1,600 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra police arrest culprits in two murder cases||Chatra police on Thursday arrested the offenders in two murder cases including activists associated with New Jharkhand Prastuti Committee. Pratappur police arrested Mukesh Saw’s girlfriend and two others in his murder within 24 hours of recovering his body from Karamdihtand. Officer-in-charge of Pratappur police station, Naim Ansari said Kajal and Mukesh, both from Nandai village in Gaya district, were in a relationship. Kajal contacted her cousin Ranjan Kumar and hatched a murder plan to get rid of Mukesh. Ranjan included his friend Ravindra Kumar in the plan. Mukesh was called to Karamdihtand in Jaipur village for a meeting where he was attacked with a sharp edged weapon. They slit his throat and stabbed him in his stomach. The trio escaped in a hurry from the spot and reached Ravindra's in-law’ s house. Seeing blood on their clothes, Ravindra's in-laws suspected foul play and informed the local chowkidar. The trio was arrested and during interrogation, they confessed to their crime. They were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. In the second case, police arrested five criminals associated with New Jharkhand Prastuti Committee in the murder of a youth in Piri Bazar. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said the five who killed the youth on January 17 were identified as Manoj Bhokta, Tarkeshwar Bhokta, Binod Ganjhu, Birendra Ganjhu and Manoj Ganjhu. Jha said two were arrested from Bogadag village and three from Hurnali village under Simaria police station. Two rifles, 56 round bullets and 2 country-made pistols were also recovered from their possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand state digest: Covid management cells reactivated in Bokaro||The district administration has decided to reactivate about half a dozen cells, which were formed six months ago to monitor and control the spread of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh on Thursday issued the order to control the spread of the virus. The cells virtually became non-functional with a decline in cases in December end. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said these cells will have separate jobs and will work with accuracy and efficacy. “Soon they will Vaccination cell, Testing cell, Monitoring cell, Cell for forming containment zone and strengthen contact tracing, Data Entry cell and others. The administration has decided to reactivate different cells similarly as it was functional six months ago when corona was at its peak in the district,” said Dr Pathak. At present, there are reportedly 74 active cases of Covid-19 in the district with 10-15 positive cases surfacing every day. On Thursday 11 people have been tested positive for Covid-19. Sub-divisional officer of Chas Shashi Prakash Singh has been directed by DC to constitute cells and prepare a work plan. The DC has also directed the concerned officials to monitor the home-quarantined patients and strengthen contact tracing. (Our correspondent) The interstate football tournament in memory of the martyred police in Daltonganj has been cancelled following the increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. President of the Palamau Football Ayojan Samiti Sanjeev Kumar who is also the SP Palamau said the tournament cannot be held at the police line Daltonganj stadium. “Our police line Daltonganj stadium is a sensitive location and if any spectator or player is later found to be down with Coronavirus then it would have meant putting our whole of the police line under containment zone which we could not even afford for a day in Palamau where anti naxal operation is always on and its containment would have meant a lot of problems for us,” he said. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad shopkeepers whose shops were burnt to the ground on Monday night’s fire were back to work and selling goods from the very same spot. The district administration has initiated a process for collecting details of losses incurred by the shopkeepers. The authorities have formed a committee led by a DSP to conduct raids against the illegal LPG refilling  shops operating in densely populated areas. Ajit Kumar, a potato retailer, told The Telegraph Online:“I have suffered a loss of around Rs 40,000 during the Monday night blaze and submitted the details to district administration.” “I received information about the fire on Holi night at around 8pm from a neighbourhood shop keeper  and rushed immediately at the site to find my shop engulfed in fire but could not save my articles as the busting of LPG cylinders prevented our entry to the site,”said Kumar. Ravi Vishwakarma, son of a welding shop owner said, “Our’s was the oldest shop of the market established  more than 45 years by my father, and it was quite popular or all the iron welding related work in the area and we never imagined about the fire.” “The income from the shop somehow helped sustain the life of nine person or our family including four brothers, parents and our three children and since we could not survive with the closure of shops we reconstructed our shop,”said Vishwakarma. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: Deputy Mayor of Hazaribagh muncipal corporation, Rajkumar Lal died of a heart attack at his Bansi Lal Chowk residence on Tuesday. Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, his son Jayant Sinha, legislators including Manish Jaiswal(Sadar), Uma Shankar Akela(Barhi), Amba Prasad(Barkagaon), Kishun Das(Tandwa) and Amit Kumar Yadav of Barkatha constituency visited Lal's home to pay their condolences. Lal was the BJP district president and contested for the post of deputy mayor in 2018, which he won. Jayant Sinha and Manish Jaiswal said his death was a big loss for Hazaribagh. Former chief ministers Babulal Marandi and Raghubar Das also expressed their condolences on Lal's sudden demise. Lal was cremated at Khirgaon muktidham crematorium on Wednesday afternoon. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: A police team led by the officer in charge of Jharia police station on Wednesday carried out a lathicharge against a group of protesters at the mining site of private contractor R.K. Mining in Ena Colliery of BCCL. The protesters included the family members of a deceased employee of the private mining company. Mohit Srivastava, a 26-year-old attendance clerk went missing on March 29 night and his dead body was recovered on March 30 at Nimiaghat Police station area of Giridih district. His family suspects foul play behind his death. The protesters were demanding compensation for the dependents of the deceased by disrupting production work. (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: Two suicide incidents were reported at two different places under City police station area on Wednesday. The first case was reported from Sonatand area where a 33-year-old woman hanged herself from a pipe in bathroom. The deceased was the wife of a bank officer, posted in Dhanbad. According to police, the deceased was under mental stress. In the second case, the deceased hanged herself in the kitchen of the house. The victim was newly-married. Officer-in-charge of City police station, Santosh Kumar, said that police is registering a case of unnatural death in both the incidents. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Dhanbad deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday has instructed Covid tests to be arranged for all students besides the teaching and non teaching staff of major technical and academic institutes from Thursday. Arrangement for Covid test through reverse RTPCH method has been made for the students, teachers and staff of SSLNT Women's College, PK Roy Memorial College and IIT(ISM). "To ensure proper management of Covid and also to prevent covid spread it is necessary to carry out intensive testing and isolating the affected persons to provide them proper treatment," he said. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
01-04-2021||Jharkhand||Protest against labour rules in Jharkhand||As the country begins a new financial year (2021-22) on Thursday, more than 10,000 workers at factories, industrial areas, mines and PSU offices across all 24 districts of Jharkhand will burn or tear up copies of the new labour codes as a part of their agitation against the four rules that subsumed 29 central labour laws. “Directive has been sent to all cities and districts in the state which have a sizable labour force for Thursday’s agitation. We have asked the workforce and trade union leaders not to affect work at any cost. Copies of the new labour codes will be burnt either during the lunch hour or during change of work shifts especially at mines and plants,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the Central Trade Unions’ Jharkhand unit. The joint platform of the 10 central trade unions have been demanding withdrawal of the four codes, which were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020. “We had taken part in a three-day protest from March 24 along with other parts of the country demanding withdrawal of the four labour codes, the three new farm laws, repeal of the Electricity (Amendment) Act, 2021, enactment of a law to provide guarantee of MSP, end to wholesale privatisation and disinvestment of public sector enterprises and government departments, corporatisation and privatisation of government sectors. We are forced to protest against the arrogant attitude of the (Narendra) Modi government for not responding to the demands of the trade unions,” said Viplav. The 10 trade unions — Intuc (Indian National Trade Union Congress), Aituc (All India Trade Union Congress), Citu (Centre of Indian Trade Unions), HMS (Hind Mazdoor Sabha), Aiutuc (All India United Trade Union Centre), TUCC (Trade Union Coordination Centre), SEWA (Self-Employed Women’s Association), Aicctu (All India Central Council of Trade Unions), UTUC (United Trade Union Congress) and LPF (Labour Progressive Federation) — will be taking part in the agitation. “The time has come to teach a lesson to the ruling party at the Centre for pursuing anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-national policies. We are geared up for the success of the symbolic protest against the government on Thursday,” added Viplav. However, the Centre has decided that the four labour codes will not come into effect from Thursday as states are yet to finalise the relevant rules, reports PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
