02-04-2021||Calcutta||Double nemesis||With elections around the corner, rallies and meetings are being held daily, drawing crowds in shows of strength. Many stepped out on Holi too, to play, pray and attend cultural programmes. An alarming number of these people, however, were seen to move about without wearing masks or maintaining distance. Parallelly, Covid cases are on the rise again. After a declining trend of a few months, Sunday saw 52 new cases from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Monday saw 62 and Tuesday another 57. In comparison, on January 8, the number of cases had dropped to 14. Neighbouring New Town has 94 active cases, as on Wednesday. The Telegraph Salt Lake attended some rallies and Holi programmes — that experts fear may prove to be super spreaders — to see how far participants followed Covid protocol. Birds of same feather The promises made by Trinamul Congress, BJP or even the Left-Congress alliance may be poles apart but binding them was the universal practice of flouting Covid precautions. Most supporters are turning up sans masks or wearing them at the chin and social distancing is thrown out of the window. To file his nomination for the 116 Bidhannagar constituency, Trinamul’s Sujit Bose headed towards the Administrative Building in DJ 4 on March 24 without a mask. Ditto for most in the sea of supporters escorting him. Sujata Barui, a resident of Lake Town who was part of the rally, said she was sure she would not get Covid and so eschewed the mask. “My husband and I have already had Covid once but we’re now cured. We can’t get it again,” she said, ignorant of cases of reinfection. Moulik Chandra had come from Duttabad, a hotbed of Covid during the lockdown. “The virus has been eliminated. Things are back to normal now so why wear masks?” he asked. Bose, who had been hospitalised with Covid last year, said that he wasn’t wearing a mask as he was leading the rally and speaking on the microphone. “It becomes difficult to speak with a mask on,” he said. Later on the same day, BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta went to file his nomination. Even though the Central Industrial Security Force personnel escorting him had their masks on, the candidate himself, his wife Indrani, his proposers and supporters went maskless. “I am not afraid of the virus!” declared Dutta, when asked about it. “I will ensure my victory. Not even coronavirus can stop me,” he said. Few wore masks among supporters of Tapas Chatterjee, the Trinamul candidate from Rajarhat-New Town and Bhaskar Roy, the BJP candidate for the same constituency, when they came to file their nominations. Officialspeak A senior official of the Election Commission of India, who is in charge of handling nomination papers, said they had widely circulated notices about the necessity of wearing masks and following Covid protocols. “All our officials are wearing masks. We had requested all political parties and candidates to do so too,” A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they had been posted to keep an eye on the law and order situation. “But that’s about it. It would be pointless asking people to wear masks in such large gatherings. No one would listen,” he said. Bright spot The only exceptions were the supporters of the three candidates of the Left-Congress coalition. They arrived at the head of a single rally and unlike in the case of the Trinamul and BJP congregations, many had masks on, matching in colour with their red flags. “We don’t want to risk our lives and those of others. We have asked everyone to wear masks,” said Subhasree Dasgupta, a civil engineer in the march. “But it’s true that many have taken them off due to the heat,” said Dasgupta. Basab Basak, a resident of FE Block who was part of the rally, said they had used WhatsApp groups to ask people attending the nomination day rally to use masks and sanitisers. Abhishek Banerjee, the CPM candidate from Bidhannagar, said he was wearing a mask on the whole but removing it to speak as his voice was getting muffled otherwise. Kunal Pal, a newspaper vendor from Nagerbazar in the crowd, said the threat of Covid scared him but that this was a greater cause. “Even greater is the threat of a fascist party and a party which has done little for our ilk despite being in power for 10 years. This is why I had to be here even though I know that it is risky to be in a crowd,” said Pal, as others next to him nodded in agreement. Show goes on Rallies aren’t the only reason people are heading out. Several cultural events are being organised too. The Basanta Utsav at FD Park on Sunday began with a minute of silence in memory of Bashuli Sen, a singer with the performing group Khola Hawa, who had succumbed to Covid not so long back. “It’s heart-breaking for us but we are keeping her in our memories,” said Bipasa Mitra, founder of the group and a resident of BD Block. “We know the Covid count is on the rise again but Sujitda (Bose) had requested us personally to do this show. It is on a much smaller scale, of course. We usually have over 30 singers and 150 dancers of various institutes performing simultaneously. This time many performers didn’t get permission from home to participate due.” The event was attended by Bose, who smiled, spoke and clicked pictures with attendees, all without a mask. When asked about it, he simply said his people were following Covid norms. Bose attended another spring festival in AE Block on Sunday where those like Arunima Dey Bhattacharya, a homeopath, had ensured she came to sing only after taking her vaccine. “People are getting depressed due to Covid but music is a great therapy for performers and listeners alike,” said the member of Bidhannagar Baitalik, a music group of residents of AE(Part 1). Supriyo Chakrabortty, one of the organisers, said they had laid out 500 chairs for the function, but in an hour all had got occupied so they spread out 200 more. “The park has a capacity of 1,200 chairs but we won’t go overboard this year. We are also spacing the chairs out,” he said. The star attraction for the night was singer Monomoy Bhattacharya, who was being requested for photographs by fans before he took stage. “While I’ve been craving a live audience, the threat of the second wave is looming over us. We cannot be casual about safety,” said Monomoy. Suchandra Basu, an AE Block resident, was quite the star-struck fan clicking photos with him. “I became a senior citizen in January and am quite scared of Covid. I wouldn’t have ventured out to a crowded place like this if it wasn’t for my favourite singer,” she smiled. At the FD Park event, organiser Pradip Sengupta said they laid out 300 chairs, which, though less than in pre-Covid times, was still a figure to reckon with. Many stood in the aisle watching and shooting videos. The star draw was dancer Kohinoor Sen Borat. “As a performer I love public appearances but we still have to exercise extreme caution,” he said. Excuses galore There have been a few Holika dahan and nera pora events last week too. “We are not letting more than 250 people enter the park at a time,” said Amit Poddar, a member of Salt Lake Sanskrit Sansad, that was hosting Holika dahan at CB Park. “The security guards have also been provided with a supply to hand out masks to those coming without one.” The park was a picture of discipline at 6.30pm but in half an hour all the spare masks were exhausted and still several unmasked devotees were making their way in. Some ignored the zealous guards’ pleas to cover up and a few tried to dodge them. Most let the mask slip down after entering the venue. Social distancing was difficult to maintain as guests started making rounds of the pyre or made their way for snacks. There was music too for the few seated at a distance. “Our masks are in the car. I have had Covid in the past so I am not afraid any more,” said jeweller Rajesh Karel of BC Block as he walked in with his family of five, all sans masks. “I am waiting for many more family members to join me. The celebrations are taking place in open air, so it’s safe.” Nikita Dalmia of AD Block had dropped in with her children, both below two years of age. None of them was wearing a mask. “I may not be wearing masks but to make amends I am standing at a distance,” she said. Homemaker Anju Dhanuka of BC Block said she forgot her mask in a rush. There were many more like her, a large number being women and children. Footfall for the event crossed 2,000. “We have been holding this event for nearly 40 years and wanted the tradition to go on. Some people were careless but by and large, most followed rules,” said secretary Sanjay Agarwal. Balancing act At the Holika dahan at FD Park, Shambhu Choudhary had come wearing two masks. “I’m trying to send a message to others who are not abiding by the norms,” said the senior citizen, pointing at a lady without a mask. “But it’s an uphill task. When the authorities placed restrictions on entering pandals during Durga puja last year, people hit the streets instead! We can’t expect much from such a public.” Tanmoy Sikdar of EE Block watched the show at FD Park but had pulled his chair away to a safe distance. Shelly Mukherjee sat watching the AE Block show with a mask on but stepped away to an empty corner and took it off for a few minutes whenever she felt breathless. “I have been missing my neighbours and wanted very much to meet them today,” Mukherjee said. “Covid is a threat but so is dengue and malaria. We don’t stop going out in fear of mosquitoes, do we?” Those like Samir Kumar Das of AE Block confessed that they had become somewhat casual about the Covid situation. “I’m wearing the mask intermittently now,” he said, at the Monomoy show. Caution to the wind At the AE Park meet, a dozen youths were spotted chatting away to glory, all without masks. “We played Holi in the morning too, despite our parents discouraging us. Half of our friends didn’t turn up though,” said Subrata Mahato, a Class XII student, sporting pink stains on his face. But it’s not young blood alone that is challenging protocol. Pradip Kundu, a 61-year-old CG Block resident, watched the AE Block cultural programme, his face free of mask or a trace of guilt or worry. “If the experts were right about Covid, two-thirds of our population should have got wiped off by now. If the experts were right, why did positive cases increase despite the lockdown and decrease after it? If the experts were right, why are people getting Covid despite wearing masks?” asked Kundu. “The bottom line is that no one knows and I’m not listening to someone who doesn’t know. I’m not wearing a mask and suffocating myself.” Future tense Kusum Adhikary, the civic body’s medical officer, expressed concern at the situation and said that they were anticipating a further spike in Covid cases in the coming few weeks. “With the impending elections, large gatherings are taking place. Most people are not wearing masks and this has become the general trend. People are not bothered about maintaining social distance and following Covid-appropriate behaviour when stepping out in crowded public places. We are apprehensive of a spike in the numbers of fresh cases,” said Adhikary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic makes individuals opt for low-key Holi||DL BLock The residents of DL Block savoured the flavours of the season through some low-key celebrations this year. The Basanta Utsav, organised by the block’s resident association, also coincides with their 36th Foundation Day. “We did not want to give up on a tradition of over three decades because of a pandemic. But we reduced what used to be a day-long affair to a two-hour cultural programme in the evening,” said Krishna Prasad Saha, the secretary of the association. The residents would begin their Holi celebrations with a I that saw them singing, dancing and playing colours in their traditional best at the break of dawn. Songs, dance and meet-and-greets were a day-long affair to be wrapped up with dinner. “This time there was none. Our block has a lot of senior citizens. So, we ensured that everybody came for the cultural programme in masks and there was some distance between the chairs,” added Saha. The audience, however, preferred to sit in huddles. Songs of spring, folk moves and poetry was what they were treated too. “Ten of us danced to a mix of popular and lesser-known songs this year. We named our group dance Aaj Fagun-e. It was a blend of creative and folk,” said dancer and advocate Arpita Chatterjee, a resident of the block and the director-choreographer of a part of the evening. “Most dancers are my students. Many of them are still working and studying from home. Otherwise, I could have included many more dancers. We would typically dress in white and yellow and start playing from the morning. This time we met straight for the cultural programme. The rehearsals were also held at my home and not in the community centre like previous years. The performers came from all over Salt Lake. “I stay in the CD Block where no programme is being organised this year. I miss performing on stage. But this is a close-knit affair. So my sister Riya and I are happy to be a part of this celebration,” said teacher Priya Chatterjee, whose husband and 20-month-old son were part of the audience. Chandreyee Ghose CD BLock Residents of New Town CD Block were hoping to smear one another with colours this Holi but then the event at Rabindra Tirtha got called off. “Even last year, our probhat pheri was cancelled due to Covid,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, cultural secretary of Newtown CD Block Residents Forum. “So we organised the next best option — an online celebration.” Basonto Adda, on the eve of Holi, began with the Rabindrasangeet Laglo dol jole sthole by Ruma Baul. “While Holi is usually about playing with friends, family and neighbours, this year we have to make do with video calls,” she smiled Baul. Patralekha Mukherjee spoke on the festival recounting the legend of Prahlad, Hiranyakashipu and Holika and about how the festival celebrates victory over evil.  “Holi also marks the arrival of spring — the season of love, joy and hope,” she said, before reciting her favourite poem Bhalobasa by Nabaneeta Dev Sen. Mandakranta Sen’s poem Basanta Utsav was recited by Rita Basu who said that though stage performances had a greater impact, she felt more quite comfortable performing in the virtual world. Swati Bairagi sang two popular songs Ami tomare bhalobeshechhi and O Shyam jakhon takhon, originally rendered by Sandhya Mukhopadhyay and Arati Mukherjee respectively. Purba Kar entertained listeners with a humourous travelogue on a trip to the jungles of Palamou in Jharkhand around the time of Holi in a previous year. Gopa Basu recited Subhas Mukhopadhyay’s Phool phutuk na phutuk aaj basanta and Sumi Paul, an IT professional, recited Sreejato’s Bishu pagoler Kobita. Archana Bala and Aparna Sarkar together sang Etodin je boshey chhilem and De tora amay. Ghatak recited Tagore’s Patralekha and the show concluded with Mukherjee’s rendition of the Tagore song Se kon boner horin. Suhridbrindo, AC Block Suhridbrindo, an AC Block-based cultural group hosted a virtual show last week called Basante Tomar Kobire Dao Dak. To welcome the spring season and mark the celebration of Doljatra, an introductory music was played from Basanta, a musical, that included some recitation in the voice of Tagore himself. Theatre personality Arup Ghosh welcomed everyone, sharing the background of Dolpurnima and Dol celebrations, naming Radha-Krishna as the pivotal figures. The show was divided into three phases. The first phase concentrated on  theme-based Tagore pieces, Nazrulgeeti and modern songs by Manna De, Shyamal Mitra, Suman Kalyanpur. This was followed by duet and solo dance recitals on a specific theme by Aniska Das, Shatatara Mitra and Adriti Chowdhury. Theatre personality Bijan Ghosh recited a self-composed poem Bipake Swargo while Debesh Saha and Jolly Brahma recited poems by Joy Goswami and Srijato. The second and third phase focussed on songs by legendary lyricists Sudhin Dasgupta and Mukul Dutta, rendered by the likes of Prabal Bhattacharya, Samit Roy, Pallavi Sarkar and Rama Biswas. Nandita Chatterjee sang a composition by Jatileswar Mukhopadhyay and Sucheta Sen presented a popular number originally sung by Subhamita. The programme concluded with the song Ei kathati mone rekho by Kuntal Das. The show was co-ordinated by Samit Roy, Prabal Bhattacharya  and Arup Ghosh and  was compered by Animesh Mukherjee, although the latter received a nickname for his effort. “You are playing from behind the cloud! So Animesh you are really Indrajit today,” joked Bandana Sarkar. Appreciation poured in not only from Salt Lake but also from viewers in Tokyo, Canada, the US and the UAE. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Lockdown hastened tooth decay in special children’||Ever since she was a small child, Aishnika Paul, a nine-year-old from BC Block diagnosed with Down syndrome, would have to be accompanied to different parts of Calcutta and beyond for various therapies — speech, occupational, behavioural, physiotherapy etc. “Often, we felt at a loss with nobody to guide us,” said her father Birojit. Amid the running around, dental care, an area of concern for special kids, often got neglected, he pointed out. He decided to be the change he wanted to see. Thus was born Soulful Steps, a therapy cum activity centre for special children in BD Block. “We set up the centre last year to help out special kids with therapies and treatment as well as help in their integration with mainstream society. Now parents don’t have to run to different places for the various needs of their kids anymore,” said Birojit, the managing trustee of the organisation that already has 68 special children registered from Salt Lake, all over Calcutta, Shillong and even Bangladesh. Birojit’s daughter Aishnika was one of the children attending a dental care camp for special kids organised recently by Soulful Steps. The dental camp had paediatric and preventive dentist Shreya Dasgupta offering advice to parents of special children, many of whom had neglected dental care as they shuttled to avail of different therapies. “Speech and teeth development are often late for kids with disabilities. The teeth are irregularly shaped for many. They are also more prone to fissured tongue and deformed palate. Sometimes food pouching (keeping food in the mouth) can cause them cavities and gum infections,” said the Pune-based doctor. According to her, dental counselling should take place right from pre-natal stage, especially if the ultra-sonography reveals any anomaly in the child. “A mother’s oral health is as important as her mental and physical well-being. Gum infections in pregnant women can affect the weight of babies,” said Dasgupta. Eight-year-old Aratrik Dutta from Kalindi, Lake Town, has got his milk tooth late and now his permanent set is taking time to come out. He was brought to Soulful Steps for his first-ever consultation with a dentist. “He is hyperactive and also suffers from gum irritation at times. This is his first time at a dentist’s. Previously we would only go to his pediatrician and various activity therapists,” said Olympia, mother of the child who suffers from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). According to Dasgupta, the lockdown, combined with hyper-activity and greater consumption of sweets and processed food, has led to further increase in gum infection and cavity among kids. “Only those with emergency situations were being brought to us. We were advising regular care at home that included brushing twice, flossing, rinsing after each meal and a balanced diet for all. Children suffering from cerebral palsy, whose movements are often restricted, face more dental issues and gum infections. They should not be neglected,” said the paediatric dentist. According to another visitor, Kalyan Ghosh of FB Block, his son Sourish ’s milk teeth have decayed and are protruding. “The problem with special kids is they cannot communicate properly. So many health issues get overlooked as a result. I was told to consult a dentist after my son crossed six years. I am here for guidance,” said the father whose son suffers from ADHD and ASD. The children and their parents were counselled and told what to do for better dental health. “We plan to conduct regular health and activity camps here. We have a room for occupational therapy. We have been providing early intervention guidance, speech, language therapy, physiotherapy, sensory integration therapy, behavioral therapy, special education guidance and dance movement therapy among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours spar over CE Block playground use||A playground has caused a rift between some residents of CE Block and of neighbouring NBCC Vibgyor Tower and raised the question of rights of local people to the community grounds in the township. The ground is the property of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) where the New Town CE Block Cultural Association has been running cricket and football camps. NKDA had fenced the ground and the association used to keep it under lock and key. Problems started in early March when several teams from across the township wanted to use the ground to practice for an intra-New Town cricket tournament coming up at the NKDA stadium but were refused access by the CE Block association. On March 5, there was a confrontation when NBCC residents wanted to play on the ground. On finding the park empty but locked, they called the New Town police station and got the gate unlocked. “Vibgyor Tower has a CE Block address. So we too belong to CE Block and have a right to play in the block’s playground,” pointed out Annapurna Sinha, secretary of  NBCC VT Owners’ Association, who accompanied the players from her complex to the ground on two days to push their claim. The gate has since stayed unlocked. “Anyone can play on the ground. So we asked the block association not to lock it anymore. We will allow it to be locked only if there is a directive from NKDA,” said a police officer. The opening of the gate has created several problems for the local residents. “In the initial days since then, all the streets along the playground would be lined with cars from 5.30am to 6pm, with players coming from as far as Bangur Avenue. The homely atmosphere of the residential area was ruined,” recalled Alok Das, secretary of the block association. With the conclusion of the tournament, the crowd may have lessened but word of mouth has spread about the ground being available free of cost. “People are playing on the ground almost daily from 5.30am till about 9.30am,” said Das. The association office-bearers are running from pillar to post, seeking permission to lock the gate again, claiming exclusive right to the use of the ground. “We have spent Rs 1.5 lakh from our own pockets in laying the concrete pitch, setting up the practice net and buying a roller to maintain the pitch. Debdasbabu (Chatterjee), who is instrumental in running the coaching camps for children, waters the pitch regularly. Once when the hosepipe got stolen, he bought another. Does all that mean nothing?” said Tarakbaran Mukherjee, the block president. Block residents claim they had a major role in the development of the playground in 2017-18. “This used to be a ditch over which overhead electric lines used to pass. Oxen used to relax in the mud,” said Sasanka Ghosh, one of the early residents. “NKDA needed clay to fill up the ditch. We got 400 truckloads of clay from the construction site of JW Marriott. Their payloader evened out the landfill,” Mukherjee added. More recently, after the lockdown period, there was wild growth in the field. “Even though NKDA people mowed the ground once, it was not enough. We got it done again. NKDA has planted trees along the boundary wall of the ground but it is some of our elderly residents who water them regularly,” Das added. The open gates are letting cattle in as well as allowing objectionable activity. “I have seen small groups of men coming out of the ground at midnight. Liquor bottles have been found inside in the morning,” said Rajatsubhra Roy, who stays opposite the park gate. “Women will feel unsafe to go for evening walks on the streets surrounding the park if such an atmosphere prevails,” he added. The sports camps, with about 70 kids, run in the afternoon. “We train children from other blocks, as well. Even some children from NBCC come here,” said Mukherjee. So far, the block residents admit, there has been no clash in timings between the playing hours of adults from elsewhere and the coaching of the children. “But it is a matter of time before that happens,” they say. The use of the cricket field by people deemed outsiders has triggered another charge — of the practice nets being damaged. “They come to play here but have no responsibility towards the facilities,” Das said, pointing towards their NBCC neighbours. “We are ready to pay a subscription, if there is any,” countered NBCC’s Sinha on hearing of the complaint from The Telegraph Salt Lake. Lack of access for block residents to a temple inside the gated complex on religious occasions has also come up as a point of contention in this debate. The block association met NKDA chairman Debashis Sen to present their case on March 25. “He has promised to look into the matter,” said Das. The administration has taken a dim view of the conflict. “If they cannot maintain amity among neighbours, we might be forced to take back control of the use of the ground. The keys will be with our security guard and people will have to book in advance, like they do at the NKDA stadium,” a senior official told The Telegraph Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta draft code seeks to gag dissent||IIM Calcutta has circulated among teachers a draft code of conduct that bars them from making any public criticism of any “current or recent policy or action” of the institute or the state and central governments. The board of governors, the highest decision-making body of the B-school, has drawn up the draft that bars the institute community from making “any communication to the press, in any public utterance, any statement of fact or opinion:- which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute”. The draft says, among other things, “no member of the institute community giving such evidence shall criticise the policy or any action of the Institute or the Central Government or any State Government”. Teachers have written back to the institute about their opposition to the draft, citing examples of universities abroad that encourage freedom of expression. The teachers have pointed out that stakeholders in an organisation must have the right to speak against wrong policies of the authorities. As many as 60 of the 76 teachers of the Joka institute had written to the Union education ministry in December, expressing the fear that the board was contemplating imposing restrictions on their freedom of expression. Teachers at the B-school think the final code won’t deviate much from the draft, given what they describe as efforts to subvert the atmosphere of plurality on the campus over the past few years. The proposed rules dealing with the chapter on criticism of the institute says: “No member of the Institute Community shall in any Radio/TV broadcast, Social Media, Electronic Media, Print media or in any document published anonymously, pseudonymously or in his/her own name or in the name of any other person…. which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute.” It goes on to add: “No member of the Institute Community…. shall criticise the policy or any action of the Institute or the Central Government or any State Government.” An official of the institute said the board would go through the feedback before approving the final code. In their feedback to the board, a section of IIM teachers has written: “Last year, heads of 31 colleges in Cambridge wrote a letter to The Times about the opportunities and obstacles of the University’s decision to move online. MIT faculty recently wrote an open letter to Congress in the USA urging them for a strong coronavirus stimulus package helping economically vulnerable households and small businesses.” The feedback goes on to add: “University of Birmingham, in its conduct policy, states that it tries to ‘ensure that members of Academic Staff have freedom within the law to question and test received wisdom, and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions’.” According to them: “University of California, Berkeley, vividly states that the academic community should have enjoyment of constitutionally protected freedom of expression. In complete contrast to this, again, the proposed Code of Conduct in 4.17.2 suggests that no member of the institute ‘shall criticise the policy….’ This is a departure from conduct policies at best institutes worldwide that stress that stakeholders in an organisation have the right to speak out against any wrong policies, because otherwise the organisation will never get rid of wrong policies!” The teachers’ feedback was sent to Alok Chandra, the secretary to the board. When contacted, Chandra declined comment. The chairman of the board, Srikrishna Kulkarni, and the acting director of the institute, Subir Bhattacharya, also declined comment. Repeated calls to Anju Seth, during whose tenure as director the draft code was prepared, went unanswered. The content of the draft code bears a close resemblance to a notice that IIT Kharagpur had issued in June last year to stop teachers from “making adverse criticism of any current policy and action of the institute in public”. At the IIT, the freedom of expression has been curbed so much that teachers had remained mute in public but fulminated in private when the institute in February renamed Dr BC Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research after Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Jana Sangh, who had nothing to do with either medicine or the premier tech school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine spot sign-up hurdle in Salt Lake||Scores of people above 45 who turned up at vaccination centres in Salt Lake, Narayanpur, Rajarhat and nearby areas for their shots, returned home without getting the jabs because they had not pre-booked slots on the CoWin portal. Authorities of the vaccination centres said they had no provision to register them on the spot. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above could get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. Several private hospitals and vaccine sites run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they recorded a recipient’s personal details and administered the shot. A CMC official said they had directed all their vaccination centre personnel to not turn anyone away. This was not the case in neighbouring Bidhannagar. In Salt Lake, many 45-plus people had walked in to take their jabs at the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital but returned home when the authorities told them they could not register on the spot. A senior official at the hospital said that they were doing spot-registrations for senior citizens but the facility had not been extended to people above 45 because “nearly everybody has a smartphone and doing spot-registrations for them would be time consuming”. “Our entire process of administering vaccines will get delayed if we start spot-registration for those above 45 who walk in without registering on the portal,” said the official. Swapan Bhattacharya, 48, a Salt Lake resident, returned home from the hospital without a jab. “My parents had taken their vaccine doses here and the hospital authorities had registered them on the spot. I thought it would be similar now but I was told I needed to register myself. I tried to do so on my mobile phone but was unsuccessful and left without getting the jab,” he said. Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital superintendent Partha Pratim Guha said it was “not mandatory” to set up spot-registration help desks for people above 45. “There is no directive saying it is mandatory for us to set up help desks. As it is we are administering vaccines to polling personnel, policemen and three categories of the general population and there is tremendous pressure on the hospital employees. Moreover, this age group is quite tech savvy and can get themselves registered on the CoWin portal,” Guha said. The scene was similar at the Duttabad primary health centre run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC). Tulika Das, 46, a homemaker, was told spot-registration was open only for senior citizens. “They told me to register on the portal and come later on the allotted date. They said this after I had waited for a couple of hours in the scorching heat. I thought there would be spot-registration facilities,” she said. Prakash Agarwal, 52, a Chinar Park resident, was also turned away from the BMC-run Deshbandhu Nagar vaccine site. “I was asked to come back after registering on the portal,” he said. A BMC official said they had asked all personnel to help recipients register on the spot. “We will start an enquiry to find out why the centres turned away those who had not registered on the portal.” At some centres, recipients were refused doses because the number of people who had registered for Thursday exceeded their capacity, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Office-goers rush for Covid jab in Calcutta||A number of hospitals in the city saw an unusual rush for Covid vaccine doses on Thursday, the first day of vaccination for all people above 45. At a few hospitals, however, the turnout was much less, which officials said could be because many people were waiting for the initial rush to subside before scheduling their jab slot. Many hospitals are planning to start administering doses in the evening to help working professionals. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 120 people had been vaccinated between 8am and 10am on Thursday. About 100 of them were people between 45 and 59. Over the last few days, the numbers were around 30 during the same two-hour period. The scene was similar at Peerless Hospital, where 150 people had taken the jab by noon. Most of them were between 45 and 59. The hospital was vaccinating about 50 people by noon over the past few days. AMRI Hospitals vaccinated more than 350 people between 45 and 59 at its three units. An official said about 40 per cent of them took the jab between 8am and 11am. Most hospitals had people above 60 taking the jab in the afternoon on Thursday. From Thursday, all people between 45 and 59 became eligible to be vaccinated against Covid. Till Wednesday, only senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities, as well as healthcare personnel and frontline workers, were eligible for the shot. “It is clear that the working population prefers to take the jab at a time that does not coincide with their work schedule. We vaccinated about 120 people between 8am and 10am - 100 of them were between 45 and 59,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east) of Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. At Belle Vue Clinic, 324 people were vaccinated on Thursday, compared with 124 on Wednesday. Nearly 80 per cent of the 324 people were between 45 and 59, an official of the hospital said. Though the bulk of the people in the 45-59 group took the jab in the morning, there were takers in the afternoon, too. Anindya Bhaduri, 46, a sales manager with a private company, took the shot at the RN Tagore hospital around noon. “I told my office that I wanted to take the shot and they instantly agreed. My tours will start in May and I want to get fully vaccinated by then,” Bhaduri said. Officials of several hospitals said they were expecting a higher turnout on Friday, which is a holiday, and Saturday. The Centre has asked vaccination sites to remain open on Sundays, too. A number of people said more hospitals should extend the vaccination hours in the evening to quickly cover the 45-59 age group. “I have to skip the office for a day if I have to take the shot in the morning or afternoon. It is better if I can take the shot after completing my day’s work. More hospitals should extend their vaccination hours, till around 10pm,” said Rajib Pal, who works at a multinational IT company. Officials of some private hospitals said the turnout on Thursday was lower than expected but hoped the numbers would pick up soon. “I think a lot of professionals did not come today thinking there would be a long queue. I am expecting a bigger turnout on Friday, Saturday and Sunday,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Weather Forecast: Calcutta set to sizzle, hint of weekend thunderstorm||Thursday marked the hottest start to April in the city in at least nine years. The maximum temperature was 39.4 degrees, five notches above normal for this time of the year (see chart). The Met office has discarded the possibility of the Celsius breaching the 40-degree mark in the coming days. “The maximum temperature is unlikely to rise further in the next few days. But it is expected to be in the range of over 38 degrees,” said a Met official. Two consecutive days of plus-39 degrees temperature triggered a flurry of posts on social media, many of them featuring ice creams and cold beverages. Also on the Met radar was the “low moisture content” in the air. The minimum relative humidity — an indicator of the moisture content in the atmosphere during the driest part of the day — on Wednesday was 18 per cent. “The normal range is over 40 per cent for the start of April. The humidity is on the lower side because there is hardly any moisture incursion from the Bay,” said the Met official. “People are sweating comparatively less than they did in previous years.” Many Calcuttans did not concur. “I had gone to a store to buy some clothes. The AC was on but I was sweating profusely,” said Ashoka Mukherjee, a Behala resident. The Met office has a word of hope — a “slight possibility” of thunderstorms over the weekend. “A trough of low pressure spread over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar… is expected to weaken over the next 48 hours. The hot and dry westerly winds originating under the influence of the trough are responsible for the hot spell. Once the trough dissipates, the winds will become much weaker,” said the Met official. Moisture flow from the Bay is expected to go up in the coming days. Once the dry winds are gone, the pent-up heat and moisture can combine to form rain-bearing clouds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||New South Point campus to be ready by end-2022||The new 6.65-acre South Point school campus in Mukundapur off EM Bypass is expected to be ready by the end of 2022. Thursday was the foundation day of the Ballygunge school, which started its journey on April 1, 1954. The authorities have felt the need to shift to a bigger campus for a long time. “South Point has survived as an institution of excellence for over 65 years but to survive for the next 40-50 years, we have to move to a bigger campus where we are not constrained for space as we are now,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. “Parents are discerning and they want better infrastructure. The shift will equip the school with modern facilities and lots of options for sports and extracurricular activities,” he said. A playground for outdoor sports and an indoor sports arena with facilities for gymnastics, badminton, basketball, volleyball and skating will be some of the highlights of the new campus. The school, which now runs in two shifts because of space constraints, will run in one shift on the Mukundapur campus. From nursery to Class XII, the school has 12,000-odd students. The capacity of the new campus will be 13,500, a school official said. The management had expected the campus to be ready by the end of 2021 but the Covid pandemic delayed the project. “We are running behind schedule because of the pandemic. The work had to be stopped completely for four months. The impact became much bigger and it got delayed by eight-nine months,” Damani said. Work on the new campus had started in November 2018. “We expect it to be ready by end-2022 and we can start shifting the school in batches after that,” said Damani. The new campus will be called the Priyamvada Birla Campus of South Point and both junior and senior sections, which function from different buildings in Ballygunge, will move. The G+6 building will have multiple computer, mathematics, language, geography, psychology, fashion and robotics labs, libraries, art studios, three auditoriums and multi-activity halls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Lighter roster for Jadavpur University non-teaching staff||Jadavpur University has told its non-teaching employees that they can attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as told earlier, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. JU registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice on Thursday, saying they would continue with the reduced work schedule from April 5 to 30. The schedule for May will be decided later, based on the situation then. The university had asked all its employees to attend office on all working days from February 9 because of the high volume of pending work. The registrar’s notice, issued following a plea from employees, says: “In view of increasing trends of Covid-19 pandemic, all non-teaching staff members of the university are requested to be present at the office at least thrice a week. However, university will remain open on all working days.” The heads of the offices/sections have been asked to prepare the roster according to the new schedule. Basu said employees had appealed for their reduced presence on the campus because of the spike in Covid cases. “Several employees recently tested positive for Covid and were admitted to hospital. This heightened their anxiety. Aurobindo Bhavan, the administrative headquarters of the university, had to shut down last year for a week for sanitisation after a number of employees tested positive,” he said. An official of the university said non-teaching employees had appealed for pick-up and drop-off service so they could avoid public transport. “We have over 1,000 non-teaching employees. It is not possible for the university to provide the service for such a large group. The rising prices of fuel make it even more difficult,” he said. A portion of the non-teaching staff has been assigned election duty. Now that the remaining work force will attend office for fewer days, the administrative functions of the university may hamper. “We have to somehow manage because health concerns cannot be ignored,” he said. The university did not hold the convocation last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The students and teachers have been staying away from the campus because the government has not yet allowed resumption of in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Rise in cases prompts Calcutta hospitals to add Covid beds||Several private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid bed count because of a steady rise in the number of cases and an increasing percentage of people testing positive are being hospitalised. All these hospitals had reduced the number of Covid beds in December and January following a significant dip in the number of cases. But over the past week they have been converting non-Covid beds into Covid ones. Several other hospitals are considering doing the same because the existing Covid beds are filling up fast. Between Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon, 13 people who tested positive for Covid-19 got admitted to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. An official of the hospital said they had around 90 beds in the middle of 2020, when the epidemic was at its peak. However, as the case count started dipping, the number of beds was reduced. In January, the hospital had 11 beds, including nine ICU ones, said the official. “After we reopened the Annex I building, the number of Covid beds was increased. In February we had 40 beds. We have added 10 more beds over the last two days,” the official said. As of Thursday evening, the hospital was treating 40 Covid patients. Belle Vue Clinic had reduced the number of Covid beds from more than 170 during the peak of the epidemic to 34 in December. The Covid ward used to have eight to 10 patients towards the end of last year, an official said. Over the past week, the hospital has increased the Covid bed count to 45. Only five beds were vacant on Thursday. Charnock Hospital had only 15 Covid beds in January, compared with 100-plus in mid-2020. “We used to have four to five patients in the Covid ward in January. But with a rise in the patient flow, the bed count has been increased to 40. We now have 29 patients,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital. Peerless Hospital had converted four wards with 150 beds into Covid treatment facilities last year. It started reducing the number in December and in January, it had one ward with 38 beds. Almost all the beds were occupied on Thursday. Officials of the hospital said they would add beds if the trend persisted. Some hospitals said that though they had not seen a significant jump in the number of patients seeking admission, a larger percentage of people being tested at their facilities were turning out positive. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 1.8 per cent of the people who were tested in February were positive. That has now risen to five per cent. Metro had on March 27 reported that the state health department had asked all private hospitals to set up more Covid beds. Officials of the state health department had told the hospitals at an online meeting that a situation must not arise where Covid patients in need of hospitalisation were not getting a bed. During the peak of the epidemic last year, Metro had reported that many private hospitals were seeking deposit money from Covid patients. Those who were unable to pay were refused beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Business||Top Indian cities found to be worst performers in terms of house price appreciation||Top Indian cities were found to be some of the worst performers in terms of house price appreciation across the globe during the fourth quarter of 2020. A Knight Frank report that charted 150 cities across Asia, Europe, America and Africa showed only Hyderabad to record a modest price increase in October-December. Calcutta ranked 147th with a 4.3 per cent decline in the average price during the period. The Global Residential Cities Index, Q4, 2020, said prices across 150 cities worldwide increased 5.6 per cent on an average in 2020, up from 3.2 per cent in 2019. The report highlighted that 81 per cent of the cities saw prices rise year-on-year in Q4 of 2020. The index’s annual rate of growth increased for the sixth consecutive quarter in Q4 of 2020. Twenty per cent of the cities registered double-digit price growth in the year to Q4, 2020. Three cities in Turkey — Ankara, Izmir and Istanbul — topped the chart with around 30 per cent rise, but they were linked to high inflation and the lira’s trajectory, the report noted. Chennai was the worst performer with a 9 per cent drop. Real estate insiders said developers offered many discounts and freebies during the festive months to increase sales as unsold inventory continued to remain high. Soft prices along with the lowest mortgage rates had the desired impact in the market. Moreover, Maharashtra, which   accounts for two of the top 7 realty markets in the country — Mumbai and Pune — benefited from the limited period stamp duty cut offered by the local state government. The sop ended on March 31. “The Indian residential market has strongly rebounded over the last three quarters with the stress on owning houses, lower prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rate. The government interventions on stamp duty cut in key markets also helped the sector gain momentum back to pre-Covid levels,” Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, said. Two reports published by competing consultancies JLL and Anarock noted that sales have nearly reached pre-Covid levels in Q1 of 2021 or crossed in some places, such as Calcutta, signalling revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors report robust sales in March||Leading automakers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors on Thursday reported robust sales in March as a shift towards personal mobility and pent-up demand continued to help companies push dispatches. Toyota Kirloskar Motor, Honda Cars and Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) also reported strong sales last month  compared with the year-ago period, when dispatches were adversely impacted because of the impending transition to BS-VI from April 2020 and the nationwide lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Maruti Suzuki India said its domestic sales stood at 1,49,518 units last month against 76,976 units a month ago. Both dispatches and production were hit last year because of the pandemic. Sales of mini cars, comprising Alto and S-Presso, stood at 24,653 units last month against 15,988 units sold in March 2020. Sales of compact segment vehicles, including Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, stood at 82,201 units last month compared with 40,519 cars a year ago. Rival Hyundai Motor India said its domestic sales last month stood at 52,600 units. The company had dispatched 26,300 units in March 2020. “This performance has been backed by our super performer brands such as the Creta, Venue, Verna, Nios and the all-new i20,” Hyundai Motor India Director (Sales, Marketing & Service) Tarun Garg said in a statement. Tata Motors’ passenger vehicle sales last month rose to 29,654 units from 5,676 units in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Mastercard to invest $100 million in Airtel Mobile Commerce BV||Airtel Africa on Thursday announced that Mastercard would invest $100 million (about Rs 733 crore) in its wholly owned subsidiary Airtel Mobile Commerce BV. Mastercard would hold a minority stake in AMC BV on completion of the deal, with Airtel Africa continuing to hold the majority stake, an Airtel statement said. Sources privy to the development said Mastercard would get about a 3.75 per cent stake in the company. AMC BV is at present the holding company for several of Airtel Africa’s mobile money operations and is intended to own and operate the mobile money businesses across all of Airtel Africa’s 14 operating countries. The proceeds from the transaction would be used to reduce the group’s debt and invest in network and sales infrastructure in the respective operating countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the finance ministry said on Thursday. “GST revenues crossed the Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post pandemic,” the ministry said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY India, said: “The all-time high record GST collections of Rs 1.23 lakh crore and it being 27 per cent higher than last year is a significant uptick.” “It clearly shows a sustained economic recovery and is also a result of GST audit closures and the government tightening compliance and anti-evasion measures.” Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources, including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over the last few months, it added. Gross GST revenue collected in the month of March 2021 stood at Rs 1,23,902 crore, of which central GST is Rs 22,973 crore, state GST is Rs 29,329 crore, integrated GST is Rs 62,842 crore (including Rs 31,097 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,757 crore (including Rs 935 crore collected on import of goods). “GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since the introduction of GST. In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over the past five months, the revenues for the month of March 2021 are 27 per cent higher than the revenues in the same month last year,” the ministry said in a statement. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “In addition to the trend of higher overall GST collections over the past six months, all major states have shown a significant increase compared with the previous year. “Further, the increase in collections on imports accompanied by the rise in domestic transactions would indicate that the overall production/ consumption cycle is back to normal.” During the month, revenues from import of goods was 70 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 17 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has released Rs 45,000 crore to the states as additional devolution in the 2020-21 fiscal following revenue buoyancy in the March quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Stock market turns volatile after hitting record highs first||The stock market is turning volatile now after hitting record highs first and then coming under pressure from rising US bond yields — a trend that could pose a challenge for retail investors. On Thursday, the Sensex surged over 520 points to close above 50000 after Wednesday’s 627-point fall. The benchmark index was choppy during Thursday’s session as it hit a low of 49478.53 and a high of 50092.48 — a gap of almost 614 points. Market circles aver that the swing came from a mix of good and bad news. While global cues were positive following US President Joe Biden’s announcement of a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure investment plan, back home there are worries about the rising Covid-19 cases and the possibility of another lockdown in some parts that could affect near term growth. “Retail investors will have to deal with more such swings in the coming days that will also be marked by intermittent corrections. The only hedge against volatility for them is to take exposure in quality stocks and remain invested despite the ups and downs,’’ an analyst from a foreign brokerage remarked. Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, however, feels that going ahead, the Indian markets are likely to track global cues. They would also focus on quarterly results which would kick start from mid-April. “Markets are likely to remain in a consolidative mode ... Hence investors would do well by gradually accumulating good quality companies,’’ he said. The Sensex soared 68 per cent while the Nifty gained almost 71 per cent in the previous fiscal. For the current fiscal, observers do not expect similar gains though volatility is likely till Covid-19 infections subside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Govt rolls back interest rate cuts in postal, savings schemes||The finance ministry’s gaffe on small saving interest rates has brought the spotlight back on whether they pose a challenge to banks in bringing down their deposit and lending rates. Administered interest rates on small savings are linked to market yields on G-secs, fixed on a quarterly basis at a spread of 0-100 basis points over and above G-sec yields of comparable maturities. Opinions remain divided on whether the rates need to be cut. Bankers feel the easy liquidity conditions do not merit the small savings rates to be above the market rates. However, there is another view which points to the reliance of senior citizens on the small savings schemes and the government should tread carefully to bring down the rates only in small quantities. Over the past couple of years, both the lenders and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have called for greater cuts in the small saving schemes as the high rates have impeded the banks in the transmission of the interest rate reductions by the central bank. Banks claim they are the direct rivals to the small saving schemes and there is a point below which they are unable to reduce their deposit rates, impacting the monetary policy transmission. In 2019, Kotak Mahindra Bank chairman Uday Kotak had called for a cut in the small savings rate as the banks are engaged in an unequal battle with them. The RBI in its monetary policy report had pointed to the impact of the high small savings rates on PSU banks as they also depend on retail term deposits. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ananth Narayan, professor-SPJIMR, said small saving schemes do pose a problem for banks . He said the development should be seen in the context of the huge borrowing programme  of Rs 12.05 lakh crore in this fiscal even as the RBI has been attempting to keep interest rates under check through various means. However, inflation has been inching up and this is bad news for the savers. “While bankers are ruing about such schemes, why is nobody crying about the savers’.’ V.G. Kannan, former chief executive of the Indian Banks Association (IBA), admitted the small saving schemes form only a small part of the total bank deposits. Kannan, however, said one cannot have rates that are “substantially higher” than bank deposits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Opec+ agrees to gradually ease its oil output cuts from May||Opec+ agreed on Thursday to gradually ease its oil output cuts from May, after the new US administration called on Saudi Arabia to keep energy affordable, mirroring Donald Trump’s practice of calling Opec’s leader over oil policy. The group, which has been implementing deep cuts since oil prices collapsed in 2020, agreed to ease production cuts by 350,000 barrels per day (bpd) in May, another 350,000 bpd in June and further 400,000 bpd or so in July. Iran’s oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, confirmed the figures, saying the group would have boosted output by a total of 1.1 million bpd by July. Under Thursday’s deal, cuts implemented by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and their allies, a group known as Opec+, would be just above 6.5 million bpd from May, compared with slightly below 7 million bpd in April. “What we did today is, I think, a very conservative measure,” Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman told a news conference after the Opec+ meeting, adding that output levels could still be adjusted at the next meeting on April 28. He said Thursday’s decision had not been influenced by any talks with US officials or any other consuming nations. The Saudi minister also said the kingdom would gradually phase out its additional voluntary cut that have been running at 1 million bpd. Changing mood Brent crude, which slipped on news of the deal, was still trading above $63 a barrel, still more than 20 per cent up on the start of the year and not far from this year’s high of around $71. “We reaffirmed the importance of international cooperation to ensure affordable and reliable sources of energy for consumers,” Jennifer Granholm, the new energy secretary appointed by US President Joe Biden, said on Twitter after her call with the Saudi energy minister. News of the call coincided with signs of a changing mood in informal discussions between Opec+ members. A few days before Thursday’s talks, delegates had said the group would likely keep most existing cuts in place, given uncertainty about the demand outlook amid a new wave of coronavirus lockdowns. But in the 24 hours before the meeting started, sources said discussions had shifted to the possibility of output increases. In the past, Trump had used his influence to force Saudi Arabia to adjust policy. Until this week, Biden’s administration had refrained from such an approach, keep a distance from Riyadh and imposing sanctions on some Saudi citizens over the 2018 murder of Jamal Khashoggi. Even when Opec+ decided on March 4 to keep steady output, triggering a price rise, the White House had made no direct comment. India impact A fall in crude prices should help India, which has been lobbying the oil cartel to cut prices, with oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the Saudi energy minister engaging in a public spat on the West Asian nation’s reluctance to raise output earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi self isolates after Robert Vadra tests Covid positive||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday self isolated after her husband Robert Vadra tested positive for Covid-19. In a video message, she said she has been exposed to coronavirus and is accordingly self-isolating. She also announced the cancellation of her poll campaign in Assam on Friday, in Tamil Nadu on Saturday and in Kerala on Sunday. Priyanka Gandhi has been campaigning for the Congress and party candidates in the states of Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, though she has not campaigned in West Bengal. "I have been exposed to the coronavirus. Although I have tested negative yesterday, the doctors have advised that I self isolate for a few days," she said in a video message. "Unfortunately, I have to cancel the programme that were scheduled for me for the Assam campaign today and for Tamil Nadu tomorrow and Kerala, day after tomorrow," she also said. "I would like to apologise to everybody for not being able to be there. I wish all the candidates that I was supposed to campaign for the very, very best in the election. I hope all of you do well and the Congress is victorious," she said, while wishing for the party's victory in these elections. In a separate Facebook post, Robert Vadra said he has tested positive after he came in contact with someone who was Covid positive. "Hi friends, unfortunately, I came into contact with someone Covid+ve and have tested positive for Covid although I am asymptomatic so far. As per the Covid guidelines, Priyanka and I are self-isolating although she has tested negative," he said in his post. "Fortunately the kids have not been with us these days and everyone else at home has tested negative too. Hopefully we will all be back to normal life soon," he also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||No plan for lockdown in Delhi yet, says Kejriwal||Delhi is encountering the fourth wave of Covid-19 infection but imposition of a lockdown is not being considered yet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday and urged the Centre to allow states to undertake mass-level vaccination. If there is a need for a lockdown in the future, a decision will be taken after consultation, he said, adding the fourth wave is less serious than the previous ones as there are fewer number of deaths and hospitalisations this time. “For the time being there is no plan to implement a lockdown. Should there be a need in future, we will discuss with the people and make a necessary decision,” he was quoted as saying by NDTV. The chief minister, however, added, "It's a matter of concern since the Covid-19 cases are rising exponentially. But there is no need to panic. The government is monitoring the situation and taking all necessary steps." After a high-level meeting, Kejriwal suggested that the Centre should lift the age bar of 45 years for vaccination to pave the way for mass-level inoculation. If the Centre allowed vaccination at non-healthcare facilities like schools, immunisation would be undertaken on a war footing to check the spread of the virus, he said. Kejriwal also appealed to the people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and regularly wash hands to prevent the spread of the virus. Delhi recorded 2,790 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest daily count this year while nine more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,036, according to the city health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||India pitches for early disengagement of troops along LAC||India on Friday hoped that China will work with it to ensure disengagement of troops in remaining areas of eastern Ladakh at the earliest, and asserted that de-escalation of tension alone will lead to restoration of peace and tranquility in border areas and provide conditions for progress of bilateral ties. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the two sides continue to remain in touch through military and diplomatic channels on the issue. He also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's comments that a prolongation of the situation is in neither side's interest. "We, therefore, hope that the Chinese side will work with us to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest," he added. This, he said, would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress of the bilateral relationship. Bagchi also said that there was a consensus that the two sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues in the region. "The disengagement in the Pangong Lake area was a significant step forward and it has provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in western sector," he said. Bagchi said the two sides had detailed exchange of views on the remaining issues both at the the senior commanders' meeting and the discussions held under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Covid second wave could peak during mid-April, says study||Scientists have predicted using a mathematical model that the ongoing second-wave of COVID-19 pandemic across the country could peak by mid-April, following which the infections may see a steep decline by the end of May. During the first wave of COVID-19 infections across India, the mathematical approach, named SUTRA, predicted that the initial surge of infections in August would peak by September and lower in February 2021. Scientists, including Manindra Agrawal from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, applied the model to predict the trajectory of the current surge in infections and found that the number of daily new infections is likely to peak in mid-April for this ongoing pandemic wave. "For the last several days, we have found that there is a reasonable chance that the cases in India could peak sometime between 15-20 April. It is a sharp slope, but on the way down, it would likely be equally sharp, coming down very fast and by the end of May may see a dramatic reduction," Agrawal told PTI. "There is some uncertainty in predicting the peak value of daily new infections because of the sharp rise. Currently, it is coming to 1 lakh infections per day, but this can go up or down. But the timing remains the same between April 15-20," he added. The scientists predict that in the current wave, the first state to peak could be Punjab in a few days, followed by Maharashtra. However, the IIT Kanpur professor added that the model's prediction of the new peak is sensitive to the daily new infections data. "Even a little bit of change each day causes the peak numbers to change by several thousand numbers. But the location of the peak has remained until mid-April," he added. Independent calculations made by scientists, including Gautam Menon from Ashoka University in Haryana, have also predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May. However, Menon cautioned that such projections of COVID-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term. "Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a 5-day window, would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation," Menon, who was not involved in the SUTRA modelling, told PTI. Agrawal noted that the model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic. "The first is called Beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R-naught value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection," Agrawal explained. The other two parameters, he explained are 'Reach', which is a measure of exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and 'Epsilon' which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases. "The reason we had to introduce 'Reach' is that unlike earlier pandemics which start at a location and suddenly spread fast across a place, in COVID, the spread of the pandemic has been slower due to the many protective measures in place," Agrawal explained. The mathematician said 'Epsilon' helps factor in the number of asymptomatic infections across the country. "Since the detected cases are quarantined, we assume they no longer contribute to new infections. So a growing number of daily new cases reflect larger undetected infections. By measuring the number of new cases each day, we try to estimate the undetected and asymptomatic infections," Agrawal explained. He added that the model relies on inputs from daily reported new infections, based on which the value of the three main parameters are inferred. "We learn everything from the daily-infections data. The beta value across India has gone up by 50 per cent in March, which indicates that a combination of factors -- people becoming more relaxed, and more infectious variants going around. But precisely what reason this could be is something biologists have to say," the scientist noted. While the model did not previously predict a second-wave in India, he said it could have been due to a change in the parameters sometime between February and March 2021. "So clearly during this time some parameters had changed. So we had to wait for some time to collect new data and see how the parameters had changed, which we now know," Agrawal said. On Friday, India recorded 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours -- the highest single-day rise in cases since October 2, 2020 -- taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Curfew from 6pm to 6am in Pune for a week to stem Covid surge ||Eateries, bars and restaurants in Pune district of Maharashtra will remain shut for seven days starting April 3 in view of a substantial rise in coronavirus cases of late, a senior official said on Friday. A curfew will be in place across the district from 6 pm to 6 am, and malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will also be shut during this seven-day period, he said. The administration introduced these "stricter restrictions" in the district, which reported more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases in the past two consecutive days. The decision to impose these curbs was taken during a review meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar here on Friday. "These new restrictions will be applicable for the next seven days from Saturday. As part of it, there will be a curfew from 6 pm to 6 am. Eateries, bars and restaurants will remain closed, but home delivery of the food will continue," Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. "Malls, cinema halls will remain shut for seven days from Saturday. All religious places will also be closed for a week," he said. Except weddings and last rite rituals, all other public gatherings have been banned in the district. For weddings, only 50 people will be allowed and only 20 people can remain present for last rites, he added. He said that essential services have been exempted from 6 pm to 6 am curfew. Buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML), city's public transport system, will remain off roads for the next seven days, Rao said, adding that schools and colleges will remain closed till April 30. "All these decisions were taken in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days. The situation is becoming critical. In the last one week, the positivity rate of the district has crossed 32 per cent," Rao said. The situation will be reviewed after seven days when further decision will be taken, he said. According to him, efforts were on to increase the number of beds in hospitals in the district. "Since vaccination is the key to bring down the impact of infection, the speed of giving vaccines will be increased in the coming days," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||DMK, Congress leaders keep insulting women, says Modi in TN||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched yet another blistering attack on the DMK and Congress, charging that their leaders "keep insulting women", while pointing out that the NDA schemes are aimed at empowering women. Addressing an election rally here seeking votes for NDA candidates including from ally AIADMK for the April 6 Assembly polls, he said late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran's vision for inclusive development and prosperous society "inspires us." Lashing out at the DMK and Congress, Modi said they had no agenda to talk about and alleged that the two parties, facing polls as allies, will not guarantee either safety or dignity for the people while the law and order situation will "suffer" under them. He charged that the DMK tried to make the peace loving Madurai a "mafia den" due to family issues earlier, apparently referring to the then squabble in the party's first family involving brothers MK Stalin and MK Alagiri. Modi said Madurai teaches about empowering 'nari shakti' (women power) and referred to the local deity Meenakshi Amman, and popular names associated with the region like Kannagi, Rani Mangammal and Velu Nachiyar. He also said that many schemes of the NDA including the Ujjwala scheme were aimed at empowering women. "DMK and Congress have not understood this ethos. No wonder their leaders keep insulting women again and again," he said without naming anyone. DMK leader A Raja had earlier courted controversy for making alleged disparaging remarks against Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami's mother during an election rally, drawing criticism. Taking note of a complaint from the ruling AIADMK, the Election Commission had on Thursday barred Raja from campaigning for 48 hours and also removed him from his party's list of star campaigners for the April 6 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||India administers highest number of Covid shots in a day||More than 36.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day coverage till now, the Union Health ministry said on Friday. Of the 36,71,242 vaccine doses, 33,65,597 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 51,215 sessions for the first dose and 3,05,645 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, the Health ministry said in a statement. The ministry said this is the highest single-day vaccine coverage till now. Cumulatively, more than 6.87 crore (6,87,89,138) vaccine doses have been administered through 11,37,456 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Friday. These include 83,06,269 healthcare workers (1st dose), 52,84,564 HCWs (2nd dose), 93,53,021 frontline workers (1st dose) and 40,97,634 FLWs (2nd Dose), 97,83,615(1st Dose) and 39,401 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 3,17,05,893 (1st Dose) and 2,18,741 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, it said. Eight states account for 59.58 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far. These eight states are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. The ministry further said that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh reported a steep rise in daily new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 6,14,696. It now comprises 5 per cent of the country's total Positive Cases. "A net incline of 30,641 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours," the ministry said. Five states, namely Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 77.91 per cent of the total active cases in the country. "Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 60 per cent (59.84 per cent) of the total active caseload of the country," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Three militants killed in J&K's Pulwama||Three militants, including two who were involved in an attack on a BJP leader's house here, were killed in an encounter with security forces on Friday in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, police said. The encounter took place early in the morning after security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Ghat Mohalla in the district's Kakapora area, a police official said. During searches in the area in south Kashmir, the militants fired on the security forces, who retaliated, and an encounter ensued, he said. Three militants were killed, the official said. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that two of the three slain militants were involved in Thursday's attack on BJP leader Anwar Ahmad's residence in Nowgam area of the city, in which a policeman, Rameez Raja, was killed. The two were part of a group of four militants who had attacked Anwar Ahmed's residence on Thursday, officials said, adding that the other two are at large. Kumar said the attack in Nowgam was carried out jointly by four militants of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Al-Badr outfits, and an SLR rifle snatched from policeman Raja on Thursday was recovered from the encounter site at Ghat Mohalla. Addressing a press conference at the police control room here, the IGP said that the security forces solved the case in less than 24 hours. Kumar said police have arrested three persons in connection with the attack on Ahmed. "Police pursued a lead and arrested an OGW (over ground worker) Ishfaq Ahmed, who provided names of two more persons. We arrested both of them as well. On further questioning, we got to know that three terrorists were hiding inside a house in Ghat Mohalla. A cordon was laid and at 4:35 am and firing started," he said. The IGP said the militants refused to surrender and took four to five civilians hostage. "That is why the operation got delayed. We took the hostages out and then the encounter started in which three terrorists were killed. The slain terrorists were identified as Suhail Nisar Lone and Yasir Wani, both residents of Khrew area of Pulwama, and Junaid Ahmad from Prichoo, Pulwama. All the three had joined (militants ranks) this year -- two in February and one in March," he said. Kumar said that two of them were involved in Thursday's Nowgam attack along with two others from Srinagar. "Lone was the one who was wearing a 'burqa' on Thursday (during the attack). Two of them were affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit. We recovered one AK-47 rifle, one pistol and the SLR rifle from them. This is the same SLR that was snatched during the Nowgam attack which proves they were involved in yesterday's attack," he said. He said the two militants, who were part of the Nowgam attack and are on the run, are of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and hail from Srinagar. "Efforts are on to trace the two Srinagar-based militants. We will get them soon," he said. The IGP said a vehicle used by militants in the attack has also been seized. "The vehicle was found outside the house where the encounter took place (on Friday). It belongs to the house's owner. We will arrest him under UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act)," he said. He said a woman suffered a bullet wound in her leg during cross-firing near the encounter site, while three civilians suffered pellet injuries. "All are stable," Kumar said. Asked how many militants were active in Srinagar, the IGP said there were six of them including the two who are wanted in the Nowgam attack case. "We are working on leads and very soon they will either be arrested, killed or brought back," Kumar said, adding "we will not allow the situation in Srinagar to turn bad".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Covaxin gets nod to conduct clinical trials for third dose||The expert panel of India's drug regulator, DCGI, has permitted Bharat Biotech to give a third dose of Covaxin to a few volunteers in its clinical trials of the COVID-19 vaccine, sources said. Bharat Biotech presented amendments to the subject expert committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in the approved Phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose six months after second dose. "The firm presented amendments in the approved Phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose after six months after second dose. After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should conduct the booster dose study only in 6 mcg cohort and also should follow up the subjects at least for six months after the third dose," the SEC said. Further, Bharat Biotech was asked to present the details of the primary and secondary objectives and various assessments to be carried out in the subjects. "Accordingly, firm (Bharat Biotech) should submit the revised clinical trial protocol for evaluation," the SEC said in the meeting that took place on March 23. In the meeting, Bharat Biotech presented amendments in the approved Phase 3 clinical trial protocol for unblinding of subjects on placebo and addition of another cohort in Brazil which the SEC recommended. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm may unblind the participants of age group of more than 45 years and offer to administer the vaccine free of cost as and when they become eligible for the vaccine in the national program," the SEC said. Further, the SEC recommended that the firm should submit a detailed revised clinical trial protocol for inclusion of cohorts from Brazil along with the revised statistical calculation for assessing the efficacy of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||India sees highest single-day spurt in Covid cases in over six months||India recorded the highest single-day rise in coronavirus cases in six months with 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 2, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,63,396 with 469 daily new fatalities, the highest since December 6, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 23rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 6,14,696 comprising 5 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.67 per cent, the data stated. As many as 81,484 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 2 while 482 daily deaths were registered on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,25,039. The case fatality rate stood at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,59,12,587 samples have been tested up to April 1, and 11,13,966 samples were tested on Thursday. The 469 new fatalities include 249 from Maharashtra, 58 Punjab, 34 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Karnataka, 11 from Kerala and 9 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,63,396 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54898 from Maharashtra, 12738 from Tamil Nadu, 12585 from Karnataka, 11036 from Delhi, 10331 from West Bengal, 8,820 from Uttar Pradesh and 7220 from Andhra Pradesh and 6926 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Congress blasts Modi govt for 'hitting the middle class below the belt'||The Congress on Thursday blasted the Narendra Modi government for “hitting the middle class below the belt” by reducing the interest rates on small savings schemes and then trying to pass off the move’s withdrawal as “oversight”. The Congress described finance minister Nirmala Sitha­raman’s decision to take back the official order announcing the slash as a panic reaction caused by the possible fallout in election-bound states. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing ‘inadvertent’ about its release on 31st March. The BJP Government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the Finance Minister is putting forward the lame excuse of inadvertent error.” Chidambaram added: “Wh­en inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP Government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent, hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt.” While the withdrawn order would have fixed the PPF rate at the lowest 6.4 per cent, the interest rate on savings deposits had been reduced to 3.5 per cent. Interest rates on many other schemes had also been slashed. Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the government, saying: “Loot on petrol-diesel was continuing, the government will loot the middle class after the elections by reducing interest rates on savings. This government is of lies and loot and false promises.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also took a jibe at the finance minister’s “oversight” claim, tweeting: “Really, Nirmala Sitharaman, ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on Government of India schemes or election-driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?”Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Madam FinaNCE Minister, are u running a circus or a Government? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order? You have no moral right to continue as Finance Minister.” The official memorandum issued on Wednesday mentioned it had the approval of the competent authority. It is the finance minister who is supposed to approve such decisions. Surjewala asked: “Who is this (in)competent authority? Why was the circular issued if it was not meant to be issued? Why was it even drafted in the first place? Was April Fool joke erroneously cracked on March 31? Oh! You will reduce it post elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Sitharaman tweets on Centre's 'oversight', withdraws cuts on small savings interest rate||The Narendra Modi government played a cruel April Fool joke on the country’s small savers with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman issuing an early morning tweet announcing the rollback of the sharp interest rate cuts slapped on Wednesday on small savings deposits and schemes parked with the post offices and banks. The Union finance minister said the circular had been issued “by oversight” and would be withdrawn. The “correction” came on a day several Assembly seats in Bengal, including Nandigram, and Assam went to the polls. Several more rounds of elections are round the corner in Bengal and four other states. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-21, i.e. rates that prevailed as of March 2021,” the finance minister tweeted a little before 8am, less than an hour after polling began in Bengal and Assam. As has become typical of this government, it issued no apology or even try to explain what had led to the so-called “oversight”. Bengal, which is in the thick of a bitterly contested election, has one of the largest pools of small savers in the country and there was a huge risk that the state’s voters would react with alarm to the piffling returns on their investments. In a sarcastic response, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra riposted: “Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GoI schemes or election-driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” The Congress fired a harsher broadside in which it suggested that it might be time for Sitharaman to resign after the dreadful faux pas. The party tweeted: “Convenient how these ‘oversights’ only seem to happen around election time. Speaking of which, what kind of ministry are you running madam FM, that passes orders which affect crores of people without even a second glance. Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, it's time to resign.” The Congress spokesperson said: “Why was this circular issued if it was not meant to be issued.… Was #AprilFoool joke erroneously cracked on 31st March? Ohh! U’ll raise it post elections.” Kanhaiya Kumar, who describes himself as a whistleblower, had filed an application under the Right to Information Act (RTI) seeking the name of the “competent authority” who had approved the revision of the rates and whether finance minister Sitharaman was aware of the decision. He also wanted to know whether there had been any meeting where the decision had been taken while seeking all the file notings, correspondence and official records relating to the issue. Small savings rates are linked to treasury and bond yields. The yield on the 10-year paper has been rising over the past month and currently rules above last year’s level -- shredding the only reason to justify a cut in the small savings rate. The yields on the shorter maturities are rising too. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had recommended in June 2011 that “the interest rates on 1-year time deposit may be benchmarked to 364-day T-Bills and that on 5-year TD may be benchmarked to 5-year G-Sec. The interest rate on 2-year and 3-year TD may be determined through linear interpolation between the interest on 1-year and 5-year maturity instruments.” Bond yields on 5-year and 10-year papers have virtually remained at the same levels as last year, which would therefore provide no justification for the 50-to-90-basis-point cut in the interest rates of these deposit schemes proposed on Wednesday. The yields on the 1-year treasury bill and the 2-year bond have fallen: from 4.21 per cent to 3.82 per cent in the case of the 1-year paper, and from 5.15 per cent to 4.26 per cent in the case of the two-year paper. The Reserve Bank has been trying to smoothen the yield curve for some time -- and it is possible that the yields may cool in the next few months. The Gopinath committee had suggested the small savings rates should be revised only once every year. The Modi government has been setting rates by quarters. Even on Wednesday, the new rates were supposed to be valid only till June 30, raising the possibility of revisions later in the year if the bond market yields tend lower. It is possible that the rate revision could still take place sometime after the Assembly elections. Small savers will have to continue to live in uncertainty as Sitharman did not commit to the old rates obtaining for the entire financial year. The latest data shows that the outstanding balance in all small savings schemes stood at Rs 823,203.85 crore on March 31, 2020. Of this, Bengal accounted for the highest contribution at Rs 120,831.27 crore, roughly 14.7 per cent of the total corpus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Two-day campaign bar on DMK's A. Raja||The Election Commission of India on Thursday banned former Union minister and DMK parliamentarian A. Raja from campaigning for two days as punishment for derogatory remarks against Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. The poll panel also sent a notice to Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma whose remarks against Congress-ally Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front were found to be prima facie violating the model code of conduct (MCC). So far, the commission has been silent on remarks by Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clothing and on the party’s Nandigram candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, raising fears of a “mini Pakistan” in Bengal. The BJP’s Kapil Mishra was barred from campaigning in the Delhi polls last year for communal comments. On March 26, Raja had mocked Palaniswami with an observation on his birth in two speeches that the EC found “not only derogatory but also obscene and lowering the dignity of motherhood”. Raja was temporarily debarred from campaigning and his name struck off the list of his party’s star campaigners — which implies that his future campaign costs would be calculated as that of the respective candidate of the seat he canvasses in, and not his party. Candidates have an expenditure ceiling, which parties do not have. Later in the day, Madras High Court dismissed Raja’s plea against the EC’s action. The leader had recently apologised for his remarks. Sarma, the Assam finance minister, has been sent a notice for a speech on March 28 in which he had threatened a National Investigation Agency probe against Mohilary — a reformed insurgent who gave up arms for electoral politics in 2003. The BJP leader has been asked to explain his position by 5pm on Friday as his remarks fell within the ambit of Clauses 2 and 4 of the MCC that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Temple politics steps into Jammu and Kashmir||The Union government plans to have a sprawling replica of the Tirumala Tirupati temple built in centrally administered Jammu and Kashmir, triggering allegations here that it is pandering to Hindu sentiments. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration has decided to lease 62 acres of government land to the Tirumala temple authorities to build the replica of the Andhra Pradesh shrine in Jammu, an official spokesperson said. Many Kashmiris said such a decision would not have been possible under an elected state government and was another consequence of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019. The 2019 developments and subsequent changes to Jammu and Kashmir’s land and domicile laws have prompted suspicion among the region’s majority Muslim community that the Centre plans to alter the Union Territory’s demography through large-scale settlement of Hindus. The official spokesperson said the government’s administrative council had approved a proposal to allot 496 kanals and 17 marlas of land (62 acres) to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam to build the temple and allied infrastructure. He said the land would be allotted on a 40-year lease, which means the temple trust would not own the land. However, once the temple is built, the trust is likely to hold the land in perpetuity. The proposed temple complex will have a centre for pilgrim amenities, a Veda school and a meditation centre apart from offices, residential quarters and parking lots, the spokesperson said. He did not specify the site. “It’s a step towards changing the demography of this place and this government is pandering to the sentiments of Hindus,” Kashmir’s Grand Mufti Nasirul Islam told The Telegraph, alluding to the planned residential quarters within the proposed temple complex. “This is not an elected government which can take any such decision but a government that has been thrust on us by Delhi.” The official spokesperson said the Devasthanam, an independent trust established under the TTD Act of 1932, was a charitable organisation of international repute with a proven record in the spiritual, cultural, social and educational spheres. “Its arrival in Jammu and Kashmir will tap the tourism potential, particularly (attracting) pilgrims to Jammu, the city of temples, besides enhancing economic activities,” he said. Officials said the decision had come after months of negotiations with Andhra Pradesh officials deputed by their chief minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. “The Andhra government and the trust want to construct a replica of Tirumala in Jammu and Kashmir,” an official said. Grand Mufti Nasirul Islam cited how he had been campaigning for a new university in Kashmir named after Shah Hamdan, the Iranian Sufi saint who brought Islam to Kashmir in the 14th century, only for successive administrations to deny permission. “Why build a temple and not a university? How will a temple help provide employment to people?” he said, alluding to the Centre’s claim that the objective behind the 2019 changes was to bring jobs and economic development to Kashmir. “I think all people here will oppose it,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||NIA raids 25 human rights and civil liberties activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh||The National Investigation Agency simultaneously raided the premises of at least 25 human rights and civil liberties activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh late on Wednesday for alleged Maoist links. According to the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, the raids continued till the early hours of Thursday and the sleuths seized phones, computers, laptops, books and papers from the activists. Among those raided are said to be some of the most prominent activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, including Raghunath Verose, a Telangana High Court advocate who is associated with the Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee, Dappu Ramesh who is a member of the Jana Natya Mandali, V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum, and Paani, Varalakshmi and Arun of the Revolutionary Writers’ Association, sources said. NIA sources said that among the others raided are Devendra, Shilpa, Swapna, Rajeswari and Padma of the Chaitanya Mahila Sangam, Raghunath, Chilika Chandrashekhar and Chitti Babu of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee, Krishna of the Human Rights Forum, Dappu Ramesh of the Prajakala Mandali, Anjamma and Sirisha of the Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham, and advocate K.S. Chelam. The agency has not officially revealed the names of the 25 activists who were raided and the details of their alleged links with Maoists. The NIA raids come after it took over the investigation launched in the aftermath of the arrest of an alleged Maoist courier, Pangi Naganna, at Vishakapatnam Rural district in Andhra Pradesh last December. The case pertains to the seizure of revolutionary literature of the CPI (Maoist), press notes, medicines, wire bundles and explosive substances from Pangi. “The investigation revealed that Pangi had been ostensibly working as a journalist and was passing on information about police movements to the leaders of the CPI (Maoist) He had also been involved in instigating villagers to obstruct combing operations of the police and prevent them from entering villages and motivating the villagers to revolt against the police… and hold rallies against the government....,” the NIA said in a statement. Besides Pangi, the agency had arrested five others — Anduluri Annapurna, Jangarla Koteswar Rao, Manukonda Srinivasa Rao, Rela Rajeswari and Boppudi Anjamma. “During the searches at 31 premises late on Wednesday we recovered 40 mobile phones, 44 SIM cards, 70 storage devices like hard discs, micro SD cards and flash cards, 184 CDs/DVDs, 19 pen drives, a tab, an audio recorder and Rs 10 lakh in cash from one accused, sickles, axe and machetes, besides CPI (Maoist) flags, as well as a huge number of incriminating documents, handwritten letters of the CPI (Maoist) party literature,” a senior NIA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccine on holidays too as cases rise||The Covid-19 vaccinations would be offered on all days of April, including on gazetted holidays, in public and private facilities, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as India’s counts of daily new cases breached 72,000, the highest in nearly six months. The health ministry on Thursday directed states to ensure that the vaccination campaign, which has opened to all above 45 years, runs every day during April to quickly expand the number vaccinated amid the epidemic’s fastest growth rate since August. The ministry said the decision to keep the campaign open throughout April was taken after discussions with states on Wednesday and was intended to rapidly increase the pace and coverage of Covid-19 vaccinations. India has administered over 65 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines since the campaign’s start on January 16, but only about 5.2 million of 10 million healthcare workers and 3.9 million of 20 million frontline workers have received both doses of their vaccines. Over 30 million people above 60 years and eight million between 45 and 60 with underlying health disorders have received first doses. The “all-days” campaign in April will allow more people to receive their second doses while the number of first-dose recipients grows. The nationwide campaign on Wednesday administered about two million doses, although medical advisers to the campaign have expressed hope that India has the infrastructure and capacity to administer between four and five million doses a day. Health officials have said they expect more private facilities to join the campaign. Until this week, the proportion of doses administered in private facilities ranged from below 25 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand to between 40 and 50 per cent in Delhi, Telangana and Chandigarh. At least 19 states across India, including four that share borders with Bengal, are not adhering to the Union health ministry’s recommendation of ensuring at least 70 per cent of their Covid-19 tests use the high reliability RT-PCR. In 19 states, the proportion of RT-PCR tests is below 50 per cent — from 15 per cent in Telangana, 16 per cent in Bihar, 19 per cent in Odisha to 44 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, 46 per cent in Delhi and 49 per cent in Chandigarh — the ministry said on Thursday. The Centre has repeatedly told states to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests to at least 70 per cent because the alternative rapid antigen tests (RATs) that yield faster results carry a risk of not identifying some fraction of positive cases. “It could be that they don’t have the capacity or it could be that they don’t want to see the reality of what’s actually going on,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. A RAT test yields its result within minutes but is not considered reliable, particularly when the test result is negative. “RAT may sometimes not detect a true positive and wrongly report it as negative,” said Santhanu Tripathi, former professor at the School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta. Positive patients mistakenly labelled as negative could continue to spread the infection because they are not told to isolate themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Railway police yet to act against ABVP youths who bullied nuns||Railway police are yet to act against the ABVP members whose false allegation of illegal conversions led to two nuns and two women postulants being forced off a train 13 days ago and made to sit four hours in the GRP station at Jhansi Junction. A senior GRP official who sought anonymity said the office of the SP railways, which is probing whether the four youths should be prosecuted, is resorting to “delaying tactics”. He said the women’s statements — recorded over video calls since they were still too traumatised to agree to visit Jhansi — suggested the ABVP youths had bullied and abused them on the train and claimed to have government sanction in questioning them. He said that not only should the ABVP youths be booked for causing hatred and ill-will between religious groups — punishable by up to three years in jail — the GRP officers who acted “in haste” on their complaint should face departmental action. The two Delhi-based Keralite nuns and the two Odisha-based postulants (candidates, especially those seeking admission into a religious order) were travelling from Delhi to Rourkela on the Kalinga-Utkal Express on March 19. The ABVP members, their fellow passengers, accused the nuns of planning to convert the two younger women who they claimed were Hindus. Chandrakant Yadav, an ABVP leader from Jhansi, has said the ABVP members had complained to the railway police, who asked the women to get off the train and detained them at the platform GRP station from 7.30pm till 11.30pm. They were released after it was established that all four women had been born into Indian Christian families. “We (the GRP) were misled by the ABVP members and misinformed also by some local saffron leaders who arrived at Jhansi Junction after receiving phone calls from the ABVP youths and told us they had confirmed information that two women were travelling to Orissa for illegal conversions,” the senior GRP source told The Telegraph. “The women had their statements recorded last week via WhatsApp video calls. They said the ABVP members started misbehaving with them as soon as they got into the train. The women said the four youths claimed to have been authorised by the government to ask them questions. They were shouting and asking the nuns to prove they were Indian Christians by birth and also prove that the two younger women were not Hindus.” On why no case had been registered, he said the railway police were “trying to contact” fellow passengers to substantiate the women’s allegation. Asked why they needed such confirmation when the women had given their statements, he admitted this was “delaying tactics”. He added: “The nuns said they were still in mental trauma and felt unwell following the incident. The other two also refused to be present physically to have their statements recorded.” Asked why the railway police were delaying action against the accused, Naim Khan Mansoori, DSP, railway police, Jhansi, said over the phone: “The SP railways is conducting a probe.... Action will be initiated on the basis of the report.” He denied the GRP had mistreated the women. SP railways Saumitra Yadav didn’t answer a call from this newspaper. Some media outlets had quoted him as telling reporters three days ago: “We have recorded the statements of the four women and are preparing a report.” The nuns are associated with the Congregation of the Sacred Heart Society. Archbishop Felix Machado, secretary-general of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India, had demanded action against the (ABVP) complainants and the GRP personnel for “bringing dishonour and shame to all of us, the law-abiding citizens of our beloved Mother India”. “It’s unfortunate that the accused are still at large and the government is delaying the inquiry,” former Jhansi MP Pradeep Jain of the Congress said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Rohingya Muslim girl taken to border for deportation||A 14-year-old Rohingya Muslim girl has been taken to a border town in Manipur for deportation to Myanmar, police officials said on Thursday, as the UN refugee agency and rights groups pressed New Delhi to halt the process. Tens of thousands of Rohingya, who are denied citizenship in their home country Myanmar, have lived in India for years but the Centre regards them as a security threat and has started detaining them. Police have taken the girl to a border crossing in Manipur, where paperwork was being finalised to send her back to coup-hit Myanmar. She had been sheltered for more than a year in Assam, while her family lived as refugees in Bangladesh’s Cox's Bazar. “It is under process,” Assam police officer B.L. Meena told Reuters, referring to her deportation. “This was previously scheduled.” Diba Roy, founder of non-profit Nivedita Nari Sangshta in Assam’s Silchar town that had cared for the girl, said local authorities had been informed that she did not have family in Myanmar. “But she was sent to Myanmar,” Roy said, adding that she had received instructions from federal authorities to hand over the girl to local police this week. “We have only obeyed the order.” The foreign and home ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, opposed the deportation. “The situation in Myanmar is not yet conducive for voluntary return in a safe, secure, and sustainable manner, and returning the child to Myanmar may place her at immediate risk of serious harm,” a UNHCR spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Dadasaheb Phalke Award for superstar Rajinikanth just before Assembly elections||Superstar Rajinikanth will be honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Thursday. The announcement comes days ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu where the 70-year-old Rajinikanth resides and has a massive following among the people. In December last year, the actor, citing poor health and the pandemic, had declared that he would not enter politics weeks after announcing that he would launch a party and contest the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema’s highest honour for an artiste, for the year 2019, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Rajinikanth for his contribution to cinema while congratulating him on the honour. “Popular across generations, a body of work few can boast of, diverse roles and an endearing personality...that’s Shri @rajinikanth Ji for you. It is a matter of immense joy that Thalaiva has been conferred with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Congratulations to him,” Modi said in a tweet. Replying to the PM, the actor tweeted, “Immensely humbled and honoured with your greetings and the most prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward award respected and dearest Shri @narendramodiji. My heartfelt thanks to you and the government of India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Fighting to seek justice for my daughters, says Walayar mom||Fate has played a cruel joke on V. Bhagyavathi. The bereaved mother, whose name means “lucky”, lost her two underage daughters one after another when they died by suicide following repeated sexual abuse. Now, she has decided to challenge chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the electoral field in her fight for justice for her children. Her minor daughters, aged 13 and nine, were found hanging from their shanty in Walayar, Palakkad, 52 days apart in January and March 2017. The children died apparently after failing to bear repeated rape by multiple men, including a minor — some of the perpetrators known to the family. Tragedy after tragedy unfolded in front of the eyes of Bhagyavathi as the accused were acquitted after two years of trial for want of adequate evidence. Four years after the trauma struck the poor family of daily wage labourers, “Walayar” Bhagyavathi, as she prefers to be identified as, is engaged in an arduous campaign at Dharmadam in Kannur district where she is contesting as an Independent. “When I decided to contest against the chief minister from Dharmadam, several people had asked me if I wasn’t afraid of opposing a powerful man like him. My answer is that I am contesting as part of my fight seeking justice for my daughters,” she told The Telegraph on Wednesday while campaigning at the Thalassery campus of Kannur University. Contrary to popular perception, she said no one had threatened her “so far”. “So far we have not received any threats from anyone. In fact I have been receiving a lot of support,” Bhagyavathi said. She has been provided two policemen who accompany her during the entire course of her daily canvassing. “I am not afraid of anyone or any party since I am not here to grab anyone’s seat. I am here only to seek justice and send a message across to this government that denied justice to my minor daughters,” the woman, who is being addressed as “Walayar mother”, said. Amid widespread allegations about some local CPM leaders helping the accused, the state was in for a shock when a special court in October 2019 acquitted the four adults for want of adequate evidence. The minor accused was let off because of his age. In February this year Bhagyavathi tonsured her head to protest government apathy and vowed never to grow her hair until justice was served. The state government in January handed over the cases related to the two girls’ death to the CBI after Kerala High Court ordered a retrial due to “miscarriage of justice” and set aside the acquittals. While the fourth accused, Pradeep Kumar, died by suicide in November 2020, Valiya Madhu and Shibhu have been arrested and sent to judicial custody following the reopening of the case. But Cheriya Madhu is still on bail, while the juvenile has not been re-arrested considering his age. The media had initially been in a quandary over how to report on Bhagyavathi, blurring her image to protect her identity and that of her daughters in keeping with the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The Act prohibits the disclosure of any information that could lead to the identification of rape victims who are minors. But Bhagyavathi decided to use her image and full name in publicity materials like handouts and banners. To ease the restrictions, Bhagyavathi even furnished an affidavit declaring that she had no objection to being identified by her name. According to the affidavit, she has consented to her pictures being used in mainstream and social media. “I keep telling people that they must make good use of this election to choose between good and bad. It is high time our state had a government that showed concern for the poor, women and children,” she said, accusing the Left Democratic Front government of not doing enough to get the accused in her daughters’ case prosecuted and punish the policemen who botched up the investigation. Kannur is a CPM bastion where the Left Democratic Front won eight of the 11 seats in the 2016 elections. Vijayan had then trounced his Congress rival Mambaram Divakaran by 36,905 votes and is forecast to repeat a similarly robust victory. But the “Walayar mother” is not one to be cowed down by the Goliath she is facing. “I already won this election in my heart the day I filed my nomination papers. That is my way of telling aggrieved mothers like me to stand up and fight for our rights,” she said. As opposed to being afraid of contesting against Vijayan, Bhagyavathi said her experience in Kannur had been quite good. “I received maximum support from the people of the Dharmadam constituency. Shopkeepers and individuals make donations whenever I go around campaigning. This shows that the people have understood my fight.” Bhagyavathi on Tuesday campaigned in Vadakara in Kozhikode district for UDF candidate K.K. Rema, widow of T.P. Chandrashekaran who was hacked to death in May 2012 allegedly for breaking away from the CPM and forming the Revolutionary Marxist Party. She is set to campaign from Thursday in two reserved constituencies of Tarur and Kongad in Palakkad district just to highlight her cause and not to pitch for any party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: My name kept me close to my mother, says Sobha Subin||The election challenge will pale in front of the struggle that young Sobha Subin has faced growing up. Sobha, the Congress candidate making a strong pitch in the Left bastion of Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district, has long attracted attention for the unusual name for a man. The 35-year-old Kerala Youth Congress general secretary was named after his mother who was killed by his father. Sobha was just eight months old when his mother was killed and his father landed in jail for the crime. With no one to take care of him, Sobha’s maternal aunt Omana and maternal uncle Subramanian, a fisherman, took up guardianship. While Omana didn’t marry, Subramanian married when Sobha was 13 years old. “My father’s family had originally named me Shalabhan. But my aunt and uncle gave me my mother’s name, which kept her so close to me although I don’t have any memory of her,” Sobha told The Telegraph on Tuesday. While Omana worked as a domestic help to ensure little Sobha received proper education, the boy started pitching in by delivering newspapers when he was in Class VIII, cleaning dishes at beachside eateries, working at a scrapyard and eventually going fishing in the sea with his uncle to supplement the family income. But the unusual name for a boy did make him the butt of jokes among schoolmates. “Children always made fun of me and often called me a girl. But eventually I overcame such taunts since I felt my mother was with me due to my name. So I insisted that everyone call me Sobha (and not just Subin),” he said. Sobha admitted that life often reminded him of being an orphan although his aunt and uncle had fended for him. “I used to cry when I saw the other kids with their parents and how they attended school events and signed progress report cards.” When Sobha was in third standard his father obtained parole. “He came and met me and gave me Rs 10. I ran to my maternal grandmother and told her about it. But I got a mouthful from her. She then threw the money into our firewood stove and told me I had no father,” he said. Sobha’s father has since re-married and lives with his wife and three children. “I am not in touch with him,” Sobha said. Although he had stepped into student politics with the Congress-affiliated Kerala Students’ Union during his days at SN College in Nattika, Thrissur, Sobha knew it was time to earn a livelihood and support his uncle and aunt. “Like a lot of youngsters, I too went to meet M.A. Yusuf Ali when he came to Thrissur,” Sobha said, referring to the UAE-based tycoon who owns the Lulu group of supermarkets in the Gulf. “He was impressed with me when I told him I was a graduate and immediately offered me a job (at a Lulu supermarket). But after working for three years I yearned to return home and join politics and pursue LLB,” Sobha said. In his only stint away from family and politics, Sobha worked at the Lulu Hypermarket in the upscale Dubai neighbourhood of Al Barsha between 2007 and 2010. “In just a few months I realised life in Dubai for me was like a fish out of water. Life was limited to my workplace and home. Since the company had spent a lot on my visa and residence permit I decided to stick on for the course of its three-year validity and then moved back to my native place.” On returning to Thrissur, Sobha wrote the entrance test for LLB and eventually joined Government Law College in Thrissur. It was there that he met his life partner, K.M. Reshma, whom he married in August 2017. The couple have a seven-month-old daughter. “We named her Sobha Zia Fathima — Sobha being my mother’s name and Fathima being my mother-in-law,” he said. Busy with his gruelling campaign schedule, Sobha has his eyes fixed on winning the seat. “I have never lost in any of the four elections I have contested so far (three of them for college unions). So I am sure I can pull this one off,” he said. In the 2016 Kerala Assembly polls, the CPI’s E.T. Taison Master had won the Kaipamangalam seat by over 33,000 votes against M.T. Mohammed Nahas of the RSP, a partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Alliance. But Sobha is sure of winning this time. He is up against Taison Master and the BJP’s C.D. Sreelal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Don’t need your suggestion on polls, Mamata tells Modi||Asserting that she was winning the election from Nandigram, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that she does not need his "suggestion" on contesting from any other seat. The prime minister had on Thursday asked Mamata to clarify whether there is truth in the "rumours" that she was going to file the nomination for another seat going to the polls in the last phase, maintaining that the TMC chief has admitted defeat in Nandigram. "I want to tell the prime minister to control his home minister first and then try to control us. We are not your party's members that you will control us," Mamata said at an election rally in Dinhata in the north Bengal district of Coochbehar. "I am not your party's member so that  you can suggest I contest from another seat. I have contested from Nandigram and will win from there," she added. At a rally in Uluberia on Thursday, Modi said that the people of Bengal are prepared if she goes anywhere else to contest, anticipating defeat in Nandigram, where she was up against BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her former close aide. Mamata , who began her north Bengal tour with the rally here, alleged that the election is not being conducted by the Election Commission but by Amit Shah, the Home Minister. She alleged that the central forces were being used to intimidate the voters. "I want more than 200 seats, since anything less than that will mean they (BJP) will buy the 'gaddars' (traitors)," Mamata said, apparently admitting that TMC MLAs may be up for grabs if her party wins by a slender margin in the elections for the 294-member assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC govt following model of 'Tolabaji', 'Tanashahi' and 'Tushtikaran', says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday lashed out at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of running the TMC government in the state on the 3T model of 'Tolabaji' (extortion), 'Tanashahi' (dictatorship) and 'Tushtikaran' (appeasement). Shah exuded confidence that Mamata, who is contesting her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, will lose from the constituency in Purba Medinipur district. Identifying cross-border infiltration as the biggest problem of the north Bengal region, which he claimed faced injustice at the hands of the TMC government, the Union home minister promised to completely stop illegal immigration from neighbouring Bangladesh if the BJP is voted to power in the state. He also promised that the BJP will spend Rs 2,000 crore annually on north Bengal's development and establish an AIIMS to cater to the medical necessities of the people of the region. Addressing an election rally in Coochbehar district's Sitalkuchi, situated near the India-Bangladesh border, he said, "Cross-border Infiltration is north Bengal's biggest problem. The TMC government can never stop it, only we can." "Mamata Banerjee runs the state government on the 3T model of 'Tolabaji' (extortion), 'Tanashahi' (dictatorship) and 'Tushtikaran' (appeasement)," he said. Exuding confidence of coming to power in the state with a massive mandate, Shah said, "We are winning in the first two phases of elections (held on March 27 and April 1). Mamata didi is losing in Nandigram." Shah accused the TMC government of meting out injustice to the north Bengal region. "Mamata didi has done nothing for the development of the region. After coming to power, the BJP will constitute a North Bengal Development Board and spend Rs 2,000 crore annually on the region's development. "We will also establish an AIIMS, which will cater to the medical necessities of not only Coochbehar district but also of the entire region," he said. The constituencies in Coochbehar district will go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10. Results of all the 294 assembly seats will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Row over saffron attire||Sporadic incidents of violence and other episodes marked the second phase of the Bengal Assembly polls in which 30 Assembly constituencies voted on Thursday. The Telegraph throws light on a few of those below  Where: Gurudaspur High School, Patharpratima When: 6am What: Kamal Gangopadhyay, 41, a police constable assigned poll duty at Patharpratima in North 24Parganas, was found hanging on polling booth premise. Officialspeak: “The constable appears to have committed suicide because of a personal problem,” said a police officer. Where: Islampur Primary School, Debra When: 11.30am What: BJP candidate for West Midnapore’s Debra constituency Bharati Ghosh was allegedly heckled by Trinamul supporters, accusing her of bringing outsiders and distributing money when she went to a polling station along with some party workers. The BJP supporters blocked a road for about 30 minutes in protest. Trinamul later lodged a complaint against Ghosh with the Election Commission. Officialspeak: “The central force was pressed into action to bring the situation under control. The complaint is being examined,” an EC official said.  Where: Bishnupur at Sabang When: 8am What: Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed near a polling station in the Bishnupur area of Sabang in West Midnapore. At least six motorcycles were set on fire. Officialspeak: “State and central police teams were deployed in the area to maintain law and order,” an EC official said.  Where: Mohammedpur under block 1 of Chandipur When: 9am What: Trinamul candidate for East Midnapore’s Chandipur constituency Soham Chakraborty was allegedly gheraoed by a group of violent BJP supporters when he went to visit a booth in Mohammedpur to check a complaint of manipulation of EVM. The BJP supporters were chanting “Jai Sri Ram slogan”. The security personnel thwarted them when they tried to come closer to him. The brawl led to suspension of polling for 30 minutes. Officialspeak: “The EVM was examined and allegations found baseless,” an EC official said.  Where: Polling stations 112 and 113 When: 9.30am What: Trinamul candidate and actress Sayantika Banerjee complained of EVM malfunction at two polling booths in Bankura. Officialspeak: “EVMs were replaced,” said an EC official.  Where: A Bankura temple When: 7am What: The BJP lodged a complaint against Bankura Trinamul candidate Sayantika Banerjee for distributing money among people in front of a temple. Trinamul sources said the actress began the day by offering puja at a temple in the town when she had given money to some needy persons. Officialspeak: “The allegations will be examined,” an EC official said.  Where: A number of polling stations in Kharagpur When: Afternoon What: Trinamul’s Kharagpur candidate Pradip Sarkar lodged a complaint at the local police station, accusing the state and central forces of noncooperation and assaulting party supporters at a number of polling stations. He threatened to demonstrate in front of the police station if immediate action was not taken. Officialspeak: “Reinforcements were sent so that people can vote freely,” a police officer said.  Where: Kakdwip in South 24Parganas When: 7.30am What: Voting was suspended at a polling station in Kakdwip, South 24Parganas, when a Trinamul agent raised objection against a BJP agent’s saffron attire. The Trinamul agent accused him of influencing voters and asked the presiding officer to send him outside. The presiding officer requested the BJP agent to change his attire, but he refused. Officialspeak: “Our officials intervened and ruled out the allegation since there was no symbol on his attire. There is no colour bar on the attire for agents,” an EC official said.  Where: Bankabor high school, Keshpur, West Midnapore When: 9am What: Habibur Rahaman, polling agent of Trinamul candidate Seuli Saha in Keshpur, was beaten up allegedly by BJP supporters. He was admitted to Keshpur hospital with head injuries. In retaliation, the BJP candidate’s election agent Tanmoy Ghosh’s car was allegedly vandalised by Trinamul supporters. Officialspeak: “The complaint is being examined,” a police officer said.  Where: Booth no. 71 and 87 in Pakhanna village of Borjora constituency. When: 10.30am. What: A group of BJP workers alleged that |Trinamul workers in police uniform allegedly beat them up outside a booth at Borjora in Bankura. Officialspeak: “It was central forces that chased away a group but the allegation of beating them up is incorrect,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Call for ‘autonomous state’||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has said implementation of Article 244 (A) of the Constitution, under which “an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam” was created in 1969, could be more feasible right now in the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai. During an interaction with journalists in Darjeeling on Wednesday, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung cap, said even though the party was looking at three options, with the order of preference being separate state of Gorkhaland, Union territory and implementation of Article 244 (A), the last one seemed more feasible at the moment. “At the moment, Article 244 (A) seems most feasible and this can be worked out with chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a solution for now,” said Giri. Article 244 (A) was inserted in the Constitution in 1969 for formation “of an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam” with provision for creating local legislature or council of minister or both. The present state of Meghalaya was made an autonomous state within Assam following the amendment to the Constitution. In 1972 Meghalaya, attained full statehood. The BJP has promised a “permanent political solution” for the hills, Dooars and the Terai in its 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto. “The BJP is not interested in the hills. It will neither provide Gorkhaland nor Union territory status. We have also realised that without the state government’s intervention, a ‘permanent political solution’ is difficult,” Giri said, justifying the party’s push for the new arrangement. Even though Giri was a signatory as the representative of the Morcha to the memorandum of agreement to set up the present Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the hill leader said on Wednesday that the GTA was no longer acceptable. “We want a body with constitutional recognition,” said Giri, meaning that the new administrative setup should be incorporated through one of the provisions in the Constitution. The GTA has been formed under a law passed by the Bengal Assembly, and not Parliament with the assent of the President of India. Bimal Gurung dumped the BJP in October last year and joined hands with Mamata Banerjee, saying the saffron party was not interested in meeting the aspirations of the Darjeeling hills. Following the renewed alliance between Gurung and the Trinamul Congress, Mamata Banerjee said she would work out a “permanent political solution”. The Morcha said while its demand for Gorkhaland would always remain, it saw more possibility of bringing the hills under Article 244 (A) given the present political ecosystem in the country. Many in the hills believe the new demand raised by Giri is an attempt to find relevance in the local politics. “The Gurung faction is probably trying to create a buzz with a new issue,” said an observer. It is, however, to be seen whether the new issue raised by the Gurung faction will find traction with the people of the region. Even if Mamata does agree to Article 244 (A), the role of the BJP government at the Centre would be decisive as the amendment has to be made by Parliament. “The new constitutional body, however, should include Gorkhadominated areas of the Dooars and the Terai,” said Giri. The demand for the inclusion in the hill administrative body of the Gorkhadominated areas in the plains has been longstanding and it has found few takers at the Bengal government. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also been pitching for strengthening Article 244 (A) in Assam during the current election to safeguard the interest of tribal majority district in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Communal polarisation in Nandigram||Two “first-timers” stood on the opposite edges of the ravine that polarisation has carved through the heart of Nandigram. Saibul Saha, 45, used to be an active member of the CPM. On Thursday, he voted for Mamata Banerjee for the first time. “This is now down to those from the majority community still able to hold on to their good sense and the minority community, to whom Mamata is practically the only resort…. Nandigram today, the rest of Bengal tomorrow,” said Saha, a voter in Nandigram. Less than 5km away in Gokulnagar, Aparna Ruidas, 52, said with a shrug: “In a first, we voted for the BJP. The reason needn’t be stated. It’s obvious. It’s in my name.” Gokulnagar’s traditional pro-CPM families, who say they could not vote at all out of fear since Mamata came to power in Bengal, were able to exercise their franchise this time. The ground reality in Nandigram will not be pleasant for anyone with a modicum of care for the inclusive ethos of Bengal that have been upheld for centuries. From Sonachura to Bhuta More, Haripur to Kendemari, Gokulnagar to Kalicharanpur, across the length and breadth of the key East Midnapore battleground, alarming signs of an electorate bitterly polarised over communal lines were apparent. Out of the total electorate of 2.57 lakh in Nandigram, minorities account for around 26 per cent. “Let the Mir Jafar (Trinamul Congress turncoat and current BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari) show his face here. We will teach him and his party a lesson that will never be forgotten,” said a middle-aged shopkeeper from a minority community from Garchakraberia. At the other end of the spectrum, a 35-year-old homemaker from Haripur issued a similar threat to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Let the Begum (Adhikari’s current communally loaded nickname for his former political boss) come here, we will break the other leg… this time, for real,” the homemaker said, referencing the chief minister’s injury. This degree of polarisation –- aimed at influencing voting decisions solely on the basis of religion-based identity -- is what the saffron camp has been accused of working tirelessly to achieve. Adhikari’s “70:30” formula – dog-whistling the approximate ratio of Hindu and Muslim voters in the Bengal electorate – implies that substantial support from the “70” will be enough to outweigh the opposition of the “30”. The most striking, and often fear-inducing, instance of the polarisation during the day was in Boyal, where Mamata had gone in response to complaints that her party’s polling agent was being kept out of a booth there. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was stranded in the Boyal booth for nearly two hours in the afternoon as two groups gathered outside. Over those two tense hours, the chest-thumping religio-political assertions, with police and journalists outside the booth caught in the middle, appeared quite capable of flaring up into a full-fledged communal riot. Not long after a police contingent pacified the two groups and ensured the departure of the chief minister, a Trinamul leader from the majority community rued what Nandigram had been reduced to. “We used to eat off the same plates. We fought state-sponsored terror, during our historic movement, shoulder to shoulder. The supposed divisions were never an issue for us for generations. Just one all-out attempt by the BJP to win an Assembly election, and we have come to this,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s actions show BJP will form government in Bengal: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Bengal to address two poll rallies, on Thursday said Mamata Banerjee’s “actions” in Nandigram showed that she had accepted defeat. “We all saw what happened in Nandigram sometime back. It shows that Didi (Mamata) has accepted her defeat. It shows that a BJP government will be formed in Bengal,” Modi said at a rally in Howrah’s Uluberia. He was referring to Mamata’s visit to a polling booth at Boyal in Nandigram where the chief minister alleged that BJP workers were rigging the polls. Modi addressed another public meeting at Joynagar in South 24-Parganas when Mamata was still inside the school. Expressing his confidence over the BJP’s win in Nandigram, the Prime Minister said Mamata’s actions were reflections of her nervousness. “In the past few days, some of Didi’s decisions have become the biggest opinion poll as well as exit poll in Bengal politics…. When (she) realised the initial trends, Didi left Bhowanipore seat and went to Nandigram. She reached Nandigram and realised her mistake, and the polling mood till now…What the people of Bengal wanted to do, Nandigram is already doing it today. She got angry and insulted the people of Nandigram,” Modi said at Joynagar. Modi also claimed the polling trend in the first phase of elections in the state made it sure that the BJP would grab power in Bengal with more than 200 seats. “Didi, the filing of nomination for the last phase of polls is still left. Please tell us if there is any truth in the rumour that you will file the (nomination) form in a seat….Is this true?” Modi asked at his rally at Uluberia. Trinamul sources later ruled out any possibility of Mamata contesting any other seat. Mamata also took the battle back to Modi when she questioned him for holding rallies in Bengal on the polling days. “…And every time, every election day, Narendra Modi is coming to Bengal to address rallies. Why (should he come on) election day to campaign? If we cannot campaign in poll-bound areas, then why on every election day the prime minister of this country, along with all facilities, including Doordarshan…why will he be addressing the people on every election day? Is it not wrong? Is it not violation of the conduct of election rules (Model Code of Conduct)?” Mamata said while speaking to journalists at Nandigram. Apart from attacking Mamata on the issue of Nandigram, Modi also referred to a letter written by her on Wednesday to leaders of 14 national parties. She had said the BJP was trying to turn the state governments into mere municipalities and establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India. “Her nervousness has multiplied after the first phase of polls….Only yesterday (Wednesday), she has written a letter to many leaders of the nation and appealed for help. The people who are outsiders and tourists in her eyes, whom she never gave time to meet…she is asking for their support now,” Modi said, taking a jibe at Trinamul and Mamata’s “outsider” narrative. Modi also fell back on his party’s polarisation agenda in both his speeches as he questioned Mamata’s intentions behind raising questions over his visit to Bangladesh on March 26 and 27 while polls had started in Bengal. “I went to one of the 51 shaktipeeths, the Jeshoreswari temple, Didi has objections to it…I visited Orakandi where I sought the blessings of Harichand Thakur and Guruchand Thakur for the whole nation, Didi is angry over that…You (the audience) tell me, is it wrong to visit Maa Kali’s temple? Is it wrong to salute Harichand Thakur? Don’t you know us…We are not men of seasonal respect…We know how to respect our culture and customs always…Didi wants to keep the infiltrators happy and hence she has forgotten the people of Bengal,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: 28 TMC poll agents missing in Nandigram||Trinamul failed to depute polling agents in at least 28 booths in Nandigram — an unprecedented no-show by ruling party polling agents in a seat where their party supremo Mamata Banerjee is pitted against turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — amid murmurs of the saffron camp’s money and muscle power. Trinamul insiders alleged that though there were a few instances of polling agents not turning up because of BJP’s threats, in other cases polling agents were “hand in glove” with the saffron camp. “This is unprecedented after we came to power in Bengal in 2011,” said a source. A polling agent in a booth is vital for a party as the person looks after the entire poll process with a right to object if any malpractice is reported. The absence of a polling agent gives an advantage to rivals. The trend of Trinamul polling agents missing in action in Nandigram came to light early in the day when Mrinal Barik, polling agent of Trinamul at booth 7 in Boyal village, was not found at home when a police team along with local Trinamul leaders went there. Since morning, Trinamul workers had started accusing the BJP of not allowing their polling agents to enter booths. Following this, Nagendranath Tripathi, the IPS officer in charge of Nandigram police station, asked a local Trinamul leader to bring his polling agent, adding he would personally ensure that person’s presence in the booth. Tripathi also went to Trinamul polling agent Barik’s home with party workers, but the man was not at home. Barik’s wife Ganga said her husband, a barber, was out on work. “This is a clear example that our person was wooed by the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader, adding that the Trinamul pradhan of Boyal I gram panchayat recently joined BJP and most polling agents had also switched to the new camp. “BJP leaders are threatening us and asking us not to go anywhere near the polling booth...I was scared and did not send my son,” said the mother of another absentee Trinamul polling agent. Sheikh Sufiyan, Mamata’s election agent, ruled out the possibility of the party’s agents being “bought” by the BJP. “They are just too scared,” said Sufiyan. The BJP and the CPM also could not depute polling agents in 30 and 58 booths, respectively, for different reasons. Sources said the BJP could not depute polling agents in minority-dominated areas and the CPM failed because of depleted organisational strength. “It is natural for the opposition parties to find it difficult to depute agents at all polling stations... But this time we (being the ruling party) could not field our polling agents (in all 255 booths) as Suvendu’s men changed everything,” said a Trinamul leader in Nandigram. The Trinamul leader’s take on the Nandigram scenario reminded many of what Mamata had alleged in her speech in Purulia on March 23, that the BJP had been asking some of Trinamul polling agents to work for them (the BJP) on election day in exchange of Rs 5 lakh. The situation was different in other districts like Bankura, where Trinamul polling agents were chosen after necessary checks. “We received a directive from the party in Calcutta to select trusted faces as polling agents. We had selected agents who are very trustworthy... So far, we have no report from any booth without our polling agent,” said Dilip Agrawal, a Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata confined at Nandigram booth for two hours||Mamata Banerjee was confined for two hours at a booth on Thursday afternoon as tensions thickened outside and cries of “Jai Shri Ram” rent the air, reflecting the high-voltage face-off between the chief minister and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. After walking out of the Boyal booth amid heavy police reinforcements, the Trinamul chief alleged widespread rigging, accused Union home minister Amit Shah of engineering malpractice, questioned the Election Commission’s impartiality and blamed the trouble on alleged outsiders who could not speak Bengali. “Listen, I’m not worried about Nandigram. I’m worried about democracy,” the chief minister said. Mamata had got stuck at the booth — flanked by two neighbourhoods divided bitterly between two communities and their contrasting political loyalties — as rival crowds gathered outside shouting slogans against each other. A huge contingent of police in riot gear eventually arrived to rescue her after she made a series of calls — to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the poll panel, police and administrative officials. Mamata stepped out guns blazing, fingers forming a ‘V’. “I’m going to win Nandigram with the blessings of Ma-Mati-Manush (mother-soil-people)…. For Nandigram and the other seats that voted today, and the 30 seats that did so earlier, for all the seats all over Bengal, I’m showing you V for victory,” she told reporters. “Even in Nandigram, I’m telling you, Trinamul will win over 90 per cent of the votes.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed two rallies elsewhere in Bengal on Thursday, said Mamata’s “actions” in Nandigram showed that she had accepted defeat. Mamata questioned home minister Shah’s role. “The central forces — I’m not going to blame the CISF or the CRPF or the BSF, they are all our friends — I shall only request the Union home minister…. It’s not that they (central forces) are doing this; it’s the Union home minister — he is instructing the CRPF, the BSF and other jawans of the central forces,” an agitated Mamata said. “We are proud of them (the forces). But they are being instructed to only help the BJP and the BJP booths.” She went on: “In this area too, you have seen all the outsiders (who allegedly created the problem), who are not from Bengal. It’s from outside, the goons they have brought in. They cannot even speak Bengali. That’s the unfortunate part.” Mamata had stayed put at her rented Reyapara accommodation till about 1.20pm. She arrived at Boyal around 1.40pm amid accusations of rigging in a booth from where the BJP had allegedly driven out the Trinamul polling agent. Although Mamata accused the BJP of intimidating Trinamul agents, her party sources didn’t rule out the Adhikari camp having “bought them off”. As soon as Mamata arrived, tensions threatened to boil over in the Boyal booth, located in a constituency where Suvendu and his new party had been accused of doing their utmost to polarise the electorate of 2.57 lakh, which includes 68,000 Muslims. Even after the chief minister left, a large police team stayed put in the area to avert any flare-up, a possibility that had loomed. While the BJP mocked Mamata for the booth visit and attributed it to her alleged realisation of impending defeat, Trinamul sources said there was “method in the apparent madness”. “The BJP was banking heavily on electoral malpractice during the lunchtime lull, between 1pm and 4pm, perhaps till the end of polling in the areas dominated by the majority community,” a Trinamul insider said. “She (Mamata) made sure her Boyal intervention was intimidating enough for the BJP. She also hogged the limelight at a time Modi was campaigning in South 24-Parganas.” The source said that had Mamata not visited Boyal, the (roughly) 85 per cent turnout in Nandigram till 6pm would have been much higher on account of systematic rigging. Trinamul repeatedly reached out to journalists to dispel rumours that Mamata had sensed defeat in Nandigram and would be contesting from another seat as well. Like their leader, they insisted she was certain of victory. Mamata alleged rigging at the Boyal booth. “I had been warning (the poll panel) about Boyal for three days. For at least four days, they have unleashed unspeakable atrocities on the people, like breaking the arm of a young man who’s with us…. Our workers are battling death or getting murdered in other parts of the state,” she said. “Our polling agents were beaten up in their homes (on Wednesday night).... I have been telling the police repeatedly, twice, thrice…. Whenever the police came, they (Trinamul polling agents) came and sat (inside the booths). After the police left, the same thing again (Trinamul agents were driven out).” Mamata alleged that the 80 per cent polling the Boyal booth had witnessed till late afternoon consisted entirely of “rigged” votes, while Suvendu said all of it was genuine. “The Election Commission, I don’t know what to say. I’m sorry, I apologise to the Election Commission… for their silence. For their total silence,” Mamata said. “So many letters we have given, but (the commission has been) absolutely one-sided. They are supporting the BJP candidates, and under their instructions the BJP is getting (away with) so many provocations. They are beating up people, murdering them, looting votes.” The chief minister added: “I think it will create another bad history in our democracy. Democracy, which is a festival of the people. If you don’t allow the people to vote, what do you think, Election Commission? Why will people say the Election Commission is impartial? “My humble regards to the Election Commission and all its members, please take care, please take care. What you have done in Nandigram and other parts, don’t behave like this the next time too. Whatever you try, the BJP will not win the election.” Mamata attacked Suvendu without naming him. “The man contesting here for the BJP, his supreme indecency… from last night’s tandob (rampage), goondagiri (hooliganism) in various places…. We have already sent 63 formal complaints to the Election Commission of India and to others also,” she said. “All of you saw how, from the morning, they sat with guns, not letting anybody vote. The people are wishing me everywhere. What does that mean? Irrespective of who they entrust with the responsibility (of handling the elections), the people voted for me.” Suvendu, Trinamul turncoat and the BJP’s catch of the season, dismissed her allegations. “Out of the 350-plus booths in Nandigram, she has been sitting in one. What do candidates do? Candidates visit multiple booths or sit inside party offices and handle the management. But she sat in just one booth,” he said, having visited the Boyal booth after Mamata had left. “With 43 voters in the queue, why did she have to do that for two hours, terrorising the voters? Why the natokbaji (drama)? If a polling agent did leave, there are observers, the EC…. Even I level allegations. There is a system for that. I didn’t know that her situation has become so pathetic that she doesn’t even have people left to send emails (to the commission) for her.” He added: “I’m happy. The CRPF is responding very well; the Election Commission’s work has been fine…. She (Mamata) has insulted the people of Nandigram.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: ‘Didi’ becomes ‘aunty’ for changed Suvendu Adhikari ||BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari did not change his spots on polling day as he moved around Nandigram on Thursday sporting a rare bravado but not forgetting to play the polarisation card at every possible opportunity. “(She is a) 66-year-old aunty. Aunty ko thoda shaant rehna chahiye (aunty should keep her cool)… (She) shouldn’t resort to Gundagiri (hooliganism). Vikas (development) will win, appeasement politics will lose…Begum will lose,” Suvendu told journalists and the comment drew cheers of “Jai Shri Ram” from BJP supporters gathered around him. Suvendu was referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee with whom he parted ways a little over four months ago. As the polling progressed on Thursday, Suvendu invoked his agenda of polarisation on multiple occasions. Talking to journalists later in the day, Suvendu said 60 per cent of those who shout “Jai Shri Ram, Krishna Krishna Hare Hare, Jai Maa Kali” and celebrate Durga Puja had cast their votes by 12 noon. Throughout Thursday, journalists followed Suvendu around the constituency and he used every moment of the attention he got to show off his confidence as he fought the toughest poll battle of his life. It was around 7.30 in the morning that Suvendu rode pillion on a two-wheeler to the school as the road to the booth was too narrow for his vehicle. It was while leaving the polling station that Suvendu referred to Mamata as a “66-year-old aunty”. Typical of a BJP follower, Suvendu wore a saffron tilak and a saffron scarf throughout the day. Every time Suvendu spoke to journalists, he sounded confident. Sometime he would refer to Nandigram’s polls as a revolution, sometime he would say at least 85 per cent votes would be cast in favour of change. While travelling through Satengabari in Nandigram block 2, some pelted his car and convoy with stones. One of the cars suffered damage. These men, which the BJP alleged were Trinamul supporters, also raised “Go back” and “Joy Bangla” slogans. Suvendu used the opportunity to play the polarisation card once again and said the Trinamul supporters were shouting slogans raised in Bangladesh. “Till now, there was no resistance, no opposition. Hence, there was no complaint. This time, there is great competition. Trinamul is desperate. There are 12 booths in the gram panchayat. That community has presence in two booths. The attack happened there. In the rest of the booths, there are devotees of Jai Shri Ram and Maa Kali,” Suvendu said without clarifying which community he meant. He also said the model of Sheikh Sufiyan, who is Mamata’s election agent, would not work in Nandigram anymore. After visiting a dozen booths, Suvendu received information that Mamata had gone to a booth at Boyal. After about two hours, when Mamata left the booth, Suvendu visited the area in the evening. He assured local BJP workers there that they would be able to cast their votes. “Nandigram’s Trinamul candidate had been sitting for long inside the booth…Ordinary voters couldn’t cast their votes,” he alleged adding that a complaint would be lodged with the Election Commission. Suvendu, who was never in dearth of confidence on Thursday, said he was happy with the performance of the paramilitary forces and the Election Commission. “I’ve no complaints…Healthy polling is on…” he told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic clashes, high turnout in Phase 2||Mamata Banerjee criticised the Election Commission’s “inaction” on a day voting was marked by two deaths, sporadic violence, complaints of electoral malpractices and a high turnout, while the BJP welcomed the “free and fair” polling. By 5pm on Thursday, some 80.43 per cent polling had been recorded in the 30 seats spread across four districts that voted in the second phase of the eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls. “Since voting will continue till 6.30pm, the figure is expected to rise. The turnout is on the higher side; normally 80-82 per cent polling is seen in these areas,” a senior government official said. More than 130 complaints of malpractices — including “booth capturing”, voters being prevented from reaching the polling booths, and false voting — were registered, with Trinamul lodging about 90 of them, Election Commission sources said. A commission source said in the evening: “The poll panel inquired into each complaint; none has been found true so far but the final reports on some of them are yet to come.” “There were some law-and-order issues in some instances, and action was initiated soon after the complaints reached the CEO’s (state chief electoral officer) office in Calcutta.” The polling percentage was high despite voting being halted for several hours in at least 250 booths because of malfunctioning electronic voting machines, which had to be replaced. The day began with reports of a murder. A Trinamul Congress worker was stabbed to death in the early hours at Keshpur in West Midnapore — one of the districts that voted on Thursday along with East Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas. Police said Uttam Dolui, 48, was at a party office in the Hariharpur area of Keshpur when 10 to 15 people attacked him with sharp weapons. He died on the way to hospital. Dolui’s family alleged that BJP-backed criminals had murdered him to create tension ahead of the polling. District authorities said seven people had been arrested. A BJP worker, Uday Dubey, was found hanging at his home in Bhekutia, Nandigram, shortly before polling was to begin. His family said Dubey had been under mental pressure, having received threats from Trinamul workers after he attended a road show held by veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty in support of BJP Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari. Primary investigations suggest that Dube committed suicide but the matter is being probed further, the district police said. Violence was reported from several places including Keshpur, where BJP candidate Pritish Ranjan Konar’s car was attacked in the morning, prompting him to run to Keshpur police station for shelter. The car of one of Konar’s booth agents had been vandalised earlier in the day while it was driving the candidate’s election agent to a booth. In the evening, the polling agent of the Trinamul candidate from Keshpur, Shiuli Saha, was heavily assaulted outside a booth, allegedly by BJP workers. He was hit in the head with sticks and would be admitted to hospital, sources said. Alleged BJP workers attacked the car of actor Soham Chakraborty, Trinamul candidate from the East Midnapore constituency of Chandipur. From Sabang, West Midnapore, Trinamul candidate Manas Bhunia alleged that a group of outsiders had created panic in the area shortly before polling was to begin by targeting the cars and motorcycles of Trinamul leaders and workers. Trinamul lodged some 20 complaints of booth capturing from Nandigram and Moyna, both in East Midnapore. Similar complaints came from Keshpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore, Barjora in Bankura and Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas. A visibly angry chief minister accused the poll panel of inaction over Trinamul complaints. “We have lodged 63 complaints with the ECI (Election Commission of India) but no action has been taken so far. We will move court,” she said in the afternoon, stuck in a booth in Boyal, East Midnapore. Mamata had arrived at the spot following complaints that the BJP had captured the booth. She was stuck in the booth for nearly two hours as sloganeering Trinamul and BJP supporters gathered outside, thickening tensions. The BJP, which too lodged complaints of electoral malpractices at Debra and Keshpur in West Midnapore and Barjora in Bankura, appeared happy with the polling process on the whole. “The second phase was more or less peaceful. Trinamul has sensed that it is losing ground, so it’s started lodging complaints,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told a television channel. Commission sources said the poll panel had instructed district authorities to act swiftly if there was violence. Detailed reports have been sought from the district authorities on the two deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Stones hit cars of BJP nominee, media||The car of BJP’s Keshpur candidate Pritish Ranjan Konar, along with three vehicles of media persons, were attacked by stones, brickbats and sticks allegedly by Trinamul supporters at Baruna village under the constituency in West Midnapore on Thursday. Keshpur was one of the 30 Assembly constituencies that went to polls on phase two of Bengal elections. Police have arrested nine persons in this regard. The Election Commission sought a detailed report on the incident. BJP sources said Konar, who is pitted against Trinamul’s Shiuli Saha in Keshpur, was told in the morning that Trinamul workers had captured a booth in Gunara village of Keshpur. He was headed there when he was allegedly waylaid by 40-odd Trinamul workers near Baruna. BJP president of Ghatal organisational district Tanmoy Das said Trinamul goons ambushed their candidate at various places. “We could not communicate with our candidate for over an hour after he was attacked by Trinamul goons at Baruna. Later, he was attacked in at least three places. Trinamul has understood its defeat is confirmed and has resorted to violence,” Das said. Trinamul leaders said the attack was by “common people of Keshpur” as a result of the BJP’s attacks on Trinamul. “The BJP has killed and attacked our party workers in some places. The attack on the BJP (candidate) was the result of the anger of the common people of Keshpur. Our party has nothing to do with it,” said Ajit Maity, Trinamul president of West Midnapore. TMC poll agent hurt On Thursday evening, Anisur Rahaman, polling agent of Trinamul nominee Saha, was injured when BJP workers allegedly hit his head with an iron rod near Keshpur. Trinamul sources said Rahaman received injuries in his eyes and was admitted to a Midnapore hospital with severe head injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Violence erupts over land-row death||Violence sparked at a village in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday after the death of a woman who was allegedly attacked by some people over land. Villagers also attacked the police and their vehicles. Police had to charge batons and burst teargas shells to disperse the crowd. Rapid Action Force (RAF) and central paramilitary forces were brought to the village. A woman civic volunteer sustained serious injuries. Sources said there had been repeated altercations recently among two families of Madhya Dahukimari village, Dhupguri, over a plot of land. A few days back, the families clashed and Minati Roy, 40, from one of the families, suffered injuries. A complaint was filed with the police and she was taken to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. The police filed a case against some accused who got bail, angering Minati’s kin. Minati died on Wednesday night. As news spread, angry villagers started demonstrating since Thursday morning.  When a Dhupguri police team went to Madhya Dahukimari, some people pelted stones and bricks at them and targeted their vehicles, some ran to the homes of the accused and thrashed them. People alleged the police did not take proper steps against those who had beaten up Minati. Finally, the police had to chase them with batons and burst teargas shells. Ten persons, including a woman, have been detained. Five persons carrying a kilo of brown sugar and Rs 10,000 in cash were arrested by the police in Malda on Wednesday night during a special checking drive on NH12. Police sources said the arrested were coming in a pick-up van from Siliguri which was stopped near Simuldhab area under Malda police station. A packet containing around a kilo of brown sugar (an adulterated derivative of heroin), and Rs 10,000 in cash were seized from them. “They were arrested and taken into custody. A case under NDPS Act has been initiated against them. We are trying to find out the source from where they had obtained the narcotic substance, their destination and other details,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda. Those arrested have been identified as Aviram Mandal, Biswajit Ghosh and Dhananjoy Halder of Malda and Azhar Ali and Sonaram Mahato of the neighbouring South Dinajpur district. In a separate incident, the police arrested Asraul Sheikh from Baliadanga area under Kaliachak police station on Thursday morning and seized an improvised firearm and a live bullet from him. Asraul was wanted in a number of cases, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Nandigram sees sporadic violence, ‘no bloodshed’||Vote day Thursday in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, with Mamata Banerjee pitted against her former aide and now rival from the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari, was marked by many incidents of near-clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters and allegations of poll malpractices. On Wednesday, The Telegraph had reported that 22 companies of central forces were deployed and Section 144 imposed to avert any breach of law and order in Nandigram on vote day. Though there was no bloodshed across 255 booths spread across two blocks in Nandigram, security forces of both state and central governments rushed from one booth to another with complaints pouring in at control rooms set up at the Nandigram BDO office and police station. “We received over 100 complaints at our control rooms till the end of polling. There were no violent clashes as the forces were able to bring several cases of tense situations under control,” said a senior police officer in Nandigram. A police source said two incidents could have spiralled into major clashes had security forces not intervened. “One involved goons who hurled stones at Adhikari’s convoy, in which no one was hurt, and another involved chief minister Mamata Banerjee being confined to a booth in Boyal (for two hours in a tense face-off between Trinamul and BJP supporters),” said a police source. Late on Wednesday and early on Thursday, inter-party fights with crude bombs broke out at Sonachura, Kalicharanpur and Bhekutia. The body of BJP worker Uday Dubey was found hanging at home, his family alleging he had been “tormented” by Trinamul workers. BJP worker Sourav Bhattacharjee’s home was reportedly ransacked late on Wednesday. All three incidents caused local unrest that central forces quelled. “More than 100 complaints were registered with polling officials and we responded with our dispatches immediately, but upon investigation several were not found credible,” said district police chief Sunil Kumar Yadav. “I was on the field throughout the day and found no evidence of voter intimidation or malfeasance,” said Nagendra Tripathi, IPS, who had been deputed by the Election Commission to oversee polling on Thursday. His claim was contested by political parties who lodged complaints of violence and malpractices with the EC and district administration all through the day. CPM leaders also said the police officers were “unaware” of ground realities. “They may be speaking of circumstances immediately surrounding polling booths, but they do not know the condition of people being threatened and browbeaten in their own homes over the past few days and even on Thursday,” said CPM’s Nandigram candidate Minakshi Mukherjee, who toured the constituency since morning. She added that violation of Section 144 happened almost everywhere and the central forces did nothing to disperse those who had gathered unlawfully near polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases cross 6,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported the highest number of new Covid-19 infections detected in a day this year, at 1,274, taking the total number of active cases above 6,000 for the first time since January 26. The number of active Covid-19 cases rose by 738 on Thursday to 6,513. This was the 21st consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 534 Covid recoveries. Two Covid patients died, one of them in the city. A 136-day stint of fall in the number of active cases in Bengal, since Vijaya Dashami last year, snapped on March 11. Before the rise since March 12, the active case count had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 3,110. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 399 and 344 new infections, respectively, were detected. The recovery rate is 97.14 per cent. The figure has fallen over the past three weeks but is still ahead of the national rate, which is 93.67.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: TMC launches Rajbanshi vote song||District Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri released the Rajbanshi version of Vote-er Gaan (vote song), a song launched by the party across the state during the ongoing Assembly elections, here on Thursday. Since the start of Trinamul’s election campaign, party youth leader Debangshu Bhattacharya composed a Bengali song with the popular phrase “Khela Hobe” that has been picked up by party leaders, including Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee. As the song was played throughout Bengal during Trinamul’s campaign, Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri took the initiative to get it translated in Rajbanshi language to reach out to voters in the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal where the community influences poll results in around half of the 54 Assembly seats. The party roped in Parimal Burman, a Rajbanshi singer based in Mathabhanga of Cooch Behar and Tapan Roy, a known musician of the community from Dhupguri, and readied the two-minute-38-second-long song. P.K. Barma, the Trinamul candidate of Jalpaiguri, along with some other party leaders, published the Rajbanshi version of the song. “The song gives a message to voters of the state and speaks about development schemes initiated by the state government. We believe this song will be an effective campaign tool as we reach out to people, particularly the Rajbanshis,” said Barma. Vote-er Gaan will be circulated in all districts of north Bengal and played in local markets, prominent crossings and popular locations, said party sources. Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri who had taken the initiative, said they are getting the song translated and recorded in Nepali and Hindi languages. “Gorkhas, tribals and different other communities dwell in Jalpaiguri district and in north Bengal as a whole. That is why we have planned to come up with different versions of the song so that voters can easily understand our message,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
02-04-2021||North East||EC orders repoll at one Assam station after EVM controversy||The Election Commission on Friday ordered a repoll at a polling station in Ratabari seat of Assam after the presiding officer carried the EVM after polling in a vehicle which reportedly belonged to a BJP candidate. In a statement, the EC said the presiding officer and three other officials have been placed under suspension. The presiding officer has also been issued a notice under violation of the transport protocol. "Although seals of the EVM were found intact, it has nevertheless been decided to do a re-poll at No. 149- Indira M.V. School of LAC 1 Ratabari (SC) as an added precaution," the poll panel said. Violence broke out in Karimganj district of Assam on Thursday night after some Congress and AIUDF supporters spotted a BJP candidate's vehicle being used to take a polled EVM to the strong room, forcing the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The vehicle of the polling party of Indira M.V. School in the Ratabari constituency broke down on their way to the strong room in Karimganj town, officials said on Friday morning. "They took a lift in a private vehicle. Incidentally, the vehicle was registered under the name of sitting BJP MLA from Patharkandi Krishnendu Paul. When it reached Nimal Bazar area, some public spotted it," an official of the district administration said. Paul is also the BJP candidate from the seat this time. The mob, mostly consisting of AIUDF and Congress supporters, vandalised the vehicle, upon which the polling party ran away, leaving behind the EVMs, eyewitnesses said. "The Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police reached the spot immediately and they tried to pacify the mob. But the crowd did not listen, forcing the police to fire in the air to disperse them," police sources said. The DC and the SP then brought the EVMs to Patharkandi police station at night, from where it was taken and deposited at the strong room in Karimganj town, they added. Dubbing the incident as unsurprising, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "Every time there is an election videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s  show up."  Reacting to the incident, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, "Staring at decisive defeat in Assam Assembly Elections 2021, BJP has panicked immeasurably. The last desperate measure is always EVM theft in Assam .  Ratabari and Patharkandi constituencies went for polls in the second phase on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-04-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Three hurt in police firing in second phase||The second phase of the Assam Assembly polls held in 39 constituencies on Thursday was marked by brief stoppages in a few polling stations in Silchar and Nagaon owing to malfunctioning electronic voting machines (EVMs) and police firing to disperse a group of protesters in Sonai constituency of Cachar district which left three injured. The voter turnout was over 77 per cent. Sources said the trouble in Sonai was triggered by an argument between a polling official and a youth who had come to vote. This led to a protest which flared up with the arrival of the Sonai BJP candidate Aminul Hoque Laskar, who is also the deputy Speaker of the state Assembly, eventually leading to the firing incident late in the afternoon. An election department official here confirmed the firing incident but details about what actually happened are awaited. Security has been tightened in the area. The Met office here had warned of rainfall at most pla­ces with heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in Ass­am and adjoining Meghalaya because of strong lower-level south-westerlies. However, in a relief to political parties and polling personnel, the day passed off without major hiccups. “There was rainfall in a few places in the hill districts, Morigaon and Mangoldoi but had no impact as such. EVMs too were replaced from wherever it was reported that they were malfunctioning. There was also a firing incident in Sonai but overall the day passed off smoothly,” an official said. Polling was held in 15 constituencies in Barak Valley and five in the two hill districts of Dima Hasao and Karbi Anglong, among others, to decide the fate of 365 candidates in 13 districts. The remaining constituencies are in central and lower Assam. The first phase covering 47 of the 126 constituencies spr­ead over 12 districts was held on March 27, which registered a turnout of 79.97 per cent. Like in the first phase, the four-party alliance led by the ruling BJP continued its attack on the AIUDF and its chief Badruddin Ajmal, highlighting its beneficiary schemes, especially those targeting women, students and job-seekers in the run-up to the second phase. The attack is continuing with the same narrative built around influx, development and identity for the third phase polls on April 6 evident from Prime Minister Na­rendra Modi’s election rally in Kokrajhar on Thursday. Addressing a rally for BJP’s alliance partner United People’s Party Liberal in Kokrajhar, Modi used a football term to attack the Congress and the AIUDF, part of the 10-party Opposition grand alliance. “People have shown them (Congress and AIUDF) the red card... They trust the NDA. During Congress’s regime, Assam experienced bombs, bandooks (guns) and blockades. The NDA has brought peace,” Modi said. The Congress-led alliance too has stuck to its five guarantees to woo the voters, harping on job creation, opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and hike in the daily wage of tea garden workers, who play a significant role in Barak Valley, to Rs 365. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accused the BJP of attacking the identity, culture and language of Assam through the imposition of the contentious CAA. On Tuesday, he promised to enact Article 244 (A) for the constitution of a state within a state, a long-pending demand of the two hill districts. State BJP ministers Parimal Suklabaidya (Dhalai), Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia) and Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad), former Assam Sahitya Sabha president Paramananda Rajbongshi (Sipajhar), Ajmal’s brother Sirajuddin, are among the prominent candidates in the fray in the second phase. In 2016, the AGP-BJP-BPF combine had won 86 of the 126 seats with a vote share of 41.9 per cent, followed by the then ruling Congress — 26 seats and 31 per cent vote share. The AIUDF, fighting separately, bagged 13 seats with a 13 per cent vote share. The BPF and the AIUDF are with the Congress-led alliance this time round, making the contest a difficult one to call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls 2021: BPF candidate joins BJP before third phase||A candidate of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) on Thursday joined the ruling BJP ahead of the third phase of polls in Assam. The Congress has decided to challenge the defection before the Election Commission while the BPF has decided to back an Independent candidate. BPF’s Rangja Khungur Basumatary, a contractor who was contesting the third phase of polls from Tamulpur constituency in Baksa district on April 6, joined the BJP in presence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and “appealed” to voters to support the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) candidate Leho Ram Bodo. The UPPL is part of the BJP-led alliance in the Assembly polls, which is getting tighter by the day as both the Congress and BJP-led alliances are going all out to woo voters. The Congress, which leads the Opposition 10-party grand alliance of which the BPF is a partner, described the “unprecedented” move as “cheating”. BPF general secretary Prabin Boro told The Telegraph that the candidate had “sold himself” to the BJP and that they were planning to “back” an Independent instead of wasting time on a “betrayer”. Reports about Basumatary switching allegiance to the BJP started doing the rounds since Wednesday evening. He ended all speculation by joining the saffron party while polling for the second phase was under way on Thursday. In his fifties and one of the 11 candidates in the fray, Basumatary, told a section of the media that he had joined the BJP of his own volition after he did not receive support, including financial, from his BPF colleagues in his constituency. He also said that he had reached out to cabinet minister and senior BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma and to former BPF legislator Emmanuel Mosahary before taking his decision. Sarma had tweeted about Basumatary’s impending defection on Wednesday night. The BPF has fielded 12 candidates in the Bodoland Territorial Region. It had won all the 12 seats in 2016 as part of the BJP-led alliance but was dumped by the ruling party this time in favour of the UPPL. An official in the office of the chief electoral officer said they are yet to receive any intimation or complaint about the development but were discussing what will be their course of action if they get a formal intimation from any quarter. A former Election Commission official told this newspaper that the election in the constituency will be held as scheduled since the development took place after the date of withdrawal of nomination. “It will all depend on what the BPF decides after the election. If he (Basumatary) wins, he may have to face the anti-defection law. There can also be legal recourse since there is an apparent breach of trust. It is a new experience for everyone — the poll officials or the parties. I have not heard about such a case before in the state,” he said. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari and PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma attacked the BJP for Basumatary’s defection during a news conference in Guwahati earlier in the day, demanding that call records of Basumatary for the past seven days be made public and the deferment of polls in Tamulpur. Vijay Gupta, a core committee member of the state BJP, said the development reflects the faith of the people, even those in the Opposition, in his party. “The development proves we are comfortably forming the next government in Assam,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-04-2021||Opinion||Run dry: Sustainable water usage||World Water Day — it fell on March 22 — was a timely opportunity for global leaders to renew their commitment towards protecting freshwater resources and implementing sustainable water usage. And yet, the occasion went by without any significant acknowledgement of the scale of the crisis either in India or the world. This is a particularly serious lapse on the part of India in the light of its water-related challenges, more so at a time when summer — it is known to be unforgiving — is setting in. Droughts plague India every eight or nine years; a new study has predicted a manifold increase in the frequency of flash droughts that will severely affect water availability and, unsurprisingly, hit the poor the hardest. The ominous signs are already apparent — around 600 million Indians face high to extreme water stress; the Niti Aayog’s composite water management index found that 75 per cent of households do not have drinking water on their premises, with about 84 per cent of rural households not having access to piped water. The depletion and maladministration of groundwater resources contribute to the problem immensely. But attention must also be paid to agricultural practices for which water is over-extracted. India’s population has access to a mere 4 per cent of the world’s water resources, while its farmers use almost 90 per cent of the groundwater available. Of this, a bulk goes into cultivating water-guzzling crops such as rice and sugar cane — an estimated 2,497 litres of water go into producing a kilogramme of rice while a quintal of sugar cane uses up about 1,50,000 to 3,00,000 litres. In comparison, crops such as pearl millet, bottle gourd and corn need around 80 per cent less water than rice. But farmers, a significant section of whom are poor, prefer to grow rice because it has a guaranteed market unlike other produce. The government must incentivize alternative crop-growth patterns for the farming constituency. There should also be an increased focus on water-efficient irrigation technologies, such as the drip method, which supplies water directly to the root zone of a crop through a network of pipes and emitters. There is a case for the State to subsidize the installation of related infrastructure to encourage such methods of irrigation. Water taxes must be levied in urban areas: in Calcutta, 30 per cent of the municipal corporation’s filtered water supply is wasted daily. Most important, targeted public awareness campaigns must be conducted. A precious resource like water can only be saved if citizens realize the consequences of it running out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Positive step: Manchester Utd women's team plays against West Ham||Sir — The women’s football team of Manchester United recently played against West Ham for the first time in the famous Old Trafford stadium. This is truly historic. Like most other sports, football is widely considered to be a man’s game. Women playing in this iconic stadium would give more visibility to the sportspersons and encourage more women to take up the ‘beautiful game’ professionally. Priyanka Paul,Calcutta Play fair Sir — The system of electoral bonds is not healthy for a democracy as it favours the political party with more chances of winning. It takes away a level playing field for all parties. The anonymity of the donor or the party being donated to keeps the common voter uninformed about the flow of funds. If the voter is empowered to know about the criminal precedents and income details of the contestant in an election, why should he not be equipped with the knowledge of a political party’s funding patterns and other such details? After all, such information could enable him to make the right call. Transparency in the electoral process could discourage quid-pro-quo arrangements between corporates and political parties. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla,Andhra Pradesh Sir — The electoral bond scheme is full of inherent dangers. It may promote elections, but it surely cannot promote democracy and constitutional values such as secularism and socialism. Hence it is bound to become counter-productive. As the scheme stands, there is no transparency as to who the contributors and the beneficiaries are. There is no cap on the funding. With public sector undertakings increasingly being given away to private parties, financial contributions will be made more liberally by vested interests to political parties as a quid pro quo. Now that religious majoritarianism is also on the rise, the bonds may be used to strengthen the divisive forces within the country. In view of such threats to constitutional values, the Supreme Court could have stayed the scheme or at least imposed strict restrictions, including the disclosure of the identity of donors and beneficiaries. An institution is known by its response to a crisis. The Constitution is now in crisis; one looks up to the apex court for redressal. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls: Nandigram, big seat||The outcomes of 294 seats will decide the fate of Bengal’s crown. Yet, the symbolic importance of some seats is far greater than that of others. Nandigram — polls were held here yesterday — is an assembly constituency that has cast its long shadow over the rest of Bengal this election season. The incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, is battling her bête noire, Suvendu Adhikari, who switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party recently. The sour relationship between the contestants has undoubtedly made Nandigram the cynosure of pundits and psephologists. But the stature of the two political contestants in the fray should not deflect attention from another symbolic milestone achieved by Nandigram. It is commonly believed that regional issues propel assembly elections while national ones influence Lok Sabha polls. Nandigram seems to have turned this assumption on its head. In many ways, it is representing the tussle among the cross-currents that continue to shape national politics in India. The BJP has had no qualms about polarizing Nandigram’s electorate along religious lines. Religious division is not new in India; but Mr Adhikari’s party has the dubious distinction of turning it into political capital across the country. Attempting to confront this strategy of divisiveness is Ms Banerjee’s rhetoric of pluralism. She has been tirelessly reminding the people of Nandigram of their proud, inclusive history that helped them confront the brutal predations unleashed by the earlier Marxist regime when it tried to usher in industrialization using its preferred strong-arm tactic. The end — but not the means — cannot be disputed. The retreat of industry from Nandigram along with Singur crippled not only the hopes of Bengal’s industrial regeneration but also those of economic sustenance for the local youth. Indeed, the third diminutive knight in Nandigram’s arena — the candidate of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) — has raised the issue of rising unemployment, yet another aspect that will resonate with the national electorate. It remains to be seen whether Nandigram’s or, for that matter, India’s economic challenges manage to evoke a response from voters seduced by a narrative of hatred and division. Nandigram’s legacy is unique in Bengal’s political history. Now, by serving as a colosseum for contesting national choices, this tiny constituency has left an all-India imprint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||New Bengal||The West Bengal assembly elections are going to be an acid test for both Mamata Banerjee and Narendra Modi. For Didi, it is a struggle for survival; whereas for the latter, if the Bharatiya Janata Party were to win the elections, it would be a morale booster for two reasons — first, the BJP would rule a significant non-Hindi-speaking state; second, given Bengal’s historical past, the outcome would have a major impact on national politics. Significantly, possibly for the first time in the history of Bengal’s politics, the assembly elections are being fought on the planks of religion and caste. Bengal’s constituency of the bhadralok had, so far, succeeded in keeping these two elements out of the electoral domain. It did this under the influence of class, language and cultural factors. The Congress and the Left Front also played an important role in confining religion and caste to the private sphere. But this assembly election seems to be heralding a major transition in Bengal politics in this respect. The Left (1977-2011) strictly adhered to its ideological position, placing the economy on a higher pedestal while setting aside caste and faith. The bhadralok obliged, citing the supremacy of Bengali culture to these social institutions. J.H. Broomfield, who worked extensively on Bengal, conceptualized this as ‘bhadralok culture’, which revolves around ‘social honour’. This social honour, however, is the honour of the upper castes. Are caste and religion so insignificant as to be forsaken? According to the 2011 census, scheduled castes constitute 24 per cent of Bengal’s population. But their political and cultural representation is negligible. A few castes from the scheduled caste fold — Namashudras and Rajbanshis — are attempting to forge identity-based mobilizations — the Matua movement being an example. This explains the interest of political parties — the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, in particular — in these communities. As for Muslims — they constitute 27 per cent of Bengal’s population — their concentration in Murshidabad, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Birbhum, the South 24 Parganas, Nadia and Cooch Behar makes them a significant political category. Muslims have come a long way by shunning appeasement and appropriating politics by developing leadership from within the community. Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front, which is part of the Congress-Left coalition, has injected unprecedented dynamism into the electoral calculus. Asaduddin Owaisi, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief, is also manoeuvring to make a mark on the new, emerging spaces. The AIMIM has the potential to disrupt the prospects of the TMC and the Congress-Left-ISF coalition. The new element in Bengal politics is the rise of communities on the margins, especially of Dalits and Muslims who were marginalized in the name of Bengali identity. While this is a welcome change, there is danger lurking around the corner in the form of BJP. If it captures power, it would be detrimental to the Muslim-Dalit solidarity. The immediate task before these social groups is to make their presence felt in the political sphere and resist polarization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Tamil Nadu polls: An ace up the BJP’s sleeve||Cries of “MGR Vazhga (Long live MGR)” and “Thalaiva, nee sollame poittaye (Oh Leader! You have gone without telling us)” rent the air as men and women wept and wailed and beat their chests as if one of their own had passed away. On Christmas eve in 1987, gloom descended over Madras and a sea of humanity gathered at the Marina to bid farewell to Marudur Gopalan Ramachandran aka MGR. The matinee-idol-turned politician, who strode over Tamil Nadu’s intertwined worlds of cinema and politics like a colossus, was interred dressed in his signature off-white synthetic vetti, full-sleeved shirt, dark shades and white fur-cap. On his right hand, as ever, was his Seiko watch. Decades after his interment, his admirers continue to flock to his grave. As they circumambulate the departed leader’s tomb, many press their ears to the granite slabs, hoping to hear MGR’s watch tick. The ritual followed by the believers of MGR, the founder of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam — a party linked to the rationalist Dravidian movement — is symbolic of the uncanny sway that MGR wields over Tamil Nadu’s masses and political parties. Even 34 years after his death, it is not uncommon to see politicians cutting across party lines playing the ‘MGR’ card. Come elections and the Puratchi Thalaivar becomes larger than life as politicians promise to bring back the ‘golden MGR era’ and flaunt their proximity to the departed leader in a bid to stake claim to his legacy. Over the years, different parties have tried to appropriate the charismatic leader’s legacy to gain political mileage. In 2005, after floating the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, the actor, Vijayakanth, had projected himself as ‘Karuppu MGR (Dark-skinned MGR)’. Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan, too, have expressed their desire to revive MGR’s rule. But this election season, a new and unexpected entrant has joined the fray to stake claim to MGR and his legacy — the Bharatiya Janata Party. Tamil Nadu has been a tough nut to crack for the BJP. The party’s biggest USP — the popularity of Narendra Modi — is inconsequential in the state. According to several surveys, Modi has a negative approval rating in Tamil Nadu. But the biggest hindrance to the saffron party’s efforts of gaining a toehold in the Dravidian heartland is that it is seen as an ‘outsider’ — an upper caste, north Indian party that endorses the Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan principle. The BJP has resorted to appropriating — misappropriating — local icons and invested heavily in the MGR card to make inroads in the state. MGR’s phenomenal success as an actor and, later, as a politician and the emotions he continues to evoke among the people are nothing short of an enigma. His films projected him as the quintessential do-gooder. This carefully crafted image was manipulated to further his political ambitions. He also initiated Tamil Nadu’s culture of freebies — sewing machines and cycle rickshaws were distributed by his regime. But his master-stroke was extending the free mid-day meal scheme initiated by K. Kamaraj to cover over eight million schoolchildren. MGR’s politics was based on pleasing anyone and everyone, including non-Dravidian voters. After Kamaraj’s death in 1975, the anti-DMK votes got transferred to the AIADMK, powering its maiden victory in the 1977 assembly elections. To retain the non-Dravidian vote, MGR whittled down the atheist-rationalist aspect of Dravidian politics. As chief minister, he frequently visited shrines. The anti-Brahmin plank of Periyar was also abandoned as two of MGR’s closest acolytes, J. Jayalalithaa and H.V Hande, were Brahmins. The MGR administration was also generous in doling out funds for temple renovation. While his predecessors had been vocal in demanding greater autonomy for the states, MGR distanced himself from an anti-Centre, regionalist stance as he realized that his government was dependent on the Centre for funding its welfare schemes. MGR has emerged as a natural choice for the BJP, which is bereft of any local icons. The party hopes to make profitable political transactions by giving MGR’s legacy a pro-Hindu slant. The BJP realizes that it has little to gain in the 2021 polls but it hopes to dethrone the AIADMK and emerge as the principal opposition to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu. Only time will tell if the BJP would succeed in the long run by using the ‘MGR card’. But for now the party seems to be suffering from selective amnesia. MGR, the BJP’s new mascot, had called his ideology ‘annaism’, a heady mix of Dravidianism, Marxism and capitalism. Can the BJP be comfortable swallowing a dose of annaism?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Building bridges||For a non-Bengali like me who loves Bengal deeply and has been staying in Calcutta for nearly a month to study the society and the politics in the state, the immediate question of interest is, of course, the same as what every Indian wants to know: will the prime minister, Narendra Modi, defeat the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, in the ongoing assembly elections? The answer — ‘no’ — is by now clear to every knowledgeable poll observer. What interests me no less is how the party of Modi and Amit Shah has been bringing Bangladesh into its election campaign, with the sole purpose of polarizing the electorate and, thereby, aggressively expanding its Hindu vote-bank. How the Bharatiya Janata Party uses Pakistan for the same purpose is well-known. Pakistan-bashing and showing Indian Muslims as the not-to-be-trusted ‘Other’ are the two sides of its same strategic coin. However, when it comes to Bangladesh-bashing in West Bengal (also in Assam), the BJP finds itself on a complex and slippery territory. Most BJP leaders outside Bengal, being prisoners of the ‘Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan’ mindset, simply cannot understand the salience of the commonalities of language, religion, culture and the subaltern identities of communities on both sides of the border. Nor can they seamlessly incorporate into their ‘Akhand Hindu Rashtra’ narrative the uncomfortable history of Bengal’s Partition in 1947 (which S.P. Mookerjee, founder of the Jana Sangh, demanded) and the later history of how the other Bengal seceded itself from Pakistan in 1971 but didn’t merge with India. Two recent examples suffice to show the conundrums the BJP is facing. First, since taking office in 2014, the Modi government has projected ‘infiltration’ from Bangladesh as a big threat to India’s unity and security. To counter this threat, it introduced the blatantly discriminatory and unconstitutional Citizenship (Amendment) Act, whose real intent is to appease the Hindu electorate in West Bengal and Assam. While releasing his party’s manifesto in Calcutta, Shah said, “[If] you vote for the BJP, leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state.” What he meant was that only Muslim birds would be stopped at the border, whereas Hindu birds would be granted free entry! This is because the CAA regards only Bangladeshi Muslims as “infiltrators” whereas all Bangladeshi Hindus (including those coming for economic reasons) are “religiously persecuted refugees” and, hence, automatically eligible for Indian citizenship. Sensible people in the BJP know that their party will never be able to implement the CAA and the National Register of Citizens in West Bengal where Muslims constitute 27 per cent of the population, an overwhelming majority of whom are Bengali-speaking and indistinguishable from Muslims in Bangladesh. Any attempt to ‘detect, delete, de-franchise and deport’ all “illegal immigrants” (only Muslims) would create a combustible situation that no government can control. It will also severely strain India’s relations with Bangladesh where both politicians and citizens are already infuriated by Shah’s smearing of Muslim ‘infiltrators’ as “termites”. The BJP faces an additional complexity in deporting ‘illegal immigrants’ in Assam because lakhs of them have been detected to be Hindus in the NRC published in 2019. For many Assamese, Hindu Bangladeshis are as much a threat to their identity as their Muslim counterparts. Therefore, hypocritically, the BJP’s election manifesto for Assam makes no mention of implementing the CAA in the state, while promising a new “corrected NRC”. The BJP’s second conundrum also reveals its opportunism. Even as it accuses Bangladesh of mounting a Muslim ‘demographic invasion’ of India, it has sought help from the same country for electoral gains in West Bengal. This is evident from Modi’s visit to the shrine of Harichand Thakur, the revered founder of the Matua community, at Orakandi in Bangladesh on March 27. Modi went to Dhaka to participate in the celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s independence. But he has cleverly used the visit to woo Matua voters in West Bengal, who are influential in at least 35 assembly seats. Never has an Indian prime minister been accused of so blatantly violating the model code of conduct and the ethics of democracy by campaigning for his party from foreign soil. Modi’s unbecoming conduct stands in sharp contrast to the visit to Bangladesh in June 1999 by the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when I had accompanied him. The occasion was the inauguration of the Calcutta-Dhaka bus service. Vajpayee made it a point to take with him West Bengal’s then chief minister, Jyoti Basu, whose party, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), is the BJP’s staunch opponent. The 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s independence and the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, are, from West Bengal’s perspective, far more significant events. After all, West Bengal played a crucial role in Bangladesh’s liberation movement. Modi ought to have emulated Vajpayee’s statesmanlike example and asked Banerjee to accompany him not only to Dhaka but also to Orakandi. It would have raised the stature of India’s democracy in the entire South Asian region, especially among Bangladeshis. Instead, in an obvious act of political partisanship, he took Shantanu Thakur, a BJP MP and a Matua community leader from West Bengal, for the programme in Orakandi. But what is the point in expecting such enlightened behaviour from a leader who is busy accelerating India’s democratic descent and tearing apart India’s secular fabric. Clearly, the time has come for intellectuals and socio-political leaders in West Bengal and the rest of India to see through the BJP’s flawed, devious and divisive policy towards Bangladesh. It is a pity that in the current election season in West Bengal, even non-BJP parties have not articulated a bold new vision for reviving the age-old, socio-cultural and economic bonds between the two Bengals within the larger framework of mutually beneficial cooperative relations between India and Bangladesh. In both New Delhi and Calcutta, there is grossly inadequate commitment to removing all the hurdles in two-way trade, business and investment relations with Bangladesh which is so necessary for creating prosperity and employment for Bengalis on both sides of the border. Look at these comparative numbers. India-Bangladesh trade is barely $10 billion. China, despite not having a land border with Bangladesh, has a bilateral trade of over $20 billion. West Bengal’s own share in India’s exports of $8.24 billion to Bangladesh is estimated to be less than $4 billion. Another example: Vietnam (whose population is nearly the same as West Bengal’s) exports $40 billion worth of largely hi-tech goods to China, with which it, despite strained political ties, has a bilateral trade of over $100 billion. These numbers convey a clear message to West Bengal: reindustrialize rapidly and reform your politics to pursue this goal. West Bengal’s non-BJP politicians also need to better grasp their state’s excellent locational advantage for India’s connectivity with Bangladesh and beyond, which is critical for the success of India’s much-publicized ‘Act East’ policy. The state will get smooth access through Bangladesh to Myanmar, China, and countries in Southeast Asia and East Asia. Thus, instead of remaining confined in a less developed corner of India, West Bengal and the Northeastern states, along with Bangladesh, can occupy the centre of a new, interconnected and economically vibrant Asian landmass. However, none of these transformative changes can be achieved with barbed-wire fencing, the poisonous politics of CAA and NRC, ill-treatment of Hindus in Bangladesh and of Muslims in India, and New Delhi’s counter-productive outlook of making geo-economic and human development priorities subservient to its geo-strategic considerations. The two parts of the Bengal of the ages together suffered three Partitions in the 20th century — 1905, 1947 and 1971. The two parts cannot become one nation again. But they can — and should — certainly forge a new, win-win partnership in the 21st century. I hope this idea energizes the non-BJP parties at least in the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man murdered in Nirsa for alleged affair ||Dhanbad: Nirsa police on Friday arrested the main accused in the murder of a 39-year-old resident of Shashanberia area whose partially decomposed body was found a kilometre from his house. Gardish Munda, his elder brother Kishun Munda and a friend Chandramohan Sawaiya strangulated Alda Singh on March 28 because of an alleged affair with Gardish’s wife. Police first apprehended Gardish Munda on the basis of suspicion but he later accepted his involvement in the murder following his interrogation. Raids are on to arrest the other two. Sub Divional police officer of Nirsa, Bijay Kumar Kushwaha said, “Gardish Munda during the police interrogation revealed that he suspected that his wife Narmadeshwari Munda having illicit relationship with Adla Singh”. “Gardish discussed his problem with his elder brother; and other friend and they prepared the murder plot,” said Kushwaha. “The trio dumped the dead body in a den like opening and blocked its entrance with some boulders,” said Kushawaha adding that police recovered the slippers, clothes, torchlight, and a necklace of the deceased as evidence which were hidden by them. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: PVC pipes worth over Rs 2 lakh were gutted in a fire mishap at Hari Bagan area under Bagbera police station on Friday. Initial investigation suggests that the heap of pipes caught fire as it was kept on a pile of municipal garbage. The pipes were supposed to be laid down for drinking water supply in the densely-populated Bagbera Colony. Local residents noticed the fire at around 12:15pm and informed the Bagbera police. A fire tender reached the spot in an hour, but by that time the whole lot of pipes were completely gutted. According to an official of the fire station, the spot was about seven kilometre away from the fire station and the fire tender had to naviagate through narrow and congested roads of the adjoining densely-populated Jugsalai area. The OC of Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh said the pipes were kept there for a fortnight. "The department of Rural Drinking Water Supply had dumping the pipes on a heap of garbage.  As it is a season of scorching sun, leading every thing exposed to the sun to getting dry, someone might have dropped a burning cigarette on the garbage heap, thus triggering the fire, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: The contractor of a filtration plant being constructed at bada jheel of the Hazaribagh lake had to cease work after a public outrage on Friday. Hazaribagh lake is cluster of four lakes and attracts large numbers of tourists due to its natural beauty and greenery. Local residents reached the picturesque spot in large numbers including Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP Manish Jaiswal, mayor Roshni Tirkey, BJP leaders Bateshwar Prasad Mehta, Bhaiya Abhimanyu Prasad and environmentalist Mritunjay Sharma. The contractor said the water filter plant is being constructed to supply water to Hazaribagh medical college. He said 90% of a portion of the bada jheel was going to be filled with sand on Friday. Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP Manish Jaiswal said, “This is totally a wrong project and I will not allow to get it constructed on lake area.” Mayor Roshni Tirkey told The Telegraph online that for anyconstruction work, concerned agency or department has to take an NOC from municipal corporation. But, in this case, no NOC was obtained. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A jeweller was killed in a road accident on Friday on GT road while returning to Jhumritelaiya in Koderma from Calcutta. The deceased has been identified as Chandrakant Soni. Two others who were in the car with Soni sustained serious injuries. Soni who was behind the wheels, had lost control over the vehicle and hit a stationary truck from behind near Hotel Rajasthan in Panchmadhav of Barkatha block. After hitting the truck, it hit a bridge killing Soni on the spot. The body has been sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Police on Thursday recovered the dead body of a private school teacher from Charwa dam, 6km away from the town. Officials said Shiv Shankar Prasad, 50, had stepped out of his house to go to the local market in Salgawan village. His relatives had lodged an FIR when he did not return for hours. Police have sent his body for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. “We are working on murder and suicide angles and are waiting for the postmortem report before reaching on any conclusion,” said officials. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Police on Thursday arrested two members of the notorious Aman Srivastava gang who were behind the killing of LNT company engineer Satyendra Kumar Singh on February 19. Singh was shot dead in a moving SUV near Pundri Chowk on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road. Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S. said both were caught while going to Bes village on a bike. After interrogation, the duo admitted that they were behind the killing of the engineer. The duo have been identified as Shivaji Rao and Rakesh Kumar Saw. Police have recovered a pistol, a few live bullets, mobile phones and sim cards. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A jawan of the Cobra battalion on Thursday hung himself from the ceiling fan of his office in Barhi, 40kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Barhi police officials said Sandeep Nayak, 27, was suffering from depression and undergoing treatment in Ranchi. The body has been sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Loyola school sealed for 72 hours after teacher tests positive||Civic officials sealed Loyola School on Friday after a teacher tested positive for the Coronavirus with Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) indicating that the school wil remain shut for the next 72 hours at least. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti said that as per directives of the East Singhbhum district administration, they have directed the Loyola management to ensure that all those who had come in contact with the  teacher students in particular be made to undergo a Covid test. "The school may be reopened after 72 hours and only after all students who had come in contact with the teacher have undergone a Covid test," Bharti told The Telegraph Online. On Thursday, the management of DBMS English School and Andhra Association English School decided to close their schools after a student and a teacher tested positive a day earlier. Covid-19 cases have been rising in East Singhbhum district, especially in the steel city since the last week. On Thursday, 71 people tested positive for Covid after testing 2,256 samples, taking he total number of cases to 413 since March 1 and 18,977 since March 2020. On Friday, concerned over the spike in Covid cases, the district health department sent nine Covid awareness vehicles to as many blocks in East Singhbhum district. District disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, "We are not only focusing on detection of Covid cases by conducting more tests, we are also trying to create awareness among people living in rural areas. The nine Covid awareness vehicles were pressed into service for creating awareness among villagers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia teacher visits homes of autistic children ||A teacher of a Jharia based government run resource centre for physically and mentally challenged persons visited the houses of autistic children belonging to the economically weaker section and provided them with educational kits on World Autism Awareness day. The teacher provided tips in music therapy, play therapy, speech therapy, parent-child interaction therapy and applied behaviour analysis to their parents. Akhlaque Ahmad, a special educator cum speech and behaviour therapist, told The Telegraph Online: “As our centre is lying closed due to Covid we have decided to visit the homes of the autistic children today.” “Though altogether 8 autistic children are registered at our centre, we could visit only two of them living in the vicinity of the center, including 15 year old Shafufta Naz and 12 year old Priyanshu Kumar and interacted with the others over phone,” said Ahmad. “During the year-long closure of the centre we remained in regular touch with the students through their parents over smart phones and provided them with tips in play therapy, speech therapy etc,” said Ahmad. Prakash Singh, father Priyanshu Kumar said, “my son, Priyanshu is good in play therapy, watches videos with keen interest and with little special care, is no way inferior to any other student of his age group.” “We owe a lot to the teachers of the resource centre of Jharia as they take special care of such children like our son and helped them to improve their communication skills a lot,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||JFC to offer tutorials to help budding footballers learn basics of the game||Young and aspiring footballers can now look forward to learning the nitty gritty of football under elite coaches. Come Tuesday, Jamshedpur FC will be starting football tutorials `Football for Tomorrow' on its social media platforms. The Tata Steel-owned club's head coach Owen Coyle and his deputies Sandy Stewart and Noel Wilson will be teaching short and long passes, defending, throw-ins, shooting, heading etc. The episodes of football tutorials will be uploaded on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Youtube. A JFC official said the football tutorials will be held every Tuesdays for nine weeks. "The plan for football tutorials was discussed and sorted out when we were playing the Indian Super League (ISL) in Goa. The videos have already been shot and can be seen every Tuesdays by those who are interested to learn the basics of the game. Even coaches are welcome to attend the tutorials on our social platforms," he said on the condition of anonymity. Scotland-born Coyle, who mentored JFC in the last ISL season, is a coach with a proven track record. He guided Chennayin FC to finish runners-up in the 2019-20 ISL season. He will be shedding light on shooting and heading. Stewart, a Scottish footballer and coach, will teach short and long passes while Wilson, a former graduate of Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur, will be focussing on defending and throw-ins. He has also worked as JFC reserve team’s head coach in the 2019-20 season and led the team to some excellent performances in I-League 2nd Division and various other tournaments. JFC, in a bid to build a football ecosystem in and around the steel city , had started a grassroot programme for under-12, 13,14 and 15 kids under Spanish coach Carlos Santamarina but the programme had to be abandoned owing to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro artist's painting makes it to international show||A Bokaro-based artist’s painting with coal dust has found a place in an online international art exhibition. The work by Ajay Shankar Mahto, which depicts Jharkhand's culture and nature, was selected for the exhibition organised by the Positive Energy Art, an international open platform of art expressions in India, in collaboration with SEE-DIN Studio (Thailand), Charcoal Foundation Bangora (India), Shashtriya Art Studio (Mauritius), Kalagiri Arts and Culture Foundation (India), Rebel Art Space (Thailand) and Avant Garde Art Foundation (Thailand). Mahto, a resident of Shilfor Suyadih village in Chandankiyari block of Bokaro district, said he feels proud that his painting has been selected for the international exhibition. "It took me less than two days to finish the painting. Jharkhand is known for coal deposits and my work  finding a place on an international platform makes me really proud,” he said. Mahto uses oil, watercolour and acrylic medium for his paintings. The exhibition started on March 25 and will conclude on April 20. Artists from India, United States, Germany, UAE, Turkey, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, Panama, Thailand, Algeria, Croatia, Senegal and Mauritius are part of the event. The artist has previously made sand sculptures of M.S Dhoni, Swami Vivekananda, Gautam Buddha, Olympic Day and Kargil heroes. An art lecturer at Ravi Mahto Smarak Teachers Training College in Dhanbad, Mahto did his masters in fine arts from Chandigarh-based Prachin Kala Kendra . He is planning to come up with yet another sand art and is also keen to spread awareness on the perils of pollution. Mahto has received several awards including international human rights award and was also the Bokaro district icon (cVigil) during the parliamentary elections in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma to spend Rs 2.20cr on revamping Telaiya dam||The Koderma district administration has laid out a beautification plan for the popular tourist hotspot Telaiya dam. The dam was the first of four multi-purpose dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by the then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, it attracts a large number of tourists round the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. A total of Rs.2.20 crore will be spent to construct a watch tower, a selfie point, cafeteria, solar lights and kiosks. Parking zones, drinking water facilities and toilets are also part of the proposed plan. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the watch tower will come near the boating site of the dam. The Jheel Restaurant is the only option for accommodation situated on the Ranchi-Patna highway. The proposed plan also includes a new state-of-the-art guest house. “We are searching for the land and soon we will go ahead in this regard also,” said Gholap. Gholap said he is also working on the possibility of developing water sports at Telaiya dam. “Developing this spot by ensuring maximum facilities will woo visitors in large numbers,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 700 fresh Covid cases, one casualty in a day||The active Covid caseload in Jharkhand crossed the 3000 mark for the first time in 2021 on Thursday as at least 690 people, including 369 in Ranchi alone, were found infected by the mysterious virus, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. A bulletin released by the NHM revealed that the state reported only 162 Covid recoveries against the over 650 cases, which took the count of active cases in Jharkhand to 3352 on Thursday. Ranchi reported 59 Covid recoveries on the day, and the active caseload here jumped to 1872, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. Another Covid patient, a resident of Dumka, died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1114, NHM stated in its bulletin. More than five Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 infection in the state this week and at least three casualties were reported in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and growth rate of infection. The growth rate of Covid infection in Jharkhand also reached 0.30 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 0.37 per cent. As per NHM records, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent in the beginning of March. As per government data, the doubling rate too has dropped to 229.73 days in Jharkhand from above 2500 days back in March first week. The data indicates that it would take around 229 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. With fresh cases outnumbering recoveries almost every day since mid-March, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand has also dripped to 96.42 per cent, reveals government data. The recovery rate in the state was above 98.60 per cent in the first week of March. Ranchi was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on Thursday. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 71 fresh cases, while Dhanbad reported 31 fresh cases of infection, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As per government data, more than 1.24 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and over 1.20 lakh of them have recovered. More than 35,000 of these cases were reported in Ranchi. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to as many as 21,318 people, including over 19,500 senior citizens, thereby achieving 44 per cent of its target for the day. As many as 3667 beneficiaries, around 74 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, were administered the second dose of the vaccine on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Covid test for students, vaccine drive by traders||Research scholars including day and hostelites at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad welcomed the Covid test drive launched by Dhanbad district administration on Thursday. Covid test of all students, teachers as well as non teaching staff of IIT (ISM), P.K. Roy Memorial College and SSLNT Women’s was also launched according to the direction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The test was conducted for only research scholars since labs for PhD students were only functional at IIT (ISM) and classroom teaching is yet to begin for all B.Tech and M.Tech students. Sawan Kumar, a PhD final semester student of Mechanical Engineering said, “Though our Covid test was conducted during the time of hostel shifting in November last year but today the second test was conducted which we welcome.” “Despite the fact that we observe all Covid Protocols of mandatory mask wearing while attending labs, social distance observation and use of sanitizers etc we feel that periodic testing is only way of preventing the spread of diseases as it helps to isolate the affected person and thereby prevents other getting infected from him” said Kumar a native of Darbhanga in Bihar. Pankaj Sharma, an electronics engineering research scholar said,”though I am not a hosteller and rather a day scholar but since we use the hostel mess together with other hostellers so we feel that infection can spread from any source.” “We also want the administration to make arrangements for vaccination of all students” said Sharma. The federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) organised the first free of cost Covid vaccination camp at Purana Bazar on Thursday. A total of 105 shopkeepers from different parts of the district took the vaccine at the camp. This is the first camp of its kind for vaccination organised by the trade body for shopkeepers which began at around 10am at Marwari Yuva Manch office of Purana Bazar in presence of General Secretary of Purana FDZCCI Ajay Narayan Lal. “We had a target of around 200 vaccination at the camp. We will try to extend the camps for one more day to achieve the target,” said Lal and added they would also try to organise similar camps at the offices of different units of FDZCCI spread across the district. Ashanarayan Bharti , a grocer of Bank More Tiwari Gali locality who took the first vaccine on Thursday at the camp said, “I reached at the camp at around 9.45am and became the first person to take the vaccine and the entire process was quite smooth and I felt no reaction at all and retuned back to my home after spending half an hour at the centre.” “Though, I also wanted to take by wife at centre for vaccination but as she was slightly unwell she couldn’t accompany me,” said Bharti and added that after returning to home he also convinced the residents of his locality to take vaccines as soon as possible to avoid the risk of infected by Covid 19. The district administration on Thursday also decided to increase the ambit of Covid test for all passengers reaching Dhanbad through buses  from outside the state at Bartand based Bus depot of Dhanbad from tomorrow. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, “as large number of passengers arrive at Dhanbad through buses from adjoining Bihar and Bengal so it is imperative to carry out their Covid test to identify the infected persons in order to isolate them and provide treatment to them” Notably, Covid test of all passengers arriving from different states including Madhya Pradesh, Gujraat, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharastra is already going on at Dhanbad Railway station ahead of Holi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly man hacked to death in Jharkhand||A 65-year-old man was hacked to death in front of his house in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Wednesday night on the suspicion of practicing sorcery. The incident happened in Parsa Navatoli village under Raidih police station in Gumla district, around 120km south-west of the state capital Ranchi. The deceased Ranthu Munda used to treat people with traditional herbs. According to police sources, two neighbours Sudhir Munda and Chotu Munda, both in their early 20s, forcibly entered the house of Ranthu around 11.30pm on Wednesday by breaking open the door. They then locked up three members of his family in a room and started beating up Ranthu. Later the duo dragged Ranthu outside and hacked him to death with an axe. Raidih police station officer-in-charge Nitish Kumar said: “We reached the village in the morning after getting information about the murder. We learnt from the villagers that Sudhir’s sister (16-year-old Sangita Kumari), who had been suffering from some disease for the last seven months, died on Holi (March 29). Sudhir blamed Ranthu for using black magic which led to the death of his sister. On Wednesday night, he conspired with his friend and cousin brother Chotu to kill Ranthu.” Senior police officials, including Chainpur subdivisional police officer Cyril Marandi, visited the spot. After a search, both the accused were arrested from their houses in the same village. On the basis of their confession, the axe used for the murder was recovered and the accused were remanded in custody. The body of the victim was sent to the Sadar Hospital in Gumla for post-mortem. Ranthu’s wife Jamuni Mundain said that her husband used to treat people claiming to know sorcery and this proved to be the reason for his death. Jharkhand has witnessed the killings of more than 1,500 people for allegedly practicing black magic and witchcraft, a majority of them being women, since its formation in 2000. In March this year, Jharkhand High Court, taking suo motu cognisance of the killing of five members of a family in Gumla district on the suspicion of practicing witchcraft, had chided the authorities and directed to take “remedial measures and also take serious steps for generating awareness in the people regarding evils of such type of practice”. Kumar said that almost all police stations have started awareness programmes against superstitions but it seems the people are still believing in such practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
02-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Health department asks deputy commissioners to prepare database of high-risk patients||The Jharkhand health department has asked all the deputy commissioners of 24 districts to prepare a database of immune-compromised and high risk patients at the earliest and conduct routine RT-PCR and TrueNat tests for Covid-19. In a directive issued to the deputy commissioners on Thursday, secretary health, Jharkhand government has given stress on ‘Test, track and treat’ strategy to curb growing Covid-19 cases and as part of this effort has asked all the deputy commissioners to direct district health units and in-charge of the non-communicable diseases to start preparing database of all such high risk patients. “The database of all such immune-compromised and high risk patients suffering from HIV, under dialysis, TB, heart and kidney diseases and cancer patients should be prepared district wise and should be available with the surveillance and district health teams for routine RT-PCR and TrueNat testing for Covid-19. The district administration should arrange for Covid-testing at camps near to residence of such patients by informing such patients well in advance. Ideally the camps should be conducted on a weekly basis,” the letter states. The directive also directs the district administration to ensure routine checking of other frontline workers who interact with large number of masses like public transport drivers, bank staff, front desk workers, post office personnel and private couriers, food delivery workers, hotel staff, industrial workers, civic body officials, health staff, street vendors and vegetable sellers, workers in bus terminus and railway station. It also advises district administration to undertake sample collection and testing through mobile vans in urban slums while asking district administration to take help of NGOs, civil societies and other organisations in undertaking awareness about preventive steps and symptoms of Covid-19. Significantly, the state had in the last week of March directed respective deputy commissioners to undertake sample collection and testing of all persons coming from states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh by air, road and rail. Incidentally, the state registered 693 positive cases on Wednesday with a total of 124201 positive cases out of which 120263 have been discharged after recovery.  The state has a positivity rate of 4.94 per cent as against national average of 6.5 per cent and recovery rate of 96.83 per cent as against national average of 93.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
