03-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs highest single-day spike in 2021 with 1,733 new Covid cases||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,179 on Friday, to 7,692. This was the 22nd consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 550 Covid recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 5,71,895 but 1,733 new infections were detected, besides four deaths, two of them in the city. The death toll rose to 10,335. The Covid-19 tally in the state mounted to 5,89,922 on Friday. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 513 and 331 new infections, respectively, were detected. The recovery rate among coronavirus patients currently stands at 96.94 per cent, the bulletin said. Altogether 92,25,351 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19 in the state, including 26,986 on Friday, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Easter: A feast of love, peace and hope||On Good Friday, we commemorate the suffering and death of Jesus on the Cross to save us from sin and death. But Good Friday is not the end. On Easter Sunday, we celebrate how God raised Jesus from the dead to a new life of love, peace and hope, opening our path to life eternal with Him in heaven. In this greatest of all events of Good Friday-Easter Sunday and likewise in each event of our life, big or small, what is ever certain, is the loving and concerned hand of God being always active in our life. He loves each one of us, is involved in the life of each of us, is working for the happiness of each, whether good or bad. Often we do not realise it. Yet God is telling each of us, “Can a mother forget her baby or the child within her womb? Yet even if she forgets, I will never forget you, my own, because I have written your name on the palm of my hand”. In and through the event of resurrection, our loving and concerned God is pointing at many things in our everyday life. But before that, can we believe in the reality of resurrection? Yes, we can believe, because we have so many reasons before us. Resurrection of Jesus was a sign that Jesus came from God and God raised him up from the dead. Jesus himself testified to it, “Tear down this temple and in three days I will build it again” (John 2: 19). The tomb of Jesus was empty on Easter Sunday. The guards claimed that the disciples of Jesus had stolen the body, but it was impossible for the terrified disciples to do so facing the might of the leaders and soldiers. The angel said to the women at Jesus’ tomb, “Why are you looking among the dead for one who is alive? He is not here: he has been raised (Luke 24:3-6).” The disciples did not believe at first that Jesus is risen. But after Jesus appeared to many and even unbelieving Thomas placing his fingers in the marks of the nails of Jesus and God slowly working in their hearts and transforming them, that the disciples slowly believed in the work of God. The disciples who were so fearful became very confident and bold and, went out to preach the message of Jesus. “Easter” literally means “the feast of fresh flowers”. Fresh flowers signify new life and hope. In other words it is celebrating humankind’s eternal hope in the new and everlasting life beyond. Hope that death is not the final word but the life beyond with God is the final destination. Easter is triumph of life over death, sin, suffering which happens to Jesus in his resurrection. So, Easter gives us encouragement and strength to overcome trials and suffering in this life with a view to happiness in the next life. That is the significance of the resurrection. In this world of pain, sorrow and hopelessness represented by darkness, Easter reminds us that life is worth living because life is lived in the service of God, God who is Light. So, Easter leads us from darkness to light, from death to life immortal. In his resurrection, Jesus has become our hope and guide for the new life beyond. Therefore, our life is to be like his life. Like him we too shall rise from the dead on the last day. “Peace be with you!” is God’s salutation to us in all situations of life. For us, every day must be an Easter Day, lived joyfully in the close company of our God of peace and joy. We need to be aware of the all-pervading, loving presence of God in and around us, and the strong conviction of our own rising to a new life. The message of Easter is that nothing can destroy us — not pain, sin, rejection or death — because God has conquered all these, and we too can conquer these if we put our Faith in our God of Good Friday-Easter Sunday. We are to be bearers of the Good News of the power of Resurrection. Resurrection is about seeing our world in a new way. Early that Easter morning, Mary Magdalene did not find what she was looking for, the dead body of Jesus. But she found something better than she could have imagined: the Risen Jesus. Sometimes, the things we think we want most are not granted to us. What we get instead is an experience of God's new ways of working in our life and in the world. That’s the power of the Resurrection. When those moments come, we must spread the news--just as Mary Magdalene did: We have seen the Lord! We need to be Easter people. We are in truth called to be an “Easter people”, because there are many Easter moments in our lives. It may be in prayer, when for a moment we really experience the love of God, especially having felt his absence, as we often do, like the disciples who experienced the emptiness of the tomb. It may be that moment when we are touched and given hope by a word of God — our hearts uplifted. We are to be messengers of hope. Hope in future keeps us going through our sufferings and trying days. Raising Jesus from the dead, God has given us hope, that there will be difficult times in our life, there will be death like situations but that is not the end, as God is our hope in darkness. We need to be messengers of peace. We think peace means absence of any problem and difficulties. But can we do away with those in modern day life of struggle? Then we have to live in the graveyard where there is perfect peace but no life. But we are in real life and so have to face and overcome adverse situations, trusting in God. Then only we shall experience real deep peace, which comes only from God, which no one else can give or take away. We cannot have our own peace and peace in the world just like that but we all have to make sincere and serious efforts for that. In conclusion, in this season of spring, as we look around, we experience newness in nature. New Life is smiling all around us. New leaves sprouting, new flowers blossoming, new butterflies floating, new birds chirping and children smiling anew! But before these happened, there was death of the leaves, plants, caterpillars.  Jesus too died on the cross but God raised him to a life of newness, new in all ways. So also, touched and transformed by Easter, we must die to our selfishness and shortcomings and be renewed in our body, mind, heart and soul, becoming new creations of God. That is, we are slowly becoming the Easter people of Love, Peace and Hope. That is the gift of Easter for each of us. It is gift yes, but at the same time it is also the task and challenge of Easter, that in our turn we make everything new and bring newness all around us, shedding our selfishness and being inspiration to others to shed their selfishness and shortcomings. As at all moments God is making us new, transforming us into his image and likeness, so also must we work with God to make his creation and people and everything around us ever new. Rev Fr. Dr. Dominic Savio SJ, Principal, St Xavier’s College (Autonomous)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in two godowns in the city||Fire broke out in two godowns in central Calcutta between Friday afternoon and evening. The first fire broke out at the ground floor of a multi-storied electronic goods godown on Lenin Sarani around noon. Twelve tenders doused the flames, police said. The second fire broke out at another godown on the top of a two-storied building on Madan Street near E Mall in Chandni Chowk in the evening. Nine fire tenders brought the fire under control. No one was injured, the police said. Both the buildings have been sealed off for forensic tests. Forensic experts will visit the spots on Saturday. The fire on Lenin Sarani was spotted around 12.20pm. Residents noticed thick smoke billowing out of the ground floor of the five-storied building on 157B Lenin Sarani. “After initial assessment, eight fire tenders were sent, they stood inside a narrow lane in a heavily crowded pocket in central Calcutta. Later four more tenders were sent,” a senior police officer said. Fire department officials said they had brought in six fire tenders at one go to ensure there was no problem in water supply. The building doesn’t have a lift. Firefighters didn’t use the stairs, instead two hydraulic ladders were brought in. Firefighters were split into groups and made to encircle the building and spray water. A police team led by Rupesh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (central division), reached the spot and evacuated the building. The entire area was cordoned off and electric connection to the building was snapped. “We were careful that there was no repeat of any mistake that might have happened during the fire at New Koilaghat building on Strand Road,” said a senior officer of the fire services department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Power snag disrupts Metro services ||Metro Railway services were disrupted for an hour on Friday morning because of a power snag at a substation near Central station. A substation receives power from CESC before feeding it to Metro stations. “The Central substation has two transformers. Power supply to one of them was snapped after a cable got ruptured on Thursday night. A single transformer had to take the entire load from Friday morning. After a few hours, the power tripped,” said a Metro official. “The snag was reported at 11.25am. Normal services were restored at 12.26am,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. In the intervening period, a truncated service was operational, said officials. Trains ran between Maidan and New Garia stations in the south and between Dakshineswar and Girish Park in the north. The stretch between Central and Maidan was out of bounds for an hour. Both Girish Park and Maidan stations have provisions for trains to change directions. Another official said the third rail’s supply was not affected after the power tripped. “But the station’s lights, fan and panel rooms were not receiving power,” he said. The snag’s impact could have been much more pronounced had it not happened on a holiday (Good Friday).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Pedestrians killed in accidents||Two pedestrians died in separate accidents in the city between Thursday night and Friday. The first accident happened near Mani Square Mall off the EM Bypass around 10pm on Thursday. One of the housekeeping staff of the mall who had left for home was hit by a motorcycle while she was crossing the road, the police said. Mamoni Ram, 37, a resident of Topsia Road in Tiljala, was taken to a private hospital on the Bypass. She succumbed to injuries around midnight, the police said. The motorcyclist has been arrested. The second accident happened sometime after midnight at the Hyde Road and Circular Garden Reach Road crossing in Ekbalpore, the police said. A security guard of a garage was hit by a truck while he was crossing the road, the police said. Tilak Raj Dubey, 65, a resident of Nitya Ghosh Lane in Watgunge, was taken to a private hospital in Ekbalpore where he was declared dead. The truck driver has been arrested. A senior police officer of the traffic department said in both the cases, the offending vehicles were moving at a high speed. “There is a tendency among motorists to speed when the roads are relatively less congested. But unfortunately, they do not consider pedestrian traffic or slow-moving vehicles that can turn up on the road at any point of time,” said the officer. “If motorists maintain the speed limit, they should be able to negotiate even if a pedestrian or a slow-moving vehicle suddenly turns up on the road,” he said. Pedestrians too should be careful while crossing roads and should attempt to cross over only when the signal is red for vehicles, said another officer. According to the statistics with Lalbazar, out of the 201 people who died in road accidents in 2020, as many as 94 were pedestrians. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, more than half of the people who died on the city roads were pedestrians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Alipore Zoo welcomes a new female foal||A zebra gave birth to a baby at Alipore Zoo on March 26. The female foal, weighing around 25kg, was let out in the open in front of visitors on Friday. The latest star in stripes takes the herd strength at the park to seven, five of them females, said a zoo official. The foal displayed on Friday was born around 8.30am on March 26. The mother and her newborn had to be separated from the rest of the herd after the birth. “The other members of the group turned very curious about the baby. As some of the adults tried to come close to the baby, the mother got a little aggressive. The aggression caused problems in lactation. We separated the two from the herd. Now, the baby seems to be fine,” said a zoo vet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta's landmark Howrah Bridge illuminates in blue||Howrah Bridge illuminated in blue on Friday evening to mark World Autism Awareness Day. April 2 is designated as World Autism Awareness Day by the United Nations. “Light it up Blue” is a campaign spearheaded by Autism Speaks, an organisation that works to create understanding and acceptance for persons with autism. Supporters are encouraged to wear blue and post on social media with the hashtag #LightItUpBlue to raise awareness about the neurological condition. Landmarks across the world have turned blue in solidarity this year, an official of the Calcutta Port Trust said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||This Holy Week, spending takes a dive||The country could be splitting hairs on whether India’s economic recovery will be Y-shaped, K-shaped or any other alphabet, Ann Caroline Etto is not sure whether she will again sell as many Easter eggs and baskets as she had in 2019. This year, she is satisfied because in 2020 the order was “almost nothing”. Easter festivities are approaching but they are muted as the fear of rising Covid-19 cases looms again, social gatherings have become smaller and many do not have enough resources like before. The orders have diminished because people are “cutting costs” and prioritising other expenses, said Caroline Etto, 54. “It is the beginning of an academic session and parents are telling their children that instead of buying Easter eggs one could do with a small chocolate and buy a pencil box or exercise books or set of colours that they need more,” said Caroline Etto, who has been making Easter goodies from her Picnic Garden residence for 10 years. From those who make goodies at home to the bigger confectioners, many said they have deliberately not hiked prices despite “a steep increase” in cost of raw materials to keep it “affordable”. “The cost of production has gone up because the prices of raw chocolate and LPG cylinders have gone up. But if I increased the price people would not buy,” said a small home confectioner, who operates from Moulali. At least three of them said the price of Easter eggs and hampers have been retained at what it was in 2019. Celebrations this year are expected to be mostly limited to going to the church for service and family dinners instead of social gatherings or going out. Loss of jobs, reduced income and the fear of another surge in Covid cases are making many spend much less than what they would usually do. For Dorothy Kolentine, the cost cutting has affected “buying expensive clothes and dining out”. “Everything is so expensive. But our income is not like before. So, one has to maintain a budget,” said Kolentine. At some homes, the budget for buying of Easter eggs and sending gifts to extended families have also been reduced. “For the Good Friday service, we had not expected so many people. We have a hall where the service was being screened. People have lost jobs or their income has been hit, so spending during festival has reduced this year. It is more about visiting the church for service,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish priest of Church of Christ the King, Park Circus. The arrangements in the church this year were also much simpler. “People used to donate for festivals that has gone down this year,” Father Mandi said. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, said “People are uncertain of their future”. “Those who are salaried are trying to keep a reserve because with a surge in infection and illness, the expenses would only mount,” he said. A confectioner in the city said it was “still a long way” before the pre-pandemic days are attained. “People are coming to the stores to buy but the bulk orders from offices have disappeared completely,” the confectioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Meeting on April 7 to fix IIEST exam mode||IIEST Shibpur has convened an emergency meeting of the senate on April 7 to take a call on whether the supplementary exams could be conducted online instead of being held on the campus as Covid cases are on the rise. The senate is the highest academic body of the institute. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said, of the two issues to be taken up at the meeting, one pertains to fixing the mode of examination under the circumstances. The other is related to the administration of the institute. “We have received an appeal from the students’ senate for holding the test, due to start from May 5, online as cases are on the rise. In the previous senate held last month, we had decided to conduct the test on the campus. But students now want that to be reconsidered. Let the senate decide,’’ said Chakrabarti. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, last week wrote to the director that as many of the students belonged to worst-affected states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it would not be advisable to call them back to the Shibpur campus. Around 270 undergraduate students are scheduled to write the supplementary exams from May 5 to May 10. An official of the institute said the senate was likely to accept the plea for holding the test online. “The situation is fast deteriorating across the country. Chances are that travel restrictions could be imposed again. Besides, a journey to the campus could invite health risks,’’ he said. According to him, since the regular semester examinations are going to be held online in April, it would be unfair to recall a section of students to the campus next month for an off-line supplementary test. As the supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November, IIEST decided that BTech supplementary would be held in-person as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Increasing Covid beds a challenge for hospitals across state||The state government wants hospitals across Bengal to increase Covid beds as the number of cases have started rising again but officials of several private and government healthcare facilities said that this was easier said than done. Many of the hospitals said it would be difficult to increase the number of beds and take it to what it was during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic because of the large number of non-Covid patients now. Unlike this time last year, there is no lockdown now and so, all types of patients have filled up non-Covid beds in hospitals. Several hospitals are converting single rooms into twin-sharing ones to accommodate more Covid patients. But officials of these hospitals said even this would not allow them to increase the Covid beds to what it used to be in the middle of last year. Almost all private and government hospitals have reduced their Covid beds from December last year. Also, the state government had converted several private hospitals into Covid treatment units, which have now resumed admitting non-Covid patients. Officials of these hospitals said it would be difficult to convert them into complete Covid hospitals again. Peerless Hospital has 360 beds of which 38 are now designated for Covid patients. All 38 are occupied, said an official of the hospital. “Over 90 per cent of the non-Covid beds are also full. We are planning to convert some of the single rooms into twin-sharing ones to increase the number of Covid beds. However, even then we cannot increase the number to anywhere near 150 Covid beds, which we had till the end of December,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. “Unlike during the lockdown, we have hundreds of non-Covid patients, many of whom had deferred their surgeries for a year because of the pandemic. Also, the number of emergency patients, like those who met with road accidents, has also gone up many times compared to the lockdown period,” said Mitra. He said the hospital has surgeries booked for the next two-and-half months. At AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria, the authorities have increased the number of Covid beds to 55 on Friday. At the peak of the pandemic, the hospital had 90 Covid beds. “We have already converted single cabins into twin-sharing rooms. We are planning to increase the capacity to 70 but it would be very difficult to reach 90,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. The group’s Salt Lake hospital was turned into a Covid hospital last year and now the 230-bed unit has 12 Covid beds. “Among the non-Covid beds, 180 are occupied so it will be difficult to shift all of the patients if we need to convert to a complete Covid treatment unit again,” said Barua. Getting doctors and nurses for increased beds for Covid treatment is also an issue because they are engaged in treating non-Covid patients. At meetings held with health officials from all the districts on Wednesday and Thursday, senior officials from Swasthya Bhavan have directed their counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal to identify healthcare facilities that can immediately be converted into Covid-19 hospitals. The officials have been instructed to submit reports with details of their requirements on how to make these hospitals functional within a week. A section of senior officials from several districts said starting a new Covid hospital within a week was a tall order. While buildings and other infrastructure may be available, meeting the personnel shortage would be a challenge. Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata has sought 40 doctors, 73 nurses and 18 lab technicians to cope with the increasing number of patients that were being admitted to the facility. On Friday, there were 60 Covid patients in the hospital with 12 of them admitted to the critical care unit and seven in the hospital’s high dependency unit. “We have sought specialists from the field of chest, medicine, infectious diseases and public health along with nursing staff to cope with the pressure immediately,” said a senior official of the hospital. Similar demands have started pouring in at Swasthya Bhavan from other hospitals including Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati and MR Bangur Hospital. “We want to re-convert the KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur into a Covid hospital. Several nurses who were earlier posted in this hospital  during the pandemic have been withdrawn and deputed to other health facilities,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Municipal Corporation to begin jabs in 120 wards from mid-April||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will begin Covid-19 vaccination at 120 ward health clinics from mid-April, up from 80 clinics where jabs are being given now. The civic body has also targeted expanding Covid vaccination to all the 144 ward health clinics by the end of this month. Expanding the vaccination facilities to all localities is required to ensure that everyone has a vaccination centre within a short distance from their homes, said a senior CMC official. After the Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 started from April 1, the civic authorities feel that there would be an increased rush at the existing clinics. So, there is a need to add more clinics where the vaccination would take place, said an official. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above could get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. A spike in the number of daily infections has also made it necessary to quickly vaccinate as many people as possible. “We will run vaccination from 120 ward health clinics from the middle of April. We are also targeting to start vaccination in all the 144 ward health clinics in Calcutta from the end of April,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. “Our health clinics are present in each of the 144 wards of Calcutta and they will play a very crucial role in vaccinating the community. So, we are increasing the number of vaccination centres gradually,” he added. Public health experts have said that wearing masks, washing hands frequently and getting vaccinated are the measures people should take to prevent the spread of Covid. The bulletin published on the state health department’s website on Friday showed that 1,733 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, 513 of them in the city. The bulletin published on Thursday showed that 1,274 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, 399 of them from Calcutta. A doctor of the CMC said that the number of infected people was rising sharply every day. Calcutta recorded the highest number of Covid cases in Bengal on Thursday as well as Friday. A month ago, the numbers were much lower, though the spike started around then. The bulletin published on March 2 showed that 171 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on March 1, 70 of them in the city. There are many places that do not have a vaccination centre nearby. “Our attempt is to provide a vaccination centre near everyone’s home. Getting a vaccine is everyone’s right. There could be many people who do not have the time and scope to travel some distance and take the vaccine. So, we are expanding the facility so that everyone gets the opportunity to take the vaccine,” said a CMC official. Arnab Ray, a resident of Naktala and an associate professor of English at a city college, took the jab at CMC’s Ward 100 health clinic on Friday. Ray’s mother and wife also took the jab at the clinic. “I had gone to Ward 100 health clinic a couple of weeks ago but the officials there asked me to go to the health clinic in Ward 98 to get vaccinated. When I visited the Ward 100 health clinic again on Friday, the officials said that they are vaccinating now. So, we took the vaccine there,” said Ray. He added that there was no other healthcare facility close to his home that was administering the vaccine. The CMC’s clinic administering the vaccine helped him, he said. The jabs at CMC’s clinics are being administered free of cost. The CMC had vaccinated 8,800 persons at its vaccination centres on Thursday. “Our immediate aim is to vaccinate 10,000 people every day. As the number of vaccination centres increase, we will target a higher number every day,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
03-04-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises sign up to develop Gare Palma II||Adani Enterprises Ltd along with its wholly owned subsidiary Gare Palma II Collieries Pvt Ltd (GPIICPL) have signed a pact with Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd (MAHAGENCO) to develop and operate Gare Palma Sector II coal mine. The coal ministry had allocated the coal mine in Raigarh district of Chhattisgarh to MAHAGENCO in 2015, Adani Enterprises said in a filing to BSE on Friday. The coal block was allotted for the development, operation and captive consumption of coal to its end use thermal power plants located at Koradi, Chandrapur 8- Parli. According to the approved mining plan, the peak rated capacity of mine is 23.6 million tonnes per annum with total mineable reserve of 553.18mt for opencast mine. MAHAGENCO had floated a tender for the selection of mine developer and operator for the development and operation of Gare Palma II coal mine in March 2016. After a reverse auction, Adani Enterprises Ltd emerged as L-1 bidder. The contract period will be for 34 years, including for mine development and final mine closure. Tata Power on Thursday said it has taken over power distribution operations in northeastern Odisha from April 1. Tata Power has taken over the management and operations of NESCO (North Eastern Electricity Supply Company of Odisha) from April 1, 2021, upon the completion of the sale process, according to a regulatory filing. Now, NESCO will operate under the company name as TP Northern Odisha Distribution Limited (TPNODL). Tata Power holds 51 per cent of equity with management control and state-owned GRIDCO will have 49 per cent shares in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Spectrum may give Jio the edge||Jio’s aggressive strategy on spectrum, new JioPhone offers and the impending launch of low-cost smartphones are likely to help regain subscriber momentum, according to a report. Near-term delay in tariff hike does not de-rail the long-term structural uptrend story in average revenue per user as any consolidation could further boost Jio’s subscriber addition, said JM Financial. Jio’s subscriber momentum remained muted in the course of 2020-21, partly on account of spectrum constraints because of a surge in data usage post-Covid. “Better execution and positioning of the competition (Bharti) which has enabled it to gain a higher share of mobile broadband subscribers. However, we believe the subscriber momentum could be bottoming out, given the aggressive strategy of Jio to acquire significant quantities of spectrum in the higher frequency bands,” it observed. New “aggressive” Jiophone offers, followed by the impending launch of the low-cost smartphones, are likely to help regain subscriber momentum. It also observed that Jio’s net subscriber addition had remained subdued, averaging 2.3 million addition per month against 4.7 million in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Record spike in March gold imports||The country’s gold imports in March surged 471 per cent from a year earlier to a record 160 tonnes, a government source has said as a reduction in import taxes and a correction in prices from record highs drew retail buyers and jewellers. Higher imports by the world's second-biggest bullion consumer could support benchmark gold prices, which have corrected nearly 17 per cent from an all-time high of $2,072 in August 2020. The surge in imports could increase India’s trade deficit and put pressure on the rupee. India imported a record 321 tonnes in the March quarter, up from 124 tonnes a year ago, the source said. The source asked to remain anonymous as he is not authorised to speak to the media. In value terms, March imports surged to $8.4 billion from $1.23 billion a year ago, he said. In February, India slashed import duties on gold to 10.75 per cent tax from 12.5 per cent to boost retail demand and curtail smuggling into the South Asian country. “Many consumers had postponed buying due to higher prices. They rushed to buy after prices corrected sharply,” said Harshad Ajmera, the proprietor of JJ Gold House, a wholesaler in Calcutta. In March, local gold futures hit a one-year low of Rs 43,320 per 10 grams. Jewellers were building inventories after seeing robust retail demand, said a Mumbai-based bullion dealer with a gold importing bank. “Throughout the month gold was trading at premium because of jewellery demand,” the dealer said. Last month, dealers charged premiums of up to $6 an ounce over official domestic prices, inclusive of 10.75 per cent import and 3 per cent sales levies. India’s gold imports in April could fall below 100 tonnes as jewellers fear government could impose lockdown to arrest rising coronavirus infections, the dealer said. Exports jump The country’s exports jumped 58.23 per cent to $34 billion, the highest in a month, in March as key sectors such as engineering, gems and jewellery and pharmaceuticals recorded healthy growth rate during the month, according to the commerce ministry’s provisional data. Imports rose 52.89 per cent to $48.12 billion against $31.47 billion in March 2020. Exports during April-March 2020-21, however, dipped 7.4 per cent to $290.18 billion compared with $313.36 billion in 2019-20, the data showed. Imports during 2020-21 contracted 18 per cent to $388.92 billion against $474.71 billion during 2019-20. In March 2020, the exports stood at $21.49 billion, a decline of about 34 per cent over March 2019 due to the global slowdown induced by the Covid-19 crisis. The trade deficit during the month widened to $14.12 billion against $9.98 billion in March 2020. Oil imports grew 1.22 per cent to $10.17 billion in March. During 2020-21, oil imports dipped 37 per cent to $82.25 billion.  Non-oil imports in March were up by 777.12 per cent to $37.95 billion. Reuters During the full fiscal, the imports contracted by 10.89 per cent to USD 306.67 billion. Gold imports jumped to USD 7.17 billion during the month under review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||India’s credit profile improves: Crisil Ratings||Credit rating agencies have started handing out more credit upgrades to companies than downgrades after the third quarter ended December 31 showed a feeble 0.4 per cent growth amid early signs of strengthening of demand. Crisil Ratings’ credit ratio — or the ratio of upgrades to downgrades — moved up to 1.33 in the second half from a decadal low 0.54 in the first  half of 2020-21. A credit ratio above 1 indicates more upgrades than downgrades. In its Ratings Roundup — a bi-annual report — Crisil said it had upgraded 294 companies in the second half and downgraded 221. Crisil said the credit metrices could improve further because of the impetus to infrastructure development in the budget, steady farm performance and sustained rural demand, and the vaccine rollout. However, the rating agency warned the spectre of a second wave of Covid-19 infections looms large. Rapid progress on inoculation is the key to decisively quell the risk, Crisil said. The sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since mid-February 2021 and the impact of any stringent containment measures on businesses are the key threats to the nascent demand recovery. Crisil’s resilience study of 42 sectors showed that only six  of the segments — accounting for 4 per cent of rated debt — are highly sensitive to a Covid-19 resurgence, while 20 are moderately sensitive. Among the highly sensitive sectors, airlines, airport operators, hospitality and retail have a long road to recovery. Gems and jewellery and automotive dealers have benefitted so far.a “Slower-than-anticipated demand growth, delays in implementation of budgetary or other fiscal measures, and a sub-normal monsoon are the other downside risks to the credit quality outlook,’’ the rating agency said. On how companies fared in the second half of the previous fiscal, it said that there were fewer downgrades across the spectrum during the period despite the sunset of policy and regulatory measures like the debt servicing moratorium in August and relaxation of default recognition norms in December 2020. These had provided temporary relief at the peak of the lockdown. According to Crisil, the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) provided much-needed liquidity support to jump-start business activity in the second half of the financial year. But the biggest driver for the increase in credit ratio were the unlock measures, which released pent-up demand across sectors, kick-started the economy and got cash flow from operations flowing for India Inc. ``Moderately resilient sectors such as automotive components and packaging saw a sharp increase in credit ratio led by increased pace of upgrades, even as credit ratio for the moderate resilient category was below 1’’, it disclosed while observing that highly resilient sectors like pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals had performed well and maintained credit ratio above 1 even during the worst phase of the pandemic, backed by sustained demand. On the other hand, low-resilience sectors like hospitality and real estate developers continue to see more downgrades than upgrades, even as the pace of downgrades slowed in the second half. The financial sector, too, benefitted from the rebound in corporate credit quality. Regulatory support by way of ECLGS and targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) kept reported gross non-performing assets in check, as seen by rising collection efficiencies in the second half of the fiscal. Public sector banks (PSBs), which benefitted from capital infusions in the past, returned to black at a systemic level after five years. Here it said that bank credit growth is set to speed up to 9-10 per cent in the new fiscal after mid-single digit growth in fiscal 2021. Strengthening of demand recovery and return of India’s GDP growth to a positive territory led to Crisil Ratings credit ratio (ratio of upgrades to downgrades), scaling to 1.33 in the second half of 2020-21 from a decadal low 0.54 in the previous half. A credit ratio above 1 indicates more rating upgrades than downgrades. The rating agency said in its Ratings Roundup-a bi annual report which analyses its rating action that during the period, the ratio of upgrades to downgrades stood at 294 and 221, respectively. It pointed out that the impetus to infrastructure development in the Union Budget 2021-22, steady farm performance and sustained rural demand, combined with the vaccine rollout, hold promise for continued improvement in the credit quality of corporate India even as the spectre of a second wave of Covid-19 infections looms large. It added that rapid progress on inoculation, is the key to decisively quell the risk posed by the second wave of the pandemic. ``Slower-than-anticipated demand growth, delays in implementation of budgetary or other fiscal measures, and a sub-normal monsoon are the other downside risks to the credit quality outlook’’, Crisil said. The rating agency however, cautioned that the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since mid-February 2021 and the impact of any stringent containment measures on businesses are the key threats to the nascent demand recovery and could impact the credit quality outlook adversely. Its resilience study of 42 sectors showed that only 6 (accounting for 4 per cent of rated debt) are highly sensitive to a Covid-19 resurgence, while 20 are moderately sensitive. Among highly sensitive sectors, airlines, airport operators, hospitality and retail have a long road to recovery, while gems & jewellery and automotive dealers have benefitted so far with supressed demand breaking free, it noted. On how companies fared in the second half of the previous fiscal, it said that there were fewer downgrades across the spectrum during the period despite the sunset of policy and regulatory measures like the debt servicing moratorium in August and relaxation of default recognition norms in December 2020. These had provided temporary relief at the peak of the lockdown. According to Crisil, the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) provided much-needed liquidity support to jump-start business activity in the second half of the financial year. But the biggest driver for the increase in credit ratio were the unlock measures, which released pent-up demand across sectors, kick-started the economy and got cash flow from operations flowing for India Inc. ``Moderately resilient sectors such as automotive components and packaging saw a sharp increase in credit ratio led by increased pace of upgrades, even as credit ratio for the moderate resilient category was below 1’’, it disclosed while observing that highly resilient sectors like pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals had performed well and maintained credit ratio above 1 even during the worst phase of the pandemic, backed by sustained demand. On the other hand, low-resilience sectors like hospitality and real estate developers continue to see more downgrades than upgrades, even as the pace of downgrades slowed in the second half. The financial sector, too, benefitted from the rebound in corporate credit quality. Regulatory support by way of ECLGS and targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) kept reported gross non-performing assets in check, as seen by rising collection efficiencies in the second half of the fiscal. Public sector banks (PSBs), which benefitted from capital infusions in the past, returned to black at a systemic level after five years. Here it said that bank credit growth is set to speed up to 9-10 per cent in the new fiscal after mid-single digit growth in fiscal 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Emission leeway for power plants||India has pushed back deadlines for coal-fired power plants to adopt new emission norms by up to three years, and allowed utilities that miss the new target to continue operating after paying a penalty, according to a government notice. India had initially set a 2017 deadline for thermal power plants to install flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) units that cut emissions of sulphur dioxides. But that was postponed to varying deadlines for different regions, ending in 2022. The new order dated April 1 from the environment ministry says plants near populous regions and the capital New Delhi will have to comply by 2022, while utilities in less polluting areas have up to 2025 to comply or retire units. Operators of coal-fired utilities, including state-run NTPC Ltd and industry groups representing private companies such as Reliance Power and Adani Power, have long been lobbying for dilution of the pollution standards, citing high compliance costs. The latest notice follows suggestions from the power ministry that plants be given deadlines to adopt norms in line with the severity of pollution in the region where they are located. A task force will be constituted by the Central Pollution Control Board to categorise plants in three categories “on the basis of their location to comply with the emission norms”, the environment ministry said in its order. In the case of non-compliance, a penalty of up to 20 paise will be levied for every unit of electricity produced. The power ministry said in January that a “graded action plan” could help avoid immediate increase in power prices in various relatively clean areas of India and avoid unnecessary burden on power utilities and consumers. Indian cities have some of the world's most polluted air. Thermal power companies, which produce three-fourths of the country’s electricity, account for some 80 per cent of its industrial emissions of particulate matter, sulphur- and nitrous-oxides, which cause lung diseases, acid rain and smog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Third Suzuki unit starts up in Gujarat||Suzuki Motor Gujarat Pvt Ltd (SMG), a 100 per cent subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation, has begun production from the third unit at its Ahmedabad-based manufacturing facility, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said on Friday. SMG has completed construction of Plant C and started production from April 2021, the auto major said in a regulatory filing. The third plant has capacity of 2.5 lakh units per units per annum. The capacity of the first two units is also 2.5 lakh units each, taking the total capacity of Suzuki in Gujarat to 7.5 lakh units a year. “Together with MSI’s production ability of 15 lakh units, Suzuki’s production ability of automobiles in India will be 22.5 lakh units,” the filing said. All automobiles that will be produced in SMG will be supplied to MSI. Suzuki had established SMG in March 2014, aiming to secure production ability in preparation for the automobile market growth in India, as well as for expansion of exports from the country. The first plant started operating in February 2017, and the second and the powertrain plant in January 2019. In October 2020, SMG became the fastest production site of Suzuki to achieve accumulated automobile production of 10 lakh units. “Suzuki will continuously meet the automobile market demand in India and also encourage exports to the global market, contributing to the Make in India initiative promoted by the Government of India,” the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Franklin Templeton scotches India exit rumours||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has said its commitment to India remains “steadfast” and that the fund house has no plans to exit its operations in the country. This statement comes amid media reports of intervention by its US-based parent seeking the diplomatic route for a “just and fair” hearing by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) with regard to its investigation on the winding up of six schemes. The reports had said that Franklin Templeton had threatened to exit India if it was not given a fair hearing. In a letter to investors, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd president Sanjay Sapre said, “We have no plans to exit our India business. Any speculation suggesting otherwise, or any rumours around sale of business in India are incorrect and simply that-rumours.” Sapre added that Franklin Templeton was an early entrant in the Indian mutual fund industry and remained a part of the industry even while many other global asset managers decided to leave. He, however, did not deny reports of engaging with government authorities. “Our engagement with government authorities, in India and globally, is also something we, and many companies do, as a matter of course. We have endeavoured to keep all stakeholders, including the relevant government and diplomatic authorities, appropriately informed of developments, and will continue to do so,” Sapre said. He said the fund house would continue to reach out to the regulators to bring the current matters to an appropriate and satisfactory conclusion. A PTI report quoting Sapre said that the fund house has full confidence in market regulator Sebi and all regulatory and statutory authorities. According to the fund house, it has been fully transparent with the regulator and extended fullest co-operation to them, to help them examine the circumstances surrounding the winding up of the six schemes. The fund house had shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23 last year, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Meanwhile, the six shut schemes have received Rs 15,776 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since closing down last year. “The six schemes have received total cash flows of Rs 15,776 crore till March 31, 2021 from maturities, coupons and prepayments since winding up,” the fund house said in a statement. Over the latest fortnight ended March 31, this year, these schemes received Rs 505 crore. The fund house added that the net asset value (NAV) of all the six schemes were higher as on March 31 this year, against their respective NAVs on April 23, 2020. It reiterated that the primary focus over the last several months has been, and remains, on returning money to unit holders as quickly as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Reliance Retail, Future Group extend deal deadline||Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has extended the timeline by six months to complete its Rs 24,713-crore deal with the Future group. The retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has now revised the timeline for the “Long Stop Date” to September 30, 2021 from March 31, 2021, a regulatory filing by Future Retail said. Long Stop is a timeframe to fulfil all the conditions precedent to a transaction  and the transaction completed. “Pursuant to the provisions of the scheme and other transaction documents executed in relation thereto, RRVL has in exercise of the right provided thereunder, extended the timeline for ‘Long Stop Date’ from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021 which has been duly acknowledged by Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited, wholly-owned subsidiary of RRVL,” Future Retail said. The deal got enmeshed in lawsuits with objections raised by online giant Amazon. Following some high court orders, the case has moved to the Supreme Court with a decision pending in the apex court. The Future-Reliance deal, which was announced in August last year, has already received clearances from regulators such as the Competition Commission of India, capital market regulator Sebi and the stock exchanges. The scheme of arrangement is now awaiting permission from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and shareholders. The top court has asked the NCLT not to pass any final order. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The US e-commerce giant said Future had violated their contract by entering into the deal with Reliance. The Emergency Arbitrator (EA) on October 25 2020, passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Reliance Industries on Friday said it has secured the approval of its shareholders and creditors to hive off its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business into a separate unit. Saudi Aramco is reportedly in discussions with Reliance that could lead to the oil giant buying a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business. Following the directions of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT),  Reliance had convened meetings of equity shareholders, lenders and unsecured creditors to vote on  a resolution transferring the O2C business into a separate subsidiary — Reliance O2C Ltd. In a communication to the stock exchanges, Reliance Industries  said 99.99 per cent of the shareholders, who participated in the meeting held through video conferencing voted in favour of the resolution. The resolution was also supported by 100 per cent of the secured creditors and 99.99 per cent of the unsecured creditors, Reliance said. The meetings were chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice (Retd) BN Srikrishna. In February, Reliance had said it expected to get all the necessary approvals by the second quarter of the next fiscal year. Reliance had started the exercise to hive off the company in September 2020.  Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani had told shareholders in July they expected to complete the deal by early 2021. The proposed subsidiary, with assets worth $42 billion, will house Reliance’s  refining & petrochemicals business as well as the company’s 51 per cent stake in its joint venture  with BP, among  other units along with its global trading businesses, the ethane pipeline in India and its 75 per cent stake in the joint venture with Sibur will also be part of the business. Moreover, its Malaysia petchem and polyester subsidiary and other related contracts, assets, real estate and the employees working under these businesses will also be part of the O2C businesses. Last month, a division bench of the Delhi High Court had stayed an order of a single judge that restrained Future Retail (FRL) from proceeding with the deal. It also stayed the single judge order directing Future group founder Kishore Biyani and others to appear in the court on April 28. Similarly, the single judge’s direction imposing a cost of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group as well as its directors, asking them to deposit it in Prime Minister's Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing COVID-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi was also stayed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||India||5 security personnel killed in encounter with Naxals at Chhattisgarh||Five security personnel were killed and 12 others injured on Saturday in an encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police officials said.  The body of a woman Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot, they said.  A senior police officer claimed, prima facie, Maoists have suffered a "huge loss" in the gunfight.  "Separate joint teams of security forces, over 2,000 in number, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night," state's Deputy Inspector General (anti-naxal operations) OP Pal said.  The personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (Bijapur) and Minpa and Narsapuram (Sukma), he said.  "At around 12 noon on Saturday, an encounter broke out between the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem and ultras belonging PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists near Jonaguda village under Jagargunda police station area (in Sukma)," Pal said, adding the gunfight lasted for about three hours.  As per the information received so far, five security personnel have been killed and 12 others injured, he said.  "Of the martyred personnel, one belonged to the CoBRA unit and two each are from the DRG and the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF," the DIG said.  He said a woman naxal was also gunned down in the encounter.  Citing the "ground report", Pal claimed that Maoists have suffered a huge loss in the gunfight.  "Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and the operation was underway to evacuate injured jawans as well as the bodies from the forest through helicopters," he said.  State's Director General of Police DM Awasthi, Task Force Commander of IAF's Anti-Naxal Task Force (ANTF) and senior police officials monitored the rescue operation and the situation from the 'ops room' at the police headquarter, he said.  On March 23, five DRG personnel were killed when Naxals blew up a bus carrying security personnel with an IED in Narayanpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Covid cases surging across several states at a staggering rate ||The latest wave of Covid-19 is surging at an alarming rate across a swathe of states and the total number of cases could be on course to surpass last September’s all-time peak as the virus spreads into Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities and towns and surrounding areas, experts say. In the last 24 hours, at least 89,129 fresh cases were reported nationwide and numbers are soaring, particularly in Maharashtra which on Friday announced 47,827 new cases. This followed two days when the state reported more than 40,000 cases on one day, and 39,544 the next day. What is particularly remarkable about this second Covid wave is the speed at which the number of cases is climbing.  “The rate of increase is phenomenal,” says virologist Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.  India has added nearly half a million cases in the last seven days. Unlike the earlier waves that were largely confined to India’s mega-cities, this time round the number of cases is also rising in smaller cities like Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded and Ahmednagar and even the surrounding rural areas in the districts. In Punjab, too, there has been a spate of cases in smaller towns and rural areas like the thinly populated Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in the Doaba region. Even a smaller state such as Chhattisgarh has been hard hit during the latest wave. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a dusk-to-dawn curfew in Pune and has warned that he may be forced to declare a full-scale lockdown if the cases continue to rise in the next two days.  He addressed the public late Friday about the need for everyone to take “extreme precautions” and also tough measures the government aims to take. The infection is spreading even though 6.5 million people in the state have received at least one round of vaccination. Still, that’s only a fraction of the state’s 126 million population. Thackeray, who asked for state officials to prepare a lockdown plan late last month as people were not heeding masking and distancing rules, said public complacency about the risks of the virus was partly to blame for the rising cases. “We lowered the guard of late. Crowding was witnessed at wedding ceremonies and public places,” he said. The number of cases reported nationally Friday was the highest since September 20. The number of cases nationwide has been rising sharply for 23 straight days. Maharashtra is the state that has alarmed authorities the most. Maharashtra, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana have surpassed or are close to surpassing their last year peaks. Despite the surge, experts say a full-scale national lockdown is unlikely to tackle this wave, especially in view of the economic consequences of such a move. Last year’s total lockdown served a purpose because it slowed the pandemic spread and thereby won time for hospitals and doctors to prepare for its onslaught. This time the hospitals in most states are already fully prepared and doctors have also established fixed procedures for handling patients. The number of new daily cases peaked nationally last September 16 at 97,894. Punjab reported 2,903 new cases and 57 deaths Friday.  Worryingly, the cases are spread out over a string of middle-sized cities including Jalandhar, Patiala,  Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali, which wasn’t a feature of the last surge. Genomic studies have shown 81 per cent of the Punjab cases are caused by the fast-spreading UK variant. In the Doaba region, particularly, almost every other household has relatives in the UK.  Punjab is facing an additional problem because it doesn’t have enough beds in the smaller towns and rural areas. Chhattisgarh, which has also been hard-hit by the pandemic, has announced a complete lockdown in Durg district between April 6 and April 14 with only essential services exempted and night curfews have been imposed in 22 other districts. Chhattisgarh recorded 4,174 new cases on Friday. The two most severely hit districts in the state are Durg and Raipur which recorded 996 cases and 1,327 cases respectively on Thursday. Experts suggest that a special effort should be made to step up vaccinations in hard-hit states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala. Delhi’s Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to the Centre to open up vaccination centres for everyone instead of restricting it to certain age groups. If the centre allows mass vaccinations, the Delhi government could use community centres, schools and other public sites to administer the injections, Kejriwal said. So far, close to 74 million anti-Covid jabs have been given nationwide, an impressive total by itself, but still representing only 5.2 per cent of the 1.4 billion population. Besides these measures,  the central government might need to rethink its tough stand on vaccines made by companies like Johnson & Johnson and also the Russian Sputnik V. The government allowed Bharat Biotech to go ahead with giving its vaccine to the public even though the Phase III clinical trials had not been completed. However, on Thursday it informed Sputnik V it would have to provide further information and might have to perform local bridging trials. Sputnik V has an advantage it is a freeze-dried vaccine and only needs to be reconstituted by adding water.  Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Labs has signed a contract to produce 250 million Sputnik V doses with RDIF, a Russian sovereign fund. One more positive aspect is that experts believe the infections emerging in the latest wave are milder than in the earlier ones. This could also be because this time many of the people who are being struck by the virus are younger and their bodies are able to cope with the infection more robustly. Some doctors also note an apparent preponderance of the newer cases emerging in more affluent parts of Mumbai. This has resulted in private hospitals having fewer beds free than the city’s government hospitals. Currently, apartment blocks and certain colonies are facing limited lockdowns. Night curfews are being imposed to prevent youngsters and others from meeting in bars and restaurants where infections can spread rapidly. India's health ministry last week announced it has identified various new coronavirus variants circulating in the country, including one it described as a “double mutant,” but said it was too early to conclude which factors were driving the latest case upsurge nationally. India could face even severe risks in the coming weeks. Already, large crowds have gathered for election rallies in states like West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu which are in the midst of intense campaigning. Even more seriously, enormous crowds of possibly up to 10 million on certain days will be turning up for the Kumbh Mela that is already underway in Haridwar and which will continue till April 30. The government has been looking at the pros and cons of vaccinating children. However, this appears to have been put on the backburner for the moment. Meantime, Bangladesh is reported to have decided to impose a seven-day lockdown starting Monday amid surging cases and deaths that have reversed the previous declining pattern. Pakistan on Friday reported more than 5,000 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since last June, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, Covid-positive, shifted to hospital for better care||Veteran politician and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, who tested positive for Covid-19 recently, was on Saturday admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure. Taking to Twitter, his son Omar Abdullah said Farooq Abdullah has been admitted to hospital in Srinagar based on the advice of doctors "to enable them to better monitor" him. "Our family remains grateful to everyone for their messages of support and their prayers," he added. The 85-year-old NC president tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was kept in home-isolation initially, but doctors on Saturday decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. Omar had informed about his father testing positive for the coronavirus and also urged everyone who came in contact with him recently to get tested. “My father has tested positive for Covid-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions,” he had said in a tweet. Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wished him a speedy recovery after news of his testing positive for the disease came to light. Farooq Abdullah received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Shah urges Tamil Nadu to reject 'corrupt, dynastic' DMK-Congress combine||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday attacked the DMK-Congress combine over "corruption and dynasty" and said only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can "protect" those who believe in the culture of Tamil Nadu. Speaking to reporters after attending a road show here in support of BJP's Thousand Lights candidate Khushbu Sundar for the April 6 Assembly elections, the senior leader appealed to the people of the state to ensure a 'double engine' government for Tamil Nadu's development. AIADMK, BJP and PMK are facing the polls as allies under the NDA banner. "Only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can protect Tamil Nadu's fishermen, unemployed youth, women and all those having faith in Tamil Nadu's culture," he said and appealed to the voters to choose the NDA candidates with a massive majority. The Home Minister lauded Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam for taking the state on the path of development and for the effective handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying Tamil Nadu has been at the 'forefront' of the fight against the contagion. "Tamil Nadu's growth is possible only when we defeat the corrupt and dynastic DMK and Congress," he said. The development initiatives launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country should come to Tamil Nadu to fulfill the dreams of the 'great' late chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, both AIADMK stalwarts, had for Tamil Nadu, he added. Earlier, the BJP veteran travelled atop an open van with Sundar and AIADMK candidates from nearby constituencies at the well-attended roadshow. Amid chants of 'Bharat Mata ki jai' and fluttering flags of alliance parties being carried by the respective outfits, Shah attended the road show in the last leg of the campaign, which ends tomorrow, here. BJP has fielded Sundar, an actor-politician, from this constituency, where she will be taking on DMK's Dr N Ezhilan. Elections to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu are scheduled on April and the counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||India logs almost 90,000 fresh Covid case, 714 casualties in a day||India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new COVID-19 cases in a day, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,64,110 with 714 more fatalities in a day, also the highest since October 21. The jump in cases reported on Saturday was the highest since September 20 last year when 92,605 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Corresponding to the rapid surge in cases, the number of active cases too have registered a steady increase for the 24th day in a row with the tally reaching 6,58,909, which is 5.32 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 93.36 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was the lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and comprised 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,69,241, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.32 per cent, the health ministry data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20. The one-crore mark was breached on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 24,69,59,192 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to April 2 with 10,46,605 of them being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Income-tax officials raid the home and office of M.K. Stalin’s son-in-law||Income-tax officials raided the home and office of DMK chief M.K. Stalin’s son-in-law Sabareesan on Friday, four days before Tamil Nadu votes to elect a new state government. “I am M.K. Stalin. This Stalin has faced Emergency and MISA (a controversial law that gave the Centre and law enforcement agencies sweeping powers). I won’t be scared because of these raids. Prime Minister Modi should know that we are not AIADMK leaders who prostrate themselves before him,” Stalin said. Addressing a rally in Perambalur, he said: “This morning I came to Trichy from Chennai. I was informed of a raid going on at my daughter’s house in Chennai. I want to tell Modi that this is the DMK, don’t forget that. I am the son of Kalaignar (late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi); I won’t be scared.” The DMK lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against the raids, which it described as abuse of power. The income-tax department reports to the Union government. This is the second tax raid against DMK leaders in the run-up to the April 6 elections. “Raiding the Opposition is BJP’s coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet following the raids that started at 8am at four locations in Chennai. The Congress is part of the DMK-led alliance that is looking to oust the AIADMK from power. The BJP is an AIADMK ally. DMK spokesperson C. Ravindran said: “Since the BJP government came to power, their practice has been to use government institutions during elections to intimidate and threaten the Opposition.” In Assam, which too is holding Assembly elections now, BJP campaign spearhead Himanta Biswa Sarma was on Friday barred from campaigning for 48 hours for threatening a rival party candidate with a National Investigation Agency probe. The March 28 speech in which he threatened Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front, a Congress ally, with an NIA probe has been found in violation of Clauses 2 and 4 of the model code of conduct that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation. On Thursday, Stalin’s son Udayanidhi had at a rally in Coimbatore raised questions about the assets owned by Union home minister Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah. He had offered to transfer all his assets to Jay if the home minister’s son agreed to transfer his to Udayanidhi. Last week, DMK leader E.V. Velu’s home and guesthouse were raided around the time when Stalin was campaigning for him in Tiruvannamalai, the constituency from where the 70-year-old is seeking re-election. On Friday, raids were launched at premises owned by Sabareesan and his associates Karthick and Bala. A large number of DMK cadres gathered outside his home at Neelankarai in Chennai while the searches were on. Sabareesan is a key strategist in Stalin’s core team. Karthick is the son of Mohan, DMK candidate from Annanagar. The DMK said the tax officials were “working for the poll prospects of the AIADMK-BJP under the garb of discharge of their duties” and urged the Election Commission to restrain them. There was no official statement from the tax department on the raids. Opposition parties have long been accusing the Narendra Modi government of letting loose investigating agencies on their leaders to intimidate or settle scores with them. Among Congress politicians whom the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have raided or arrested in corruption cases over the past two years are former Union minister P. Chidambaram and Karnataka state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar. Shivakumar had managed to keep 44 Gujarat MLAs together in Karnataka to prevent poaching by the BJP ahead of a Rajya Sabha election that Congress leader Ahmed Patel eventually won. In 2017, the CBI and the ED had conducted raids on properties owned by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family members, including then Bihar deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav. The action led to the collapse of the Grand Alliance government in Bihar. Modi also campaigned in Kerala, where he accused the ruling Left Front and the Opposition Congress-led alliance of “their own seven deadly sins” such as pride, arrogance and greed. In Kerala, which has a substantial Christian population, Modi has been making Biblical references to target his opponents. The Prime Minister made the reference to the “seven deadly sins” — a popular theme in the morality plays and literature of the European Middle Ages — for political gains on Good Friday, a day of sorrow, penance and fasting to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It is not clear which element — the spirit of forgiveness or political exigency — prompted Modi to use the image of Jayalalithaa to seek votes on the same day he accused others of sins. Jayalalithaa was the first chief minister to lose her chair on the ground of conviction in a disproportionate assets case while in office. The case was, ironically, filed by Subramanian Swamy who is now aBJP Rajya Sabha member. Jayalalithaa was eventually acquitted by the high court and returned to power. In February 2017, a few months after Jayalalithaa’s death, the Supreme Court overturned the acquittals in the case and sent her aide Sasikala to prison. The proceedings against Jayalalithaa were abated and dismissed on account of her death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Assam polls 2021:  EVM machine found in car of BJP candidate's wife||The Election Commission on Friday ordered re-polling at an Assam booth and suspended four polling officials and a police officer after an electronic voting machine was found in a car owned by a BJP candidate’s wife following Thursday’s voting. The four polling officials, including a presiding officer, were in the car, accompanying the EVM from a booth in the Ratabari Assembly constituency to the strong room in Karimganj town, 350km south of Guwahati. On the way, a mob attacked the car and the officials, alleging the voting machine was being taken to be tampered with. In purported videos of the incident, an EVM can be clearly identified through the windows of the car, which had slowed down, and the mob would have spotted it. After Opposition leaders questioned the commission’s neutrality following Thursday night’s fiasco, the poll panel clarified that the officials had taken a lift after their vehicle broke down in the rain, and were unaware of their host’s BJP link. It added that the voting machine was unharmed. The commission did not specify how many voting machines were in the car but sources in Karimganj said there was just “one EVM set”, made up of a ballot unit, a control unit and a voter-verifiable paper audit trail device. The commission’s special general observer Sudarshan Srinivasan later said in a report: “Action be taken against armed escort officer for leaving behind the stranded polling party and not ensuring their safe arrival at destination.” The poll panel said that in addition to presiding officer Sahab Uddin Talukdar and three colleagues, their armed escort, sub-inspector (armed branch) Luhit Gohain, too had been suspended. “While the sector officer was arranging for an alternate vehicle, the polling party decided to arrange a vehicle of its own so as to reach the Material Receipt Centre faster since they were in custody of polled EVMs,” the commission said in a statement. “As reported by the polling party, they moved towards Karimganj and as they reached Kanaishil in Karimganj at about 2200 hrs, they had to slow down in the traffic. As they slowed down, they were surrounded by a mob of about 50 people which started pelting stones at them.” It added: “The mob also started abusing them and did not allow the vehicle to pass. When they (polling officials) asked the leader of the mob, he replied that it was the vehicle of Sri Krishnendu Paul who is a contesting candidate of a neighbouring constituency (Patharkandi LAC-2) and he (mob leader) levelled allegations that the EVM was being taken to be tampered with.” Reports suggested a police constable and a home guard were in the car with the polling officials. It wasn’t clear who or how many people were travelling in the car — apparently an SUV — when the polling officials “hailed” it. “Immediately after receiving information about the incident, DEO (district election officer) Karimganj along with SP Karimganj rushed to the spot and reached there at 2220 hrs. Also in the meanwhile, the antecedents of the vehicle were ascertained and it was found to be registered in the name of Smti Madhumita Paul, wife of contesting candidate, Patharkandi LAC No 2, Shri Krishnendu Paul,” the commission statement said. “On arrival at the spot, it was observed that the crowd was pulling out the polling party and were about to assault them. The mob had turned violent and had damaged the glass of the vehicle by stone pelting. During the course of the stone pelting, SP Karimganj sustained minor injuries on his collarbone and blank firing had to be resorted to disperse the mob.” Three of the four officials were rescued and the voting machine moved to the Karimganj strong room by 11.20pm. On Friday morning, the police found the fourth official hiding in the undergrowth nearby. “Although the seals of the EVM were found intact, it has nevertheless been decided to do a re-poll at No. 149 Indira M.V. School of LAC 1 Ratabari (SC) as added precaution,” the commission said. The date for the re-polling has not been announced. Thursday witnessed the second phase of polling in Assam, with the last phase scheduled on April 6. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “EC car is bad, BJP’s intentions are bad, the condition of democracy is bad!” His ally Badruddin Ajmal, MP from the All India United Democratic Front, tweeted: “Polarisation? Failed. Buying votes? Failed. Buying candidates? Failed. Jumle-baazi? Failed. Double CMs? Failed. Doublespeak on CAA? Failed. Loser BJP’s last resort: steal the EVMs. Murder of democracy.” Special general observer Srinivasan’s report said: “There does not seem to be any grounds for change of RO (returning officer) as this appears to be an isolated incident, due to the total negligence and foolishness of the presiding officer and his team. “There is otherwise no deliberate or malafide intention in the incident aimed to disrupt the polling process. To ensure credibility and fairness, it is appropriate to order repoll....” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Every time there is an election, videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s show up. Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: 1. The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. 2. The videos are taken as one-off incidents and dismissed as aberrations. 3. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers.” She added: “The fact is that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVM’s needs to be carried out by all national parties.” Three constituencies in Karimganj district were caught in the sweep of events: the EVM was from Ratabari; the mob attack took place at Kanaishil in North Karimganj constituency, 2km from the strong room at Karimganj College; and the vehicle was from Patharkandi. Ratabari and Patharkandi are adjoining constituencies, both held by the BJP. North Karimganj is with the Congress. Ratabari is about 40km and Patharkandi 32km from Karimganj town. The commission described the controversy as an “unfortunate incident” and said the officials had been suspended for “violating transport protocol”. It said the officials were returning in an armed convoy to Karimganj after polling ended at 6pm. Bad weather had caused an “unprecedented” traffic congestion on NH8 involving an estimated 1,300 vehicles. As the polling party approached Nilam Bazaar, their vehicle broke down at about 9pm. “Due to the traffic congestion and the prevailing weather condition, the party became detached from its convoy. The party alighted from the vehicle and called the sector officer Sri Ajoy Sutradhar on his mobile and informed him,” the commission said. Around 9.20pm, the polling party “hailed” a passing car and boarded it with their EVM and other materials without checking the ownership of the car, AS-10B-0022. Several democracy activists had earlier questioned the security of the voting machines, particularly after the introduction of the paper trail devices that are re-programmable and connect the ballot unit to the control unit. Trinamul and the CPM have demanded a 100 per cent tally of the count between the paper trail and the corresponding voting machine. Following a Supreme Court order in 2019, five paper trail devices are tallied with the corresponding electronic voting machines in each Assembly constituency. If there’s a mismatch, only the paper trail count is considered and that particular voting machine’s count is disregarded. The election is not countermanded. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “Question marks over Election Commission’s neutrality continue to mount. EC has failed to reassure the people that EVMs cannot be tampered with to negate democratic verdict. EC must take strict penal action & disqualify the BJP candidate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||‘Grave concern’ on Covid surge in 11 states||The Centre on Friday labelled Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and eight others as “states of grave concern” because of their fast-growing Covid-19 epidemics as India recorded 81,000 new cases nationwide, only 17,000 fewer than the peak count in mid-September. The 11 states — which also include Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh — have contributed to about 90 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases and deaths over the past two weeks. In a meeting on Friday chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, authorities from these states were told to take “immediate and effective” steps to contain the spread of the virus and curb Covid-19 deaths through adherence to standard clinical treatment protocols. The cabinet secretary, relying on data from the Union health ministry and states, pointed out that there has been a continuous deterioration of the Covid-19 situation over the past fortnight. The case growth rate in March 2021 has been 6.8 per cent, higher than the previous record of 5.5 per cent in June last year. During the epidemic’s first nationwide wave last year, India had reported a peak of about 97,000 cases in mid-September. On Friday, the country counted 81,466 new cases, raising the total number of active patients to 614,000, more than 60 per cent of the peak of one million cases in mid-September. Health officials are also concerned that clusters of infections have also emerged in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and the epidemic threatens to seep into rural areas with limited diagnostic or treatment facilities where it could overwhelm the health infrastructure. The epidemic nationwide has grown much faster now than during the first wave. The average daily new cases increased in March 2021 from roughly 18,000 to 62,000 within 23 days, compared to a near similar rise over 40 days during July-August 2020. Gauba pointed out during the meeting that the 11 states showing a surge in daily cases have not shown commensurate increase in the enforcement of containment activities and urged state police officials to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The Union health ministry had expressed concern on Thursday that at least 19 states are conducting less than 50 per cent of their diagnostic tests with the high reliability RT-PCR tools instead of the minimum recommended 70 per cent. Low proportions of RT-PCR leads to positive cases misleadingly labelled as false negative and facilitate continued spread of the virus. At the meeting, the states were asked to increase testing continuously to ensures that the number testing positive over the total number tested falls below 5 per cent. They were also asked to ensure that at least 25 to 30 close contacts of each positive case should be traced, quarantined and tested and to establish containment zones around clusters of cases. They have also been asked to increase the number of isolation beds, oxygen beds and critical care facilities. The health ministry has also warned that markets, melas (fairs) and religious congregations may become super-spreader events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Congress raises suspicions about the manipulation of EVMs and the EC’s attitude||The Congress leadership on Friday voiced its suspicions about the manipulation of electronic voting machines and frustration with the Election Commission’s attitude amid the outcry over the discovery of an EVM in a BJP candidate’s car in Assam on Thursday night. The Congress, which has expressed its reservations about EVMs in the past and even demanded return to ballot papers, contended that repeated incidents like this were dismissed as one-off aberration even though it had become a trend in the past five to six years. Stressing that all EVM incidents invariably come with a BJP link, the Congress insisted it was high time the Election Commission took remedial steps. While some senior leaders felt the recurring incidents showed complicity of the Election Commission with the BJP and wondered if the nation should stop expecting impartiality from the constitutional authority, others demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee. The commission’s explanation of the Assam incident was unanimously rejected as “scripted excuse”. The leadership of the Congress stepped out to register their protest instead of leaving it to the spokespersons. Rahul Gandhi led the charge with a tweet: “EC ki gadi kharab, BJP ki neeyat kharab, loktantr ki haalat kharab.” In one tweet, Rahul questioned the BJP’s intentions and the commission’s attitude, arguing that these two have combined to destroy the health of Indian democracy. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra offered a comprehensive critique, saying: “Every time there is an election videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s show up. Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: 1. The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. 2. The videos are taken as one-off incidents and dismissed as aberrations 3. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers.” Priyanka added: “The fact is that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVM’s needs to be carried out by all national parties.” She also heaped scorn on the EC’s explanation in another tweet, “What a script! When the vehicle of the Election Commission breaks down, a car that appears at the spot belongs to a BJP leader. The innocent EC gets into the car and continues the journey. Dear EC, what is happening?” Senior leader Digvijaya Singh, who has been pleading with the commission to look into the vulnerabilities of EVM, said: “Every time there is a complaint of malfunctioning of EVM, you press any button vote goes to BJP!! Every time you find EVM in possession of unauthorised person he is connected to BJP! Now EC would take action against officials but what about BJP and its candidate? It has crossed all limits!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||PMAY: Centre asks states to physically verify additional 3.5 crore beneficiaries||The Centre has asked the states to physically verify the additional 3.5 crore beneficiaries they have listed for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin, a housing scheme, amid suspicion that the lists are inflated with well-off people. Social activists suggested that most of the listed households were deserving and the verified lists may have over 2 crore prospective beneficiaries. But officials told The Telegraph that once the corrected lists come, the Centre may drastically pare the number down again to just 81 lakh. The scheme was started in November 2016 with the aim of providing pucca houses to 2.95 crore households by 2022. But 81 lakh of these families subsequently built houses for themselves, either with the support of state government schemes or on their own steam, reducing the existing beneficiary count to 2.14 crore. So far, 1.36 crore houses have been completed. Officials here said that whatever the total number of additional beneficiaries the states identify on their verified lists, the Centre would select only 81 lakh of them and be content to meet the original count of 2.95 crore. Families that have worked more days under the rural job scheme, and have aged heads and more members will be given priority. The list of 3.5 crore includes nearly 58 lakh households from Bengal. After the Centre had identified its original target of 2.95 lakh beneficiaries, the states had argued that many deserving families had missed out. The states were then allowed to carry out their own surveys, called Awaas Plus, through the gram sabhas. “The state lists are based on the data submitted by the gram sabhas. No verification was done,” an official here said. Social activist Sandeep Pradhan from Jharkhand said the gram sabhas had included many households who had got houses built under the erstwhile Indira Awas Yojana. “I would say that 35 to 40 per cent of those on the Awaas Plus list are well off and should not be included. But at least 60 per cent need support,” Pradhan said. The minutes of a review meeting with the states that the Union rural development ministry website has uploaded on its website say: “All the states/ UTs have been requested to do physical verification of the households registered on Awaas+ app and identify ineligible households. The names of the ineligible households shall be removed.” Under the PMAY Gramin, the Centre provides 60 per cent of the cost of the new, two-room houses. It provides Rs 1.2 lakh for a house in the plains and Rs 1.3 lakh in hilly areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Two Sangh parivar activists held in nun harass case at Jhansi Junction||Two Sangh parivar activists have been arrested in connection with the harassment of two nuns and two postulants at Jhansi Junction a fortnight ago, the action stemming apparently from the BJP’s electoral compulsions in Kerala. However, the main accused — four ABVP members who had falsely accused the Delhi-based Keralite nuns of planning to convert the allegedly “Hindu” postulants from Odisha — have not even been booked yet. Union home minister Amit Shah had at a rally in poll-bound Kerala last week promised action, aware of the resentment in the state over the harassment of the Keralite nuns, members of the Congregation of Sacred Heart Society. Sources in the Government Railway Police (GRP) said the force eventually acted on Thursday night after a prod from Shah’s ministry to the state government. The GRP hurriedly registered a case against Jhansi district VHP general secretary Anchal Adjaria and district Bajrang Dal vice-president Purukesh Amarya and arrested them. The GRP had forced the four women off the Utkal Express and detained them for four hours at Jhansi Junction on March 19 on the false complaint from the four ABVP members, who were travelling on the same coach as the women. Adjaria and Amarya had rushed to Jhansi Junction after receiving calls from the ABVP youths and allegedly told the GRP they had confirmed information that the women were involved in conversions. GRP sources didn’t specify what offence they had been charged with. The women were let off only after the GRP was satisfied that all four had been born to Indian Christian families. Religious conversions per se are not illegal but Hindutva activists and the police have been known to harass people by falsely accusing them of conducting forced conversions. The GRP have not explained why they have not booked or arrested the four ABVP members who had allegedly bullied the women on the train, levelled the false allegation of conversions, and got the GRP to detain the quartet. The ABVP is the student arm of the RSS. A senior GRP official in Lucknow had earlier told this newspaper that not only should the ABVP youths be booked for promoting hatred between religious groups — punishable by up to three years in jail — the GRP officers who had acted “in haste” on their false complaint should face departmental action. The incident had caused anger in Kerala, where Assembly elections are scheduled on April 6. It was Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had brought the incident to light by writing to Shah. Church representatives too had demanded action against the alleged bullies. Shah, while campaigning in Kanjirapally in Kottayam district on March 24, had been compelled to refer to the matter after BJP candidate and former Union minister K.J. Alphons raised the issue at the rally. “I want to assure the people of Kerala that the culprits will be brought to book at the earliest,” Shah had said. Rahul Gandhi, MP from Wayanad in Kerala, had on March 24 blamed the harassment of the nuns on “the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities”. The women had boarded the train in Delhi and were travelling to Rourkela. They have said in their recorded statements, made through WhatsApp video calls, that the four ABVP members kept shouting at them through the journey till Jhansi. Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||India’s presence at the Myanmar army show a regular diplomatic exercise: External affairs ministry||In the first official comment on the Indian defence attaché attending the Myanmar Armed Forces Day parade in Naypyitaw on March 27 — a day that saw the Myanmarese army shoot down 114 pro-democracy protesters — the external affairs ministry on Friday described India’s presence at the event as a “regular diplomatic exercise’’. Asked how India’s participation at the event is consistent with New Delhi’s stated position that democracy must be restored in Myanmar, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said at the weekly news conference: “We have a functioning embassy in Myanmar. Our ambassador, defence attaché and other diplomatic officials continue to discharge their regular diplomatic responsibilities. Nothing more should be read into the defence attaché attending this event.’’ India, according to Nikkei Asia, was among the eight countries which sent representatives to the annual parade; the others being Russia, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand. India’s presence was particularly conspicuous because the country prides itself for being the world’s largest democracy. India’s decision to participate in the parade had drawn criticism from the pro-democracy movement in Myanmar which tweeted a condemnation from a verified handle: “Indian embassy in Myanmar sent their military attaché to the military junta’s ‘armed forces day’ ceremony. India is one of the greatest democracies in the world. Why do you shake hands with the generals whose hands are soaked with our blood? @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia @PMOIndia’’ At the start of the military coup in Myanmar on February 1, India had expressed deep concern and called for the rule of law and the democratic process to be restored. On Friday again, the spokesman while responding to questions on the crackdown on pro-democracy protests, said: “We condemn any use of violence. We believe the rule of law should prevail. We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar. We have urged the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation including through the efforts of Asean (Association of Southeast Asian Nations). We remain engaged on this issue with our international interlocutors and at the UNSC (United Nations Security Council) in an effort to play a balanced and constructive role.’’ Asean, of which Myanmar is a part, is divided on the issue but there is a move within to host a special summit to facilitate dialogue with the junta. China, too, is backing this initiative. India, which currently has a seat in the UNSC as a non-permanent member, has been advocating restraint in the face of a push for UN sanctions on Myanmar that was blocked by China. India, which had been deepening its relationship with the Myanmar government in recent years, is taking a more calibrated position on the coup than the West’s black-and-white stance; factoring in the China angle. On the refugee situation too, the Narendra Modi government has asked bordering states in the Northeast to block the inflow of refugees from Myanmar, drawing widespread criticism. While some have still managed to come through from the porous borders and are being pushed out, the central and state governments claim that those injured are being given medical assistance. However, when asked if India has an estimate on how many Myanmar nationals have entered India and what New Delhi’s stance is, Bagchi only said: “We are dealing with it as per our laws and humanitarian considerations.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Nandankanan makes special arrangements to keep animals cool||As the mercury keeps soaring above the 40 degrees Celsius mark in the Odisha capital on a daily basis, the authorities of Nandankanan Zoological Park have made special arrangements to keep the animals cool. Bhubaneswar sizzled at 44.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The temperature in the state capital and several other towns of Odisha has been touching 40 degrees on a regular basis this year. In this backdrop, the Nandankanan authorities have launched a special drive to keep the park’s menagerie both safe and cool during summer with the provision of fruits like watermelon, banana, sugarcane, apple, papaya and cucumber to ward off any possibility of dehydration. While ice slabs and air coolers have been placed in animal and bird enclosures, they are also being regularly sprinkled with water. “Ice cubes are being added in the water meant for animals such as tiger, giraffe and bear which are sensitive to heat,” a zoo official said. “Green shed nets are being put up near the nests of the birds to keep them cool. Similarly water is being sprayed inside the enclosures to keep the surroundings cool,” said the deputy director of the zoo, Bimal Prasanna Acharya. Coolers have been fitted especially in the enclosures of chimpanzees. “All the enclosures have been covered with hay stacks to keep them cool. Water is being sprayed on their roofs regularly,” an official said. Special care is being taken of animals such as monkeys, squirrels and birds which are prone to heat stroke, he said. Adequate water is being stocked in the artificial ponds for elephants to cool themselves, he added. “Coolers have been installed in the enclosures where chimpanzees and Himalayan black bears are housed. We are adding Electral powder, ice and glucose to the drinking water of the animals,” another official said. “We have constituted a team comprising veterinary officials and the team inspects all the enclosures in the afternoon to monitor the health of the animals. Besides, we are keeping a watch on the movement of each animal through CCTVs,” said Acharya. The zoo, which is ranked among one of the best in the country, houses 3,812 animals and birds representing 160 species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Hooch toll rises to 14 in dry Bihar||The toll in the hooch tragedy in Nawada district of Bihar climbed to 14 on Friday as eight more persons died over the past two days after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Worried over the deaths, chief minister Nitish Kumar sent a special team from Patna to investigate the incident. The latest deaths took the total hooch toll in the dry state since Holi to 16. The figure could climb further as several people in serious condition are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals in Nawada and Patna. Two persons have lost their eyesight. “I asked my senior officials about whatever is happening. They all are probing the incident. Some officials have gone from here also. “The officials there (in Nawada) are saying something, but what has come out in the newspapers is something else. I have sent a special team from here. I will oversee and investigate everything. It will take all necessary action in the case,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of a function. Residents of Kharidi Bigha and Gondapur villages in Nawada, including the family members of the deceased, have alleged that the deaths happened due to the consumption of spurious liquor, but the district administration has been trying to deny the hooch angle. Ramdhani Sao was the latest victim of the alleged hooch tragedy when he breathed his last at a hospital in Nawada on Friday. “He asked for money. I told him he must not spend it to drink. But he came back with liquor and consumed it on Holi. He fell ill the same evening and was hospitalised the next day. He died today (Friday),” said Soni Devi, daughter-in-law of Ramdhani. The villagers have also named a few people who were selling liquor on the occasion of Holi. Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena and superintendent of police D.S. Savlaram held a news conference on Friday to deny that all the deaths were caused due to the consumption of hooch. They asserted that only 10 people have died so far and due to various other reasons. “There have been 10 deaths so far. Of these, we have got information about the cause of death of five persons, who have died of different reasons. “One of them died of a heart attack, two from diarrhoea, another due to epilepsy and one from natural causes and not due to eating or drinking anything,” Savlaram said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Covid-struck Santhosh Babu starts digital campaign from hospital bed||The coronavirus struck when Santhosh Babu least needed it — two days after he had filed his nomination papers in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. It takes more than a nanometre-sized nuisance, however, to discourage a former civil servant known for innovation and initiative who had resigned last year when he felt his avenues for doing good were getting blocked. So what the 53-year-old bureaucrat turned politician, whom Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Neethi Maiyam (MNM) has fielded from Velachery in Chennai, did was start a digital campaign from his hospital bed, using his mobile. “For the next four days, I will be live on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to discuss key issues and demonstrate the work I have done. Every day at 11am and 3pm,” he wrote on his Facebook page immediately after being hospitalised on March 19. “Look forward to your support,” added the man who had joined the civil service after graduating as a doctor, and then earned degrees in politics and public management from three foreign countries. “Four days” became nearly a fortnight and his videos quickly went viral, although the Kerala native —  who had been part of the Tamil Nadu IAS cadre —  rued his inability to meet the voter face to face. However, just as he had eventually found himself thwarted as a crusading bureaucrat after 25 years in civil service, Santhosh Babu again came up against shadowy opponents. “The impact of my digital campaign has been very good, but my FB account got locked (on Tuesday evening),” he told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “Many people, particularly from abroad, started ‘reporting’ about my page, saying things like it was not confirming to community standards. Once a large number of people begin to ‘report’ that way, the FB page shuts itself. “My appeal to my voters was very clean, talking about the development of Velachery. Since my digital campaign was going very well, I suspect the IT wings of other political parties could be involved in the coordinated attack.” That’s how far the polite politician will allow himself to go in attacking his political opponents. For instance, he would not campaign on the plank of being shunted out and forced to quit the civil service while battling suspected corruption in a government scheme. His election spiel shuns all negativity; it’s entirely about how Velachery can develop its amenities if it’s willing to back his inventive ideas. Santhosh Babu had graduated as a doctor from the government medical college in Thiruvananthapuram and joined the IAS in 1995. His “passion” to make government “world class using technology and best management” and his commitment to transparency and the public good drove him to learn more. So he earned a Chevening scholarship from the London School of Economics and Political Science, and subsequently studied public management at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in the US and Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore. As a bureaucrat, Santhosh Babu was always restless —  full of ideas and resourceful enough to translate them into reality, social activists who have worked with him say. For instance, as collector of the backward Krishnagiri district over a decade ago, he built a modern stadium in a PPP model by pooling resources and launched the first rural BPO for women in the state, apart from organising numerous women’s self-help groups. He was principal secretary at the IT department when he “stood his ground” against suspected irregularities in a Rs 2,000-crore tender for the BharatNet project that aimed to connect the state’s panchayat offices to the Internet, according to Chennai-based NGO Arappor Iyakkam which tracked the project. The Centre then put the tender on hold. In January 2020, Santhosh Babu was transferred to a relatively minor post, that of director of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation. He took voluntary retirement on August 22, eight years prematurely. He did it “in protest against the interference of the government in the Rs 2,000-crore BharatNet project” is all he would say in his personal website. He took up a teaching assignment at the Officers IAS Academy in Chennai before Kamal Haasan drafted him as head of his party’s communications wing and made him a general secretary. Kamal Haasan, who is taking on the BJP women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan from Coimbatore South, has sought to bring outside talent into his battle to provide a “centrist alternative” to the Dravidian majors DMK and AIADMK. Santhosh Babu’s main rivals in Velachery are J.M.H. Assan Moulana of the Congress, M.K. Ashok of the AIADMK, and M. Chandra Bose of the AMMK, led by Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran. Santhosh Babu’s “vision” for Velachery is reflected in an online presentation he has done on creating a corpus with donations from the public and from private companies. It will allow at least three projects —  in health, education and sports, the key human resource areas —  to be attempted in Velachery every month, he has argued. “Last evening I went live in an interaction with voters from my hospital bed when Kamal Haasan was campaigning in Velachery, and my interaction was projected on a big LED screen,” Santhosh Babu told this newspaper. The good news for him is that the Madras Medical College Government Hospital discharged him on Wednesday evening. Santhosh Babu said he would straightaway hit Velachery’s streets to make the most of the four days of campaigning left. “I have been unlucky — despite my online campaign, I haven’t been able to meet people directly. For the remaining four days, I would love to be with them,” he said. His leader Kamal Haasan too seems to prefer face-to-face campaigning —  unlike the political majors he has not been hogging prime-time television.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Dharmadam: Pinarayi Vijayan's Assembly constituency ||A distinct feature of the Dharmadam Assembly constituency where Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking re-election is the sparse use of his posters and banners. But for neighbourhoods where he addresses corner meetings, there is hardly any publicity material for the CPM leader whose popularity has never been challenged on his home turf comprising Pinarayi village in Kannur district. While none doubts his victory in Dharmadam, Vijayan’s campaign style would suggest that he is leaving no stone unturned while his motorcade weaves through narrow stretches of village roads in the constituency. He had romped home in the 2016 polls by defeating Mambaram Divakaran of the Congress by 36,905 votes. What would have been a cracker of a contest with the other firebrand from Kannur, Lok Sabha member K. Sudhakaran of the Congress, coming close to taking the field in Dharmadam, Vijayan is set for an easy ride with the Congress fielding Kannur district general secretary C. Raghunath after much dilly-dallying. The BJP has nominated former state president C.K. Padmanabhan who hasn’t succeeded in making any mark in the CPM pocket borough. After a brief campaign during the early days of electioneering, Vijayan had set out on a gruelling state tour covering 14 districts in 14 days. He returned to focus on some of the key constituencies in Kannur and Kasaragod districts and then moved to Dharmadam on Thursday where he would spend the rest of the days until the close of campaign on April 4. The 75-year-old comrade who never minces words and is famous for making statements with a straight face has been pressing hard against all forms of communalism and threats to the secular fabric of Kerala. It is perhaps his government’s position against controversial laws such as the Citizenship Amendment Act that has proved to be a magnet for people from the minority communities, especially Muslims. Burqa-clad women have been making a clear statement on their changed political leanings right from the local council elections last year. Their numbers have only grown at LDF events. “We have already passed a resolution against the implementation of the CAA. But I heard a senior BJP leader saying the Centre would implement it in Kerala also. Let me make it very clear once again, we will not allow the CAA to be implemented in Kerala,” Vijayan thundered at a public meeting at Chakkarakkal village in his constituency. While he has been consistent in his attack against the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP during the course of the campaign, Vijayan has been emphasising on secularism. “Small and large organisations fighting for secularism are closely watching the election in Kerala since the LDF government has always stood for secularism and equality,” he said, assuring the gathering, among them a good number of Muslim women, that the LDF would defeat fascist forces. “We need to realise that fascist forces are out to destroy secularism in our country. History shows us that fascist forces first target one group and then attack everyone else. We can now see it in Myanmar where the majority community initially thought only the Rohingya were victimised. But now the regime is after the majority community as well,” Vijayan cautioned the audience listening in rapt attention. In what could be his last election, by his own admission, Vijayan has definitely made a statement wherever he has gone. A few thousands, including a large number of Muslim women, braved the blazing sun at the Ayikkara fishing harbour in Kannur on Monday, hours before Vijayan arrived. The LDF has virtually accorded cult status to Vijayan, featuring only him in posters and other publicity material across the state. While the respective LDF candidates figure in some of the materials, posters and banners describe Vijayan as “Captain”. The group editor of the Madhyamam daily and Media One channel, O. Abdurahman, said the LDF had never projected an individual like this. “There is an impression that Vijayan has been accorded cult status. Even V.S. (Achuthanandan) was not given excess importance although he was a very popular chief minister.” “On the one hand the CPM has preferred young blood over senior leaders like Thomas Isaac, G. Sudhakaran and E.P. Jayarajan, and on the other the party is projecting only Vijayan in a move no party should follow in a democracy,” he added. But voters in Dharmadam seem to have accepted the new phenomenon. “Vijayan has led from the front in all crises and is therefore the main campaigner for the LDF,” said Rasheed P.P., a driver. Vijayan’s role in handling two years of floods that coincided with two outbreaks of the deadly Nipah virus, a cyclone that battered much of the Kerala coast, and the Covid-19 pandemic have won him and his government accolades. The public sentiments that welcome him are similar in other parts of the state where he has attracted massive crowds. Even the coarseness that has developed in his voice due to continuous campaigning in the hot and humid conditions, and the significant stoop owing to age, have not managed to make him take the back seat. The biggest vote catcher of the LDF, Vijayan has been consistently slamming his main rival, the Congress-helmed UDF, and the BJP that is trying to increase its presence in the Assembly from the one seat it won in 2016. Vijayan is not one to get complacent about pollsters forecasting a second consecutive term for the LDF, a rarity in the state that has always alternated between the Left and the Congress, and putting him way ahead in the preference list for potential chief ministers. In fact, he has urged CPM cadres to simply ignore the projections and even the visits of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and instead engage in grassroots contact programmes to enhance the chances of the LDF. While the Congress and the BJP are raking up the gold smuggling case that roiled the LDF government and led to the arrest of Vijayan’s secretary M. Sivasankar, the issue doesn’t seem to have any significant impact in Dharmadam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s ‘Bhumiputra’ will take over as the new chief minister, PM asserts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday slammed Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for branding BJP leaders as "outsiders" (Bohirgato) and said it is an insult to the inclusive ideology of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and principles of Indian Constitution. Asserting that Bengals "Bhumiputra" (son of the soil) will take over as the chief Minister after the BJP is voted to power on May 2, Modi said no Indian is an "outsider" in the state. "When the British tried to divide us, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose said - India is one, and the hopes and aspirations of every Indian are the same. Today, there is a lot of pain when instead of propagating the ideology of Netaji, TMC and Mamata Didi are talking about Bohirgato," he told an election rally at Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas district. Didi is talking about outsiders. We are all children of Mother India. No Indian is an outsider here. When BJP forms the government after May 2, a son of the soil will become the chief minister, he said. Calling TMC a "Taka Maar Company" (an enterprise that loots money), the prime minister asked Mamata to control her "goons". "You keep your TMC goons under check. Explain to them - Modi is here! Their bullying will no longer be tolerated. Bengal doesn't want violence and terror. Bengal wants education for its daughters and protection, respect and justice for its mothers," he asserted. Referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, Modi mocked the TMC boss, saying this proves that Didi has accepted her defeat. "Didi is now looking for a place for herself outside Bengal. The people of Varanasi and Uttar Pradesh are as large-hearted as the people of Bengal. They won't call her an outsider," he said sarcastically. Claiming that Mamata decided to contest Nandigram on impulse ("tao mein"), Modi said, sensing defeat at the prestigious seat, the TMC decided that she should enter the fray from another seat as well. "But some sensible people then told Didi it will be her second big mistake," he quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi blames Trinamul for lack of jobs and Bengal's industrial rot||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hit out at one of the weakest links in the Trinamul’s armour, the lack of industry and employment opportunities in Bengal, tying it directly with  anti-land acquisition movements led by Mamata Banerjee during her days in the Opposition. “Old industry is shut. The road for building new industry is also closed. The opportunities for doing business and generating employment is also closed. Once people from different parts of the country would come to work in the factories of Bengal. Now the youth of Bengal are going elsewhere,” said Modi addressing an election campaign meeting in Hooghly’s Tarakeswar, about 25 km from Singur, which was once floated as the destination for industrial revival of the state. “They are proud that they stalled industry in Singur. How they betrayed Singur you know it better than me. After using Singur politically they abandoned it. Industry did not come up in Singur and farmers are languishing,” Modi said. The Prime Minister said that the Trinamul government of the last 10 years lacked political will. After taking oath to form the government in May 2011, the first cabinet decision of the Mamata Banerjee government was to return the land that the erstwhile Left Front government had acquired from farmers in Singur for a proposed automobile plant of the Tatas. While work on the factory was on, resistance to the land acquisition  grew with Mamata leading the movement from the front with a now well-known “26-day hunger strike". The Tatas relocated the project to Gujarat’s Sanand and the unfinished automobile plant,  lying desolate along the Durgapur Expressway, was blown up by dynamite in 2016, burying the dreams of an industrialised Bengal. While Modi spoke about betrayal by the Trinamul, his party too had then supported Mamata’s movement against the Left Front government. In this election, the BJP has fielded the former Trinamul minister, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the face of the Singur movement and one of the fiercest opponents of the automobile factory in Singur. Known in the area as “Mastermoshai”, Bhattacharya switched sides days before the polls. In its rush to find suitable faces to take on the Trinamul, the BJP has fallen back on turncoats of Bengal’s ruling party. While Tarakeswar will go to the polls in the next phase on April 6, Singur is scheduled in the fourth phase. Raising the pitch on alleged corruption by the Trinamul rank and file, Modi said their assets increased while people suffered. "They found opportunity in making money from natural disasters too. The size of their houses and cars have grown bigger. Local administration was being run from the Trinamul party offices,” he said. The Prime Minister sounded confident of a clear majority for the BJP when the results are announced on May 2. “Voters have paved the way for a thumping majority for us. People of Bengal always give priority to a stable government in the state, they vote to bring any party with clean majority and this time they have decided it is the BJP. We have already got a glimpse of what it is going to be on May 2 from the first two phases,” said Modi. While it is true that  since 1977 governments in Bengal have got a clear majority but that was after the state had witnessed in the late 60s the uncertainties of a coalition which proved disastrous. Modi said the Trinamul too was aware of its impending defeat and that is why Mamata was throwing tantrums. "With every phase, Didi’s exasperation is increasing. She is abusing the Election Commission and the security personnel. In a cricket match if a player keeps pointing fingers at the umpire then it has to be understood that there is something amiss with the player’s game. Didi o Didi, you are staring at defeat,” Modi said. Referring to the Trinamul slogan of “Khela hobe (Game on)", Modi said democracy and elections were not games. “The way to serve people, improve their lives is democracy. You forgot it, Didi,” he said. Addressing another election campaign in South 24-Parganas Sonarpur, Modi said Bengal did not want the syndicate raj of Trinamul's goons.  "Whatever artisans make in Bengal, they have to pay extortion money. Even loans under central schemes are not spared," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||ED attaches assets worth Rs 3 crore of Satabdi Roy, others in Saradha case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth Rs 3 crore of TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, its MP Satabdi Roy and Debjani Mukherjee in the Saradha chit fund money laundering case. It said a provisional order for attachment of the movable and immovable properties has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency said in a statement that the assets belong to "Kunal Ghosh, ex-Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamool Congress (CEO of Media Group Saradha), Satabdi Roy, Lok Sabha MP from TMC (brand ambassador in Saradha), and Debjani Mukherjee who is director in Saradha Group of companies in Saradha chit fund case." Assets worth Rs 600 crore have been attached in this case till now. The ED is probing the money laundering aspect of the alleged ponzi scam since April, 2013. The Saradha group allegedly cheated thousands of depositors, promising abnormally high returns on investments in its illegal schemes. Ghosh, who is out on bail in the case, was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. He has been questioned by the ED in this case apart from others. He was later reinstated as the party spokesperson. The former TMC MP headed a TV channel and a daily, which was funded by the now-defunct Saradha group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP creating communal atrocities to win elections, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP of engineering communal strife in the state to win the Assembly elections. The TMC chief, while addressing an election rally in Raidighi in South 24 Parganas district, also called upon Muslims not to "fall in the trap of a BJP-aided party from Hyderabad and its Bengal ally that are out to polarise votes." Her jibe was apparently aimed at Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. Both Owaisi and Siddiqui had earlier denied the TMC's insinuations. The ISF is fighting the elections in alliance with the CPI(M) and the Congress. The TMC supremo also urged Hindus to be on the guard against the BJP's attempts to "instigate communal clashes" and called upon them to chase away outsiders sent to foment trouble in their respective localities. Affirming her Hindu identity, in an apparent attempt to counter the minority appeasement charge against her, Mamata said, "I am a devout Hindu who recites Chandi mantra every day before leaving home. But I believe in our tradition of giving respect to every religion." Taking a dig at BJP leaders having lunch at houses of Dalits, she said, "I am a Brahmin woman. But my all-time associate is a Scheduled Caste woman who takes care of all my needs. She also cooks food for me." "I need not advertise this as those bringing five-star hotel lunch to eat at the courtyard of a Dalit home are anti- Dalit, anti-backward caste and anti-minority in nature," she said. The TMC chief claimed that if elected to power in Bengal, the BJP will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), forcing "many citizens to leave". "They will divide Bengal and its people. Remember how they deleted the names of 14 lakh Bengalis and 2 lakh Biharis in the updated NRC in Assam," she said. Mamata alleged that central forces are terrorising people at every home 48 hours before polling, asking them to vote for the BJP. "Don't be intimidated. Mothers and sisters challenge them. We have no problems if the forces act impartially to ensure free and fair elections but if they act on behalf of a particular political party, we will protest," she said, The chief minister, who is contesting her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, alleged that there were attempts by "outsiders" to rig the elections in the constituency in Purba Medinipur district. "There were attempts by outsiders to rig the elections in Nandigram by visiting every house before polling. Still, I will win handsomely from the seat. One local goon was accompanied by outsider goons in Nandigram. This is their pattern," she said. Taking a dig at TMC turncoats, she said sitting Raidighi MLA and actor Debasree Roy joined the BJP after not getting a party ticket from the seat. "We don't involve such opportunists in our party," she said. Noting that the TMC is fighting the elections on the development plank, she said, "There has been infrastructural development in Sunderbans. The state government has taken an initiative to provide egg meal at Rs 5 and women involved in SHGs in the region are involved in it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Yogi holds roadshow in Howrah's Uluberia ahead of polls||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a roadshow here in Howrah district on Saturday as he sought to bolster the BJP's campaign in West Bengal ahead of the third phase assembly elections. Standing atop a vehicle, decked up with flowers and BJP flags, Adityanath waved at enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the road in the Gangarampur area in the subdivision where two constituencies - Uluberia Uttar and Uluberia Dakshin - will go to polls on April 6. Locals queued up on both sides of the road and watched the procession, which inched its way through the narrow streets amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram'. Adityanath has been visiting several places across West Bengal and holding rallies for BJP candidates. The state registered 84.63 per cent polling in the first phase on March 27 and 86.11 per cent in the second phase on April 1. The third phase of the elections will be held in 31 assembly constituencies in the state on April 6. West Bengal will see five more phases and the last one will be conducted on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Why do raids take place only in Opposition-ruled states, asks CM||Mamata Banerjee asked a pertinent question on a day income-tax raids were carried out on M.K. Stalin’s relative in Tamil Nadu. “Why do the raids take place only in Opposition-ruled states? Why can’t the income-tax department conduct such raids in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Madhya Pradesh (all BJP-ruled states)? Is the income-tax department, the CBI or the ED suffering from Covid (and thus can’t act in these states)?” Mamata asked. The chief minister said in north Bengal: “I have been in touch with the DMK leaders since the morning. I spoke to Stalin…. The raids are part of a standard strategy of the BJP to use one or the other central agency against its opponents. We have seen it in Bengal too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata refutes Modi’s claim, says only contesting from Nandigram||Mamata Banerjee on Friday directly responded to Narendra Modi’s psychological warfare tactics by declaring she would not contest from anywhere other than Nandigram, where polling had been held 24 hours earlier. In what was seen as an attempt at sapping the morale of the Trinamul ranks, Modi had said on Thursday while voting was on that Mamata would lose from Nandigram and that there were rumours that she would contest from another Assembly seat too. Responding swiftly at a public meeting in north Bengal, Mamata asked Modi on Friday: “Why are you saying all this? Do I belong to your party that you would control me? I will win from Nandigram and will not contest from anywhere else.” Her statement was greeted with loud cheers from the audience. The Trinamul chief addressed another alleged ploy to wear her down. Mamata said the election schedule had been structured to suit the BJP’s political interests and restrict her movements so she could not campaign extensively. “But that will not happen.… I was in Nandigram this morning and I went from there to Calcutta, then to Bagdogra and then I came here to address you in Cooch Behar. From here I will go to Alipurduar and then return to Calcutta.… Tomorrow I will be in South 24-Parganas. You cannot restrict me,” Mamata said. Although the election is over in Nandigram, the seat remained firmly on the political centre stage with both Mamata and the BJP focusing their energies on predicting the outcome there. Mamata said she would win from Nandigram and that her party was in a favourable position in the first two phases of the elections, countering the narrative propagated by Amit Shah and other BJP leaders that the Trinamul talisman would lose. Shah, the Union home minister and the BJP’s key election manager, has been claiming on campaign trail that his party would bag more than 50 of the 60 seats that have voted so far, and that Mamata herself would taste defeat. Both Mamata and Shah were in north Bengal on Friday to launch their parties’ campaigns in the region, which has 54 Assembly seats. Mamata spoke at three public meetings in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar while Shah addressed two in these same districts. “I thank the residents of Nandigram for their support. The elections are in progress and so far, things have been in our favour. Let me make it very clear that Trinamul will make a comeback with 200-plus seats,” the chief minister told a rally in Dinhata, Cooch Behar. Trinamul leaders believe the election roster has been designed to ensure that seats where the BJP is confident of doing well would vote in the first two phases of the eight-leg polls. This would give the BJP the opportunity to create an impression of impending victory and influence voters. Lending credence to the perception, Shah on Friday predicted defeat for Mamata and painted a rosy picture for his party. “She will lose from Nandigram…. Of the 60 seats where elections have been held, we will win more than 50,” he told a gathering at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. He repeated the claim in Kalchini, Alipurduar. After the first phase, too, Shah had sung the same tune, asserting that the BJP would pocket 26 of the 30 seats. In Dinhata, Mamata rubbished Shah’s claim and accused the Union home minister of using the central forces to vitiate the poll process in favour of the BJP. “I have respect for the central forces, but they have been instructed to favour the BJP in the elections.... I am telling the Prime Minister to control the home minister,” she said. The chief minister repeatedly referred to how the BJP government’s policies had made life difficult for ordinary people, highlighting the fuel price hikes and the contentious farm laws. “I am here to seek your votes because I have done things for you. Tell me, what have they done?” Mamata asked, before pitching herself as the candidate in all the 291 seats that Trinamul is contesting. “Consider me as the candidate and vote.… Please keep in mind that they have a lot of money and will try to buy off traitors even after the elections. So, I need 200-plus seats to run the next government and keep delivering what you want,” Mamata said. She urged the people to be cautious and resist the BJP’s attempts to rig the polls by deploying outsiders. “We fear that after the elections are over in Assam, they might try to bring anti-socials to these areas. We have to thwart all such attempts by the BJP,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC to send 200 more companies of central forces||The Election Commission of India is set to send 200 companies of central forces more to Bengal and they are likely to de deployed from the fourth phase of the polls. The first two phases of the polls are over and the third phase would be held on April 6. “The additional forces would be used from April 10 when the fourth phase would be held. There are enough forces to hold the third phase of the polls,” said a source in the poll panel. As of now, the state has 800 companies of central forces at its disposal. With 200 more companies, the state would have 1,000 companies of central forces. Sources said such a huge contingent of central forces was never deployed in the state for holding polls. “It has been decided that all booths would be guarded by central forces in this year’s polls and that’s why the requirement is much higher,” explained a source. As the first two phases had only 30 Assembly segments each, the requirement of central forces was 700-odd companies. “In the third phase scheduled for April 6, elections will be held in 31 Assembly segments. So, with the existing central forces, the elections could be managed. But from the fourth phase onwards, elections will be held in 40-odd Assembly segments and that’s why the requirement for forces would be higher,” said a source in the poll panel. A section of the officials said as elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry would be over by April 6, it would not be a problem for the EC to send additional forces to Bengal. “It is clear that the schedule of elections in Bengal was prepared in a way that maximum number of central forces can be sent to the state,” said an official. The sources said a total of 618 companies of central forces would be deployed in the third phase of the polls scheduled for April 6. “We have 800 companies in the state right now. Of them, 618 companies would be deployed for the third phase. The remaining forces would be used to guard the strong rooms where EVMs have been kept. Forces are also being used to build confidence among the voters in the districts where polls would be held later on,” said another source. The EC on Friday made it clear that the central forces would not enter the booths until they were called in by the presiding officer. The sources said the clear instruction was issued after charges were levelled against the central force jawans that a section of them was influencing voters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Tea garden leader Mohan Sharma leaves Trinamul Congress||Mohan Sharma, a former district president of the Trinamul Congress in Alipurduar, who also headed the party’s trade union in tea gardens, joined the BJP on Friday. Sharma was inducted into the BJP by Union home minister Amit Shah at a public meeting in the Kalchini block of the district on a day Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee launched her poll campaign in north Bengal. “I was neglected and insulted in Trinamul. That is why I decided to quit the party. Along with me, two members of Alipurduar zilla parishad have also joined the BJP. I have 11 zilla parishad members with me and if Trinamul challenges tomorrow, I can prove my majority in the 18-seat zilla parishad,” said the former Trinamul leader who himself is a zilla parishad member. He also said he would work as a common member of the BJP and strive to ensure that the party won all five Assembly seats in the Alipurduar district. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had led in all the five seats. His defection, Trinamul insiders said, has come as a fresh poser for the party. This is because Sharma, who is based in Kalchini, is known to have considerable clout among the tea population of the district and is also popular among the Gorkhas who dwell in Alipurduar. “In our district, there are three seats where residents of tea gardens decide the results. Also, in the remaining two seats, there are some tea gardens. Now that he will be fielded by the BJP to draw support from the tea belt, we will have to strive harder to revive our support,” said an insider. Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, however, tried to put a brave face. “Mohan Sharma was put in as many as nine government posts. We don’t know what made him take such a decision…. we will continue to work for the party and people will vote us as the BJP has not done anything for the district even after it got an MP from here, unlike the state government that has carried out a series of development works,” said Goswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate Dipak Halder hospitalised, finger at Trinamul Congress||Dipak Halder, the Diamond Harbour BJP candidate, suffered multiple injuries when he was attacked by suspected Trinamul Congress supporters while campaigning in his Assembly segment in South 24-Parganas district on Friday. Six BJP workers were also injured in the attack when they tried to save Halder at Haridevpur in the Parulia coastal area. All the victims, including Halder, have been admitted to Diamond Harbour Medical College and Hospital. Police and local sources said the attack had occurred around 9.30am, a little after Halder had begun campaigning. As Halder was moving around at Haridevpur asking people to vote for him, a group of alleged Trinamul supporters armed with bamboo sticks and iron rods arrived and beat up the BJP candidate and his supporters. The personal security men of Halder were also hit with stones. “It was a planned attack by Trinamul as the ruling party is fast losing its support base. They are trying to unleash terror ahead of the polls. People of Diamond Harbour will give a befitting reply to them,” said Halder who suffered injuries to the head, back and chest. Angry over the alleged attack, BJP supporters blocked NH117 at several places, while the party’s state leadership lodged a complaint with the Election Commission blaming Trinamul for the attack. BJP workers jostled with the police when they tried to lift the blockade. The police resorted to a baton charge to break up the protesters. The EC has sought a report on the incident from the South 24-Parganas district administration. A senior officer of Diamond Harbour police district said: “We have received a complaint about an attack on the BJP candidate and are looking into it.” Trinamul has denied the charge. Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour block president Arumoy Gayen said: “We have no connection with the incident. It is a ploy by the BJP candidate to get publicity and malign Trinamul by enacting a fake attack.” The Diamond Harbour mandal committee president of the BJP, Surajit Halder, said: “Trinamul has been using goons to unleash terror among BJP workers so that we leave the battle ground for them. But that will not happen and the situation will change after May 2 as the BJP will win the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee and Amit Shah kick off campaigns in north Bengal||Identity politics took the centre-stage of the political arena in north Bengal as two heavyweights of Trinamul and the BJP — Mamata Banerjee and Amit Shah — kicked off campaign for the Assembly elections in the region. On one hand, Mamata elaborated on the initiatives she had taken for Rajbanshis who form a considerable portion of north Bengal’s population. On the other hand, the Union home minister underscored the BJP’s plans for Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and adivasis. Altogether, there are 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal and support of the Rajbanshi community determines the results in around half of these segments. Also, the Gorkhas and adivasis, who predominantly reside in the hills and the foothills, respectively, matter in another 10-odd seats. Mamata, who addressed public meetings in Dinhata and Tufanganj of Cooch Behar and Falakata of the neighbouring Alipurduar district, was specific about her government’s initiatives for the Rajbanshis. Elections will be held in both the districts on April 10. “We formed a development board and two language academies for them…. We have also decided to recognise around 200 schools where students are taught in Rajbanshi language. The development board has already built around 1,100 houses for economically weaker people of the community,” said the Trinamul supremo. Shah, on the other hand, tried to stoke the sentiments of the community — a considerable portion of them had sided with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in seats like Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri — by elaborating on his party’s promises. “Once we are voted to power in the state, we will constitute a development board for north Bengal which will be provided with an annual corpus of Rs 2,000 crores. We will ensure comprehensive infrastructure development across the region, including the Rajbanshi-dominated belts,” he said. Both the leaders also referred to Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman and social reformer of the Rajbanshis, and spoke about the Cooch Behar royals. Mamata said the state government had named the university in Cooch Behar after him, installed his statue at the varsity and was developing a second campus in Mathabhanga where Barma had been born. She also said the government was developing his ancestral house into a museum. Shah, on the other hand, said the BJP wanted to install another statue of Burma and develop a museum at his name in Cooch Behar. “We have decided to create a battalion in the name of Narayani Sena (the royal troops) and develop a training centre in the name of Chila Roy (known to be the fiercest fighter of the royal family),” he said. Mamata  said before the Centre came up with an announcement of the battalion, her government had formed a Narayani battalion in the state police which would have its headquarters in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar. “We want to know what the (BJP) MPs, who were elected from north Bengal, have done for the region,” she asked. The Union home minister said the Centre would confer Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities and work for the “permanent political solution”, both of which are long standing demands of the Gorkhas. “For the tribal population, the central government has taken a number of initiatives, including establishment of Eklavya schools…. We would ensure that they are provided with houses and the daily tea wage is hiked to Rs 350 ,” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Shaken, Nandigram keeps fingers crossed||Relative normality was restored on Friday to the key East Midnapore battleground of Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee took on her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, but the face-off at Boyal on Thursday remained a talking point with apprehensions about what would happen after counting of votes on May 2. Across the length and breadth of the Assembly constituency — Sonachura to Kendemari, Kalicharanpur to Bhuta More, Haripur to Garchakraberia — return to everyday life seemed imminent as fleet after fleet of buses ferrying central forces personnel left Nandigram. Since the Boyal incident on Thursday afternoon, no major law and order problem was reported from any part of the constituency. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was stranded at the Boyal booth — located between two bitterly divided localities of Trinamul and BJP supporters, belonging to two different communities — for nearly two hours on Thursday. Over those two tense hours, the chest-thumping religio-political assertions, with police and journalists outside the booth caught in the middle, appeared quite capable of flaring up into a full-fledged communal riot. Since Friday morning, both Mamata and her poll rival left Nandigram to campaign for their respective parties for the next phases of the elections. “We will be able to breathe easy for a bit now, with all the phaltu hungama (needless turmoil) of the campaign and the elections finally getting over… at least till the results,” said a sexagenarian barbershop owner belonging to the majority community, who — despite the desperate attempts at communal polarisation by the saffron camp to secure electoral gains — remains a firm Mamata loyalist. “But the shocker of Boyal gave many of us sleepless nights, over what the future holds for the people of Nandigram. We had many, many problems, but communal disharmony was never one of them,” he added. Boyal wore a deserted look on Friday afternoon. The one or two people who could be seen on its narrow lanes were hesitant to talk about what happened there the day before. “I am still too shaken…. I am 76 now. I have not seen such a political divide along communal lines in Nandigram in my life. I haven’t been able to eat or sleep since last afternoon,” said a Boyal resident belonging to the majority community, requesting anonymity. The frontyard of his modest home, where he was trapped with his wife and several grandchildren, was one of the places where the Trinamul-backed mob — from the minority community — had gathered in response to a similar gathering across a field by a BJP-backed mob from the majority community. “I am from the majority community. I will support Didi (Mamata) till my last breath. I used to think the BJP’s efforts to polarise have largely been in vain. After what I saw in my on neighbourhood yesterday (Thursday), I am not so sure of anything anymore,” he added. A shout away from his residence lies the Boyal Maktab Primary School, which housed the booth the chief minister had gone to on Thursday afternoon in response to complaints of electoral malpractice. The much larger police contingent, pressed into service by the poll panel, which had pacified the two mobs and rescued the chief minister, left after the voting process ended in the evening. “We were really scared for the night because the peace ensured by the heavy presence of the central forces is bound to be brittle and anything could happen after their departure. But thankfully, nothing has happened yet…. There have been rumours, some nasty, some absurd. But nothing has happened yet,” said a middle-aged homemaker from the minority community. “The real worry now is over what happens exactly a month later (counting takes place on May 2). Irrespective of which side emerges victorious, renewed tension — with actual violence — cannot be ruled out,” she added. Tension on polling day in Nandigram continues to keep the district police on tenterhooks as additional three companies of central forces were deployed in the constituency on Friday to avert any untoward incident. “To ensure that there is no fresh tension in the sensitive areas of Nandigram, including Boyal, police have been asked to keep a vigil while three companies of central forces have been deployed on Friday. The police will not spare troublemakers,” said superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Sunil Kumar Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: SKM campaigns against BJP in Cooch Behar which will vote on April 10||A delegation of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, leading the protest against the three new farm laws at Delhi’s borders that has entered its fifth month now, is campaigning against the BJP in the agrarian district of Cooch Behar which will vote on April 10. The farmer leaders, who have toured differed parts of the state since March 10 and reached north Bengal on Monday, questioned the BJP’s promise of “Sonar Bangla” by citing examples of states where the party is already in power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders have made the promise again and again in their campaign speeches. “The BJP leaders are promising a ‘Sonar Bangla’ ….. but if one visits Madhya Pradesh, he will find that the farmers there do not get proper prices for their produce. In Uttar Pradesh, there is complete lawlessness, goons are ruling everywhere and unemployment ratio is high. These people (BJP leaders) should be questioned as to what they have done in the states where they are in power,” Guramneet Singh Mangat, a Morcha representative, said on Friday. “Not only in Bengal…… we are campaigning in all five states where Assembly elections are on. Our representatives are approaching people, especially farmers, and urging them not to support the BJP while explaining to them the evils of the farm laws which the Centre has passed,” Mangat added. Thousands of farmers have been living on the roads at Delhi’s borders since November 26 to push for the repeal of the three laws that they believed will be their “death warrant”. More than 300 protesting farmers have lost their lives since the agitation began. But the BJP-led government at the Centre has been unmoved, refusing to roll back the laws. Since January 22, the government has not even held talks with the farmers. “The Prime Minister says he is just a phone call away from the farmers. But even after 300 of them lost their lives, he did not even bother to make even a tweet,” Mangat said. Around 65 per cent people in India are directly or indirectly linked to agriculture, Mangat said. “It is the support of farmers which has helped the BJP form the government in Delhi with absolute majority. If we farmers can contribute in forming the government, we can also bring it down. We felt it necessary to launch this campaign to prevent the BJP from coming to power in these states. In Bengal, we will try to reach out to the maximum number of people,” another Morcha representative said. The delegation has visited Calcutta, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Did you go to Bangladesh to seek votes? Didi asks Narendra Modi||Mamata Banerjee on Friday referred to her cordial relations with Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, and claimed credit for the signing of the Land Boundary Agreement in 2015, which paved the way for exchange of enclaves between the two neighbouring countries after deliberations for over 68 years. “I have excellent relations with Sheikh Hasina…. She had asked me to take necessary initiatives so that the enclave issue can be resolved. I had told her that yes, we would do it and we did it,” Mamata told a public meeting in Dinhata. On July 31, 2015, the enclaves — 111 Indian enclaves in Bangladesh and 51 Bangladeshi enclaves in India — had merged with the mainland of both the countries. Those living in these enclaves were granted citizenship by the respective countries. “It was a longstanding demand of the people... Where was the BJP then? Now, they are coming here ahead of the elections and trying to take the credit,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “Those residing in the enclaves are being provided with all facilities like any other resident of Bengal... We did it?” she asked. Mamata’s attempt to highlight her personal relation with Hasina and take credit for the signing of the land boundary agreement and resolving the impasse over exchange of enclaves is part of a strategy to woo voters along the India-Bangladesh border, a majority of whom being immigrants from the neighbouring country. The Trinamul chief also broached another immigrant-related issue as she raised questions over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Bangladesh during which he visited Orakandi, the birthplace of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect. “Why did you go to Bangladesh? To seek votes? asked Mamata. Modi visited Bangladesh to take part in the country’s 50th year celebration of independence and 100th birth anniversary of Mujibur Rahaman, the father of the nation. The visit was seen as an attempt to woo Matuas in Bengal because of his visit to Orakandi. The lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh can become a deciding factor in 25 to 30 Assembly segments in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. “Bangladesh is also the birthplace of Loknath Baba, Anukul Thakur... Did you go there? Why didn’t you?” asked Mamata, suggesting that Modi had visited the Matua pilgrimage hub to placate the community ahead of the election. “Isn’t it a violation of the mode code of conduct?” The chief minister also referred to an incident in which Ferdous Ahmed, a Bangladeshi actor, whose visa had been cancelled for his presence at a Trinamul programme in North Dinajpur ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “They (the BJP) were very vocal then… and now the Prime Minister is visiting Bangladesh and going to specific religious places. But this will jot yield any result. We have carried out a series of development projects for Matuas and for decades, I had been with Boroma (the erstwhile matriarch of the community) till her demise,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Central forces acted at BJP’s behest during second phase, says TMC||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP called on the chief electoral officer on Friday and lodged complaints of electoral misconduct against each other in the second phase of the Assembly polls. A team of Trinamul leaders, including minister Subrata Mukherjee, former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, Derek O’Brien, Dola Sen and Nayana Bandyopadhyay, met CEO Aariz Aftab to allege that central forces had acted at the behest of the BJP during the second phase of the polls on Thursday. “I’ve seen polls in the past 50 years. However, never have I seen such an unashamed interference by the Union government in the poll process,” Mukherjee told journalists after meeting the CEO. The Trinamul leaders also alleged that the first two phases of the Bengal polls had not been free and fair. They accused the central forces deputed to maintain law and order during the polls of influencing the electorate. “The serious issue is…central forces should be deputed during polls. But as a candidate, sometimes I’ve also realised that central forces don’t act impartially during the polls…This time, when such people are in power at the Centre, for whom nothing is inappropriate, everything is appropriate, they can stoop to any levels to win the polls,” said Sinha, a former BJP member who recently joined Trinamul. The delegation requested Aftab to ensure that the polls were conducted freely and peacefully in the coming phases. A BJP delegation led by Sisir Bajoria and Tathagata Roy also called on the CEO. The BJP leaders said while chief minister Mamata Banerjee had the right to visit any booth in her constituency as a candidate, she violated electoral norms by stationing herself at one booth in Nandigram for nearly two hours. “Booth no.7…suddenly Nandigram’s candidate Shri Mamata Banerjee came, she can go to any booth as a candidate, but she cannot sit on dharna on the premises…for almost two hours…she forgot that 144 was imposed…Section 144 went for a toss…when has a candidate sat on a dharna at a booth? This is not done…She came along with all her security personnel and slowed down the poll process. Nandigram is the only Assembly constituency of the 30 (which went to polls on Thursday) where the poll percentage went down by 2 per cent,” Bajoria said. He added that a delegation of the national BJP leaders would meet the top echelons of the Election Commission of India to lodge a complaint on the issue. The BJP also lodged a complaint about the attack on the Diamond Harbour BJP candidate, Dipak Halder, a Trinamul turncoat, on Friday. Representatives of the Sanjukta Morcha — which comprises the Left Front, Congress and the ISF — led by CPM leader Rabin Deb and Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya also met the CEO. They accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of influencing voters by holding public rallies on poll days. Mamata had made a similar accusation on Thursday. “On March 27, during the first phase of the polls, PM Narendra Modi went to Bangladesh and addressed the people there. Though it was in a separate country, the programme was telecast in Bengal as well. Again on April 1, he addressed poll rallies in Joynagar and Uluberia. This is unacceptable and is a violation of electoral norms,” Deb said. He added that the delegation had asked the CEO to ensure that the PM didn’t come for rallies in Bengal on voting days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP promises to turn Siliguri ‘smart’ ||District BJP leaders published a separate manifesto for the Siliguri Assembly seat on Friday and emphasised that if voted to power, they would carry out a series of important infrastructure works in the city and develop it into a “smart city.” In north Bengal, Siliguri is considered as the most important Assembly seat owing to its geographical location. The BJP has never won the seat. Union minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel, along with district BJP leaders and Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate in the seat, released the manifesto that carries a number of promises, most of which pertain to the infrastructure of Siliguri — the largest urban hub of north Bengal. “We will develop Siliguri into a ‘smart city’ with specific plans… projects for development of infrastructure in sports and education, along with improved drinking water services. The issue of traffic congestion which has been plaguing the city for years would be addressed,” said Shankar. Among other promises mentioned in the manifesto are announcing Bagdogra as an international airport, introducing an underground sewerage system, flyovers and foot bridges and introducing free wi-fi zones in different corners of the city. “All social welfare schemes which we have mentioned in our ‘Sankalpa Patra’ would be introduced for the economically weaker section of people of the city,” Shankar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||North East||Modi asks Assam militants to return to mainstream||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a fervent appeal to militants in Assam who have not surrendered yet to return to the mainstream as they are needed to create an 'Atmanirbhar Assam'. Addressing an election rally at Tamulpur in Baksa district, the prime minister said people of the state have rejected violence for development, peace, unity and stability. The NDA government, he asserted, formulated policies that are non-discriminatory and for all sections of society. "It's unfortunate that those who divided society and threw crumbs of development at particular sections for their vote bank politics are said to be practising secularism while we, who ensure that development reaches all, are termed communal," Modi said, attacking the Congress over long years of violence in the state. "The NDA government has strived to holistically empower every section of society with our mantra 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'. This game of secularism and communalism has hurt the nation a lot," he said. During the last five years, the "double engine" NDA governments at the Centre and in the state have resulted in "double benefit" for Assam, the prime minister said. He came down heavily on those claiming what people who will form the next government will look like and wear. Modi was apparently referring to the comments by Abdur Rahim, the son of AIUDF founder and MP Badruddin Ajmal, a Congress ally, who Friday asserted "dadhi, topi and lungi wallahs" will form the next government in the state. "There cannot be a bigger insult to Assam. The people of Assam will not tolerate those who insult Assam's pride and identity and will give them a befitting reply through the ballot," he said. The people of the state have decided to vote the NDA to power again, he asserted. "I say this on the strength of the love, affection and enthusiasm they have shown for the NDA in the two phases of polling already held. They are with development, stability, peace, harmony and unity," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
03-04-2021||Opinion||Be careful: Sachin Tendulkar tests Covid positive||Sir — It was worrying to hear that the Indian cricket legend, Sachin Tendulkar, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week and reportedly had mild symptoms, has now had to be hospitalized. The second wave of the deadly disease in India is not a myth, as much as people would like to believe it is. The fact that celebrities like Tendulkar, who have all the resources in the world to take precautions, are falling sick proves that the virus spares no one. None can afford to be complacent. It is high time people stopped behaving as though the pandemic is over and started being as careful as they were at the beginning of the lockdown last year. Purna Basu,Siliguri Turn for the worse Sir — After the Union finance ministry announcement of sharp cuts in interest rates on small savings schemes for the quarter beginning April 1 drew sharp criticism, it quickly reversed its stand, with the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, claiming that the order was an “oversight” (“Turf war over small savings”, April 2). While one does not know whether it was an actual goof-up or a sudden change of heart in view of the ongoing assembly elections, one thing is for certain: politics is dangerously mixed with economics in India. The embarrassing episode could have easily been avoided by the finance minister. In any case, small savings schemes have very low interest rates. In May, when the elections are over, the government should resist the temptation to reduce interest rates. While the market is doing well every now and then and the high monthly collection of the goods and services tax will give it a further boost — GST receipts of the Centre and state governments were set to cross Rs 1.2 trillion in March, the highest ever since the indirect tax reform in 2017 — a significant portion of household savings still goes into the savings schemes. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The Centre’s U-turn within a day on small savings interest rates appears to have been driven by electoral considerations. With assembly elections in progress, the proposed slash in interest rates would have had an adverse effect on the prospects of the Bharatiya Janata Party. But did not the finance ministry’s mandarins know this before announcing the cuts? Nirmala Sitharaman’s attempt at damage control — she called the order an ‘oversight’ — is hard to believe. Can such an important decision be taken without the approval of the finance minister? Now ordinary citizens are sure that the axe will fall on their heads after the election or from the next quarter. Hira Lal De,Hooghly Sir — On the first day of April — widely observed as All Fools’ Day — the Union finance minister announced that the Centre has scrapped the notified interest rates on small savings schemes with a tweet that said, “Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn”. The Congress asked whether it was indeed an ‘oversight’ or whether the withdrawal of the order was on account of “election driven ‘hindsight’”. Indeed, how can ‘oversight’ be the reason for such a serious matter? Since the polls are still on, the gaffe would likely affect the results. When inflation is at about 6 per cent and is expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent, thus hitting savers and the middle class the hardest. The order was withdrawn as a face-saving measure, but as soon as the poll results are out, another such ‘order’ slashing interest rates is likely to be issued. Does the BJP think Indians are fools? If the first announcement was indeed a mistake, then why are those responsible for messing up a matter of such importance not being penalized? One shudders to think about the other decisions of the Centre that have been detrimental to ordinary people, such as the new labour codes. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Indians’ hard-earned money is doomed under the BJP. The finance minister hastily withdrew the small savings schemes announcement because it would hurt the BJP’s chances in the assembly polls, but there is every likelihood that the interest rate cuts will be announced again after the polls. Sayani Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||Cut to the quick||The bizarre flip-flop over the sharp reduction in the small savings rates has, once again, exposed the frailties of the Narendra Modi government’s decision-making process and its appalling insensitivity towards the people at the bottom of the pyramid. The decision to cut the rates — especially the proposal to pare the interest on the popular public provident fund to a 46-year low of 6.4 per cent — sent shock waves through the nation. Within hours, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, tweeted that the government had decided to withdraw the circular that had been issued because of an “oversight” but chose to offer no further explanation. Some reports have suggested that this was a routine decision taken by bureaucrats and that the finance minister was not kept in the loop before the announcement — a proposition that stretches credulity. The move to cut the small savings rates sparked howls of protest, especially in states like West Bengal that are in the thick of a fiercely-contested election. Bengal is one of the biggest contributors to small savings and accounts for roughly 14.7 per cent of the Rs 8.23 trillion corpus. There is a darker side to this story. For a fairly long time, banks have been lobbying the government to cut the small savings rates because these have restricted their ability to raise deposits. They have also tried to posit this as one of the reasons why they have not been able to lower lending rates in lockstep with the Reserve Bank of India’s reduction in the policy rate. Small savings rates are tied to the yields on government securities of similar maturity. The trouble is that bond yields, which had started to cool till last December, began to surge in early February after the government sharply increased its borrowing target to over Rs 12 trillion in 2021-22 against the market’s expectation of around Rs 10.6 trillion. As a result, the yield on the 10-year bond, which serves as a benchmark for the money market, soared to over 6.16 per cent and is slightly higher than what it was at the end of March 2020. The central bank has already blamed bond vigilantes for defeating its attempt to ensure an orderly evolution of the bond yield curve. The RBI’s Operation Twist — whereby it sells short-term bonds and buys long-dated securities — has failed to achieve the desired results because the market players have a vested interest in nudging yields upwards. Bond yields are largely countercyclical, which means that they tend to move up when the economy falters. There are no clear signs to indicate when the economy will bounce back to normal. This would normally suggest that the small savings rates are safe for now. But economic compulsions may force the government to revise the rates after June 30. Ms Sitharaman may just press the quarterly reset button leaving savers with no safe haven where they can earn just enough to stay ahead of inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||The heart of the matter: Cardiac advice for Sourav Ganguly||Sourav Ganguly, who has undergone angioplasty, is no doubt being looked after by excellent doctors in India, but the next time he is in London, he could consider having a chat with Jaspal Kooner, one of Britain’s most respected cardiologists. He has performed over 20,000 heart surgeries, trained 200 cardiologists and was once named the UK’s “doctor of the year”. He wears several hats (colourful turbans, actually), including that of the professor of clinical cardiology, National Heart & Lung Institute, at Imperial College London, and consultant cardiologist, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Hammersmith Hospital Campus. On Sourav, was Jaspal surprised that someone who was only 48 and had been cricket captain of India had suffered heart problems? “No.” He was not commenting last week on Sourav specifically but making a general point. With funding from the Wellcome Trust, Jaspal has set up a biobank that will make an Imperial College-sponsored “longitudinal” study over many years of 2,50,000 “representative” people — 1,00,000 in the UK and the rest in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Jaspal’s findings could affect “a quarter of the world’s population”. He wants to identify the “bio-markers” that explain why Indians, however young and healthy their lifestyle, are predisposed to diabetes and cardiac disease. Jaspal says this is where Sourav’s situation and that of others like him become relevant: “Curiously, if I compare Asians in their 30s and 40s, with Europeans in their 30s and 40s, the risk of heart disease is four to five fold higher. That ratio is higher in younger ages than in older ages. What the pandemic has shown is that it is even more important for Asians to take heed of their lifestyle, diet, exercise, all that kind of thing.” Let it rip Indian politicians should be a little careful before passing judgment on how women should dress. The Daily Telegraph’s fashion editor, Tamara Abraham, has taken Tirath Singh Rawat to task for equating women wearing ripped jeans with moral decay. She told me why she devoted an entire column to Uttarakhand’s chief minister: “Mr Rawat’s comments were problematic for so many reasons: the idea that a pair of ripped jeans could have any effect on one’s moral compass is ridiculous, but I also doubt he would have had much to say about a man wearing the same thing. As a senior politician, he has a valuable platform and he’s wasting it by telling women what they should or should not wear, instead of tackling the very real problem of violence against women in India.” Tamara explained to her readers that Rawat had berated an unnamed woman he had met on a flight: “‘You run an NGO, wear jeans ripped at the knees, move about in society, children are with you, what values will you teach?’ he said.” Tamara said she had not worn her own ripped jeans recently “but I’m inclined to start wearing them again in solidarity with women in India”. She added that “the only thing that will stop such politicians attaching conservative notions to innocuous garments is by normalising them. It’s a collective rebellion, and a way to tell the women of #rippedjeanstwitter that the world is on their side.” Tamara also made a telling point about the Delhi gang rape: “... Rawat, as a political leader, is using his platform to criticise women, when instead he could be using it to protect them. Eight years on from the fatal gang rape of a 23-year-old student on a New Delhi bus, violence against women remains a huge problem in India; though reliable data on physical attacks is unavailable, a former Minister for Women said around 70 per cent of India’s female population are victims.” Lost light The journalist, Anil Dharker, who died, aged 74, from heart surgery complications, was a friend I associated with the old cosmopolitan Bombay. Going through our email exchanges — he would often ask about authors for the lit fest he ran for the past decade — makes me feel Bombay is poorer for his passing. He was justly proud of his actress daughter; he would fly over to see her in Royal Shakespeare Company productions. He said it was “a pity” that Imtiaz Dharker, his ex-wife, did not want to be Britain’s Poet Laureate but respected her decision “to concentrate on her work without distractions”. Treasure trove Britain’s country homes are filled with Indian treasures, understandably so in the case of Patricia, Lord Mountbatten’s elder daughter, whose belongings fetched £5.6m at a Sotheby’s auction last week. The portrait of her father-in-law, the fifth Baron Brabourne, who was Viceroy of India in 1938 — he is buried in St John’s Churchyard in Calcutta — fetched £9,450. The 11-hour auction attracted 1,400 bidders from 55 countries. Indian valuables, including a pair of “exquisite gold and enamel elephants made in Jaipur” which Lord Mountbatten gifted to Edwina on their 24th wedding anniversary, will never be seen again since all have gone to anonymous buyers. Sotheby’s head of sale, David Macdonald, tells me: “The Mountbattens were a family that had very close ties to India.” He adds that Patricia and her husband, the 7th Baron Brabourne, “chose to spend several months honeymooning in India”. Footnote BBC TV presenter, Naga Munchetty, born to an Indian mother and a Mauritian father, along with Charlie Stayt, poked fun at the size of the Union Flag in the office of the housing and communities secretary, Robert Jenrick. To teach her to be more patriotic, the British government has decreed the Union Flag must be flown from official buildings, not just on special occasions but every single day. Didn’t Samuel Johnson say that “[p]atriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel”?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||Pragmatic vision||More Bengali than many Bengalis, the one-time Communist leader, Jolly Mohan Kaul, would have been deeply distressed if West Bengal failed to preserve its identity in the current elections. That danger also loomed ahead in 1977 when some feared that Siddhartha Shankar Ray’s Congress was too much under Sanjay Gandhi’s thumb. Being also a pragmatist, Jolly would not have been surprised at being inadvertently and posthumously responsible for my abrupt parting from Mumbai’s ironically named Free Press Journal which had earlier offered me its editorship. More of that later. The elections cropped up in conversation earlier this week with a Gujarati shopkeeper in the downmarket west London suburb of Feltham. He was basking on a park bench in the late March sunshine and allowed my wife and me space without breaching social distancing. What’s going to happen to “Mamta” was his immediate question on learning we were from Calcutta. Then, and to our considerable surprise, he warned that the four “dakoos” who rule India, ticking off “Modi, Shah, Ambani, Adani” on the stubby fingers of one hand, were after her blood. Jolly would have expected the Trinamul Congress, the Congress, the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front to unite in repelling the imperious invader. Although he acknowledged that religion could never be eradicated from the soil and soul of Bengal, and notwithstanding some soldiers of fortune seeking the loaves and fishes of office, the Bharatiya Janata Party is as alien to Bengal’s ethic as Mahmud of Ghazni was to the Somnath temple. The spirituality that tempered Jolly’s political quest could not have been farther removed from either the crude clay images smuggled into the Babri Masjid or the stagey spectacle of a crowned Narendra Modi in ostentatious prostration. Aware that even certain Marxists we both knew performed daily pujas, Jolly held that Jawaharlal Nehru’s secularism was doomed whereas Gandhi’s was not because it respected the power of religion. It’s what men live by. But that cannot justify bigotry or a revival of communal prejudice. At one level, the concatenation of recent events warns that civilization is under siege. At another, they are a reminder of realities that must be accommodated if basic liberties are to survive. About the time that Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian were making a stand in Sonepat, a well-known British broadcaster, Piers Morgan, had to quit the popular Good Morning Britain radio programme for saying he did not believe “a word” that the Duchess of Sussex had said in her notorious Oprah Winfrey interview about racist comments by one of her royal in-laws. Academia and the media have much in common. Both believe they serve lofty ideals. Both are exalted into vocations. But both must operate within a mundane framework. When told that a free press prevents corruption, Lee Kuan Yew retorted, “But the media itself is corrupted!” Echoing his scepticism, a Singapore editor asked an American holding forth on the rule of law, “Who makes the law?” No exclusive cadre steeped in virtue mans our universities and media. One brother can be a grocer while another reports for newspapers. Or one brother may work for the telephone corporation and another teach in a school or college. They report to editors or deans and faculty heads who might otherwise be bureaucratic departmental chiefs, run business offices or hold political office. Simplifying the hierarchy, above them are the owners of newspapers and television channels and the supposedly philanthropic business magnates who fund universities. Methods are much the same all down the line. If grocers can mix chalk with flour and telephone mechanics demand money for quick connections, why should newspaper reporters or school/college teachers not also expect gratification? A dignitary is not transformed into a selfless St Francis of Assisi just by being appointed a university trustee or to a newspaper’s board of directors. For that matter, the worthies who do the appointing may not foul their hands with filthy lucre but at the very least want their point of view propagated. More importantly, they have other business interests that cannot do without political patronage. There’s less pretence among the British. When a British-Indian newspaper’s owners in London made known their dissatisfaction with their editor in Calcutta, the latter promptly replied that his resignation would be ready before lunch. In contrast, a veteran Indian journalist in Delhi famously resigned with bitter criticism of the paper’s policies only after he was refused a sixth extension. Jolly was a realist. He understood the limitations of the flesh even as he reached out In Search of a Better World, the title of his memoirs. I can do no better than quote the book’s review that Rudrangshu Mukherjee, now chancellor of Ashoka University, wrote in this newspaper. Jolly was in financial difficulties after leaving the Communist Party of India until another former comrade, Prasanta Sanyal, recommended him for a job in Indian Oxygen where Sanyal worked. Initial resistance to the appointment soon ended. “The CPI leader, Bhupesh Gupta, who occasionally stayed with Kaul even after the latter had left the party, heard of the resistance and spoke to N. Dandekar who sat with Gupta in the Rajya Sabha. Dandekar was a member of the Swatantra Party, and was the chairman of the Indian Oxygen board. He spoke to the managing director and the path was cleared for Kaul’s appointment. Thus, one former comrade, one full-time communist MP and one Swatantra Party member helped to get employment for an out-of-work former member of the CPI. The power of the network!” When Jolly died last June, I paid tribute to him in the weekly column, “Global Village”, that I had written for the FPJ for many years. My article was received as usual by the Edit page editor, cleared by the editor and published on July 4, 2020. I thought nothing of it until three days later came an email from one “G.L. Lakhotia, Managing Editor” saying the paper’s “esteemed readers” were “unfamiliar” with Jolly and “were unable to connect with him”. The letter concluded, “In addition, we also received flak from our readers regarding this particular article. As such please note that we won’t be releasing the payment to the said column”. I responded by saying bluntly that I was discontinuing “Global Village”. My reply also pointed out that “morally and legally” the paper was obliged to pay for a column that was written within the terms of the arrangement and published. I also regretted that the letter was not from the editor to whom my reply was copied. There was no reply. No payment either. The editor and the editorial page editor sent flattering messages indicating they were no party to the managing editor’s decision. I wonder how Jolly would have reacted. He would undoubtedly have upbraided me for not investigating the FPJ’s political affiliations before starting “Global Village”. But being a practical man, he would probably have accepted that he who pays the piper calls the tune. The BBC’s Andrew Whitehead noted Jolly’s readiness to cut his losses. As secretary of the Port Trust Employees’ Association and a CPI district committee member, he led a peace march to Calcutta’s Maidan on Direct Action Day, 1946 but was too late to prevent bloodshed. “We found dead bodies on the way, so we immediately folded our flags and told the workers: let’s march back, let us try to see if we can save our locality from the riots at least... I think our tactics did pay off... The organised trade union movement in Calcutta was able to... maintain the solidarity of Hindu and Muslim workers.” It is clear even at a distance of 5,000 miles that West Bengal can say goodbye to such solidarity if the forces of majoritarian triumphalism are not repulsed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Fire at Dhanbad power sub-station ||Dhanbad: Fire engulfed the Kaliasol based power sub-station of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited about 35km from Dhanbad distirict headquarters on Saturday. The fire was brought under control in one hour with two fire brigades pressed into service. Circle officer of Kaliasol, Diwakar Dubey said,"fire started from adjoining bushes and gradually engulfed some cables lying in the power sub-station but fortunately the transformers remained unaffected due to which the losses remained nominal." Power supply was discontinued for three hours during the incident. (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: Principal district and session judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava on Saturday flagged off ‘Justice on Wheels’ at Tenughat of Bermo, with an aim to provide easy access to justice for the people in remote areas. The mobile Lok Adalat and legal awareness vehicle will visit all nine blocks of the district. The van will travel through different panchayats with magistrates accompanied by advocates. The judicial team will provide legal remedies available to overcome any dispute faced by villagers. The villagers can also come with their grievances. The air-conditioned bus is equipped with tables and rotating chairs. A large section of society, specially in remote areas, is unaware of their rights and legal services made available to them. It becomes necessary for the District Legal Service Authourity (DLSA) to reach out to the people. The initiative was launched by Jharkhand State Legal Service Authority (Jhalsa). The van will make a stop at Bokaro from April 3 to April 30. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: District health department officials on Saturday instructed hospitals and nursing homes to prepare extra beds for Covid-19 patients as cases rise every day. The number of Covid patients has crossed above 100 in the district. All doctors have been asked to prescribe Covid-19 testing to anyone found suffering from severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) symptoms. The private hospitals have also been instructed to provide details of patients coming to their institutions with SARI symptoms. There are more than 50 private hospitals and nursing homes in the district. Mostly of them are functional in Bokaro Township. The dedicated Covid hospital Bokaro General Hospital has already augmented its beds by reopening a 40-bed Covid Ward. Last week BGH reopened its Covid Critical Care Unit. Dr A.K. Pathak, civil surgeon, said: “I have asked each of the private hospitals to dedicate few beds for treating corona patients. The rising number of Covid-19 positive cases requires their contribution in treating the patients.” There are 22 private hospitals and nursing homes which are enrolled for administering Covid-91 vaccine. They have been asked to treat Covid-19 patients too. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Left to back JMM nominee for Madhupur byelection ||Left parties, although not a part of the UPA government in Jharkhand, have decided to support the JMM candidate, cabinet minister Hafizul Hassan, for the Madhupur byelection scheduled on April 17. In a joint press statement issued in Ranchi, four Left parties _  CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee _ announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate in the bypoll. “We had extended our support to UPA candidates during the Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP. Now, we have decided to do the same for the Madhupur bypoll too. This is to show our opposition to the BJP government which has been taking anti-people decisions since the last few years, visible in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets, dismal employment opportunities. We would campaign against the BJP candidate and support the JMM candidate,” said Prakash Viplav after a meeting of all Left parties at the state CPM office in Ranchi. Though Left parties have never made an impact in any Assembly election at Madhupur, they do have followers among factory workers in few pockets of the constituency, especially after recent agitations against the new farm laws and privatisation of banks. Meanwhile, both UPA and BJP have stepped up campaigning. State minority welfare minister Hafijul Hassan, son of the deceased minister Haji Hussain Ansari, is pitted against Ganga Narayan Singh, who joined BJP from Ajsu on March 22 and was announced as a candidate a few days before filing his nomination on March 30, the last date. While BJP party leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi, Deoghar MP Nishikant Dubey and a host of senior BJP leaders are campaigning for their party candidate,  ruling alliance leaders, including Congress minister Badal Patralekh, chief minister Hemant Soren and RJD leaders, have been campaigning for Hafijul Hassan. Byelection is being held as the sitting Madhupur MLA, Haji Hussain Ansari, died due to Covid-19 related complications in October last year. In the 2019 assembly polls, the voting percentage of BJP (28.34) and Ajsu (19.88), if considered together (48.22) works out to be higher than the JMM's (38.4). This has made BJP field Ajsu turncoat, relying on traditional voters and the Ajsu support base to defeat the ruling alliance candidate. “I am confident of victory in the bypoll as the party has fielded a son of Madhupur for the first time in the last two-decades. I have worked tirelessly for the people of the region and my priority would remain to work for the people in any capacity. This time, I will be getting traditional BJP voters and my own supporters who helped me finish third in the 2019 assembly polls,” said Ganga Narayan Ray, alias Ganga Narayan Singh. However, state BJP vice-president Raj Paliwar, who was eyeing a ticket and had been the party candidate for the last few elections, even winning in the 2014 elections, wasn't even invited on the day Ganga Narayan filed his nomination. "Raj Paliwar is the face of BJP for the last two decades and holds considerable clout among party rank and file. But he has been badly insulted by our party this time. He is maintaining silence and this can prove to be a disadvantage for the BJP candidate," said a Madhupur block BJP leader, indicaing that all is not well in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||BSL sets new records in fiscal year||The Bokaro Steel Plant overcame unprecedented challenges and hurdles posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to set several new monthly and annual production records in 2020-21. BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, registered a record cash collection of Rs 2,858 crore in March. The fiscal year also proved to be a good year in terms of performance in Despatch and Techno-Economic indices. With the addition of some new facilities, the plant also upgraded its production processes last year. In 2020-21, BSL registered a growth of 2.6% in production of HR Plate and HR Sheet compared with 2019-20 and a 1.5% increase in the production of CR Saleable from CRM-3, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication. In the financial year 2020-21, BSL exported more than three lakh tonnes of steel to several countries including China. In the month of March, BSL made forays into the European market by exporting 12,436 tonnes of steel with CI mark certification for the first time. BSL signed a MoU with NHAI for supply of fly ash for road construction projects. Till now, BSL has already supplied 1,70,000 cubic metre of fly ash to NHAI. “The year 2020-21 was also remarkable in terms of progress and stabilisation in the new facilities in the plant including installation of caster in the new Steel Melting Shop, commissioning of zero liquid discharge facility in CRM-3, commissioning of second stream along with alternating network line of coke oven gas line etc,” said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Adityapur faces acute shortage of drinking water||A local NGO of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district has demanded the closure of car-wash centres amid acute drinking water crisis in the township. According to Jan Kalyan Morcha’s recently conducted survey, while the majority of about three lakh residents were facing acute shortage of drinking water, the owners of car wash facilities are running their units by using drinking water. The township, under the Adityapur Municipal Corporation, largely depends on tube-wells. Of about 50,000 households, only 7,000 get tap water facilities. The remaining 43,000 households have to depend on tube-wells. "Be the water being raised from the deep-boring or supplied from the Drinking Water and & Sanitation Department (DW&SD), over a dozen car-washing units operating in Adityapur are being run with drinking water. Such units must be stopped with immediate effect," said Om Prakash, president of the JKM in a petition submitted to the Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner. The JKM president told The Telegraph Online that those who wish to keep four-wheelers neat and clean may drive over to Sitarampur reservoir for getting their vehicles washed. With the underground water table depleted considerably, most of the tube-wells have become defunct. As a result, the residents have started asking the AMC authority to supply drinking water through tankers. But due to absence of adequate number of water tankers the AMC is not being able to provide the residents with drinking water through tankers. "We only have seven tankers which are not adequate to meet the demand of all the residents. We are planning to procure 15 more tankers on an emergency basis to cope up with the drinking water crisis," said Vinod Shrivastav, mayor, AMC to The Telegraph Online. A section of drinking water dealers operating in Mango and Jugsalai localities of the steel city are doing a brisk business by supplying drinking water through water tankers. These dealers are charging Rs 500 a tanker, containing 1,000 litres of water whereas the same quantity of the water is available in Mango and Jugsalai for Rs 300 only. A mega drinking water project worth Rs 400 crore is being set up at Adityapur by the state government but due absence of forest clearance at a number of points, the ambitious project is making progress at a snail's pace and is not likely to be completed before March 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to intensify Covid vigil as cases rise||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Saturday carried out an inspection of Covid hot spots and testing centres in the district. Singh instructed authorities to intensify the testing in the hot spots as the district recorded 31 cases on April 1 and 33 on April 3. At present there are 78 active Covid cases. On Friday, 10 cases were reported in one colony of ward Number 11 of Jamadoba. The DC instructed officials to carry out Covid tests of all 81 families living in the colony. The DC visited Sadar Hospital at around 1 pm and instructed hospital in-charge, Dr Rajkumar Singh to test patients visiting the OPD centre. Singh accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others later took stock of testing preparedness at the Swadeshi Mela at Zila Parisahd ground and inspected the Covid ICU at Central Hospital of BCCL in Jagjivan Nagar and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. During the last leg of his inspection drive, Singh reviewed the testing of passengers arriving in Dhanbad through other states at Bartand based Bus Depot and the arrangements made at the district control room. “The inspection drive was aimed at beefing up the Covid treatment facilities as well as intensifying Covid testing drive as per which we instructed the authorities to carry out Covid test of all patients arriving at four prominent hospitals including Central Hospital, SNMMCH, Sadar Hospital and Tata Central Hospital Jamadoba,” said Singh. “In Jamadoba as well as other hotspots we are conducting tests of all persons within 200-300 meter of the hot spot zones,” he further added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid halts green crusaders' expansion plans||Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu’s expansion plans for Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) across Kolhan has hit a roadblock due to the second wave of Covid-19. Known as Lady Tarzan for ferociously fighting the timber mafia to protect forests, Jamuna leads a group of women members who are active in Sunsunia, Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests in Chakulia. The group patrol the jungles of the Chakulia forest range to prevent tree felling. Jamuna lives at Muturkham in Chakulia village. The global pandemic has forced the green crusader to temporarily shelve the plans even though she has extensively toured West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan to spread the wings of VSS. Jamuna and some members of VSS undertook a tour of West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan when the Covid-related situation improved and things opened up. "I have already discussed the expansion plans with some women groups in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan during our tour. I was very sure that the expansion plan was going in the right direction. But the return of Covid has played spoilsport. We shall have to wait till the situation improves," said Jamuna. Jamuna says it requires a lot of convincing to groups of other districts when it comes to expanding the base of VSS. “The Samity cannot be expanded overnight. I will have to tour the other districts again to convince women groups and explain the importance of protecting forests,” she said. "It would not be a wise idea to undertake a tour in this situation. We have to take care of ourselves in difficult times," she said. Asked if tree felling has stopped, Jamuna replied in the affirmative."Though villagers still pick dry wood for cooking food but overall tree felling has stopped. We have support from foresters," the environmentalist added. Cases of tree felling have come down as the VSS has imposed a fine of Rs 5,001 for those venturing into the jungles. There are over 300 members of VSS in the East Singhbhum unit. VSS committees were formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur earlier last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||1000-year-old Avalokiteshvara statue retrieved in Hazaribagh village||The Archaeological Survey of India has recovered a 1000-year-old white sandstone statue of Avalokiteshvara in Bahoranpur on Saturday. ASI experts said the six feet tall statue can be dated back to the Pala dynasty who ruled from the 8th century to 12th century. Bahoranpur village is in Sitagarha, around 20 kilometres away from the district headquarters. The ASI started working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro revealed details about Bahoranpur, widely considered to be a popular monastery during its time. Many residents in the area had found ancient idols in the area while constructing their houses, leading to the discovery of the place. Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara occupies a unique place in the Mahayana Buddhist pantheon. Buddhist sutras speak of several bodhisattvas but it is Avalokitesvara who is revered and adored by followers of both Hinayana and Mahayana Buddhism and by all art lovers. ASI team leader Rajendra Dahuri said a smaller statue of Avalokiteshvara has also been recovered earlier. Two ancient statues were also stolen from the site last week which were recovered by the police from Ranchi. The central agency has now established that Bahoranpur was not only a shrine or a monastery, but a well-developed city of its time. The ASI had first started excavating the site in November 2019, but had to pause it for some months due to the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister who underwent lung transplant in hospital again||Jharkhand Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had to undergo lung transplant following Covid-induced fibrosis, had to be hospitalised again in Chennai after developing an infection on his chest wall, doctors at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare  said on Saturday. Mahto, who was staying in Chennai after being discharged from hospital on February 8, complained of discomfort and pain in his chest last week, said Dr Suresh Rao, the Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Healthcare. “He has developed an infection on his chest wall. We have collected a sample of the infection for culture and the minister has been kept under observation,” said Dr. Rao, adding that Mahto’s condition was stable, and his transplanted lungs were functioning fine. Rao, who was a member of the team that transplanted Mahto’s lung at MGM on November 10, said that such infections occur in some patients after undergoing lung transplant surgery, and therefore they must take utmost precautions. “We have been administering antibiotics to him (Mahto). The culture test report will give us a clearer picture on the gravity of the situation,” said Rao. Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28, 2020, underwent treatment in various hospitals for four months.  Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU hasof Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1, 2020 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10, 2020. Despite being declared fit to travel and lead a normal life, the minister did not attend the Budget Session of  the Jharkhand Assembly in person as a precautionary measure. Doctors suggested he  avoid crowded places and public interaction for a few weeks as a relapse could have proved fatal. Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA, is a first-time minister in the State cabinet. Before being detected with Covid-19, he had taken important decisions related to relaxations in school fees during the lockdown period. Mahto had also assured better payment to para teachers in the state and became the first ever Education Minister in Jharkhand to gift cars to board exam toppers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Cornhole Baggo introduced across Jharkhand||Dhanbad and Jamshedpur apart, special athletes from other districts in Jharkhand can also enjoy the popular game of Cornhole Baggo. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) on Friday introduced the game to its affiliated district units with virtual demonstration via webinar at a simple function attended by coaches and volunteers at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The SOJ has already introduced the game in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad in February and March, respectively. "We feel happy to introduce the game in other districts of Jharkhand as well. The game should be enjoyed by the entire special fraternity of the state," said SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. According to him, Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) has given approval to provide boards (for Cornhole Baggo) to Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Ramgarh and the boards have already been provided to Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. The SOJ was supposed to physically introduce the game in Ranchi and Ramgarh this month but postponed it due to the rising Covid cases. The SOJ assistant area director said they would send the specification of the Cornhole Baggo to the rest of their affiliated district units so that they can make the same and start playing the game. The state chapter of Special Olympics has plans to include Cornhole Baggo as one of the events of the State Games. "The State Games would be organised once the Covid-related situation improves. We have definite plans to include Cornhole Baggo as one of the disciplines," Sahota, who had some months ago attended a webinar on Cornhole Baggo conducted by SOB, added. In Cornhole Baggo, which is highly popular in Europe, United States and Canada, specials throw 6 inches x 6 inches bags full of corn into a 6 inch hole on a 4 ft x 2 ft board. Participants with lower ability are required to throw the bag from a distance of 3 m, middle ability from 4 m and higher ability from 5 m. Each bag, which are of red and green colours and filled with corns, weigh 454 grams. The board is placed in an inclined position and the game is spread over three sets. Each set has two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum time emerges as winners. It is an interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
03-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand raises MGNREGA daily wage to Rs 225||The Jharkhand government has decided to hike the daily wage under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to Rs 225 using funds from its own coffers from April after the central government failed to consider its request to increase the amount from Rs 198. Sources in the state rural development department said that according to the state-wise wage rate for unskilled manual workers notified by the Union ministry of rural development, the MGNREGA wage rate for Jharkhand and Bihar has been increased by a mere Rs 4 from Rs 194 in 2020-21 to Rs 198 in 2021-22. “We are among the states with the lowest wage rate at Rs 194, above only Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, which have been set at Rs 193 each. We had requested the central government to increase the wage rate to Rs 225 in January. However, in the state-wise wage rate for unskilled manual workers issued by the Union government, the increase for Jharkhand (and Bihar) was only Rs 4. We again requested the Centre (to increase the wage rate) but received no response. We had no option but to increase the wage rate from our own funds. There seems to be no transparency in why and how these wage rates are determined for different states,” said a source in the chief minister’s office. Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005, the Centre determines the state-wise wage rates for unskilled manual workers under the scheme. These rates are determined according to changes in the Consumer Price Index for Agricultural Labour, which reflects inflation in rural areas. “The government should disclose the process by which they have increased the rate or the reasons why they have not. Are they increasing the wages arbitrarily or on political grounds or is it based on an index like the agricultural wage index?” asked an official in chief minister’s office. “The MGNREGA is a lifeline for the rural poor. But people do not show much interest in working under the scheme due to poor wages. So, we have decided to enhance the wage from the existing amount fixed by the Centre at Rs 198 to Rs 225 from the state exchequer,” said chief minister Hemant Soren. On January 2, Soren had announced at a public meeting that his government would spend out of its own pocket to raise the job scheme wage for workers in the state. The scheme’s wages are fixed and paid by the Centre, which is accused of keeping them too low. In about half the states including Jharkhand, the job scheme wage is lower than the minimum wage fixed by the state government. The minimum wage rate in Jharkhand is Rs 283, while a labourer working under the rural job scheme used to get Rs 194 as minimum wage till March. When the job scheme was launched in 2006, the wage was linked to the minimum wage in every state. But since 2008, the job scheme wage has been revised in the light of the CPIAL for the state concerned, bringing it below the minimum wage in some states that revise wages through consultation. Sources in the state rural development department further said that there are provisions in the MGNREGA under which a state can increase the minimum wage of workers from its own exchequer. Several states, including Bihar, have already done it. However, they have requested the Centre for creating a separate column for the state’s wage contribution in the management information system of the MGNREGA. State MGNREGS commissioner and rural development director Aditya Ranjan said that the deputy commissioners and deputy development commissioners in all 24 districts of the state have been directed to pay the increased wage rate for work under the rural job scheme effective from April 1. Additional reporting by Basant Kumar Mohanty in Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
