04-04-2021||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee’s wife Dipa Chatterjee takes last breath||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s wife Dipa Chatterjee passed away during the early hours of Sunday, just four months after her husband took his last breath, sources said. She was 83 at the time of her death. According to family sources quoted by ABP Ananda Digital, Dipa Chatterjee was suffering from diabetes for a long time. She was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta a few days ago following kidney-related issues on March 31. The octogenarian died of failure of the organ, sources said. According to Anandabazar Patrika Online, she had lost her will to live following the passing of her husband. Soumitra, known for his career-spanning collaborations with celebrated director Satyajit Ray who cast him in 14 of his films, passed away at a city hospital on November 16 after a prolonged illness aggravated by a bout of Covid-19. He was 85.  Dipa, a badminton champion who had also acted in films like 'Durga' and 'Bilombito Loy', married Soumitra in 1960.. They are survived by their daughter Poulami Bose and son Sougata Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Covid count crosses the 8,000-mark||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,152 on Saturday, to 8,844. This was the 23nd consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The total crossed the 8,000-mark for the first time since January 9. The state reported 579 Covid recoveries, but 1,736 new infections were detected, besides five deaths, two of them in the city. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 528 and 392 new infections, respectively, were detected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Parties come calling at housing complexes||This election, political parties are trying to make inroads into big housing complexes to reach out to voters who are otherwise difficult to access within gated communities. The relatively new move to approach residents of housing complexes is not just an indication of how desperate political parties are to connect to every possible voter but also appears to be a compulsion of an election that promises to be close. Many housing complexes have thus far resisted political campaigning inside their compound with polite excuses but some have decided to allow candidates so that residents can make an “informed choice.” South City Complex that falls under in the Rashbehari Assembly constituency has been approached by two political parties for a chance to interact with the residents. For the first time in the over a decade of the housing, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) has decided to organise an interactive session inviting both the candidates — TMC’s Debasish Kumar and BJP’s Subrata Saha — on a particular date and time when the South City residents will be able to put forward their problems and expectations before the candidates, an RWA official said. Upohar Housing complex along EM Bypass — that falls under Jadavpur constituency — has refused a political party’s request for a door-to-door campaign inside the housing. “It has been decided that we will not allow any political party representatives to enter the housing for campaigning. To the most, they can leave their leaflets at the main gate security enclosure or with the RWA office. Residents will be informed, if anyone wants, may collect from there,” said an RWA official of Upohar. Hundreds of gated communities across the city and on the outskirts remain untapped for votes as most of them have been inaccessible during formal campaigning. However, this election promises to be different. According to a Trinamul Congress leader of south Calcutta, the advantage about campaigning inside a big housing complex is the opportunity to reach out to hundreds of voters at one go. “Even if we manage to influence a handful of residents in a housing society, the idea percolates easily through word of mouth as all the residents of a housing complex have more or less similar set of problems and share similar aspirations,” he said. Several housings are following the South City model and allowing candidates to step inside and interact with the residents. CPI candidate from Sonarpur (Dakshin) Shubham Banerjee has been going around housing complexes in the Narendrapur and Sonarpur areas for several weeks now. “A large number of my voters live in housing complexes. How can I fulfil my motto of ‘reach to each’ unless I approach all dwellings in both the city and rural areas?” Banerjee told Metro. Banerjee said he has already campaigned in several housing complexes to understand issues that affect people in these pockets. The RWA in Sugam Park — a housing complex of 500-odd flats in Narendrapur — where Banerjee was allowed to campaign last month, has announced among its residents that all political parties that will approach would be allowed to campaign in a particular common area inside the complex without use of microphone or political flags. “No door-to-door campaigning will be allowed as that would be a breach of privacy of our residents. But we cannot disregard the process of democracy as well,” said an RWA official of the housing. Till now, the CPI and the BJP have approached the housing. Both have been given permission. “We are fixing a date and time of visit in a common area and announcing it among residents. Those who are willing may participate,” the official added. Several housing complexes that have so long resisted political campaigning on their premises, are preparing a “back-up plan” in case they are forced to yield to the requests of the political parties. The RWA in Orbit Sky View in north Calcutta’s Paikpara has recently circulated among its residents a message that mentions about the RWA’s successful attempt to “politely” stop a political party from a door-to-door campaign inside their housing. “However, the association might not be this lucky with other political parties,” the message mentions. In case of the latter, the RWA would propose to the party to either leave their pamphlets with them or to set up a kiosk in their community hall on a designated time and date which will be informed to residents in advance. “Residents on their own free will can decide to visit or not to visit,” it mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||On Easter, a tribute to sacrifice of farmers||About 2,075 million Christians all over the world, belonging to all denominations, will celebrate Easter on April 4, which marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ after his death by crucifixion and burial in Jerusalem about 2,020 years ago. Easter is victory over death, a celebration of new life. It symbolises the ultimate victory of good over evil. Easter is preceded by Lent, a 40-day period of fasting, prayer and penance, representing the time Jesus spent in the wilderness, withstanding the temptation of Satan and preparing to begin his public ministry of teaching and preaching. Easter marks the conclusion of the Holy Week; it is the last day of the Easter Triduum of Maundy Thursday (commemorating the Last Supper Jesus had with His apostles), Good Friday (the day of His crucifixion and death) and Easter Sunday (the day of His Resurrection). Why is the day of Jesus’s death called Good Friday? It may seem counterintuitive to many people. His death was, in reality, a passage from life to eternity. His death symbolises His ultimate sacrifice for others and thus represents the cleansing of the Earth from wickedness, the deadness of despair and despondency. This Easter, I remember as many as 248 farmers who have sacrificed their lives and all the other farmers who are protesting against the three Central farm laws. I remember my fellow Jesuit, octogenarian Fr. Stan Swamy, a tribal rights activist from Ranchi, in Jharkhand, who has been refused bail on March 22 by the special court in Mumbai. I remember the people of Myanmar who are protesting against the military coup. The civilian death toll in the security forces’ crackdown on protesters has gone up to 320. Crimes against humanity continue in Myanmar and in other parts of the world daily. I remember Sister Ann Rose Nu Tawng, the brave Catholic nun in the city of Myityina, Myanmar, who knelt down and begged a group of heavily armed police officers to spare “the children” and take her life instead. I remember the 2.8 million people in the world and 162 thousand in India diseased due to Covid-19. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) predicts that the ‘crisis is far from over’. Its second wave is here and the third is expected with grave consequences. Easter is the manifestation of the banquet of life, of ordered festivity. The power of Resurrection makes human beings, and the entire universe, new. It makes people strong and transforms them into spiritual beings. With the spiritual power one is able to recognise God’s footsteps as, ‘He comes, comes, ever comes’. Jesus preached, ‘There is no greater love than to lay down one’s life for his friends’ and he lived according to his teachings. Easter promotes the sense of taking brave steps and laying down one life for a humanitarian cause. Are we ready? I wish my fellow Calcuttans a joy-filled Easter. May this season usher in peace, justice and harmony in our lives and relationships. Fr. J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Hushiyar!’ says song to voters||A song by some of the city’s young musicians that was released on Saturday urged voters of Bengal to be “hushiyar (beware)” because the seeds of hatred being sown now, ahead of the elections, could have telling consequences for a long time. The song begins with the call to remain alert. “Dike dike hao hushiyar rakhte matha uchu/Khal kete kumir ghor e ashche pichu pichu (Watch out! Beware! Stay alert, if you want to hold your head up high/The crocodile has crept into your home, he’s caught you in his eye).” It goes on: “Bechu babu dangabaji dhandabaji r bhar/Dhorme jaat e loriye diye desh kore chharkhar (Master conman, champion scamster, rioting and hate is his art/Starting fights on caste and religion he tears the nation apart).” The song does not name any political party but the message is hard to miss. Sample this: “Deshaprem er bhondami raj bhakta dekhay ghughu/Gobalay er batparera marchhe sankhaloghu/ Padma phul er lobh dekhiye desh ke dobay paank e/IT Cell e Sonar Bangla r dhop er noksha anke (Their followers parade their sham nationalism aplenty/These Goebbels’ Bhakts kill minorities, remember Delhi ‘20?/Enticing you with a lotus, they will drown us all in a swamp/ Their IT (Information Technology) Cell draws a false map to Golden Bengal with much pomp).” Swadesh Misra, the songwriter, said that the song is a protest against the communalisation of Bengal’s societal harmony for an election. “I tried to tell listeners what some people who are claiming to make Sonar Bangla did in the rest of the country. Keep that in mind and then vote responsibly,” he said. One para in the song says: “Bangle keo dokhol kore bikote chay bechu/somoy thakte hao hushiyar rakhte matha uchu (Now he wants to capture and sell Bengal, then leave us high and dry/ There’s still time, watch out, beware. Stay alert to hold your head up high).” The song also talks about how people could lose their citizenship and with it their homes, Misra said. There are the lines: “NRC te fondi kore camp e dhore niye/Naam porichoy jomi jiret nichchhe sab chhiniye (With the NRC (National Register of Citizens) trap, they will herd you to a detention camp/ Names, identities, homes, all snatched away with a “foreigner” stamp)”. Journalist, writer and filmmaker Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, who is one of the two producers-directors of the music video, wanted the song to send the message that in India, the rights of the minorities needs to be upheld. “The message of the song is anti-communal. The message is that we should respect the wishes and the rights of the minorities. All of us who worked in this video share the view that India should not become a Hindu Rashtra,” said,” “It may sound especially relevant today because of the Bengal elections but it will be relevant even after the elections,” said Guha Thakurta. Samantak Sinha, the vocalist of the band Fiddler’s Green that sang the song, echoed Guha Thakurta. “The attempt to communalise the society would remain even after the assembly elections are over. This song will not lose relevance after the elections. People will hear this again and again and think about the warnings mentioned in the song,” said Sinha, who also sang a song urging people to not vote for BJP ahead of a rally in the city on March 10 that had the call “No Vote to BJP”. Fiddler’s Green has a following among the youth. They are a regular in cafes and small addas and they render songs of a variety of genres. The band had also composed a song in May last year highlighting the plight of the migrants who got stuck across the country because of a lockdown that was suddenly announced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. English subtitles accompany the video, perhaps with the aim of catching a wider pan-India audience. One of the comments on You Tube was from a person named Narender Bhardwaj who wrote: “Incredible. Bengal never disappointed me so far Literature, Cinema & music considered…Love you all the team from Haryana”. But did the band’s members ever feel wary of facing repercussions for taking such a strong stand, did they ever fear losing invitations to perform as a consequence? “No. We have the skills. People have listened to us and loved us. There will not be any problem getting work. We were never bothered about that. Rather, it is true that during our growing up we never thought who is a Hindu, who is a Muslim or who is a Christian. But many people are asking about these identities now,” said Shamik Chatterjee, the bass guitarist and manager of Fiddler’s Green.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||She nurtures life, instils values & makes a mark||Akshar School The most common attribute that has been associated with women is that they have to cook for their male counterparts. But, the male teachers of Akshar School thought of a role reversal as a way of celebrating International Women’s Day recently. Some of them donned the chef’s hat and cooked for the female teachers on the occasion. “Women are the best in multitasking. No man can take her place. Many of us are very fortunate that we are pursuing our dreams. However, we have to evolve as a society where we respect each other’s abilities,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. HM Education Centre celebrated International Women’s Day with the patients of the female ward of Uttarpara State General Hospital. The female teachers from the school visited the hospital to spend time with the patients and distributed food packets, sanitisers and masks among them. The motive was to spread the message of women empowerment, create a sense of belonging and urge all to abide by the protocols of the pandemic. “Oppression and inequality compelled women to be more vocal and active. Hence today, our school’s women faculty members went to the female ward of a government hospital to show solidarity with the patients and make them feel special. Since the students could not be involved because of the pandemic situation, they sent greetings through their teachers,” said principal Ratna Kundu. Both junior and senior sections of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated International Women’s Day with online and offline events. Th senior school students recited poetry. Leadership, gender equality, inclusivity, women as symbols of shakti and motherhood were the major themes of the events. Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya delivered a speech on Women in Leadership Role and said: “There has to be sustainable livelihood, and we must work towards reducing economic disparity.” Principal Sangeeta Tandon emphasised on the role of a mother. She said: “We want our teachers to feel empowered. Society needs to stop judging today’s woman. She is capable of multitasking and can strike the right balance between her home and work.” The junior section took part in a talk show on the concept of women empowerment. Other online programmes were organised to make the kids aware of the event’s importance. Headmistress Poushali Mukherjee said: “I feel that Women’s Day is also a celebration of gender equality. Our founders had built a girls’ school a century ago, and my head bows down with deep regards to those visionaries. I feel proud as a woman to be a part of their journey in nurturing young minds towards emancipation.” Students of Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated the Women’s Day by showing their gratitude towards the teachers of the school. The male members of the administrative department, too, marked the occasion by presenting cakes and flowers to their women colleagues. A presentation was uploaded on the social media page of the school through which the students’ mothers were paid homage. “I feel behind every successful woman is the woman herself. She nurtures life, instils values, teaches life skills and empowers herself to sail smoothly across turbulent waters,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “It is always a pleasure to be made to feel special. We tried to do just that through a special presentation for the mothers of our students. We were humbled by the way the male colleagues of the school greeted us.” The male teachers of Apex Academy surprised their female colleagues by organising a Women’s Day celebration recently on the school premises. The celebrations began by greeting the school’s female teachers with flowers and gifts. There were speeches that stressed on the importance of equal opportunities being given to women, considering that they were no less than men in any respect. “We felt honoured after being greeted in this way by the male teachers of the school. We, women, are capable of doing everything. Every woman needs to be respected,” said principal Nayantara Roy. CR Gasper Memorial Institute for Girls, an evening school run by St Augustine Education Society for the less privileged girls, recently celebrated Women’s Day with a theme, My voice. An English extempore, as part of the programme, was conducted online to encourage the students to communicate for the first time to a large audience. A series of events followed and the girls played games, won prizes and received report cards. “It was surprising to know that most households had a smartphone. So, we called the girls and their parents to school in batches and taught them how to access video classes and assignments on a digital platform. This Women’s Day celebration was a happy moment for them as they had not come to school all the year,” said St Augustine Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. Krishnagar Public School recognised the achievements of women by celebrating International Women’s Day recently. The male members among teachers, staff members and the management gathered on the school premises to organise a programme on the day. Nabanita Guha, one of the trustees of the school, said: “These small gestures bring so much positivity in our lives and also give us the confidence to keep going despite all odds.” The programme began with the recital of a poem, followed by song and dance performances. There were interactive games which involved both male and female teachers and other staff members to show that no work was specific to any particular gender. “We always keep acknowledging the role of a woman behind the success of a man, but it is time to start acknowledging women for their own successes. It is this change in the outlook that would lead to the formation of a utopian world that would be inclusive and equal in terms of opportunities and rights,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Cop found unconscious at SSKM in a pool of blood||A Calcutta police sub-inspector, who was deployed at SSKM Hospital for law and order duty, was found unconscious in a pool of blood on Saturday morning. His service revolver was lying next to him. The 55-year-old sub-inspector has been admitted to a hospital with critical injuries. An officer of Bhowanipore police station said around 9.15am, there was a report of a gunshot coming from behind the Woodburn ward inside the hospital. Police personnel and hospital staff found the on-duty sub-inspector at an under-construction building behind the ward. Senior officers said it appeared to be a suicide attempt but the exact sequence of events would be clearer once the injured person would regain his senses. The injured sub-inspector is a resident of BT Lines police quarters. On Saturday, he was attached with a heavy radio flying squad posted inside the hospital. His family was contacted after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Plan to hold classes on campus shelved||Several schools that had decided to start the new academic session on-campus have cancelled in-person classes as of now because of the rise in Covid-19 cases. A few of them will take a decision by next week, heads of schools said. Modern High School for Girls, St James’ School and Julien Day School, Ganganagar have taken a decision not to hold any on-campus classes currently. Schools like Calcutta Girls’ High School, The Heritage School and South Point will take a decision next week after weighing the situation. Both The Heritage School and Calcutta Girls’ are unlikely to start in-person classes. Modern High School for Girls, which had scheduled to call the students of Classes X and XII from April 6, will not do so. Instead it will conduct online classes till the end of April. The school will review the situation towards the end of the month. “We had been observing the situation for the past few days and took the decision on Friday. We have to think about the safety of our children and teachers,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. Mukherjee said the students, whose parents had given consent, were to attend the classes in the school while the rest would have continued with the online classes through “live streaming”. The government had given a go-ahead to schools to call students of classes IX to XII on campus from February 12. The schools were closed from March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. At least heads of two schools said they would have wanted to call students to school in the new academic session. But with the surge in Covid cases they are not sure whether it would be prudent to call children on campus. In several schools the Class XII practicals will be conducted in April and it would not be wise to increase the gathering of students under the changed situation, a head said. Schools are also worried about jeopardising the board exams that are scheduled to start on May 4 for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory and CBSE (Classes X and XII). “We had thought of calling the students initially but decided otherwise. Even if one student gets infected the school will have to shut down which can affect the board exams because we are also an exam centre,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. At least three city schools had to shut down for about a week after two students — one in each of the two schools — and a teacher in a third school tested positive for Covid-19. The schools which are yet to decide will consider the risk factors before taking any decision. “We are waiting a little before taking any decision but seeing the situation and the rise in infection chances are that we would continue with online classes, " said Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer water supply woes hit Salt Lake||Hundreds of taps in Salt Lake homes went dry on Saturday morning because water supply has dipped with the rise in temperature. Residents of sectors I, II and III alleged that supply had been erratic since the onset of summer and there wasn’t enough water for basic use. Sanjib Ghosh, 48, a resident of ED Block, said his family had been doing with “very little water for the past few days”. “On Saturday, there was no water supply. Our water supply is erratic at best for the past several days. Our water tank, like many of my neighbours, has remained completely dry on Saturday,” he said. Water crisis in summer is not new to the township. A water supply department engineer blamed the residents’ usage of filtered water to wash multiple vehicles and the use of pipes to wash driveways for the scarcity. Salt Lake needs around 15 million gallons of water every day. Earlier, the Tallah-Palta network used to supply around eight million gallons (MGD). Now, the township gets 10 MGD from the New Town water treatment plant, while the rest is augmented by using groundwater supply. An official of the public health engineering department (PHED), which looks after water supply in Salt Lake and adjoining areas, said that the groundwater table had gone down by several feet. “Ten years ago, we would hit the groundwater at 30ft. Now, we have to sink pipes more than 50ft to reach the table,” the PHED engineer said. Ten years ago, the township’s requirement was seven MGD a day, he said. The township’s water supply lines are old and some pipes have blocks of 1.5-inch diameter. “The pipes haven’t been cleaned this year. Since the pipelines in most blocks are as old as the township, they often get clogged with iron deposits,” a civic official said. To add to the problem, a joint in the main water supply line near the Amul Island, adjacent to the Salt Lake stadium, has been leaking for the past few days. It had been repaired by engineers of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but has started leaking again. Water tankers can be seen criss-crossing the township throughout the day. The Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad operates several such water tankers. This summer has been particularly busy, one of their office-bearers, Sanjay Poddar, said. “We have been flooded with calls to deliver water all over the township. Our trucks make at least 15 trips on average every day,” he said. Each of the organisation’s tankers can carry 6,000 litres of water. Residents have to shell out Rs 900 a tanker. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has 15 water tankers and the charges vary from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000, depending on the capacity. Tapan Choudhury, a resident of FD Block in Sector III, said the water supply had “dipped drastically”. “The situation is so bad that we have been storing water in containers,” he said. Soham Chakraborty, another ED Block resident, said he had to hire water tankers at least twice. “They charged me Rs 400 each time,” he said. Residents of Karunamoyee Housing Estate said their tanks had been dry for at least a couple of days at a stretch. “We asked our pump operator and he said supply was scant,” another resident said. An engineer of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s water supply department who is in charge of the water supply in the township said that the civic body could do little. “What can we do if supply dips?” The engineer also blamed the township residents for the water problem, saying they use potable water to wash cars and utensils.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine rush on weekend||Several private hospitals were filled with vaccine recipients in the 45 years to 59 years category on Saturday, most of them using the holiday to get themselves vaccinated. Hospitals expect a rush on Sunday too. Officials in the hospitals said they witnessed a sharp spike in the total vaccination numbers compared to the last few days, primarily because of a large number of office-goers taking the jab on Saturday. Peerless Hospital vaccinated 391 people on Saturday, with 223 of them in the 45 to 59 group. Belle Vue Clinic vaccinated 380 people, 190 of who were below 60. AMRI Hospitals vaccinated 900 people, with nearly 630 of them in the below 60 group. Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences vaccinated 300 people, with 210 of them in the below 60 category. All the hospitals said they were expecting a good turnout on Sunday. “A lot of offices remain open on Saturdays, but most offices are closed on Sundays. There could be a rush of recipients on Sunday,” said the official of a private hospital. The Centre had opened the vaccination for anyone above 45 years from April 1. Officials of hospitals said the number of recipients in the 45 years to 59 years category was picking up and they expect it to rise in the coming days. Since the people in this age group have to step out frequent for work, it is necessary to vaccinate them fast. The Centre has asked all vaccination centres to remain open on Sundays from this week. A 50-year-old man who is yet to take the jab said vaccination centres should have more vaccinators on weekends and other holidays as many office-goers would prefer to take jabs on these days. “The vaccination centres should also extend the hours of vaccination on weekdays to continue giving the jabs till late in the evening,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Rubber slipper factory gutted||A factory that manufactured rubber slippers in Topsia was gutted in a fire that broke out around 4.30am on Saturday. No one was injured, police said. A firefighter who had fallen sick from inhaling fumes during the firefighting exercise was admitted to a hospital nearby. It took 10 fire tenders over three hours to bring the fire under control. The factory is located in a narrow lane in one of the most populated pockets of eastern Calcutta. “Around 4.30am, some of us noticed thick fumes coming out of the tinned factory roof,” said a resident of Topsia Road. “There were deafening sounds of some items bursting inside the factory.” With adhesives and other chemicals stored inside, the fire in the rubber slippers factory started spewing out toxic fumes. Youths ran out of their homes to help those living close to the factory leave their homes. Some of them went to a nearby pond to fetch water. “Initially, it was quite difficult because the approach to the factory was a small lane and there wasn’t enough space to park all the fire tenders,” said a senior officer of the fire services department. “The fire continued to grow rapidly since most of the items that were kept inside were highly inflammable,” the officer said. Eyewitnesses said a portion of the factory’s wall collapsed because of the heat that had built up. A police team cordoned off the area and pipes were connected to pumps to fetch water from the pond nearby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
04-04-2021||Business||Steel prices head north||Steel prices are expected to remain high in the coming months on the back of higher international steel and iron ore prices. The prices of hot-rolled coil (HRC) are expected to go up by at least Rs 3,500-4,000 per tonne in April 2021, analysts have estimated. A Rs 4,000-per-tonne hike will take domestic HRC prices to Rs 59,000-60,000 per tonne, which would be the highest since 2008, they said. Steel prices in the world are at an all-time unprecedented high because of a steep increase in the prices of iron ore as well as strong growth in steel demand from China, India, the US, Europe and other emerging markets as global markets recover from a year-long slowdown with the reopening of business activities and the vaccination drive, Care Ratings said. Motilal Oswal expects domestic HRC prices to see a hike of another Rs 2,000-3,000 per tonne in April. A continuing surge in global demand and tightness in supply due to supply-side issues and production curbs in China has helped regional steel rates. Edelweiss Research said production cuts in Tangshan and lowering of VAT rebates on exports in China are the primary drivers of the continued price uptick, and these measures are likely to stay in place as reduction in peak emissions by 2025 is high on authorities’ agenda. “Chinese authorities are taking steps to ensure that the country meets its commitment of peak carbon emissions by calendar year 2025. Hence, we believe that production cuts in Tangshan and reduction of export rebates are likely to stay put. This is expected to reduce Chinese production by 22 million tonnes in 2021 —bulk of which is expected to reduce exports,” it said. While this upward cycle in steel prices brings relief to the domestic steel companies that were grappling with low demand and stagnant prices, end-users are worried about a steep increase in their raw material cost. Higher raw material costs may also cause inflation to rise which will have a cascading effect on consumers. Among the worst-hit sectors are the automobile and infrastructure sector. The construction and real estate sector accounts for almost 55-60 per cent of total steel consumption followed by the auto sector which accounts for nine percent and capital goods and consumer durables with a share of 8 per cent  and 6 per cent, respectively. Most of the top auto manufacturers are expected to take a second price hike in the range of 1-3 per cent in April 2021 after already having taken 3-4 per cent hike this year, to offset the impact of higher steel cost. The ministry of highways and construction has said that higher input cost can affect the viability of some construction projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
04-04-2021||Business||Damani seals big realty deal||Radhakishan Damani, the well known investor and founder of retail chain D-Mart, has bought a residential property in South Mumbai’s posh Malabar Hill for Rs 1,001 crore. This is the largest residential property transaction in the country at least in recent years. Damani bought the two-storey property located on Narayan Dabholkar Marg in Malabar Hill along with his younger brother Gopikishan Damani. The transaction was registered on March 31 and the Damanis paid a stamp duty of Rs 30 crore for the property. The property has an area of around 61,000 sq.ft and the value of the property based on the ready reckoner rate of the Maharashtra government is around Rs 724 crore. The property was purchased from Purachand Roychand & Sons, Pareshchand Roychand & Sons and Premchand Roychand & Sons. This mega deal comes just days after reports of Damani purchasing an 8-acre plot in Thane, Maharashtra from Mondelez (earlier Cadbury India) for Rs 250 crore. Recently, Avenue Supermarts the parent of D-Mart also purchased two floors of 39,000 sq.ft carpet area at Chembur in Mumbai for over Rs 100 crore. India’s real estate has witnessed a recovery and within that the residential segment is doing well because of attractive interest rates (which are at 15-year lows), discounts offered by developers and reduction in stamp duties. The Maharashtra government had reduced the stamp duty on property registrations to 3 per cent from 5 per cent till March 31 this year. The state had reduced the stamp duty to 2 per cent between August and December 2020 to boost the real estate market hit hard by Covid-19. The rate was changed to 3 per cent between January 1 and March 31. According to a recent report from Anarock Property Consultants, even as the region’s COVID-19 case count continued piling up, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) emerged as one of the most buoyant residential markets in the first quarter of 2021. It saw the highest yearly decline of 8 per cent in total unsold housing stock by the end of the quarter – from 2,13,180 units as on the same period last year to 1,97,040 units. It was the highest year on year decline of unsold housing inventory in the last seven years. In previous years, MMR’s stock either increased over last year or declined by upto three per cent. “Mumbai is one of the most expensive real estate markets in the world,” Anuj Puri, Chairman – ANAROCK Property Consultants said. He added that a reduction in overall acquisition cost by anything between 5-15 per cent made a huge difference in buyer sentiments. Further, low home loan interest rates and developer discounts, and timely intervention of the government by ways of stamp duty reductions also helped the region get its mojo back even during COVID-19. The Avenue Supermarts stock ended at Rs 2911.40 in the BSE on Friday, leading to a market cap of Rs  1,88,593.12 crore. The promoters hold close to 75 per cent thus putting the value of their holding at nearly Rs 1,41,445 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
04-04-2021||Business||Gas producers continue to bleed as government-dictated prices remain low: Icra||Natural gas production remains a loss-making proposition for most fields for the Indian upstream producers as government-dictated gas price remains at its lowest level, rating agency Icra has said. The domestic gas price notified at $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) for the six months beginning April 1 remains the lowest since the institution of the modified Rangarajan formula. Additionally, the ceiling on price for gas produced from deep water, ultra deepwater, high temperature and high-pressure fields has also been announced at $3.62 per mBtu for April-September 2021-22, which is 10.8 per cent lower than the price ceiling of $4.06 for October-March 2020-21 which would dampen the development of such projects. “While this is unfavourable for domestic producers, it will benefit gas consumers. The consumers will also benefit in the long run from the expectations of continued supply overhang,” Icra said, commenting on the gas price notified by the government earlier this week. According to an Icra note, at such low gas prices, production remains a loss-making proposition for most fields for the Indian upstream producers notwithstanding some decline in oil field services/equipment costs. However, the depreciation of the rupee against the dollar would aid the realisations of the gas producers but only to an extent. Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president and group head, corporate sector ratings of Icra, said, “Going forward, the supply glut is expected to keep prices of domestic gas low in the near to medium term leading to poor returns even as domestic gas producers such as ONGC and Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL)-BP ramp up gas production significantly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-04-2021||Business||ED attaches assets worth over Rs 197 cr in connection with Unitech Group PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs 197 crore in connection with a money laundering case registered against real estate firm Unitech Group, the agency said on Saturday. A total of 10 properties, including a resort each in Sikkim (Gangtok) and Kerala (Alappuzha), have been provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “The registered value of these immovable properties is Rs 197.34 crore and these properties are owned by various entities of Carnoustie Group,” the ED said. “Unitech Group had diverted proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 325 crore to Carnoustie Group and in turn, the entities of Carnoustie Group purchased several immovable properties from these funds,” the ED claimed. A few days ago, the agency had similarly attached assets worth Rs 152.48 crore of Unitech Group. A criminal case was registered under various sections of the PMLA against the Unitech Group and its promoters over allegations that the owners — Sanjay and Ajay Chandra —illegally diverted over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and Cayman Island.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-04-2021||India||About 400 Maoists had ambushed jawans killed in Chhattisgarh gun battle, say sources||A group of an estimated 400 Maoists on Saturday ambushed security personnel who were part of a large contingent deployed for a special operation, leading to the killing of at least 22 personnel and injuries to 30 others, official sources said on Sunday. Police recovered bullet-riddled bodies of the 17 jawans in the jungles of Chattisgarh on the day, raising the death toll in the fierce gunbattle with Naxals the previous day -- the biggest massacre in more than a year that also left 31 injured. Police also recovered the bodies of three jawans killed in the encounter, an official said, adding a search operation is on in the forest to trace a missing jawan. Sources said the contingent of about 1,500 troops drawn from CRPF'S specialised jungle warfare unit CoBRA, some teams from its regular battalions, a unit of its Bastariya battalion, the Chhattisgarh Police affiliated District Reserve Guard (DRG) and others had launched a search and destroy operation along the border of Bijapur-Sukma district around noon after they got inputs of some Maoists presence in the area. At least 400 Naxals, an officer said, led by the most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the so-called 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army(PLGA) battalion no 1'-- Hidma-- and his associate Sujatha are suspected to be behind the Saturday ambush that took place in an area that is a strong-hold of the ultras due to the difficult terrain, large tracts of forests and less number of security forces camps. The Maoists rained bullets from light machine guns (LMGs) and used low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to mount the attack that went on till evening. He said that the Maoists carried their dead, estimated to be about 10-12, on tractor trolleys. The total approved strength of security forces personnel for the operation was 790 and the rest were taken as auxiliary and support elements for the long haul operation, the sources said. "Inputs were received that Naxals were undertaking their Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC) campaign in the Jagargunda-Jongaguda-Tarrem axis, and hence security forces teams from six camps were deputed to intercept them. A CRPF Inspector is still missing, they said. Officials said while maximum security forces personnel were killed due to bullet shots, one is suspected to have fainted and later died due to dehydration and other issues. "The security forces personnel, especially CoBRA commandos fought very bravely and ensured that the Naxals could not prolong the ambush despite being at an advantage," the officer said. About two dozen sophisticated assault weapons of the killed personnel are also stated to have been looted by the Naxals even as security officials said the search of the area is still on and details are being collected from the ground. The dead include eight from the District Reserve Guard (DRG), seven from the CRPF's Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), six from the Special Task Force and one from the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and took stock of the situation following the incident, officials said. Shah also directed CRPF's Director General Kuldiep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. He cancelled his election tours in poll-bound Assam after getting to know about the incident. The operation was launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma), the official said. The attack comes after the March 23 incident when five DRG personnel were killed as the Maoists blew up a bus carrying the security personnel with an IED in the Narayanpur district of the state. On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel were killed in a Naxal ambush in the Minpa area of Sukma district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra imposes weekend lockdown, Modi chairs meeting as Covid cases rise||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown in the state from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday in a bid to curb the growing numbers of Covid-19 cases in the state, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed central forces to rush to the state. Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will be in force from Monday 8 pm onwards, Minority Affairs Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He said that night curfew will continue and prohibitory orders issued under section 144 will be enforced during the day time during the week. "Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will be in force from 8 pm tomorrow, under which shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels. Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity," he said. Industries and production sector,vegetable markets will function with Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) and construction sites will operate if there is accommodation facility for workers, he added. Theatres, drama theatres will be shut, while film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding. Parks and playgrounds will also be closed, he said. Religious places will have to follow the SoPs, Malik said, adding that that public transport system will remain functional. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh told reporters that work from home will be encouraged for offices, except for insurance, mediclaim, electricity and civic offices. Essential services have been exempted from the existing night curfew, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting on Sunday, which noted that the situation in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh is of serious concern while highlighting that the western state has contributed 57 percent of the total cases and 47 percent of deaths in the country in the last 14 days. Modi said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment would be effective in curbing the pandemic's spread, according to an official statement. The reasons for the sharp rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially in the use of masks and social distancing, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, it said. Modi directed that central teams consisting of public health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra in view of its high caseload and deaths, and to Punjab and Chhattisgarh as well because of the disproportionate number of deaths there, the statement said. A special campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100 percent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities will be organised between April 6-14, the statement said. In the meeting, a brief presentation on the performance of the Covid-19 inoculation drive was also made, and the details of the coverage of vaccination in various groups, performance with respect to other countries and analysis of states' performance were deliberated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi promises to pay Rs 6,000 to every poor person in Kerala||As the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls draws to a close, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday gave a further push to his 'Nyuntam Aay Yojana' (NYAY) to reach out to the voters, promising that every poor person in the State will get Rs 6,000 every month "without fail", if the UDF is voted to power. "The UDF is proposing something revolutionary.Something that has never been tried in any Indian state before," Gandhi told a UDF meeting organised at Vellamunda in Mananthavady. Gandhi, who reached the venue after offering prayers at the ancient Lord Mahavishnu Temple in Thirunelli, said the idea of NYAY was very simple. "The idea is that we are going to put money directly into the hands of the poorest people in Kerala.And not a small amount of money. Every poor person in Kerala is going to get Rs 6,000 a month--Rs 72,000 a year-- without fail every month into his bank account," the Congress leader, who represents Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha, said. Gandhi has given an increased focus on the NYAY scheme in his poll meetings, apparently in a bid to counter the ruling Left which is relying heavily on the welfare schemes implemented by it in the last five years to win votes in the crucial polls. In the last five years, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government has substantially increased the welfare pension for the elderly. The welfare pension was Rs 600 when the UDF rule came to an end in 2016. It is now Rs 1,600 per month, with the left government increasing the amount in multiple phases. The government has also ensured that the pension amount reaches the beneficiaries every month without fail. Bringing up the NYAY idea during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gandhi had described it as ground-breaking, which would mark the beginning of the final assault on poverty. Last week, the former Congress president had said he wanted to "test" the scheme in Kerala because if it works here, he wanted to replicate it in all Congress-ruled states in the country. Earlier in the morning, Gandhi visited Thirunelli temple in Wayanad with which he has an emotional link. An urn containing the ashes of his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was immersed in Papanasini, a stream connected to a famous temple dedicated to Lord Mahavishnu in the picturesque village, in 1991. He had also offered prayers at the temple last year and during his Lok Sabha election campaign in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Bodies of 17 more jawans recovered from Chhattisgarh encounter site||Bodies of 17 of the 18 security personnel missing after an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh have been recovered from the site of the skirmish, police said on Sunday. The number of security personnel killed in the encounter has gone up to 22, police said. Eighteen jawans were missing after five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured on Saturday in the fierce gun-battle with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police earlier said. "On Sunday, bodies of 17 missing personnel were recovered during a search operation. With this, total 22 personnel have been killed in the gunfight," a senior police official said. The bodies of three jawans who were reported killed on Saturday were also recovered, he said, adding that the search operation was still on in the forest. Some weapons of the security forces were also missing, the official said. Separate joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night. Personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma). When the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through a forest near Jonaguda, located around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by cadres of the PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists, leading to the gun-battle. Five security personnel were killed and 30 others received injuries in the gunfight, state Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal said on Saturday. "Some jawans, both from the police and paramilitary, were reported to be missing following the encounter and efforts are on to trace them, he had said. Out of the injured personnel, seven have been admitted to a hospital in Raipur, while 23 others are undergoing treatment in the Bijapur district hospital. Citing the "ground report", Pal had claimed Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight, but the body of only one woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid the heavy exchange of fire. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and took stock of the situation following the killing of five security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in the state, officials said. Shah also directed Director General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Kuldiep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. A home ministry official said Shah spoke to the Chhattisgarh chief minister and took stock of the situation arising after the encounter, Baghel, while briefing Shah about the encounter, said the Naxals have indulged in such acts of violence just to show their presence as people are getting disillusioned with the Maoists ideology and that the extremists will be defeated. A Chhattisgarh government spokesperson said the chief minister told the home minister that the morale of the security forces is high and they will win against the Naxals in this fight. Shah said that the battle against the Naxals will definitely be won as it will be fought together by the central and state governments, the spokesperson said. Earlier on Sunday, Shah condoled the death of security personnel in the encounter, and said their valour will never be forgotten. He also said the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May the injured recover soon," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||J&K shuts schools for students up to Class 9 till April 18 as Covid cases rise||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced that all schools for students up to Class 9 will remain closed for two weeks from April 5 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the union territory. Physical classes for students from classes 10 to 12 will also be suspended for a week, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha's office said in a tweet on Sunday. This comes days after the Jammu and Kashmir administration asked all district magistrates to take a call on the continuation of physical classes in schools amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the union territory. "In view of rising trend in #Covid19 cases in J&K & likelihood of young children getting infected & transmitting infection in large numbers, ALL classes up to & including Class 9 in schools will be closed for 2 weeks in all schools beginning on Monday, 5 April till 18 April, 21 in J&K," Sinha's office tweeted. Schools for students of classes 10, 11 and 12 will also be closed for a week, it said. "Further, all gatherings for social and customary functions will be restricted to 200 only and after following due Covid SOPs," it added. Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir have shown an upward trajectory over the last few weeks. The union territory had recorded 501 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Several schools in many districts were shut in the last few days after many students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Search operation on for 18 security personnel missing in Chhattisgarh encounter||A search operation was underway on Sunday to trace 18 security personnel who went missing after a fierce gun-battle with Naxals in a forest along the border of Bijapur-Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police said. At least five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured in the three-hour-long encounter that took place on Saturday afternoon near Jonaguda village which falls under Jagargunda police station area (in Sukma). "Following the gunfight, at least 18 security personnel were untraceable. Various police teams have been searching for them in the forest," a senior police official posted in Bastar said on Sunday morning. He also said "chances of their survival are slim, but we are hopeful of finding them alive". Separate joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night. Personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma). When the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through a forest near Jonaguda, located around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by cadres of the PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists, leading to the gun-battle. Five security personnel were killed and 30 others received injuries in the gunfight, state Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal said on Saturday. "Some jawans, both from the police and paramilitary, were reported to be missing following the encounter and efforts are on to trace them, he had said. Out of the injured personnel, seven have been admitted to a hospital in Raipur, while 23 others are undergoing treatment in the Bijapur district hospital. Citing the "ground report", Pal had claimed Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight, but the body of only one woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid the heavy exchange of fire. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday condoled the death of security personnel in the encounter, and said their valour will never be forgotten. Shah also said the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May the injured recover soon," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||India logs 93,249 Covid-19 cases, biggest one-day jump this year||India on Sunday recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year, which took the total Covid-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to Union health ministry data. This is the biggest daily rise in cases since September 19, when 93,337 fresh infections were recorded. The death toll climbed to 1,64,623 on Sunday with 513 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 25th day in row, the active cases surged to 6,91,597, accounting for 5.54 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 93.14 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 1,16,29,289, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, according to the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,81,25,908 samples had been tested up to April 3 with 11,66,716 being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Elderly farmer bleeds in Haryana protest||An elderly farmer was hit on the head and left bleeding on Saturday when police tried to stop protesting farmers from marching into Rohtak city in Haryana to oppose the visit of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. A video and pictures of the farmer, Raj Singh, 73, his white kurta soaked in blood, were widely shared on social media. Another farmer and a policeman were injured too. Khattar was to arrive in Rohtak, 70km northwest of Delhi, for a condolence meeting and word had spread that his helicopter would land at Baba Mastnath University in the afternoon. A crowd of protesters, mostly farmers from the district, gathered outside the university to block the chief minister’s path. The Khattar government had used lathis, water cannons and tear smoke against farmers and even dug up the highway to stop them from proceeding towards Delhi, in the last week of November, to demand repeal of three laws that the peasants see as their “death warrant”. The chief minister later branded the protesters, who have been on a sit-in for more than four months, Khalistanis. Furious, the farmers have been resisting visits by Khattar and his ministers across the state. On Saturday, the chief minister’s helicopter landed at Police Lines, 6km from the university. When the farmers heard of this and attempted to breach barricades to move in that direction, stone-throwing began. Mandeep Punia, journalist and activist, tweeted pictures and a video of Raj Singh who said the police had hit him. Punia told The Telegraph: “The crowd was mostly made up of elderly farmers, including women, who had come directly from the fields when they heard of the protest. A lathi-charge began around 2pm when they moved towards the city. Stones were thrown from both sides (of the barricade) but the police started it. The eldest of the lot got it the worst as they were right in front of the police.” He added: “Women farmers later climbed on police buses and raised slogans, condemning the violence. A farmer named Raj Singh (from Sanghi village) was bleeding from the head. As there was no first aid available, farmers tied a turban like a bandage on him. Another elderly farmer (Ishwar, 80, from Basantpur village) was injured in his leg. They were taken to Civil Hospital by the farmers themselves, where their wounds were bandaged properly. Thankfully, no fractures were suffered or stitches required.” A constable has received stitches on his head for an injury from a projectile and is undergoing tests in hospital. Videos show policemen chasing away protesters from the barricade with plastic batons amid light showers of stones. Rohtak superintendent of police Rahul Sharma told this newspaper: “We acted in a most restrained manner and prevented more than 400 protesters from entering the city where there would have been chaos. Most of them had stopped at the barricade. We were negotiating with the rest when some rowdy elements from the protesters’ side began stone pelting that injured both farmers and police personnel. Only minimum force was used to disperse them. There was not any lathi-charge, nor was tear smoke or water cannons used — as is done during riot control.” He added: “They were given first aid in an ambulance stationed at the spot, but refused further treatment saying they would go to the hospital on their own.” Farmers have blocked a part of the highway to Chandigarh in Jind district to protest the police action in Rohtak. On Thursday and Friday, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had faced larger protests in Hisar that prevented him from going to his home in the city or completing a scheduled visit to the grain market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Covid: Probe after woman gets 2 jabs from nurse on call in Kanpur||An auxiliary nursing midwife, while talking over the phone, allegedly administered two shots of Covid-19 vaccine to a woman at a primary health centre in Akbarpur area of Kanpur Rural district, officials said on Saturday. As the news reached the woman’s family members, they created an uproar at the centre and later senior officials, including the district magistrate and chief medical officer, were informed about the alleged negligence. The family members told reporters that Kamlesh Kumari, a woman in her 50s, had gone to the Marhauli primary health centre on Thursday to get her first vaccine shot where ANM Archana ended up giving her two doses. When Kumari inquired about the two injections, Archana reprimanded her instead of apologising for the mistake, they alleged. The family members said after the double dose of vaccination, Kumari developed mild swelling in her hand, although, no serious symptoms were reported. District magistrate Jitendra Pratap Singh told PTI that he had taken serious cognisance of the negligence. The chief medical officer (Rajesh Katiyar) has been asked to inquire about the incident and submit a report to him by Saturday evening, he added. He said further comments over the incident would be made only after the probe report was submitted. Kanpur Rural chief medical officer Rajesh Katiyar said a senior doctor had been asked to inquire about the matter and submit a report. The report would be submitted to the DM who will take action on his end, Katiyar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccination in slow lane as spike nears peak||India on Saturday recorded over 89,000 new Covid-19 cases with the epidemic’s second wave poised to breach the earlier peak of 97,894 cases and at least five states reporting more cases than they had last year. Amid the sharp rise in daily counts, the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has moved slower than expected with a conspicuous low participation from private hospitals and about 10 million people immunised from the target of around 350 million. In Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab, the counts of daily new cases have exceeded the peaks last year. Maharashtra, for instance, on Saturday recorded over 47,000 new cases compared with its peak count of about 25,000 last September. Gujarat reported 2,600 cases, nearly 1,000 higher than its previous peak count. “We’re seeing the epidemic’s full blast — the speed of the current growth suggests the peak counts this time will cross the earlier peak within days,” said T. Sundaraman, a community medicine specialist and former director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre. Health officials have attributed the growing epidemic to public laxity in wearing masks and avoiding crowds and inadequate containment and public health measures by local state health authorities, but some medical researchers suspect it may also be driven by fast-spreading infectious variants. The 89,129 new cases on Saturday pushed India’s count of Covid patients to over 658,000. Maharashtra has shown a nine-fold increase in the number of active cases over the past two months — from 42,000 on February 3 to over 3,91,000 on Saturday. Health officials are unhappy over what one senior adviser to the Centre described as a “lukewarm” response from the private sector to the vaccination campaign that is intended to protect as many people as possible through two doses of vaccines. But until Saturday, nearly 80 days since vaccination began, only about 10 million people have received two doses of the vaccines. The campaign is now open to all people above 45 years, around 350 million people. “We had around 45,000 government hospitals and around 5,500 private hospitals participating in the campaign today,” a senior medical adviser to the vaccination campaign told The Telegraph. “We had expected over 20,000 private hospitals to join the campaign.” However, the 50,000-plus centres on Saturday administered a record 7 million doses, which, the adviser said, is encouraging. “If such a pace is sustained, we should be able to inoculate over 200 million people within a month,” the adviser said. Health officials have asserted there is no shortage of vaccine supplies in India. “Our understanding is that the Serum Institute of India can produce between 70 million and 100 million doses of Covishield a month while Bharat Biotech can deliver around 10 million,” an official said. The Centre had earlier this year, amid a strong demand from sections of the private hospital industry, opened vaccinations anytime of the day in the private sector. “They need to be asked why they are not coming forward now,” the adviser said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait: Attack strengthens our resolve to intensify struggle||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claimed on Saturday that the attack on his convoy of vehicles in Rajasthan’s Alwar was “pre-planned by BJP workers” and said it should serve as a reminder to the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws of the Centre about the travails and challenges they are going to face in the days to come. Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat at Bhaimalkheda village in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district, Tikait said such attacks “are, in fact, strengthening our resolve to further intensify our struggle, which is a battle for our existence”. After the mahapanchayat, he told reporters: “We are mentally prepared for more such incidents.” Stones were allegedly pelted at the convoy of Tikait in Rajasthan on Friday, damaging the rear windshield of his car. Police detained a student leader, who the BKU claimed belonged to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS. The BKU accused the BJP of being behind the attack. Tikait issued a call at the mahapanchayat to the protesting farmers to be mentally prepared to continue with their agitation at least till the end of the year, when they would taste victory. He urged them to be mobile phone savvy so that they can be active on social media. Tikait, who held a mahapanchayat in Aligarh for the first time after the farmers’ agitation was launched in November last year, alleged that corporates had fully entrenched themselves in the present ruling dispensation, including the Prime Minister’s Office. He said how else could one explain the construction of huge grain depots and godowns in several parts of the country “even before the controversial farm laws came to existence”. The BKU leader said this itself provides conclusive evidence of the government’s intentions. He warned the farmers that even more draconian measures are on the anvil as far as the farm laws are concerned, including stringent regulations regarding crop seeds. He said the three laws would make it impossible for the farmers to enjoy the right to use the seeds of their choice and frustrate them to such an extent that they would be compelled to sell their land to corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||BJP leader Brijesh Singh killed on Yogi turf||Unidentified assassins shot dead a local BJP leader on an Uttar Pradesh highway late on Friday night, continuing the trend of Sangh parivar activists and leaders getting murdered on Yogi Adityanath’s watch. The murder of Brijesh Singh, 52, BJP candidate for Narayanpur village panchayat chief, came in the chief minister’s home district of Gorakhpur, about 10km from his spiritual seat in Gorakhpur city. Brijesh was returning home to Moglaha on his motorcycle after campaigning daylong for the panchayat polls when he was shot in the head and chest. His supporters, who were following about half a kilometre behind, took him to the BRD Medical College, where he was declared dead on arrival. Brijesh, a former panchayat chief of Narayanpur, couldn’t contest in 2016 because it was declared a reserved seat. It has been re-earmarked as a general seat this time. Senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar P said the police were trying to identify the killers and ascertain the motive. Brijesh’s supporters held a dharna at the gate of the medical college, questioning the law-and-order situation in the state. “The killers are so confident that they are committing murders in the chief minister’s home district,” one of them, Rajesh Singh, said. “He (Brijesh) was a powerful leader and campaigned for party candidates in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. Unfortunately, he wasn’t safe under our own party’s rule.” Over a dozen Sangh parivar leaders have been murdered in the state during Adityanath’s four-year-old rule. In most cases, the police have denied any political angle and suggested land disputes or illicit love affairs as the motive. Among the victims were Dayashankar Gupta, 45, BJP divisional vice-president in Tundla town, Firozabad, who was shot dead last October. Seven persons were arrested. Sanjay Singh Bhadauria, 45, a doctor and the Hindu Yuva Vahini’s district vice-president, who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was stabbed to death last September. Two persons were arrested. Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former BJP president of the Baghpat unit, was shot in his agricultural field last August. Six arrests were made. Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants in Lucknow’s Hazratganj area in February last year. Three persons were arrested. Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was assassinated in his Lucknow office in October 2019. Three youths were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu urges youth  to fight against gender discrimination||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged the younger generation to pledge to fight against gender discrimination. “Our youth should be at the forefront of fighting all social evils like casteism, communalism, corruption, and violence,” Naidu said while addressing the students at the 50th convocation ceremony of Utkal University, the premier educational institute of the state. Naidu suggested that the university should take up research on issues faced by tribals and actively contribute to policy formation for their development and well-being. He said disaster management should be made an integral part of education to prepare us better for calamities. Terming the youth as the key for change, Naidu urged the students to nurture their passion, perseverance and tenacity and be always open to learning for a successful and fulfilling life ahead. At the event, five Doctor Honoris Causa were conferred upon eminent Odias such as RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, Girish Chandra Murmu, comptroller and auditor general of India and chairman of the UN panel of external auditors, Justice Sanju Panda of Orissa High Court, Dr Ajit Kumar Mohanty, director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, and Bijaya Sahoo, adviser to Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya Sangathan. Utkal University Chancellor Prof. Ganeshi Lal conferred the degrees upon the PhD awardees and administered the oath to them. Vice-Chancellor Prof. Sabita Acharya presented the university report. A total of 40 PhD degrees and 90 gold medals/endowment prizes were awarded at the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Centre objects to Biju logo  for scheme||The Centre has asked the Odisha government not to use the logo of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY), a state scheme, in the houses constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a centrally sponsored scheme. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana aims to provide housing for all by 2022. Formerly known as the Indira Awas Yojana, it was restructured and launched as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) on April 1, 2016. Under the scheme, a beneficiary is entitled to get Rs 1.20 lakh in plain areas and Rs 1.30 lakh in hilly areas. The cost of assistance is shared between the Centre and the state government in the ratio of 90:10 in hilly areas and 60:40 in plain areas. The BPGY of the Odisha government aims to provide pucca houses to all eligible rural households living in kuccha houses. The scheme logo bears the face of former chief minister and Naveen’s father Biju Patnaik. In reply to a letter regarding co-branding of PMAY-G houses, Union rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha requested Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mahapatra to use only the official logo of the central scheme. Sinha said the PMAY-G logo was available on the AWAASSoft, an online system used for management of the scheme. “I wish to reiterate here that the scheme PMAY-G has been approved by the Union cabinet as a centrally sponsored scheme and approved as PMAY-G for the budget in Parliament. The scheme is to be implemented in its original form and under the name of PMAY-G. “The scheme is to be implemented as such and under the agreed funding pattern, and no other name can be appended. In view of the same, and as informed earlier that the ministry had conveyed to the states/UTs (Union Territories) in the past to use the only the official logo of PMAY-G,” Sinha said in the letter. He pointed out that the contribution of the minimum state share was a commitment by the state government for the implementation of a centrally sponsored scheme but it did not confer the right on the state government to use any logo other than the PMAY-G. “This will also lead to misinterpretation of the scheme among the PMAY-G beneficiaries about the benefits of the scheme,” Sinha added. The issue of the logo has been contentious with the ruling Biju Janata Dal government apparently looking to take credit for the central housing scheme which has brought it face to face with the BJP, its main political rival in the state. In February 2020, panchayati raj and drinking water minister Pratap Jena had told the Assembly that there was nothing wrong in using the BPGY logo on houses constructed under the PMAY-G. The BJP, however, has been opposing such rebranding of central schemes by the state government and accused it of trying to mislead the people for the sake of political gains. The BJP has also accused the state government of taking undue credit for providing rice to the poor at Re 1 as the bulk of the subsidy for the scheme came from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
04-04-2021||India||Odisha Assembly: Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro suspends three BJP MLAs for unruly behaviour ||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro on Saturday suspended three BJP legislators for unruly behaviour after they allegedly hurled shoes, headphones, papers, pens and dustbins at his podium in unprecedented scenes inside the House. The Opposition legislators created a ruckus in the House after the Speaker refused to entertain an adjournment motion for a discussion on mining and allowed the government to move some bills that were passed in haste amidst the pandemonium. The three MLAs — Bishnu Charan Sethi, Jay Narayan Mishra and Mohan Majhi — will remain suspended for the rest of the budget session. The action of the MLAs was condemned by government chief whip Pramila Mallick. “BJP MLAs Bishnu Sethi, Jay Narayan Mishra and Mohan Majhi threw shoes, chappals, dustbins and earphones at the Speaker’s podium. This is most unfortunate. Action will definitely be taken in the matter. They are only looking for publicity by indulging in such behaviour. But such attempts will not be successful. People will reject them again,” said Mallick. The BJP lawmakers on the other hand admitted to having seen shoes, earphones and papers being hurled at the Speaker’s podium but they said they had no idea who was responsible for the incident. The incident took place when the Opposition Congress brought an adjournment motion to discuss corruption in mining activities (mining business determining the politics in Odisha). All hell broke loose when the Speaker refused to admit the motion for discussion. Both the Congress and BJP MLAs accused the Speaker of adopting a partisan attitude. The situation turned ugly when an amendment to the Odisha Lokayukta bill was passed. The Opposition MLAs trooped into the well of the House and created a ruckus. Suddenly chappals and other articles were thrown at the podium of the Speaker from the Opposition benches. Senior BJP legislator Sethi told The Telegraph: “We wa­nted a discussion on the issue. But the Speaker refused to entertain the demand. He was not able to reply convincingly to why he had rejected the motion for discussion. When the leader of the Opposition wanted to speak, he was not allo­wed. We condemned the undemocratic attitude of the Sp­e­a­ker. I know that pens, dustbins and chappals have been thro­wn but I don’t know who did this. The decision to susp­end us is an undemocratic one.” Senior party MLA Mishra told this newspaper: “The Speaker has been indulging in undemocratic practices. The leader of the Opposition was not allowed to speak. This is not way the Assembly should be run. Rules have been cast to the wind. We were not given an opportunity to put forth our points.” Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “Whatever happened in the Assembly today was unfortunate. It is against the democratic norms and practices. I am condemning it. The Congress had brought the motion. Without any reasons, it was rejected. The Congress protested. As per the democratic norms, when the House was not in order, no bill should be have been put up for discussion. The government passed some bills in a hurry. I also condemned it.” Before taking action against the MLAs, Speaker Patro had called for the video footage of the entire incident. Sources revealed that after examining the footage, he decided to suspend the MLAs. Protesting against the decision, the BJP legislators walked out and staged a dharna near the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Assembly. Sources said the ongoing budget session of the Assembly may end on Saturday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Jaya Bachchan reaches Bengal to campaign for TMC candidates||Veteran actor and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan came to Bengal to campaign for Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress during the ongoing Assembly election. She landed at Calcutta airport at 6.30 pm on Sunday. Jaya Bachchan will begin with a campaign for three-time Tollygunge MLA Aroop Biswas, who faces Union Minister Babul Supriyo in defence of his seat, reports NDTV. The rival contestant and the seat are both significant as Babul Supriyo is a popular singer and Tollygunge is Calcutta's 'cinema district' that houses studios where films are shot. As reported by NDTV, Jaya Bachchan's presence also underlines Mamata's plan to take on a ruthless BJP poll machine - to stitch together a pan-India working alliance of non-BJP parties, for this and other elections. Last month Akhilesh Yadav said his party would campaign for the Trinamool. This was after he said the BJP is spreading "politics of hate (and) confusion and propaganda" in Bengal, and said his party "will not allow this conspiracy". The day before Akhilesh Yadav's comment, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav - who came agonisingly close to beating the BJP in Bihar - said: "It is our duty to strengthen Mamata didi's hands and fight the BJP." The Shiv Sena, a long-time ally of the BJP that split over government formation in Maharashtra, has also backed Ms Banerjee; senior leader Sanjay Raut described her as "the real Bengal tigress". Sharad Pawar's NCP, a member of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra, has also expressed support. The development came days after the Bengal CM wrote a letter to opposition leaders including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav “for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and Constitution” and suggested that a meeting should be held after the assembly polls to “deliberate the issues and chart out a plan of action”. The letter has been sent to several opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, DMK leader MK Stalin, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, CPI(ML) leader Dipankar Bhattacharya, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP will put TMC goons in jail after assuming power in Bengal: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asserted that "goons sheltered by the Trinamool Congress" will be tracked and sent behind bars within a month of the BJP forming government in Bengal. He said the "murdered BJP karyakartas (workers)" including Sudarshan Pramanik from Hooghly district, will get justice once the saffron party comes to power in the state. "TMC goons, listen carefully. After the counting of votes, we will teach you a lesson. Similar things happened in Uttar Pradesh four years back after we formed the government there. "We imprisoned the tormentors of people. In Bengal, we will punish those who are a part of the syndicate raj and demand cut money (commission)," Adityanath said. Accusing the TMC supremo of pursuing politics of appeasement during her 10-year rule, he said Mamata created hurdles in Durga puja, Saraswati puja and Holi celebrations in Bengal, something that never happens in Uttar Pradesh. "Elect the BJP to ensure you are not stopped from taking part in festivals," he said. Mamata's UP counterpart also said she is "allergic" to the chanting of 'Jai Shri Ram'. "Just like the way she doesn't allow Durga Puja here, she is opposed to building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya." He said decisions like giving the go-ahead for construction of the Ram temple and scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir are examples of BJP fulfilling its poll promises of 2019. "In my state, 1.30 crore people have been provided electricity free of cost, every poor family got free ration, everyone is covered under Ayushman Bharat. "In contrast, people of Bengal are deprived of the benefits of central projects, and farmers did not get Rs 6,000 under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana. Around 1,000 farmers committed suicide in the past 10 years," he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||EC says Mamata’s claim on misconduct in Nandigram booth ‘factually incorrect’||In a strongly worded rejoinder to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Election Commission has rejected her claim about the presence of outsiders at a polling booth in Nandigram as "factually incorrect" and "devoid of substance". The EC sent the letter to Mamata on Saturday in response to a complaint filed by her on April 1, when polling was held in Nandigram, alleging irregularities in the polling process. In its point-by-point rejoinder, the EC said Mamata's letter regarding booth capturing and the presence of outsiders at a polling booth in Boyal was "preceded by a massive coverage all over the country... which showed dozens of audio-visual shots of your being in this polling station and literally hurling an avalanche of allegations on some officials working with the government of West Bengal itself, paramilitary forces and eventually the Election Commission". Citing reports received from the ground, including its observers, the poll body said, "It is self-evident from the perusal of all the reports that the allegations mentioned in your hand-written note are factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance." The commission said it is a matter of deep regret that a "media narrative was sought to be weaved hour after hour to misguide the biggest stakeholders, which is the voters, by a candidate who also happens to be CM of the state". At least this should have been appreciated that the "side show" was fraught with immense potential to have an adverse impact on law and order across West Bengal and may be in some other states, it said. "And all this was being done when the election process was/is on. There could not have been a greater misdemeanour," the letter stated. Mamata, who is contesting the polls from Nandigram, had visited a polling booth in Boyal when polling was underway on April 1. According to Chief Electoral Officer Ariz Aftab, wheelchair-bound Mamata was stuck in the booth for almost two hours as two groups raised slogans against each other. A large number of CAPF personnel and senior officers reached there and brought out the chief minister after bringing the situation under control. Later, Mamata blamed outsiders for creating trouble. She also accused the EC of not acting on complaints of alleged irregularities in the polling process in Nandigram lodged by her party, Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Are you a god or a superhuman, Mamata asks Modi on poll predictions||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wondered whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "god or a superhuman" to make claims of a BJP triumph in the Assembly elections, six phases of which still remain. At an election rally at Khanakul in Hooghly district, the TMC boss, without naming the Indian Secular Front or its founder Abbas Siddiqui, also said the BJP is giving money "to a person" to eat into minority votes. "What do you (Modi) think of yourself, are you god or superhuman," Mamata said, referring to remarks by the PM at public meetings that he will attend the oath-taking ceremony of the BJP government in Bengal and request it to implement the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme as early as possible. Modi had also mocked the chief minister on Saturday, referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, saying this proves that Didi has accepted defeat. The TMC supremo alleged that Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh to commemorate its first prime minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's birth centenary year had led to rioting in the neighbouring country. "There is a new person on the block who is trying to divide minority votes in the state and he is getting money from the BJP for this," Mamata said in a veiled reference to Siddiqui, whose ISF is fighting the elections in alliance with the CPI(M) and the Congress. "He keeps making communal statements but will not go far," she asserted. Mamata also claimed that Home Minister Amit Shah was instructing the Election Commission to transfer police officers in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata says Modi and Shah want to divide state on communal lines  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the BJP, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, wanted to divide Bengal on communal lines like the British had done in 1905. At her four rallies in South 24-Parganas and Hooghly and road show in Howrah, Mamata repeatedly asked the people to keep alive the tradition of communal harmony in Bengal. She quoted Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam, narrated an anecdote about Swami Vivekananda and invoked Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa to make her point. “The BJP wants to divide Bengal in two. Can you recall the Banga Bhanga Movement (against the 1905 partition of Bengal)?” she said at her rally in Tarakeswar, Hooghly. “In 1905, when the country was under them, the British came to divide Bengal. Who were the ones to protest? Rabindranath Tagore was one. He organised the Rakhi Bandhan festival and sang the song Banglar mati, Banglar jol.” She added: “Today, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are trying to divide Bengal the same way. They want to loot Bengal, they want to ruin Bengal, they want to ruin the culture.” In October 1905, the then Viceroy of India, Lord Curzon, had partitioned Bengal into a largely Hindu west and predominantly Muslim east on the plea of increasing administrative efficiency. The move provoked the Swadeshi Movement, and the partition was revoked in 1911. Bengali luminaries of the day had protested the partition, with Tagore using the tradition of rakhi-tying to symbolise Hindu-Muslim unity. Mamata quoted a couple of lines from a Tagore song, composed in 1905, to send across the message of amity. “Banglar mati, Banglar jol, Banglar bayu, Banglar phol/ Punyo houk, punyo houk, punyo houk, hey Bhagoban,” she recited. A rough translation: “Bengal’s soil, Bengal’s water, Bengal’s air, Bengal’s fruit/ Be blessed, be blessed, be blessed, O Lord.” “The BJP is playing the Hindu-Muslim game in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas too,” Mamata said, before going on to narrate an example of amity. She said that in Nandigram in East Midnapore, a Hindu family that was attacked by “BJP goons” took shelter in a Muslim home. Mamata said: “The wife of Rabin Manna, our party worker from Nandigram who was beaten up by BJP goons, had called me. She told me she was sheltered by a minority family while those who attacked the family were BJP goons.” She extolled the spirit of communal harmony that Kazi Nazrul, Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda had promoted. “If you visit Belur Math, you will find a Muslim dargah there. I asked them the reason for having a Muslim shrine there. They told me it had been there since the beginning,” Mamata said. “Swami Vivekananda smoked tobacco offered by a Muslim,” she added. Sabuj Koli Sen, former officiating vice-chancellor at Visva-Bharati who is associated with the Ramakrishna Mission, fleshed out the anecdote. “Swamiji was in Kashmir when he found a Muslim man smoking tobacco from a hookah. He immediately asked for a smoke from the same hookah,” Sen told The Telegraph. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s all-out stress on communal harmony stemmed from her experience in Nandigram, where the BJP had pulled out the stops to polarise the electorate. “Didi has understood the dangerous game being played by the BJP to wrest power in Bengal. So she tried to alert the people before the damage was done,” a Trinamul leader in Hooghly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP's poll manifesto mirror image of Modi govt's policies at Centre||The BJP poll manifesto’s promises to Bengal on healthcare reflect the Narendra Modi government’s policies at the Centre that, some experts say, lack adequate efforts to bolster public hospitals or regulate the private sector. The BJP has pledged three All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) — in north Bengal, the Sunderbans and Jungle Mahal — a medical college in every Bengal district, a twofold increase in postgraduate medical seats and the eradication of malaria and dengue, among other promises. The party hopes to implement in Bengal the Modi government’s two flagship health programmes: the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY) that offers poor households up to Rs 5 lakh in hospital expenses every year, and health and wellness centres (HWCs) offering free primary care, diagnostics and essential medicines. The party’s legislators assert that a BJP win in Bengal would improve health services across the state through the two schemes and through efforts to “incentivise the private sector” to establish more hospitals in the state, including rural areas — another pledge in the manifesto. However, experts flagged the Centre’s inadequate budget allocations for the HWCs and stressed that Bengal already had a scheme, Swasthya Sathi, that too covered up to Rs 5 lakh in hospital expenses and, unlike the PMJAY, was open to everyone. They also underlined that contrary to what some BJP lawmakers were saying, Bengal was not a laggard in healthcare — it bettered not just the national average but the performance of many BJP-ruled states in several health indicators. From its launch in September 2018 till March 31 this year, the PMJAY had supported over 1.77 crore hospital admissions, providing treatment or surgical services to patients with cancers, cardiovascular disease, bone problems, obstetric and gynaecological conditions and other illnesses. “Another big initiative has been the addition of colleges, and undergraduate and postgraduate medical seats. This will impact healthcare in the long run,” Rajdeep Roy, a BJP legislator from Silchar, Assam, said. India’s count of MBBS seats has increased from 54,000 in 2014 to over 80,000 in 2020, while postgraduate medical seats have risen from less than 30,000 to 44,000. Subhas Sarkar, BJP Lok Sabha MP from Bankura and member of the parliamentary committee on health, said Bengal’s health sector had suffered over the years from general neglect. Roy said the Bengal government’s “obstructionist policies” had stalled improvements in healthcare in the state. The other view Health experts, however, say Bengal isn’t doing so badly. “Some of its health performance indicators are better than the national average and significantly higher than those in several other states,” said Indrani Gupta, a health economics professor at the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi. Bengal, for instance, has 85 hospital beds per 100,000 people, which is higher than India’s average of 55 beds, or the figures for Bihar (12 beds), Gujarat (46 beds) and Madhya Pradesh (37) — all NDA-ruled states. The Centre’s National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found that Bengal’s neonatal mortality, infant mortality and under-five mortality — three key indicators of child health — were lower than the corresponding figures in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Despite the quantifiable gains from the PMJAY and the HWCs, Gupta and other experts are concerned that the Modi government has not done enough to correct India’s low spending on healthcare and that the PMJAY is diverting public resources into an unregulated private healthcare sector. The government’s 2017 National Health Policy had announced a phased increase in the public spending on health, from 1 per cent to 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025. “We’re nowhere near that goal. Public spending remains near or below 1 per cent of the GDP even now,” said Indranil Mukhopadhyay, associate professor of public health and economics at the O.P. Jindal Global University. The parliamentary standing committee on health had last year said that to reach the target of 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025, the Centre should allocate Rs 160,000 crore for health in 2021-22. “The actual allocation is not even half this figure,” Mukhopadhyay said. Mukhopadhyay estimates that it would take around Rs 9,400 crore per year to support 100,000 health and wellness centres. But the proposed budget allocation for the HWCs in 2021-22 is Rs 1,900 crore. “This is less than half of what (the existing) 50,000 centres need to render the full range of services they were intended to provide,” Mukhopadhyay said. A public health expert in Bengal said it would be misleading to say the PMJAY would make a big difference to healthcare because the state already has Swasthya Sathi. “Besides, the Swasthya Sathi scheme is open not just to the poor but anyone who wants to join,” said Prabir Chatterjee, a physician with public health experience. “If the PMJAY replaces the existing scheme, some people might lose the cover.” He added: “Three new AIIMS in the state would be very good, but this is likely to take years to become reality.” Private sector worries Patients’ rights groups are concerned that the PMJAY would expand the private sector’s dominance in healthcare. “It’s worrying because taxpayers’ funds will go into an unregulated private sector,” said Sulakshana Nandi, a public health expert and member of the Public Health Resource Network in Chhattisgarh. The experience with the insurance-based schemes implemented in several states over the past decade suggests that they sometimes lead to unnecessary treatments or surgeries. Nandi and others say the Modi government could have, had it wanted, introduced regulatory controls by implementing the Clinical Establishment Act passed by Parliament in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: What BJP promises, what BJP delivers||The BJP’s promise of one job per family in its Bengal poll manifesto comes just when the country is witnessing its worst unemployment rate in four decades under the party’s rule, with economists predicting not much improvement in at least the next three years. The party has also pledged free education for all girl students in Bengal from kindergarten to postgraduate level, a promise that runs counter to the Centre’s falling investment in education. Economists said much of the job crisis owed to the Narendra Modi government’s policies and decisions, and its track record did not inspire confidence it would be able to meet the Bengal promise — a scepticism echoed by job seekers outside the state. Ajeet Sonkar from Allahabad, who has been sitting the recruitment exams of the central government and the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC), said he was “awestruck” at the promise made to Bengal. “The BJP’s past performance suggests it’s an impossible promise,” he said. Earlier this month, the UPSSSC had cited corruption and cancelled the recruitment process for village development officers (VDOs), three years after holding the exam. Over 9 lakh candidates had taken the test. “The Centre’s Staff Selection Commission too is delaying the recruitment exam results by up to two years. There are no government jobs,” Sonkar said. Tribhuvan Singh, a shiksha mitra (contractual teacher without social security) at a government school in Uttar Pradesh is paid a monthly salary of Rs 10,000. He said the state’s nearly 1.72 lakh shiksha mitras had still not been made permanent employees despite the BJP’s 2017 Assembly election manifesto promising to sort out their job issues. “If the BJP government could not ensure job security for us after we had worked for 10 years, how can it provide jobs to every family in Bengal?” Tribhuvan said. One of the experts doubtful about the BJP’s promise to Bengal is economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra, who has edited the book Revising Jobs an Agenda For Growth that sums up the job situation under BJP rule. The book says that from 2005-06 to 2011-12, India had created 52 million non-agricultural jobs at the rate of 7.5 million a year. But in the following six years, till 2017-18, this dropped to 2.9 million a year. The unemployment rate rose from 2.2 per cent in 2011-12 to 6.1 per cent in 2017-18, the highest in four decades. The unemployment rate among youths aged 15 to 29 tripled from 6 per cent to 18 per cent over the same period. Mehrotra accepted that the job situation had suffered during the last couple of years of UPA rule too, but said the persistent decline under Modi’s rule was a result of policy decisions and, therefore, more worrying. “A policy paralysis after the corruption allegations — some of it still unproven — a global slowdown after 2011, over-lending by the banks were serious problems (that hurt the economy during the UPA’s last years in power),” he said. He said the poor job creation on Modi’s watch even before Covid struck owed to the weakening of four drivers of the economy from 2014 to 2020, largely because of the demonetisation and the unplanned implementation of the goods and services tax. The situation worsened further after an unplanned and stringent national-level Covid lockdown was announced without adequate succour for the people, he added. Mehrotra said the four drivers were: ⚫ Private investment, which was 31 per cent of the GDP when the UPA government ended its term but was 28 per cent in 2019-20. ⚫ The export of merchandise goods, which declined from $315 billion in 2013-14 to $265 billion in 2017-18. ⚫ Household savings, which stood at 24 per cent of the GDP in 2013-14 but had dropped to 17 per cent of the GDP by 2017-18. ⚫ Government investment in the social sector, which remained largely static because of the Centre’s commitment to pet schemes like Swachh Bharat and Mudra Yojana (small loans for small and micro businesses). “All this affected the GDP and job creation. Even if we get 10 per cent growth in 2021-22, we cannot match the GDP per capita of 2019-20,” Mehrotra said. “After recovery, GDP growth is unlikely to be more than five per cent beyond 2023. Job creation will therefore remain stressed in the next three years too.” According to the quarterly data of the Periodic Labour Force Survey, conducted by the National Statistical Office of the central government, the unemployment rate in urban areas had risen from 9.1 per cent in January-March 2020 to 20.8 per cent in April-June amid the lockdown. Arjun Kumar, director of the Impact and Policy Research Institute, a private think tank, said the demonetisation had shaken the confidence of potential employers and the subsequent economic slowdown had affected job creation. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar had told the Rajya Sabha on March 24 that the Centre was adopting measures like the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana under which the government paid the EPFO contributions for two years for private-sector employees who earned salaries below a cut-off. Gangwar also cited the PM Svanidhi Scheme under which collateral-free loans up to Rs 10,000 are given to street vendors “Employment generation coupled with improving employability is the priority of the government. The government is providing fiscal stimulus of more than Rs 27 lakh crore as part of the Atmanirbhar financial package,” he said. Education While the BJP has promised free education for girl students in Bengal, its government has for the first time in years slashed the budget allocation for school and higher education. The Samagra Shiksha scheme, the main vehicle for implementing the Right to Education Act, suffered the highest cut, from Rs 38,750 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 31,050 crore in 2021-22. This scheme undertakes infrastructure development at government schools and provides uniforms and textbooks to children among several other initiatives. Several scholarship schemes have undergone funds cuts. One of them is the National Scheme for Incentive to Girl Child for Secondary Education, which covers all girls from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes who enrol in Class IX at government and aided schools. A fixed deposit of Rs 3,000 is made for each girl, which they can withdraw along with the interest after reaching 18 years and passing their Class X exam. The allocation for this scholarship plummeted from Rs 110 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 1 crore in 2021-22. For the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme, which provides 1 lakh annual scholarships of Rs 6,000 to Class IX students and continues up to Class XII, the allocation has declined from Rs 373 crore to Rs 350 crore. The scheme is meant to prevent meritorious students from poor families dropping out after Class VIII, when the midday meal benefit ends. N. Sai Balaji, a JNU research student said that research scholars were not receiving their fellowship stipends on time. .“The government does not want intellectual growth. It does not want the poor and the marginalised to advance. So, key education schemes, including scholarship programmes, are facing funds cuts,” Balaji said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hill TMC chooses Bimal over Binay ||The Trinamul Congress has decided to support the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in what is being seen as a major snub to the Morcha’s Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction that had stood by the ruling party when the hills were on fire following the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017. Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul district president of Kalimpong, said: “We have decided to support Bimal Gurung’s faction. Bimal Gurung has shown honesty and sincerity in supporting us and has been campaigning under our flag.” So far, the Trinamul “high command” had left three hill seats to their “friends”, the two factions of the Morcha, with supposedly no clear-cut instructions on who the party cadres should back. But now, Chhetri said their decision to back Gurung’s party had been influenced by a number of factors, including Tamang’s decision not to campaign with Trinamul leaders in the hills, Gurung’s “sincerity to support Trinamul in the plains”, feedback from Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team and the need to sustain Trinamul in the hills. Darjeeling district (hills) Trinamul president L.B. Rai was present during the announcement. While Gurung campaigned under the Trinamul flag, Tamang’s party refused to involve the ruling party leaders in their campaign in the hills though they said they had no problem campaigning for Mamata Banerjee’s party in the plains. “We also have our party that we strengthened in the hills through a lot of hard work. Our grassroots people had started campaigning with Gurung faction leaders and now the leaders, too, will join Gurung’s party in the campaign,” said Chhetri, who is also a Rajya Sabha member. Though the Trinamul leadership said the decision was taken by the “core committee” of the hill leadership, Chhetri later told The Telegraph that they had been influenced by the I-PAC team. “A meeting among our leadership, an I-PAC team representative and Bimal Gurung was held on Friday,” Chhetri told this paper. The Tamang camp, which received support from organisations backing 13 development boards in the hills, seemed taken aback. “Everyone has the right to decide...but am a bit surprised that they (hill Trinamul) decided to support those people who set the hills on fire over us who are trying to rebuild the place…. I am told that Trinamul’s high command was not involved in this decision,” said Anit Thapa. A three-cornered fight between the BJP, Gurung camp and the Tamang camp of the Morcha is being anticipated and any support in a tight contest could be decisive. The BJP is being supported by the GNLF and the CPRM. Some hill residents said Trinamul’s decision not to support the Tamang camp could be a blessing in disguise for this faction because many in the hills saw this faction’s understanding with Trinamul as a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Train runs over 3 rail workers in West Midnapore||Three railway maintenance employees instantly died and one more was injured when the Howrah-bound Falaknuma Express ran over them between Balichak and Tuan stations in West Midnapore around 10am on Saturday. The deceased were identified as gangmen Bapi Nayak, 40, Nipen Pal, 40, and Manik Mandal, 40. Nayak and Pal were residents of Kharagpur and Mandal was from Debra. Their colleague Kisan Besra, from Kolaghat, survived with injuries after leaping off the tracks. “It happened in a flash. I don’t remember hearing a horn,” said Besra from his bed in a private hospital in Calcutta. “We were so focused on our job in the heat that we have no idea how it happened,” Besra, who suffered serious injuries to his left leg, said. GRP sources said a departmental investigation had been initiated. The express train of the South Eastern Railways headed for Kharagpur was speeding at over 100km per hour. The gangmen were reportedly carrying out a routine check and minor repairs of the railway tracks when the accident took place. “The train stopped immediately after and our personnel responded to the incident,” said a source in the railways. Sources said a team, including the additional mechanical engineering, was at the accident site. Divisional railway manager (south eastern), Manoranjan Pradhan, said: “An inquiry team has been formed and an investigation started. The gangmen were carrying out routine maintenance.” An official said workers were on the middle line of the tracks, and according to reports from eyewitnesses no loud horn was heard right before the accident. Other railway officials, however, said the train driver had applied the horn to alert the staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Pre-Puja cash for farmers, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tried to reach out to farmers in Bengal with the promise that if the BJP was voted to power, the funds of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana would be transferred to their accounts before Durga Puja. Modi, speaking at a poll rally in the agrarian hub of Hooghly’s Haripal, also asked government officials to start listing eligible farmers so that the money could be disbursed immediately after the poll results are announced on May 2. “…When Bengal’s BJP chief minister, Bengal’s BJP government will take oath, I’ll surely attend that ceremony. I’ll come and tell the new chief minister that brother, I have to send this money from Delhi, please implement this fast in the first cabinet (meeting)…. And listen, every farmer of Bengal… will be getting the total arrears of Rs 18,000 in his bank account…. I’ll say that before Durga Puja the money should reach the accounts of every farmer,” Modi said. At a rally in Haldia in East Midnapore in February, Modi had said that if the BJP wrested power in Bengal, the new government would implement PM Kisan in the first cabinet meeting and clear arrears of three years. On Saturday, he went a step ahead by setting a Durga Puja deadline. The central scheme of providing Rs 6,000 annually to farmers was a point of conflict between the Union and state governments as the latter had refused to implement it initially, saying it had a similar scheme. Later, the state government asked the Centre to route the money through it, a plea Delhi rejected. Modi’s announcement served two purposes, state BJP sources said. First, the Prime Minister was in farmer-dominated Hooghly to win their trust at a time when peasants across the country are up against the Centre over the three contentious farm laws. Second, Modi and his party colleagues Amit Shah and J.P. Nadda are trying to create a perception that the BJP’s victory is certain in Bengal. “If the PM refers to things like first cabinet meeting and disbursement of funds before Puja, the message that we have won is strongly communicated to our workers. Equally, we hope this demoralises Trinamul workers,” a state BJP office-bearer said. On the plight of farmers, Modi referred to Singur too. “...After using Singur for political gain, these people left it in darkness. Today, Singur neither has any industry, nor enough jobs and farmers are fed up with middlemen.” The Prime Minister addressed rallies in Haripal and Sonarpur on Saturday, and in both claimed that Mamata Banerjee’s would lose in Nandigram. “What the results will be on May 2, Nandigram has given a glimpse…,” he said in Haripal. In Sonarpur, he said he had heard that “some intelligent people still left in Trinamul” had advised Mamata against contesting from a second seat, implying she would lose in both. “Didi, if you lose in both seats in Bengal, Trinamul’s future as a political party in Bengal will be jeopardised,” Modi said. He also took a jibe at Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra who had tweeted that Mamata would contest from Varanasi — Modi’s parliamentary constituency. He didn’t name Moitra, but said the decision meant two things — that Mamata had accepted defeat and was trying to look for some place outside Bengal. People of Varanasi will not call her an “outsider”, he said. Modi also dismissed Mamata’s allegation that the BJP paid people to attend their rallies, saying Bengal’s people “can’t be bought”. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressed an almost-empty rally in South 24-Parganas’ Falta on Saturday. BJP sources said almost all supporters of the district had gone to attend Modi’s rally. “It is not possible to arrange a lot of people for two big rallies in the same district on the same day,” a district leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission orders three cop transfers||The Election Commission of India on Saturday evening ordered the transfer of three IPS officers in areas where elections are scheduled in the third and fourth phases on April 6 and 10. In place of Alipurduar SP Amitabha Maity, the name of Amit Kumar Singh has been proposed in the order issued by the poll panel. Singh was posted as special superintendent, intelligence branch. The EC instructed two more changes in the police rank and file in Diamond Harbour and Chandannagar, which are scheduled to vote in the third and fourth phases, April 6 and 10, respectively. Deputy commissioner (Chandannagar) Tathagata Basu and deputy superintendent of police Diamond Harbour Mithun De will both be replaced. The poll panel recommended Abhishek Modi in place of Basu and Shyamal Kumar Mandal in place of De. Modi was the deputy commissioner in Asansol under the Durgapur commisionerate. Not much is known about Mandal. The order issued by the poll panel also stated that De should be kept “awaiting posting orders” while the other two transferred officers — Maity and Basu —  should not be given postings related to any electoral duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Gautam Deb releases report card, road map||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb, the Trinamul MLA and candidate from the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, released a report card and manifesto of his constituency on Saturday. While the report card spoke of the development work executed during the past 10 years by various state government departments in his constituency, the manifesto had an array of promises. The report card said that ever since the Mamata Banerjee government came to power in 2011, around Rs 664 crore had been spent on his constituency for various projects. The Dabgram-Fulbari seat in Jalpaiguri district has 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats. “A number of projects, for which Rs 664 crore was spent, have come up in Dabgram-Fulbari during the past 10 years. We also plan to develop this as a ‘model Assembly constituency’ and form a new civic body here for better services to people,” said Deb, considered Trinamul’s tallest leader in north Bengal. “A part of the constituency has areas which officially bear a rural tag… however, over the years, urbanisation has been rapid and people from rural areas want proper civic services like those in the 14 municipal wards of Siliguri. That is why we are stressing the need for a new civic body and include most of these rural areas,” explained a Trinamul leader in Fulbari. Deb in his report card said the north Bengal development department formed by Mamata back in 2011 with Deb as its first minister and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority spent around Rs 343 crore to build roads, bridges, sewerage and other infrastructure. The forest department spent over Rs 85 crore for Bengal Safari Park and the Siliguri Municipal Corporation spent around Rs 73 crore on various projects in the 14 wards, the report card said. A big project that came up in Deb’s constituency is Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state government. A separate report card-cum-manifesto for the seat is another strategy for Trinamul to revive its support base here, said political observers. Though Deb had won two back-to-back elections from the seat, his party fell behind the BJP by around 86,000 votes in the Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “He is holding extensive campaigns for weeks now. Now it seems that he wants to reach out to his electorate with a report card so that they can have a clear idea about what the Trinamul government has done in his constituency and what it intends to do in future. Instead of lengthy speeches, this pamphlet is a better tool to tell voters these details,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata happy with EC’s fiat to central forces||Trinamul has welcomed the Election Commission of India’s Friday directive that central force jawans on poll duty would not check identity cards of voters before they enter polling booths. “I just heard about the decision. I welcome the decision and thank the EC. I have seen in Nandigram that central force jawans were checking voters’ identity cards and threatening them,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday in one of her election rallies. Sources said that the EC issued a clear instruction on Friday that central force jawans should not check the identity cards of voters before they enter polling booths after complaints were lodged by the Trinamul that jawans were intimidating voters in the name of checking voter cards. “The rule is clear. The presiding officers will check the voter I-cards after they enter the polling station. If the presiding officer is not satisfied with the document produced by a voter, he can seek help of central force jawans to take the voter out of the booth,” said a source in the poll panel, adding this was the standard practice. “But the poll panel has to give a reminder of the standard practice once again as complaints were coming up about the over-enthusiasm of the (central force) jawans,” the source added. Trinamul sources said as the EC was forced to issue the directive, it was in a way acknowledging that the central force jawans were not following standard practice. “It is clear that the central force jawans were doing something wrong in the first two phases of polls. We had lodged several complaints about the activities of the jawans after two phases of polls,” said a Trinamul leader. Trinamul had lodged complaints with the poll panel that the central force jawans were preventing voters who had queued up without EPIC (electoral photo identity cards) from casting their franchise even though the poll panel rules allow people to vote on producing other documents including Aadhaar card, passport or driving licence. The ruling party in Bengal had also lodged complaints that the jawans were intimidating voters in some places and campaigning in favour of the BJP in some areas. This year, the EC had decided to guard all booths and a radius of 100m around each booth with central forces. Only one national volunteer force person — from the state government — is allowed inside the zone to ensure that queues are formed properly. Trinamul had opposed the decision from the very first, saying the central force jawans, who come from other states, would not understand the language of local people and it might create trouble. The poll panel has decided to deploy 618 companies of the central forces in the third phase of polls on April 6 where 31 Assembly segments will vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Don’t let BJP split minority votes, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP of funding Muslim leaders from the state and outside to split the community’s vote bank for political gains in the ongoing Assembly elections. Without naming the Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Mamata alleged that the BJP was spending crores to use these parties to split the Muslim vote. She appealed to the community not to be influenced by them at all. Her concern about the possible split in her Muslim support base became evident in her speeches in Muslim-dominated Raidighi and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas. “A friend of the BJP has come from Hyderabad (Owaisi). They have also engaged a youth from Furfura (Sharif). They have joined hands...BJP is spending crores of rupees on them. They are trying to divide the minority community. Do not support them...Voting for them will mean voting for the BJP,” she said in Kulpi. ISF chief Siddiqui has been drawing huge crowds, particularly Muslim youths, in the election rallies of the Sanjukta Morcha, outshining that of Trinamul and the BJP. Trinamul initially did not pay much importance to Siddiqui but after he joined hands with the Left Front and Congress to form Sanjukta Morcha, the situation markedly changed. Siddiqui has influence in Hooghly, Nadia, and the North and South 24-Parganas. Trinamul’s concern is with 26 seats in Muslim-dominated rural belt of south Bengal where the Sanjukta Morcha is riding on Siddiqui’s popularity. Trinamul is also worried about the presence of the AIMIM in Murshidabad and Malda. Trinamul insiders acknowledged the huge gathering in the Morcha rallies and activities of Owaisi’s followers in Malda and Murshidabad had become a matter of concern, which Mamata made clear in her back-to-back speeches in Raidighi and Kulpi. “We have around 31 per cent Muslim voters in the state, who are actually the deciding factor in some 100 seats. In 2011 and 2016, most Muslims backed the Trinamul. But such consolidation of Muslim votes appears difficult this time as both the ISF and the AIMIM are likely to eat into our support base among Muslims. This will hit us hard as the BJP is trying to consolidate Hindu votes by polarisation,” a senior Trinamul leader said. “Mamata Banerjee is quite aware that a significant split in the Muslim vote could shatter her hopes of retaining power.” Her concern became obvious in her speech in Kulpi, when she reminded Muslims that because of a split in their votes, the united battle against BJP in Bihar polls was failed. “Don’t allow anyone to split your votes....it will only benefit the BJP. We (the Opposition) lost the Bihar election this way. I will not allow that in Bengal," she said, asking people to vow not to vote for any party except Trinamul. “This will help the Muslims and Hindus to survive, as well as the culture of Bengal,”she said. Mamata in Kulpi also alleged the BJP was paying people to attend their rallies. “Just because they give me Rs 500, will I go to listen to Amit Shah’s meeting? His hands are dripping with riot’s blood, blood is dripping out of his eyes. Chhi! Chhi! Chhi! Which Bengal am I looking at?” Mamata said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi dismissed her allegations. The BJP complained to the Election Commission against Mamata’s comments. Mamata on Saturday said she did not give ticket to former Raidighi MLA and actress Debashree Roy as there was anger against her among the people. Trinamul also fielded Musaraf Hussain, son of former Congress MLA Motahar Hossain, from Muraroi in Birbhum, replacing its present MLA Abdur Rahaman tested Covid positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Election Commission reduces campaign ban on Himanta Biswa Sarma||The Election Commission on Saturday reduced the campaign ban it had imposed on Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma over his personal allegations against Opposition politician Hagrama Mohilary. A similar punishment awarded to DMK leader A. Raja stood. The poll panel had on Friday handed Sarma a 48-hour ban, effectively gagging him till campaigning ended in Assam on Sunday before the last phase of polling on Tuesday. On Saturday, the commission cut the ban to 24 hours in a rare show of mercy, which means Sarma can campaign on Sunday. The commission wrote to Sarma that it was reducing its punishment considering his “unconditional apology and assurance”. “There is no comparison between the speeches of Raja and Sarma,” a senior commission official told The Telegraph. The poll panel official added: “One intentionally questioned the legitimacy of somebody’s birth and the other raised a matter that is already with the NIA (National Investigation Agency) without specifying details. We have banned a sitting chief minister like Yogi Adityanath from campaigning in the past, as we have done to several senior BJP leaders and ministers.” In 2014, then BJP president Amit Shah had received a similar reprieve from the commission after he apologised for saying the Lok Sabha polls would be “revenge for the insult” of the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who too had been punished at the time for saying Muslim troops had won the Kargil conflict for India, did not apologise and got no reprieve. Earlier on Saturday, Sarma had submitted a request for a remission to senior deputy election commissioner Dharmendra Sharma, who is in charge of the Assam polls. He had asked the commission to “accept my sincere regret and assurance of abiding (by the) MCC (model code of conduct) in future.” Sarma had in a March 28 speech threatened Congress ally Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front with an NIA probe, linking him to an arms haul. Mohilary, a former a BJP ally, is a reformed insurgent. Sarma was found to have violated clauses 2 and 4 of the MCC that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation. Raja had on March 26 likened Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami’s rise in politics to being “born in an illegal manner, in a premature birth”. The poll panel said it was “not only derogatory but also obscene and lower(ed) the dignity of motherhood”. Palaniswami later broke down during a speech, and Raja publicly apologised. After the poll panel on April 1 banned him from campaigning for 48 hours, Raja challenged the punishment unsuccessfully before Madras High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
04-04-2021||North East||Notice to Assam minister for threat to journalists||Assam minister and BJP leader Pijush Hazarika, who allegedly threatened two journalists with dire consequences, has been issued a notice to appear before police and his call recordings have been sent to a forensic lab for examination, officials said on Saturday. Two FIRs filed at Jagiroad police station in Morigaon by the journalists have been merged, and Hazarika has been booked under Sections 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC. The minister of state for health and family welfare, who is contesting from the Jagiroad seat where polling took place in the second phase on Thursday, had allegedly threatened the two journalists — Nazrul Islam and Tulsi Manta — for reporting about a controversial campaign speech by his wife. In an audio clip telecast by an Assamese news channel on Thursday, Hazarika can be heard threatening the scribes of dragging them out of their homes and making them “vanish”. “The statements of the journalists were recorded and a notice was issued to the minister in connection with the case. He has been asked to come to Jagiroad police station for recording his statement,” Morigaon superintendent of police Nanda Singh Borkala said, adding Hazarika will come to the police station on Sunday to give his statement. Borkala said the mobile phones of the scribes and that of Hazarika have been seized and the voice recordings of the conversation sent to a forensic laboratory in Guwahati.“As per law and procedure, we will proceed in the case,” he added.In the FIR, the two journalists — Nazrul Islam and Tulsi Manta — of Assamese news channels claimed that Hazarika had threatened them with dire consequences at 1pm on Thursday, when they were busy in poll coverage of the second phase in Morigaon district. Police have also provided personal security cover to both the journalists. Meanwhile, inspector-general (law and order), Deepak Kumar Kedia, who is the nodal officer of the state police for the ongoing Assembly elections, has sought a report from the district police on the case. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora has also filed a complaint with the state’s chief electoral officer, demanding Hazarika’s disqualification from the polls. Other Opposition parties like the AIUDF, Raijor Dal, Assam Jatiya Dal, AASU, AJYCP and several social groups also called for immediate disqualification of Hazarika from the elections.The Gauhati Press Club condemned the “act of intimidation” by HazarikaThe minister also said in the telephonic conversation, which has now gone viral, that he was “sad” because the news was related to his wife Aimee Baruah, who while campaigning for her husband a few days ago had made a controversial comment on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Baruah, at a recent public meeting in Jagiroad, had reportedly said the people from the Bengali community will be thrown out of the country if the CAA is not implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
04-04-2021||Opinion||Dada-O-Dada||No, I don't agree with Mahua Moitra when she says the PM is catcalling the CM whenever he drawls “Didi-O-Didi”. In this case, Narendra Modi is heckling a political rival and the rest is unfortunate culturally misplaced intonation. That does not, however, change the fact that in this frenzied grab for Bengal, our politicians have predictably and generously traded in gendered slights. Everyone knows, when pushed to a corner, society will berate women for characteristics /roles/physiognomy/instincts, typically in the absence of which you wouldn’t be able to tell apart one gender from another. No less than the great Aristotle said in his Physiognomonics that some aspects of womanliness, such as her high pitched voice, can be equated with evil. In The Gender of Sound, Anne Carson writes, “Aristotle tells us… creatures who are brave and just (like lions, bulls, roosters, and the human male), have large deep voices.” More than 2,000 years later, BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari feels the need to go beyond specific accusations against his former boss and say, “She uses filthy language for the Prime Minister. She is a 66-year-old aunty.” Harping on the apparent threat of Nandigram turning into “mini-Pakistan”, he refers to Banerjee as a “begum”. Another BJP leader, Dilip Ghosh, remarked about the injured CM, “The plaster was cut… now she is displaying her leg to everyone… If you want to display your legs, why a sari, wear a pair of Bermudas so everyone can have a good look." Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat too shamed an aam aurat not long ago for wearing ripped jeans. Adhikari and Rawat are middle-aged, but the 30-something Abbas Siddiqui of the Indian Secular Front also lashed out at actor-turned-TMC MP Nusrat Jahan, invoking not her absences from Parliament (27 per cent attendance in the Budget session) but her morality, as imagined by him. Nancy Astor, the first woman member of the British House of Commons, was referred to by her colleague Sir Henry Channon as “a decapitated hen” and “the mad witch”. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had earned the nickname Attila The Hen. In the biopic The Iron Lady, the Opposition minister tells the House: “Methinks the Right Honourable lady doth screech too much.” In real life Thatcher hired a voice coach. If talking women are a problem, women who keep their counsel are also not to be left alone. Goongi gudiya was the name given to Indira Gandhi by socialist icon Ram Manohar Lohiya. In 2019, an MLA from the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh said BSP chief Mayawati was "worse than a transgender". And Congress ally and PRP leader Jaydeep Kawade remarked about the BJP’s Smriti Irani: "She wears a big bindi on her forehead and someone told me that when a woman changes her husband frequently, the size of her bindi keeps growing." The late Left leader Subhas Chakraborty had ridiculed Mamata’s Maa-Mati-Manush slogan saying, “She is an infertile woman; what does she know about Ma.” No, I don’t agree with Mahua Moitra when she says the PM is catcalling the CM whenever he drawls "Didi-O-Didi". He is basically intoning a chauvinism that is so old that it is reflexive. But a woman’s ear is quick to catch it, so will a consultant please tell him that 49 per cent of West Bengal’s 7.2 crore electorate is women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Happening now in my body: Antibodies||Something is happening to me, something strange. I have been feeling I am not myself, or what myself used to feel like once upon a time. Then I got seduced by promises of what a shot can do and I plunged into the vortex of the thrill of those promises and I went and took the shot. It was all going to be KachchheDin after that; KachchheDin is the dream a hot country should dream about. But something about the dreams that were meant to follow the shot — a single jab meant to be followed with a booster jab after five years — was not like it was a dream at all. I jabbed dutifully, and it was a flowery thing, you know, a pleasant looking bloom, and I jabbed a second time five years later, and it seems to have gotten worse and worse. That bloom, oh that bloom, that flowery bloom, what a blooming thing it turned out. I jabbed on a bloom and a blooming thing jumped back at me. Read the documents carefully, as they keep saying in the rushed disclaimers, conditions apply. They have all come to be applied, those blooming conditions of the thing that looked like a bloom. I know they said things about jabs and antibodies, and how good those antibodies would be for the body, but, truth to tell, I am no longer sure I did the right thing, twice over too. As I said, strange things have begun to happen to me and my body. Everybody said there would be side effects, take it, it is a good thing, there will be side effects, but then all shall be fine. I am no longer sure that is how it has turned out. I mean, look at the body and the antibodies. The body is at war with the antibody, whereas we were told — or, at least that was what I was given to believe — that the body and the antibody were a thing of common purpose, they are symbiotic. I fear it has not turned out that way. The body and the antibody are at war. They are going at each other, flailing, fuming, slaying, putting the other down through suffocation or silencing or just bent on murder, if that is what it has to be. Suddenly, the body is spotting antibodies and going at them as if at the enemy. This is an ability — or affliction — that came from that jab and the booster jab, two of them five years apart. There was a time we were bodies, far too many, I concede, and each different from the other in colour, shape and size, but we were all bodies. Milling about. Doing our own thing. We did different things, we wore different things, these bodies spoke different tongues and they bowed to different deities. But there was never any debate they were all bodies. Legit bodies. Then it began to change, a little after that first jab. We came to be told that some among the bodies we cohabited with were not bodies at all. They were termites. And being termites, they needed to be driven away, or better still, exterminated. They did not belong, they had infiltrated and become part of the bodies we were. What a dangerous and alarming thing. But now that they had been spotted, and their peril broadcast, relief was on the way, they would be dealt with. Lawfully. All that was required was to find a way of spotting all of them, each one, and putting them away so that our bodies, the legit bodies, came to no harm. Bodies began to look at other bodies in a way they never did, they began to see termites, and where they spotted termites, rightly or wrongly, they began to pinch and crush them, for that is how termites ought to be treated. And then the second jab, the booster. And that unlocked the key to antibodies, the real pestilence that had made home in our bodies like parasites do, and were slowly sucking the life out of us. But now that we know those antibodies exist and are being produced all the time, they can be taken care of. Look at you and look at me What a difference, oh dear me I think I am entitled to a fee To just look at you, you antibody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||A new darling of the BJP||The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, seems to have suddenly turned into a darling of the current Bharatiya Janata Party regime. From a known LK Advani loyalist, Chouhan now is seen as one of the most preferred CMs of the party leadership. In the ongoing assembly polls in five states, he is competing with the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath, in terms of canvassing for the party. He is being utilized extensively for campaigning. This Hindi heartland leader is addressing rallies and holding road shows even in the southern state of Kerala. Madhya Pradesh is among the states witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, but Chouhan still has to find time for campaigning. In contrast, the former Rajasthan CM, Vasundhara Raje, who hardly has any official responsibility now, is not being utilized for campaigning. Raje is equally, if not more, popular. While the Central leadership’s dislike for her is well-known, whispers in party corridors indicate that there is more to the new-found love for Chouhan. Word is that Chouhan is being pitched to undercut the emergence of Adityanath. The saffron-clad UP CM is in demand for campaigning in poll-bound states. There are fears over his increasing national popularity, particularly among the BJP’s core Hindutva voters. Those whispering are scared to name the leader who is feeling threatened by the rise of the monk. The Janata Dal (United), the party of the Bihar CM, Nitish Kumar, is contesting the West Bengal polls, but Kumar is not coming to Bengal to campaign. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, which is in the Opposition, has extended unconditional support to Mamata Banerjee in her endeavour to defeat the BJP, but the RJD leader, Tejashwi Yadav, is avoiding a visit to the state. This is in spite of the significant presence of people from Bihar in Bengal. While no official reasons have been cited so far, a top JD(U) leader threw some light on this. “Who will go to a state where [the] chief minister’s leg is getting fractured and top leaders of the ruling party and the Opposition are regularly getting bashed up? Bihar has seen peaceful elections over the last 15 years and the politicians of our state have forgotten how to do all the maar-dhad (fight). No need to risk limbs and life,” he said. On the other hand, a senior RJD leader gave a twist to it. “We have already made it clear that the lathi (stick) of Laluji is completely in support of Mamata didi in Bengal. It is doing the work to protect her and chase away the BJP. There is no need for Tejashwi to go there,” the RJD leader said. “Besides, common sense says we should not wade into swirling lathis. Nitish Kumar is also an intelligent leader,” he added with a wink. GN Saibaba, who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur for his links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), was formally dismissed from service as a Delhi University professor on March 31. Before his arrest in 2014, he taught English at Ram Lal Anand College. Since then, the paraplegic professor has been under suspension, with his family receiving half his pay. Two years after his conviction in 2017, his wife, AS Vasantha Kumari, received a notice for termination proceedings. She sought time to respond, and says she was not able to consult her husband. She pointed out that the late professor, SAR Geelani, had remained under suspension from DU’s Zakir Hussain Delhi College and was not fired even after his conviction in 2002 for the attack on Parliament the previous year. Geelani was acquitted later. Although Saibaba’s family says he is bedridden, his bail pleas have been rejected several times. His appeal is pending with the Bombay High Court. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association has opposed the termination of Saibaba’s services. The Union home minister, Amit Shah, just could not wriggle out of the responsibility of speaking out against the recent attack on nuns and postulants in Uttar Pradesh by the sangh parivar’s activists. Since he was in Kerala and campaigning in the Christian belt of Kottayam the day the news broke, Shah had to condemn the incident and promise action. Although the arrests came several days later, the people of Kerala generally feel that Shah would not have bothered to react, let alone speak of punitive action, had it not been poll time in the state where the BJP is eyeing the Christian vote bank. The man in a light blue uniform is a regular fixture at the entrance of the swanky Bihar police headquarters, and immediately grabs the eyeballs of visitors. Some express dismay, some laugh, and some shrug their shoulders to express pity for the khaki force over the need to hire a guard from a private security agency, that too for its own headquarters. Senior police officials were tight-lipped on the issue and refused to talk about why a constable could not have been deployed in place of the security guard. One source said that the security agency, considered to be one of the biggest in the country, belongs to a senior BJP leader, and the decision must have been taken at the upper levels of the government. He also pointed out that it shows how the party is keen on leaving its stamp everywhere. The Congress convinced the parliamentarian, K Muraleedharan, to contest from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram to wrest the seat from the BJP which got its maiden win in 2016. Muraleedharan has been looking for that extra bit of support in a tight, three-cornered race against the BJP and the Communist Party of India (Marxist). He even convinced the party to get Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for a road show to boost his chances. But right before campaigning is to conclude, Priyanka has self-quarantined after her husband tested positive for Covid-19. Muraleedharan must be hoping he is luckier when it comes to winning the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Fashion statement||Sir — The actress, Saiee Manjrekar, has said that she wears her mother’s old clothes. This makes an important statement. The fashion industry is one of the biggest contributors to waste and has a huge carbon footprint. The culture where celebrities mock each other for repeating an outfit has an adverse impact on young, impressionable minds. Upcycling old clothes or sharing a wardrobe with other members of one’s family or with friends is eco-friendly, cheap as well as trendy. India must begin encouraging the practice of thrift stores where items of fashion can be recycled.  Sweety Dogra, Kanpur Sir — Elections are often described as a battlefield. But when an election to a small assembly constituency actually turns into one, as it did in Nandigram in East Midnapore, it sends out a chilling message (“Nandigram today: Where the divide can take us tomorrow”, April 2). When the chief minister of a state is virtually captured in a booth for two hours and has to be escorted out to safety and when Section 144 has to be clamped around booths, pointed questions need to be asked about the Indian electoral process as well as about where we are headed as a democracy. What we saw on television was no ordinary fight. Boyal, the area where the incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was stuck in her wheelchair, saw both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress shout slogans like war cries, stones and sticks in hand. The complaint was that the TMC polling agent was not allowed anywhere near the polling station. Elsewhere, Banerjee’s arch-rival, the BJP candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, claimed that his polling agents, too, were not allowed into 122 booths. Jamming of election booths, accusations of rigging, intimidation and violence, no malpractice was spared when it came to allegations from both sides. Unfortunately, media personnel on the ground bore the brunt of the brickbats. The Election Commission’s observers later reported that in spite of ‘sporadic’ violence, polling carried on smoothly. Is that all there is to it? What is the worth of an election that can only be conducted in the presence of large groups of Central and state security forces. The EC must reflect on where it went wrong, as must the people and political parties of West Bengal.Khokan Das, Calcutta Sir — While the chief minister of Uttarakhand seems to think that women should not wear ripped jeans as these are not synonymous with our culture, last year, in the Bhuj district of Gujarat, as many as 68 girls in Shree Sahajanand Girls’ Institute were allegedly forced to remove their undergarments to prove that they were not menstruating. A similar incident took place at a government institution in Khatauli in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. It is unfortunate that women now live in a society where undesired customs and traditions, obscurantist beliefs and medieval rules are gaining strength. A particular ideology seems keen on keeping Indian women in check in the name of upholding Indian culture. It is not culture but patriarchy that these men are trying to uphold. Kate Manne, who teaches philosophy at Cornell University, argues that misogyny is not about male hostility or hatred toward women; it is about controlling and punishing women who challenge male dominance. Misogyny rewards women who reinforce the status quo and punishes those who do not. It leads to physical and sexual violence against them as well. It is important that the quality of women’s lives in India is not compromised.  Haridasan Rajan, Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — One essential step to our well-being that we often overlook is hydration. It can keep respiratory tracts clear, regulate body temperature, boost the immune system, keep muscles and organs active and so on. Dehydration is a common health issue, especially in children. Treating it is a priority in effectively managing illnesses.  M.R. Jayanthi, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||They are not amused||Being funny does not mean that everyone will like the humour. Samuel Johnson, for example, felt that the quibble was Shakespeare’s fatal Cleopatra — a remark both smart and funny, by the way — although generations of readers have been tickled pink as well as pricked into unexpected thought by Shakespeare’s quibbles and puns. But humour and wit producing an expansive sense of well-being are one thing; laughter weaponized for a defined purpose is quite another. Jesters and clowns in the courts of kings, whether in the West or in the East, were certainly entertainers, but they also kept a sharp eye out for anything out of kilter that would then become the target of their searing jokes. Satire has a similar purpose even today. The rainbow range from comedy to satire flourishes on incongruities of experience and conduct, sometimes opening up the mind to a benign inclusiveness and at others urging change through discomfiture, even shame. People laugh themselves into sanity and balance. In today’s professional world, however, even laughter has its programmed space. Drawing on the wisdom of Cicero and Quintilian, about a hundred years apart from one another, a university professor in the United States of America has designed a course for executives in the effective use of humour. This weaponization is different from that in satire: it is not for a moral or political purpose that laughter would be used but for better management. To break the tension and ease hurt, to laugh off an unarguable charge with a joke, to put overweening subordinates in their places, to seduce listeners on to the speaker’s side are goals that the wise old men of Rome had listed. They even suggested that a leader should aim at a chuckle, not a belly laugh. Confined to lessons for executives, humour loses its fun, if that is possible. But the old men’s pointers would have been perfect for politicians — and here India fails quite ignominiously. India’s politicians are singularly unfunny. When they are not viciously taunting their opponents in the garb of laughter, they are busy spouting highfalutin’ rhetoric about non-negotiable ideals. It does not stop there. No one else is supposed to laugh unless it is to hurt political opponents. While the US had wonderful fun with its last president, India is rapidly becoming a den of terrified humourlessness. Anyone who jokes, verbally or through cartoons,  about politicians, their notions, their faithful followers, or the religion and the persons they nurture or embrace, can be charged with sedition or simply be beaten up by anonymous lovers of the regime. Humour in India today is strikingly different from its purpose and methods that the American professor found useful in Cicero and Quintilian. Its first requirement is courage. Humorists, cartoonists and stand-up comics who persist in playing the irrepressible court jester are putting everything on the line. Fun is no longer funny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Wolf Warrior’s day||In 1962, the same year as the Sino-Indian war, Chalmers A. Johnson, an American scholar, wrote a great book — Peasant Nationalism and Communist Power: The Emergence of Revolutionary China 1937-1945. The book set the agenda for Chinese studies for a decade and more and its central argument was succinctly summarized in its preface: “The object of this study is to establish a basis upon which contemporary Communism in China may be understood as a particularly virulent form of nationalism.” Johnson’s insight is a useful corrective to the current Western view, which maintains that Xi Jinping broke with his predecessors to lead China in a belligerently nationalistic direction. The Western narrative, which saw the path charted by Deng Xiaoping and his successors as a non-ideological pragmatism destined to assimilate China into a world order defined by the World Bank and the World Trade Organization, was based on a simple misreading of Deng’s policy choices. For China’s leadership, communism and capitalism weren’t ideological choices; they were alternative means to a single ideological end: the restoration of Chinese supremacy. The ‘virulence’ that Johnson wrote about sixty years ago has been on display in recent times. China’s ‘Wolf Warrior’ diplomacy has flabbergasted its critics in Western foreign policy establishments. The Chinese ambassador to France, Lu Shaye, has described French critics of Chinese policy in Xinjiang and Taiwan as “mad dogs”, “crazed hyenas” and “ideological trolls”. Summoned by France’s foreign ministry for his comments, Lu Shaye didn’t turn up, saying he had a “scheduling conflict”. It’s useful to remember that Lu Shaye’s previous posting was as ambassador to Canada when Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Huawei’s founder, was arrested in Canada at the behest of the United States of America. Lu Shaye had then achieved notoriety by accusing Canada of “Western egotism” and “white supremacy” for its extradition proceedings against Meng. Lu Shaye isn’t the only Chinese diplomat on a roll. The Chinese consul-general in Rio de Janeiro chose to address the prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, in this way: “Boy, your greatest achievement is to have ruined the friendly relations between China and Canada, and have turned Canada into a running dog of the US.” Addressing a head of government as “boy’ isn’t normal, and the Western response to Wolf Warrior diplomacy is to see it as an outbreak of mad hubris sanctioned by Xi Jinping. In fact, China’s position on Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang has been remarkably consistent. All of these issues are ‘internal issues’ for China to sort out and foreign commentary and criticism are unacceptable interference. This is not just boilerplate about sovereignty: this is a viscerally felt, historically conditioned reflex: China was attacked, defeated, exploited, balkanized and pillaged by predatory colonial States, from the Opium War to the savage Japanese occupation of the 1930s and 1940s. The idea that a country like Great Britain can haul China over the coals for its treatment of dissent in Hong Kong, a port that it held as a colonial possession in living memory, is seen as an outrage. It’s how India might respond to Portuguese criticism of the integration of Goa into the rest of the country. Outside the West, no one sees the arrest of Meng Wanzhou as anything but hostage-taking. The fact that John Bolton could press Canada into arresting her for Huawei’s alleged breach of US sanctions against Iran is generally understood as a bid by the US to both marginalize Huawei (and, by implication, China) in the 5G wars and to bring China to heel in America’s long-standing bid to isolate Iran. America’s military power, its economic clout and its control over the global financial system have allowed it to legislate sanctions that bind the whole world. The Anglosphere’s intellectual achievement has been to pass off post-war American hegemony as a rules-based world order. China, rightly or wrongly, believes it now has the clout to call the West’s bluff. So China has done two things in response, one little, one large. In a tit-for-tat move, it has taken hostages of its own: two Canadian businessmen who are perfunctorily accused of spying. It is China’s way of saying to America that it can send proxy messages too. For China, this is an invaluable opportunity to argue that the rule of law that the West sets such store by is an elaborate rationalization of ruthless realpolitik. The larger response to the Canadian contretemps is China’s recently unveiled deal with Iran where it has agreed to invest massively in that beleaguered and broken country in return for cheap oil. At a stroke, it declared its intention to systematically subvert American sanctions against Iran and announced its presence as a major player in West Asia, even declaring that it would try to host an Israeli-Palestinian dialogue in Beijing. For many years, China’s attitude towards the wider world was seen to be pragmatically focused on markets and raw materials. Its Belt and Road Initiative was seen as an ambitious but charmless bid to expand its economic sphere of influence. The provocative aggression of its recent foreign policy, though, suggests that it plans to challenge America for the world hegemon championship and it believes it is a contender. It has chosen this moment for two reasons. One, the Trump administration’s bid to create a concert of anti-Chinese nations over the past four years forced China’s leadership to abandon a more calibrated assertion of China’s growing clout. Secondly, the Covid-19 pandemic illustrated for China, in the most dramatic way possible, the decline of the West. There is an unmistakable contempt built into Wolf Warrior diplomacy and this is, in large part, a contempt born of the ineptness and perceived decadence of Western countries, particularly the US, when confronted with the challenge of the coronavirus. The ongoing shambles in the US and Europe stand in such stark contrast to China’s success in taming the pandemic that this year of the plague has clearly been internalized in Chinese strategic thinking as a tipping point in the world’s balance of power. To have this behemoth of a country flexing its muscles in the most provocative way possible is bad news for the world. China is unlikely to be as militarily adventurist as the West but the danger that its hegemony presents to the rest of the world is of a different sort. As Johnson saw years ago, China is the uber nationalist State. China’s subordination of Tibet and its ethnic cleansing of Xinjiang aren’t national socialism in the classic German sense; it is, however, a sinister kind of majoritarianism. Chinese majoritarianism isn’t driven by a dominant religious community. It is, instead, fuelled by a suspicion of all religious identities as potential subverters of the only identity a Chinese citizen should have — a national identity. This is the French notion of laicité, taken to its logical and lunatic conclusion. Recently Macron’s government went to some lengths to limit the influence of foreign imams and Muslim organizations on French Muslims. China’s nationalism is similarly marked by a paranoia about extraterritorial loyalties. If Xi’s nation state is fascist, it is, ironically, a fascism with secular characteristics. 2021 marks a hundred years of the Chinese Communist Party. If the State it founded becomes the world’s hegemon, China will become, willy-nilly, a nation state model to be emulated. We should all pray that the Wolf Warriors don’t win. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IPL fever grips Dhanbad||Dhanbad: City-based art teacher Victor Ghosh organised a short art camp today, themed around IPL 2021 at his art training center ‑ Anuva Academy of Fine Arts. Around 25 students made portraits of their favourite players and also painted the logos of their team. The participants who were segregated into three different categories ‑ Group A (Class IV to VI), Group B (Class VII to  IX) and Group C (Class X and open to all). Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ghosh said, “Besides being an artist and sports enthusiasts too. Each time that a mega sport event takes place I organize such competition. I hosted such events on June 2, 2019 ahead of Cricket World Cup and on July 1, 2018 ahead of FIFA World Cup.” “The enthusiasm among the students was palpable as they put their best effort to make their favorite paintings etc,” said elaborated Ghosh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kajal Kheria, winner of Group C said, “Mumbai Indians being my favourite team I made a pencil sketch portrait of Rohit Rana and added that she is very interested in cricket since her early childhood.” Praduman Choubey Bokaro: In the absence of regular water supply, residents of Chas Township are facing acute water crisis. The issue has made the Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI) to send a letter to the chief secretary asking it to ensure that water is supplied regularly to their homes. Chamber President Sanjay Baid mentioned that the households face acute hardship everytime that Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) fails to supply water regularly. “In the month of March, water was supplied only for 12 days. There is a lot of anger and resentment amongst residents against CMC.” Chief executive officer, CMC, Shashiprakash Jha said, “We are trying our best for 100 %water supply and collection of 100% water user charges.” There are over a lakh residents living in Chas Township, who have requested local administration to provide water regularly. Sonu Rana(29) angered not only his parents but also his relatives and villagers of his native village Raksi by marrying he married his maternal aunt Soni (25) on Friday. The duo who had eloped to marry surrendered before the police on Saturday night seeking police intervention to pacify those resenting their relationship. Officer-in-charge Luv Kumar Singh told the couple’s relatives that as both are adults they were free to take their own decision. He asked them to accept the relationship and allowed duo to go after signing a PR bond. A relative on condition of anonymity said, “What Sonu did is wrong, him marrying his mausi is not the correct thing so, it will not be easy for his parents to accept the girl who is a close relative of them.” Apprehending threat to their lives and acknowledging the fact that things won’t be smooth for them, Sonu maintained that they would be shifting to Hyderabad, where he works at a private company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Army jawan assaulted with beer bottles by partying youngsters in Jamshedpur||Two persons were seriously injured in two separate incidents that took place in Golmuri and Bistupur locality of steel city. Twenty-eight-year-old army jawan identified as Karmbir Tiwary was seriously injured at Hotel Ramada in Bistupur by partying youths on Saturday night, while in another incident a 34-year-old man identified as Mohammed Farooq was attacked with a knife at Golmuri market on Sunday afternoon. Both the injured persons have been admitted to Tata Main Hospital for treatment. Condition of Farooq is said to be critical. According to police, Farooq, a resident of Muslim bustee in Golmuri area ran a refrigerator-repairing shop at Golmuri market. “At about 1.30 pm, Farooq and a youth who runs a stationary shop in the adjoining shop clashed with each other over some old dispute. In the heat of the moment, the other shop-keeper, identified as Mohammed Firoz took out a knife from his shop and attacked Farooq repeatedly with it. Farooq who sustained the knife injuries in the neck and shoulder fell down,” said Arvind Kumar, OC, Golmuri thana while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar added that the attacker Firoz fled from the scene of crime, following which other shopkeepers rushed and injured Farooq to Tata Main Hospital. In another incident, an army jawan was injured by a group of youths, who attacked the army man with beer bottles at Hotel Ramada late on Saturday night. According to police, the army jawan, Karmbir Tiwary was enjoying a dinner party along with three of his friends whereas a group of 15 youths were partying alongside. “It was about 11 pm when the group of youngsters, which also had the son of a local BJP leader attacked the army jawan with beer bottles. The jawan was rescued by his friends and was later taken to Tata Main Hospital,” said Vishnu Raut, OC, Bistupur thana while talking to this website. Raut said they have registered a case against the attackers on an FIR lodged by Ramashankar Tiwarya. He added that they are investigating into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jal Drishti app fails to resolve water crisis in Dhanbad||Within 10 days of the district administration launching the much hyped Jal Drishti mobile App, which promises to keep a tab of water crisis and resolve complaints related to water supply, protest erupted in several colonies of Dhanbad including in Sriramnagar Colony of Dhansar and Putki area of Katras. Over 100 residents of Sriramnagar colony of Dhansar Police station area gheraoed the house of Dhanbad MP PN Singh and former councilor of ward number 31, Suman Singh in Dhansar, which lies within four kilometers of the district headquarters, to protest against the lack of piped water supply in their area and contamination of ground water, which was affecting the hand pump water supply. The protestors shouting slogans against the people’s representatives of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation charged that despite taking water connection more than two years back they are yet to receive a drop of piped water supply at their residence. They also accused erroneous drain construction of their area, which often contaminates the ground water, thereby compelling residents to consume contaminated water that they get from the hand pumps. Talking to the media, Suraj Singh, a octogenarian resident of the colony who also participated in the gherao-cum-demonstration said, “Our locality is  in the colliery area and has limited ground water sources. We took Dhanbad Municipal Connection for water two years ago with high hopes of getting piped water of Maithon lake but have not received a single drop till date.” He added, “Our problem has been aggravated recently due to erroneous drain construction in our area, which runs parallel with the water supply pipeline. Ruptured pipelines make the drain water contaminate our drinking water” said Singh. “We carried out a protest here in front of the residence of Dhanbad MP, PN Singh and local councilor Suman Singh as the drain construction work took place through the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation fund and councilor being the people’s representative of the our area in Dhanbad Municipal Corporation was entrusted with supervision of all developmental works including the drain construction work” said Dilip Kumar, another resident of the Sriramnagar Colony charged. He added, “Such was the shoddy execution of drain construction work that hand pumps which were the sole source of water in colony have also been affected due to contamination of ground water and repeated complaints in this regard failed compelling us to come on the streets.” Meanwhile, water supply being meted out to the residents by another civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) in Putki, Moonidih area has also been affected due to irregular water supply by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. Md Asalam, in charge of Kusunda water supply division of JMADA said “Despite our best efforts to ensure water supply, regular power cuts is affecting the water supply in Putki area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad College opts for parent teacher meet||Taking cue from parent-teacher meeting held in schools Dhanbad’s Guru Nanak College, a minority institute affiliated to Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University (BBMKU) organized a parent-teacher meeting (PTM) during which parents of 125 students participated, today. Around 62 students were from the History department of the college and 63 from the Political Science department. College principal, Purnendu Shekhar along with five different teachers from the above mentioned department were present for the meeting. They took feedback from both the students and parent regarding teaching, extra-curricular activities as well the infrastructure facilities of the college. They also apprised them about the institute’s plan to augment the infrastructure facilities and improving the academic activities etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Shekhar, said, “We have been organizing such meetings on a regular basis since 2019. Just ahead of the lockdown, we had conducted a PTM, last year.” “After the campus reopening this year, we have started PTM and subject wise PTM for Computer Science, Economics etc have already been conducted. Today during the first session we engaged with 62 students pursuing their undergraduate degree in History, the second session was for 63 students from the Political Science department,” he said. According to him similar meetings will be held with parents of students pursing degrees in English, Commerce and Psychology on April 11. “Such kind of interactions are best way of improving the academic as well as infrastructural facilities of the campus, we are keen on continuing this practice. In fact, we have carried out a lot of improvement based on feedbacks received during the PTMs. Betting our library facilities and having it turned into a digital library was on the basis of some feedback that we got,” said Shekhar. Sunil Kumar, a government school teacher of Putki was present for the meeting along with her daughter Sushila Kishore, a semester 1 student of BA (History Honours). He said, “The meeting was quite informative as we came to know about the way of teaching and also received information about the performance of our wards.” “We suggested the teachers and principal of college present during the meeting to organize excursion trip for the History students to the nearby historical places in order to increase the interest of the students in the subject,” added Kumar. Uzma Kayenat, a student of semester I of BA (History Honours) who attended the PTM along with her mother Sazda Khatoon said, “This has helped our parents connect with our educational pursuit in a better manner. Having them involved in the process will only help us get better support from our family members too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Easter Mass in Ranchi, steel city amid Covid protocols||The state saw low-profile Easter celebrations due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but churches in Ranchi and Jamshedpur conducted services while ensuring everyone adhered to safety protocols like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. In Ranchi, the Easter mass was conducted in St Mary's Cathedral on Purulia Road, but no outdoor programme was held. In wake of the rising Covid cases in Ranchi and other parts of the state, the Ranchi Archdiocese, under the Roman Catholic Church, had earlier called off all outdoor Easter programmes, including Thursday’s evening mass and Friday’s Easter Vigil, which were supposed to be held at the Loyola Grounds on Purulia Road. The traditional Palm Sunday procession on March 28 had to be cancelled too as a precautionary move. In Jamshedpur, members of Christian community offered special prayers in various  churches on Easter Sunday and also visited cemeteries to remember their dear departed by offering flowers and lighting candles. The Beldih cemetery at Bistupur witnessed a rush of the faithful since Sunday morning. Catholics thronged  the St Mary's Church in Bistupur, St George's Church in Northern Town and St Joseph's Cathedral in Golmuri, among others, to attend the special morning mass amid strict Covid-19 safety protocols. Facades of parishes were adorned with decorative lights and altars were bedecked with flowers and messages. Easter hymns and songs were sung at the prayer services. "Easter Sunday is the central religious feast observed by the  Christian community. Christ was resurrected on the third day after his crucifixion and this signifies the concept of life after death. It means death is not an end," explained James Davis, a  member of St. Joseph's  Cathedral at Golmuri. Bakeries across the steel city lined up Easter goodies, including cakes and fresh hot cross buns. Brown Bunch, a leading bakery in Bistupur brought out a variety of hard chocolates to prepare yummy Easter Eggs for youngsters. The traditional Easter peace rally was, however, not taken out on account of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private schools say no to on-campus classes in new session amid Covid spike||Most private schools of  Ranchi have decided not to resume in-person classes from the new academic session owing to the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and continue online teaching  until the pandemic eases,  authorities from leading private schools said on Sunday. Even though the government allowed resumption of on- campus classes for students in class 8 and above last month itself, many private schools decided to resume in-person classes from the new academic session in April. The government allowed regular classes from March 1, but the number of Covid cases in the state, especially in Ranchi, grew at a significantly high pace since mid-March. “The decision of resuming regular offline classes in April was taken because Covid cases had reduced in the city. But we cannot take the risk of running in-person classes at this stage, when the city is reporting an alarming spike in cases every day,” said principal of Jawahar Vidya Mandir (JVM), Shaymli, Samarjeet Jana. Owing to the rise in Covid cases, the active caseload in Ranchi has shot up from only 198 in February last week to over 2,600 on Sunday. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi alone accounts for more than 50 per cent of the 4,613 active  Covid-19 cases in the state. In the wake of the rise in cases, the health department recently directed all schools and colleges to test students and teachers for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure. Two schools in Jamshedpur had to be sealed after students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19. Later, at least 25 girls of Indira Gandhi Balika Vidyalas in Ranchi’s Bundu block were found infected. Delhi Public School, another leading private school in Ranchi, has also decided to continue with online classes. Both DPS and JVM Shaymli are located close to MECON colony, where several houses have been sealed after at least 60 people were found infected in the locality. While many schools have already decided to continue with online classes, some of the city schools will soon hold meetings with parents and decide whether they should resume offline classes or not. DAV Kapil Deo School will hold an online meeting with parents and take a decision on the mode of teaching in the new session. Oxford Public School and Surendranath Centenary School will also hold meetings with parents soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 873 cases in a day, biggest jump this year||Jharkhand reported 873 fresh Covid-19 cases, surpassing 2021’s highest single-day-spike of 694 cases reported on Friday, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. At least seven Covid patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment on this day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The fresh cases outnumbered the 161 recoveries with a significant margin, taking the active caseload in the state to 4,613, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi accounted for 472 of the cases and 43 of the 161 recoveries. The active caseload in Ranchi, Jharkhand’s worst-affected district, jumped to 2,625. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 101 cases and one casualty against 26 recoveries. Bokaro, Chatra and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1,122, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin. No district other than Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day, which jointly reported more than 65 per cent of the fresh cases in the state on Saturday. The growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the state neared the national average after reporting a significant spike in the past couple of weeks. The growth rate in Jharkhand shot up from 0.10 per cent in February to 0.40 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.41 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state also dropped to 171.22 days on Saturday against the national average of 167.87 days, NHM highlighted in its bulletin. As per records with NHM, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days in February. The Covid recovery rate dropped to 95.46 per cent on the day in Jharkhand. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of 19,741 people on the day and more than 4 per cent of them were found infected by the Covid-19 virus. As per government data, as many as 1,26,458 people have been infected so far and 1,20,723 of them have recovered. On Saturday, the government administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to 23,430 people, including over 21,000 commoners above the age of 45 years, thereby achieving 67 per cent of its target for the day. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to 4,279 of the over 1.44 lakh beneficiaries registered for the jab. The state achieved only 3 per cent of its target for the second dose of the vaccine on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypoll: Left parties to support JMM candidate||Left parties who are not part of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand have decided to support JMM candidate and cabinet minister Hafijul Hassan for the Madhupur bypoll scheduled on April 17. In a joint media statement issued at the CPM state office in Ranchi, four Left parties — CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee — announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate. “We had extended our support to the UPA candidates at Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP candidates and have decided to do the same for Madhupur. This has been done as a protest against the pro-corporate policies of the BJP government reflected in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets and dismal employment opportunities,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the joint coordination committee of the Left parties. Left parties do not have a sizable presence in Madhupur constituency but have a few pockets of where factory workers have shown their support for the Left parties. Both the UPA and the BJP have started campaigning for their respective candidates. State minority welfare minister Hafijul Hassan, son of the sitting MLA and senior JMM leader Haji Hussain Ansari, is pitted against Ganga Narayan Singh who had joined the BJP from Ajsu on March 22. Singh was announced the party candidate a few days before March 30, the last date for filing nomination. BJP party leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi, Deoghar MP Nishi­kant Dubey and a host of senior BJP leaders are campaigning for their party candidate. Leader from the ruling alliance, including Congress minister Badal Patralekh, chief minister Hemant Soren and RJD leaders are campaigning for Hafijul Hassan. The Madhupur seat fell vacant after sitting MLA Haji Hussain Ansari died of Covid-related complications last year. In the 2019 Assembly polls, the voting percentage of the BJP (28.34 per cent) and Ajsu (19.88 per cent) combined together (48.22 per cent) was higher than the JMM (38.4 per cent). This has made the BJP, which is relying on its traditional voters and Ajsu support to defeat the ruling alliance candidate, field an Ajsu turncoat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
04-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren pledges prompt road plan consent||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday assured the Centre of prompt nod for land acquisition and forest clearance for road construction while requesting the Union government to focus on tree plantation and elephant corridors along the roads. Speaking during an online ceremony for the inauguration of seven road projects and laying of foundation stones of 14 roads by Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, Soren said: “We are a mineral-based state. Minerals are transported by roads and we would require good quality roads. We would like to assure the Centre that our government is serious on prompt nod for land acquisition and forest clearance for road infrastructure projects. However, we would want that tree plantations are given priority alongside the newly constructed roads and the roads are designed and constructed keeping in view the designated elephant corridors with underpass systems wherever possible.” Soren also requested the road transport ministry to speed up the construction of five economic corridors connecting Jharkhand under the Bharatmala scheme (a centrally sponsored and funded road and highways project) — Raipur (Chhattisgarh) to Dhanbad, Sambalpur (Odisha) to Ranchi, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) to Ranchi, Ranchi to Paradip (Odisha) and Bakhtiyarpur (Bihar) to Ormanjhi. Soren also urged for linking of Jharkhand with Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Odisha through a high-speed corridor which will help his state develop as an industrial hub. During the event, seven roads, whose total length was 245.19km and which were built at a cost of Rs 2,433.66 crore, were inaugurated, while foundation stones were laid for 14 road projects with a total length of 184.8km, which will be built at a cost of around Rs 754.71 crore. Addressing the ceremony through videoconference, Gadkari said that the roads would be constructed keeping in view the state’s aspirations and the economic corridors being built under the Bharatmala scheme would be completed before the next fiscal. Gadkari further said that in the next three years nearly Rs 1 lakh crore would be spent for road construction in Jharkhand. The projects inaugurated on Saturday include the Ghaghra-Gumla road strengthening, Hatgamharia-Jaintagarh road strengthening, Mohulia-Baharagora road, Bijupada-Kudu four-lane, Kutchery Chowk, Ranchi-Piska More-Bijupada four-lane, Barhi-Hazaribagh road, Piska More-Palma Section four-lane. Foundation stones were laid for projects which include — Kolebira-Simdega National Highway 23 road strengthening and reconstruction, Simdega-Bansjor NH 23 repair and reconstruction, RCC bridge construction at Chindnala on NH 23, RCC bridge construction on local sewer on NH 23, 79-117km road on NH 99 widening and strengthening, widening and other works of road between 11 and 30km on NH 22, widening and other work of road between 48 and 62km on NH 100, widening of road between 23 and 62km on NH 133 and other works, Annaraj Valley on NH 345, improvement and other work of curved road in Garhwa, widening and other work of Kudu-Ghaghra double-lane road, strengthening and reconstruction of road between 10 and 54km on NH 218, canopy on NH 99, construction of road overbridge at NH 114, strengthening of road and other works from 68 to 87km on NH 114, bridge on NH 114 and bridge construction at 46km of NH 419.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
