05-04-2021||Calcutta||Squall brings temporary relief ||A cloud mass drifted from the western districts of Bengal and triggered a squall that brought sporadic rain in Calcutta and some other districts for the first time this summer on Sunday evening, dragging the temperature down and bringing some relief. Some of the western districts got hailstorms. In and around Calcutta the wind speed was around 40 km per hour, said Met officials. The first half of Sunday was scorching in Calcutta. But the evening gave way to occasional lightning and gusts of winds. The mercury had been hovering close to 40 degrees over the past few days. But on Sunday evening, the temperature was dragged down because of the rain. The temperature at 7.30pm was around 27 degrees Celsius, a staggering nine degrees below the day’s maximum — 36.9. Over the past few days, the temperature was around 30 degrees at 7.30am. On Sunday, the rain bearing clouds had formed over parts of Bihar. They reached Bengal via West Midnapore and Birbhum, said a Met official. “Rain-bearing clouds from Birbhum drifted towards Calcutta. They grew stronger by feeding off the moisture flowing from the Bay of Bengal,” said a Met official. “There is very little chance of rain over the next couple of days.” The city had been reeling under a hot spell. The weather became pleasant once Sunday’s thundershowers started at sundown. Most districts of south Bengal got showers on Sunday. But districts like Birbhum, West and East Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas were wetter than the rest of south Bengal. Conditions in late March and early April are at times ripe for squalls and Nor’westers in south Bengal, but the city this year has seen none so far. The better part of March was marked by unusually low humidity. The humidity level is expected to go up in the coming days, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Deepa Chatterjee passes away||Deepa Chatterjee, wife of actor Soumitra Chatterjee, died in a Salt Lake hospital early on Sunday. She was 83. Deepa was a diabetic for 45 years and she succumbed to renal failure after being hospitalised for deteriorating health on March 31, sources said. She is survived by daughter Paulami Bose, who runs the theatre group Mukhomukhi, and son Sougata Chatterjee. Soumitra had expired last November after a 40-day battle with Covid-related complications. Their grandson Ronodeep is recovering from a brain injury after an accident. A badminton player of national eminence in her youth, Deepa also featured in a handful of films, the most prominent being the 1970 movie Bilambita Lay, starring Uttam Kumar and Supriya Choudhury, and the 2001 production Durga, alongside Soumitra. She also appeared in Catherine Berge’s 1998 documentary on Soumitra Chatterjee, titled Gaach (The Tree). She married Soumitra in 1960.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Low turnout for vaccine on Sunday||Most hospitals and civic clinics in Calcutta and Salt Lake recorded a low turnout on the first Sunday of Covid-19 vaccination, officials said. Some hospitals and health officials cited lack of awareness as the reason, while others were of the opinion that many people between 45 and 59 preferred to avoid taking the shot on a Sunday fearing that adverse effects like fever and body ache might force them to skip office on the first working day of the week. An official of a government hospital in Bidhannagar said that since most people in the 45-59 age group are working or have businesses to run, they were hesitant to take the shots on a Sunday. “Many people are apprehensive about side-effects of getting a shot and many are also scared that they will not be able to attend office on Monday. We had quite a few men and women taking the shot on Saturday. They said they preferred Saturday because they would take rest the next day and recover from any side-effect,” the official said. A resident of Gariahat who had taken the jab on Saturday with his wife said both had fever, which subsided the next day. Another reason cited for the poor turnout on Sunday was lack of awareness. “It seems that most people still do not know that vaccination centres are open on Sundays. It will need some campaigning before the numbers pick up on Sundays,” said an official of a private hospital. This was the first time that all Covid vaccination centres remained open on a Sunday. The Centre has said that Covid jabs will have to be administered to eligible people on all days of April. Everyone who is 45 or above has been eligible for Covid vaccination since April 1. Only 72 people took the shot at Peerless Hospital on Sunday, compared with 391 on Saturday. Of the 72, 55 were below 60. Three units of AMRI Hospitals vaccinated 247 people on Sunday, compared with 899 on Saturday. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), 80 people were vaccinated on Sunday. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body’s health clinics, too, recorded a low turnout on Sunday. The CMC is running Covid vaccination at 80 ward health clinics. The footfall was also low at nearly all Covid-19 vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital. At the hospital, not a single person above 45 took the jab on Sunday, an official said. The vaccine centre at the hospital administered the shot to a handful of polling personnel and some people above 60. The vaccine clinics run by the Bidhannagar civic body in Salt Lake, Duttabad, Ashwininagar, Narayanpur and Rajarhat, among other places, recorded a low turnout, too. Covid count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,309 on Sunday to 10,153. The state on Sunday recorded 1,957 new infections (highest since December 20) and 644 recoveries. Four patients died, two of them in the city. The number of active cases is back to almost where it was on January 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Rally with over 1,100 participants to mark Easter||Pastors, priests, heads of schools and parishioners from different parts of the city participated in an Easter Rally that was organised on Sunday evening. The rally with 1,100-odd participants started from Bishop’s College and culminated with a thanksgiving worship service on the grounds of St James’ School. The rally included participants from Roman Catholic churches, Church of North India, Assembly of God Church and Baptist Church, among others. “A year ago we faced the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic and the churches were closed but our faith sustained us and this year the churches have opened. For Easter, the message is of hope and peace,” said the archbishop of Calcutta, Reverend Thomas D’Souza. “Love brings unity and peace destroys hatred and even in hopelessness we should not be in despair… and not give up. We must live as good Christians and good citizens.” Also present on the occasion was Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, and Reverend Ivan Satyavrata, senior pastor, The Assembly of God Church. “The rally brings different Christian organisations together and at a time when there is so much turmoil in society, we have to be united,” said John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. The Easter Rally has been organised for about 10 years. It could not be held last year because of the pandemic. “We have been doing this procession as something to unite Christians from different denominations. The message is that we need to be positive and hopeful,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid axe on South City interaction||The South City residents’ association called off Sunday’s interaction between its members and the local candidates of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at the housing complex following a spurt in Covid-19 cases. “The first-of-its-kind event at our complex has been called off because around 20 residents have recently tested positive for Covid-19,” said an office-bearer of the South City Apartment Owners Association. “There has been a spurt in the number of cases over the last two weeks. So we thought it was better not to take a chance.” The housing complex, which falls in the Rashbehari Assembly constituency, has 1,650 flats. More than 1,200 of the apartments are occupied, said a member of the association. One resident said they wanted to discuss with candidates for the ongoing Assembly elections issues such as water supply and cleaning and restoration of the Bikramgarh Lake, which the Prince Anwar Shah Road complex overlooks. The event was planned to be held in an open-air space inside the 31-acre compound of South City Residency, for which the place got a fresh coat of paint. The organisers said hand sanitisers and masks were arranged. The decision to invite Debasish Kumar (Trinamul Congress candidate) and Subrata Saha (contesting on the BJP ticket) was prompted by requests from political parties to enter the complex for campaigning. Instead of allowing them one by one, the association decided to set up a common platform where both candidates could interact with the residents. “Instead of making it a political programme, we had turned the format into a resident-friendly event where we could be able to discuss our problems as residents of South City. Our biggest problem is lack of water supply from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. We are spending lakhs only on the annual maintenance contract of the water treatment plant as the arsenic level of the underground water is beyond permissible limit,” said Sunil Saraogi, a resident of the housing complex who was to coordinate the event. A long-standing demand of the residents has been construction of a footbridge outside South City Residency as the traffic volume outside the housing complex and the shopping mall is quite high, said Saraogi. “Also, it is difficult for pedestrians to cross the road with median dividers blocking it.” Another resident said had the interaction been held, they would have taken up the issue of cleaning up the cluttered footpath between South City and the Lords Bakery crossing. A  number of elderly residents walk the stretch every morning to buy groceries. “It really does not matter to me which party wins. We want our complex and its surroundings clean. Someone should take care of the condition of the Bikramgarh Lake as well. Day by day it is shrin-king and getting dirtier,” said an elderly resident of South City. Residents said that on at least on two earlier occasions, senior politicians had visited South City as guests and made promises that were never fulfilled. This election, political parties are leaving no stone unturned to reach out to voters, including those who live in highrise buildings and housing complexes, which are usually inaccessible. The Telegraph reported on Sunday how political parties are making inroads inside housing complexes in an attempt to maximise their outreach. Several housing complexes in the city, including South City, had agreed to allow candidates to campaign inside the compounds so residents could make an informed choice about who to vote. A resident of South City said there would always be people who would not like the entry of politicians inside the complex. “But we have to understand that we can only solve our long-standing problems with the help of the administration. Interacting with prospective elected representatives and making them understand the local issues are in our best interests,” the resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Forest officials recover over 100 Greater short-toed larks from poacher||More than 100 small brown birds, roughly the size of an adult sparrow, were found on a man arrested by forest officials in Murshidabad on Wednesday. Forest department officials said the Greater short-toed larks were netted from a nearby field when they were on their way back to central Asia, from where they had migrated before winter. The birds are trapped and killed in large numbers for their meat, said animal rights activists. “Woab Sheikh, who was arrested near Bazarsau station on Wednesday, had captured the birds from a field. Altogether, 120 live and 12 dead birds were found on him,” said Pradip Bauri, divisional forest officer of Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Library to tackle learning loss in kids||An NGO that works with girls from underprivileged homes is integrating a library with the curriculum to encourage an interest in reading and books. Most of the girls are first-generation learners and the idea is to use the library as an interactive space rather than for them to “sit quietly and read by themselves”. The NGO Ek Tara has come up with a new learning centre and space has been dedicated for the library where lessons in several languages are being held to make “coming back to school” an engaging and vibrant experience. “We are using the library as an extension of the classroom and not as one reading space where children would have to browse unconnected reading material. Not all books will be academically loaded but there will be a co-relation between their text and the books in the library,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, associate director, Ek Tara. The NGO has partnered with Delhi-based NGO Katha, who are providing the books as well as online training to teachers on how to use the books as part of everyday classroom teaching. “It is important that we make the reading material relatable and contextual so that our children take to it more. Also, it has to be simple reading for them to be able to grasp,” said Bagchi. Ten Ek Tara teachers have been trained and are using different ways to stoke the childrens’ interest amid a “learning loss” created by the pandemic. “For many of them, whatever reading they are doing is in the centre and we have to encourage them. We use simple games like they clap when they identify a noun or draw out the characters of the book,” said Mitali Bose, the head of the learning centre. The Ek Tara Learning Centre, a new space that was inaugurated at the end of last month, will enable these children to access modern learning resources. The centre has over 20 classrooms, provisions for STEM and social studies labs and play zones. “Due to the pandemic, families under our care and others in the communities suffered financial and social setbacks that will take years to reverse. There have been rising incidents of early marriage, domestic violence and child labour, underscoring for us the need to work more deeply with all stakeholders,” said Bagchi. The NGO is using its space, activities and curriculum to help them come back to school, express themselves and build their confidence that has suffered a setback in the past one year. “They have been cooped up within the confines of their homes and they need to come out, look forward and be willing to learn,” said a teacher. The library and reading space will also be used for playing games, for debates and discussions and public speaking that will encourage them to think and question, a member of the NGO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP and TMC clash in Maniktala, 3 police injured||Three policemen were injured and a police vehicle was damaged in a clash that broke out allegedly between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP over control of a club in Maniktala, in north Calcutta, late on Saturday. Police said the incident happened in the Natun Pally area when members of two political parties got engaged in a dispute. Officers of Maniktala police station reached the spot to bring the situation under control. “The problem had started in the morning with political leaders visiting the spot. But the matter aggravated at night. A club whose members had changed parties had to be closed down because of an unrest. Now both parties are trying to establish control on the club,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. Policemen were attacked with bricks and stones, leaving three of them injured. The windscreen of an officer’s vehicle was damaged. Nine persons, including members of both political parties, were arrested from the spot and booked for charges of rioting, causing grievous hurt by use of dangerous weapons and deterring public servants from performing their duty. A police picket has been set up in the area to prevent recurrence of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission and St Xavier’s College to continue with reduced fee structure||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur and St Xavier’s College are continuing with the reduced fee structure in the even semester, which started in March, taking into account the Covid-induced financial problems faced by students’ families. At Vidyamandira, the reduction, which was introduced in November, varies from 30 to 40 per cent on an average for undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The reduced fee structure continued till March and will continue in the new semester that started in March,” said Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira. “We will soon issue a notice, announcing the continuance of the waiver.” A notice earlier issued by the college had said: “The session charges for 2020-2021 has been reduced in view of post-Covid economic hardship faced by the whole country. UG and PG students can pay these charges in either online or in offline mode by 31 March 2021”. Since the hardship is continuing, the college authorities have decided to continue with the fee structure in the new semester as well. “The relaxation will continue till the resumption of in-person classes,” the principal said. The principal of St Xavier’s College, Dominic Savio, said they had informed the students that the reduced fee structure would continue for now. The semester fee was brought down by 35 per cent following the onset of the Covid pandemic last year. “The same fee structure is being continued with. We do not want to inconvenience the students amid the crisis,” the principal said. A comparison with the fee structure in effect till October at Vidyamandira suggests that the monthly college fee for the third-year English (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 700 to Rs 500. The fee for the second-year students has been brought down from Rs 900 to Rs 600. An official of the college said a large number of their students are from economically weaker sections. “They have been hit hard by the pandemic. Even those from middle-class families have encountered the impact. So, we have reduced the fees. We are periodically assessing the situation,” he said. At St Xavier’s College, library and e-resources fees have been brought down from Rs 1,500 to Rs 500. Laboratory fees and computer lab fees have been entirely waived. “The number of students availing themselves of the concessions has gone up. The usual increase of fees by 10 to 15 per cent has not been followed. We will continue with this structure till the resumption of in-person classes,” said Father Dominic Savio. The financial distress is impacting students across the institutes. In January a section of research scholars at IIT Kharagpur had written to the dean of students’ affairs appealing for an extension of the deadline for paying the fee for the spring semester by at least a month because of the pandemic-induced economic distress. The scholars had stated in the letter that ’’economic depression unleashed by the pandemic has intensified the hardship. Many parents have lost their business, jobs or have (had) to bear salary cuts’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||A new world of music from the past||The framed logo, designed elegantly by Ramananda Bandyopadhyay, is a human head in the traditional Bengali style of bold and curved outlines. Looked at closely, the features of the face are revealed as the letters “a” and “t”, fused together. The logo, hanging next to a door, announces a rather unusual enterprise: an archive of Bengali theatre. It is called the Academy Theatre Archive and has been set up on the first floor of a residential building at Netaji Shubhas Road, Howrah, by Devajit Bandyopadhyay, 66, a well-known performer of Bengali theatre songs. The archive is one large room and Bandyopadhyay conducts a tour around it, which turns out to be a mini, but grand journey into Bengali theatre. Through the years Bandyopadhyay has collected about 30,000 books, many from the nineteenth century or even earlier, and 30,000 gramophone records, a substantial part of them of theatre songs. The collection lies spread between his Howrah archive and his south Calcutta home, where his study looks like a tiny museum crammed with bookshelves that move on wheels, so that humans can move about. Bandyopadhyay has a huge, impressive list of first-edition books and first or early records of Bengali songs, among other things. And every object around him has a story, and you almost hear it buzzing, and then Bandyopadhyay tells it. He is a natural storyteller, and one story leads to another, and you land softly and pleasurably into depths of the world of old Bengali theatre and performance. It is a remarkable, fascinating and strange world, more so because unlike writing or the visual arts, which are there in front of us, often in their original form, live performance gets lost. In some way, even if it recorded. In addition popular entertainment changes its medium much more than the other arts and especially from the point-of-view of our social media-saturated times, the age of early Bengali theatre, though barely 200 years old and centred in Calcutta, looks unfamiliar. But it is, if we quote a leading playwright of all times anachronistically, “a brave new world”: of a performing art rendered in the language of the land, taking shape during colonial rule but being formed by influences from all over. Bandyopadhyay starts at the beginning, at 1795, with Gerasim Lebedev, the Russian scholar-adventurer who ended up starting modern theatre in Bengal. Through a series of extraordinary events, and with some help, he translated two European plays into Bengali, one of them as ‘Kalpanik Sangbadal’. These were the first Bengali plays performed on a proscenium stage, which was also introduced by Lebedev here, and the plays were staged at the “Bengally Theatre” in Domtala, later named Ezra Street. Lebedev used songs from Bharatchandra’s Vidyasundar, the long poem on a love story, written between 1752 and 1758,  says Bandyopadhyay. He has a copy of the early editions of Lebedev’s plays, and also a scanned version of Bharatchandra’s poem, which he obtained from the original punthi (manuscript) at Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. He also has an 1817 edition of Vidyasundar. The collection contains the first edition of Dinabandhu Mitra’s play Nil Darpan, about the savagery of the indigo trade in Bengal controlled by Europeans. This was the first play to be commercially staged by Bengali theatre pioneer Girish Chandra Ghosh in 1872. Bandyopadhyay has a first edition copy of Amar Katha, the autobiography of Nati Binodini, the actress who was mentored by Ghosh and made his plays memorable. Music notations form a bulk of Bandyopadhyay’s collection, much of them of theatre songs. He has the earliest notation prints of Kshetramohan Goswami and Krishnadhan Bandyopadhyay, who worked with the production of  Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s plays. “As well as those of Shishir Kumar Ghosh, Sourindramohan Tagore, Dakshinamohan Sen, Manmathanath De, and of course of Jyotirindranath Tagore, to Rabindranath Tagore to Upendrakishore Roychowdhury.” His collection of gramophone records go back to the first decades of the 20th century. He proudly refers to a record of the songs of Banabiharini, who had acted as Nitai with Binodini as Chaitanya in Chaitanya Leela (1884). Other records include those of Danibabu (Surendranath Ghosh, Girish Chandra’s son), Shashimukhi and Ardhendu Sekhar Mustafi, Shishir Bhaduri, singers Gauharjan, Krishnachandra Dey, Angurbala and Kanandevi, most of them singer-actors. “One of the records has Bertolt Brecht speaking,” he says. The first edition of nineteenth century jatra palas, such as Akrur Sambad, and several palas of Krishnakamal Goswami and Motilal Roy are a part of the archive. A piece of music notation, in fact, had inspired Bandyopadhyay into archiving. He was in Europe in 1986, and on stage he felt encouraged to perform songs from Bengali theatre. The same year in London he was invited to perform by the BBC, where they meticulously checked the notation of the song he was about to sing by consulting Sourindramohan’s version. Bandyopadhyay was tantalised by the BBC library. “That is how the idea of an archive began,” he says. How he collects his materials is another story. But music has ruled his life, for which he had to make difficult choices. His father, a well-established chartered accountant and a resident of Howrah, wanted Bandyopadhyay to follow in his footsteps. Bandyopadhyay grew up in Howrah and studied B.Com. (Honours) at Shibpur Dinabandhu College in Howrah and took up accountancy and auditing work. But by that time he had already fallen for music. He had trained under stalwarts of Rabindrasangeet (which he called Rabindranather gaan, a less reverent description of Rabindranath Tagore’s music) from the early 70s. From 1975, he was training under Ustad Sagiruddin Khan, internationally acclaimed sarangi player, who changed his relationship with music. “I realised commerce and music do not go together,” says Bandyopadhyay. He began to move away from his father, though he always remained close to his mother, who encouraged him. The archive, however, is housed in a flat that he received as his share of family property. In 1990, he left home. He was already focusing on the music of Bengali theatre. In 1995, he began his Ph.D. on Bengali theatre music at Jadavpur University and completed it within a year. The archive includes musical instruments — a 300-year-old veena, sitars, sarods and sarangis, including Ustad Sagiruddin Khan’s, gramophones, cameras and about 4,000 posters, starting with the posters of Naramedh (1932, record play). “Theatre cannot, of course, be studied in isolation,” says Bandyopadhyay. No arts, no discipline can be. But he talks about the special relationship between theatre and Indian cinema. “We must remember that theatre here was the popular entertainment form for a long time. Common people paid money to watch plays. And theatre songs were the popular tunes. They were also sung by prostitutes as entertainment for their guests,” he says. Songs in Indian cinema is a feature borrowed from theatre. And cinema, theatre and fiction have traditionally shared a basic structure, of the narrative. “Cinema in Bengali was called ‘boi’, a book,” says Bandyopadhyay. A film was being compared to the novel. “Indian films have never been able to discard the narrative.” The books are mostly in Bandyopadhyay’s study and the bigger items at the Howrah archive, which is obviously work in progress. The posters need to be hung better and the other objects — imposing gramophone players, an old sitar with intricate carvings — need better display. The lockdown stalled the work, says Bandyopadhyay. He feels that the state should encourage such projects more, also financially. “It’s my life’s work,” he says, looking around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
05-04-2021||Business||India well prepared to combat second wave of Covid, says finance ministry report||Having successfully managed the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the second wave, the Finance Ministry's monthly economic report said. The report further said high-frequency data indicates that India is on the path to become better and stronger. "After battling a historic pandemic in FY 2020-21, the Indian economy is poised to build back better and stronger as is reflected in the movement of several high-frequency indicators. "Instrumental in this resilient comeback will be a strong revival in investment growth supported by the AtmaNirbharBharat Mission and a massive boost to infrastructure and capital expenditure provided for in the Union Budget 2021-22," the report said. The rise in daily new cases since mid February marks the onset of second wave of COVID-19 infection in India, the report said, adding the country "has, however, been able to delay the onset of the second wave the gap between the first peak to start of the second wave has been 151 days in India while it was much lower in other countries." At this juncture of the onset of the second wave, the report said, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the virus. "The wheels of India's capex cycle have been set into motion, signs of which are imminent in the second half of the year. As the vaccination drive continuously upscales in India and guided by the learnings of India's successful management of pandemic during its first wave, India is now well armed to combat any downside risk posed by the recent surge in COVID-19 cases,"the report said. With the end of a challenging 2020-21, the crest of a brighter and self-reliant 2021-22 awaits India, the Finance Ministry report said. The fiscal position of the Centre has witnessed improvement in the recent months due to a revival in the economic activities, it said. "During April 2020 to February 2021, the Centre's fiscal deficit stood at Rs 14.05 lakh crore, which is 76 per cent of Revised Estimate 2020-21. Net Tax Revenue of the Central Government for 2020-21 is set to overshoot the RE despite 41 per cent higher income tax refunds this year," it said. To share the revenue buoyancy seen in Q4 2020-21 and in the true spirit of fiscal federalism, an amount of Rs 45,000 crore has been released as additional devolution to states in 2020-21, an increase of 8.2 per cent over RE, it said. The Centre raised Rs 13.7 lakh crore as gross market borrowings during 2020-21 at a weighted average borrowing cost of 5.79 per cent - the lowest in 17 years, it said. The government's capital expenditure sharply turned around to grow at 104.4 per cent during October 2020 to February 2021 (YoY), recovering from a decline of 11.6 per cent in the first half of 2020-21 (YoY), it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 871 points to close below 50,000||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 871 points on Monday, dragged by a selloff in financial stocks as spiking COVID-19 cases spooked investors and fanned concerns over economic recovery. After plunging over 1,400 points earlier in the day, the 30-share BSE index pared some losses to finish at 49,159.32, down 870.51 points or 1.74 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty sank 229.55 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,637.80. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, plunging around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, TCS and Infosys were among the gainers. "The market witnessed a huge sell-off today as India's second wave of COVID-19 is getting bigger than anticipated and is expected to ruin the pace of economic recovery. High valuation added further concern due to a possible downgrade in Q1FY22 earnings," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. A policy decision in the upcoming MPC announcement and Q4 earnings will define the market volatility in the coming days, he added. The rise in COVID-19 cases in India is a sobering reminder that challenges to recovery still remain, said Lalitabh Srivastava, AVP research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. The provisional numbers of key banks indicate a consolidating trend in terms of advances growth but encouraging performance on deposit and CASA front, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also closed. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.20 per cent lower at USD 63.43 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 400 points in early trade on Monday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries despite a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 434.90 points or 0.87 per cent lower at 49,594.93, and the broader NSE Nifty dropped 109.35 points or 0.74 per cent to 14,758. IndusInd Bank was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session on Thursday, Sensex ended 520.68 points or 1.05 per cent higher at 50,029.83, and Nifty rose 176.65 points or 1.2 per cent to settle at 14,867.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 149.41 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. Financial markets were closed on April 2, for Good Friday'. Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. A sharp spike in coronavirus cases in the country and resultant restrictions are likely to dent investors' sentiments in the near term, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Imposition of weekend lockdown in Maharashtra, which contributes over 13 per cent of the country's GDP and nearly 20 per cent of India's industrial output, does not augur well," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 64.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Oil ministry to seek tens of millions of dollars from Cairn ||The oil ministry will seek tens of millions of dollars from Vedanta’s Cairn Oil & Gas after the Delhi high court held that the firm was liable to pay higher profit share to the government in lieu of its Rajasthan oil and gas block licence being extended beyond the initial term, a top official said. In the interim, the firm’s Barmer basin block licence, whose initial 25-year term ended on May 15, 2020, has been given an eighth interim extension, the official, who wished not to be identified, said. “Now that the Delhi high court has upheld the government policy, we will issue recovery notices seeking higher profit petroleum since May 15, 2020,” he said. “The exact amount is being calculated but it will be in tens of millions of dollars.” A company spokesperson said, “We are in the process of reviewing the court’s order, will assess any next course of action” after that. The Union cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March 2017 approved a policy for the extension of production-sharing contracts (PSCs) for oil and gas blocks beyond their initial term. This policy provided that the government’s share of profit petroleum (earning from sale of oil and gas after deducting all expenses) would be 10 per cent more during the extended period. Vedanta’s Cairn sought a 10-year extension of Rajasthan PSC, which the government approved. But the firm challenged in Delhi high court the condition for additional profit petroleum. A single judge bench of the Delhi high court in May 2018 upheld the company position that the extension has to be on same terms and conditions as the original licence. The government challenged the order before a division bench, which on March 26 this year ruled that “there cannot be extension of the production sharing contract unconditionally, on the same terms and conditions which were prevailing 25 years ago i.e. on 15th May, 1995, the effective date”. It set aside the May 2018 single judge order. “In effect what the Delhi high court has said is that the company has to pay higher profit share after May 15, 2020. So, the company is now liable to pay higher profit petroleum for the period they operate the block post May 15, 2020,” the official said. Vedanta, he said, has the option to not agree to the government condition and relinquish the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||RIL, BP seek buyers for KG gas||Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc of UK have sought bids for the sale of 5.5 million standard cubic meters per day (mscmd) of additional natural gas that will be available for sale from their eastern offshore KG-D6 block. The e-auction is slated for April 23 and the gas supply will start from late April or early May, according to the tender document. Bidders will have to quote a price linked to Platts JKM (Japan Korea marker), the liquefied natural gas (LNG) benchmark price assessment for spot physical cargoes. The lowest bid that can be placed is JKM minus $0.3 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). The highest acceptable bid would be JKM plus $2.01 per mBtu. This is the same benchmark the RIL-BP had used in February to sell out 7.5 mmscmd of gas from the block. At current price, the lowest price for the 5.5 mscmd of gas that RIL-BP are auctioning comes to near $6.5 per mBtu. But they will be entitled to a maximum of $3.62 per mBtu ceiling fixed by the government for a six-month period to September 30. The consortium of RIL and BP Exploration (Alpha) Ltd (a unit of BP Plc) “is developing deepwater gas fields viz the R Cluster (D34), MJ (D55) and Satellites & Other Satellites (D2, D22, D29 and D30) in the KG D6 block”, the tender document said. The gas to be produced from the fields has been granted marketing and pricing freedom but this is subject to a ceiling price that the government fixes every six month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business|| Tamil Nadu AAAR rules that GST is valid on gift vouchers||Clearing the air over the applicability of gift cards or vouchers, the Tamil Nadu bench of the AAAR has ruled that GST would be levied on the underlying goods/services at the time of redemption. Kalyan Jewellers has approached the Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling (AAAR) against the ruling by the Tamil Nadu state Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR), which had said that GST at 12 per cent or 18 per cent would be levied depending on the pre-paid instruments was paper-based or magnetic strip-based, respectively. Modifying the verdict, the AAAR clarified that GST will be levied not on the supply of vouchers but on the underlying supply of goods/ services at the time of redemption and the time for payment of GST will be dependent on the GST law. The AAAR said vouchers are neither goods nor services and the GST law recognises it as an instrument of consideration (non-monetary form) for future supply. “As voucher is only an instrument of consideration and not goods or services, the same is not classifiable separately but only the supply associated with the voucher is classifiable according to the nature of the goods or services supplied in exchange of the voucher earlier issued to the customer,” the AAAR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Icra forecasts surge in auto sales by 22-25 per cent||Credit rating agency Icra has forecast a high 22-25 per cent growth for the auto industry in the next fiscal against a contraction in the last fiscal, though the resurgence of the pandemic may prove to be a hurdle. The growth will be propelled not only by a low base in the first quarter of last year but also by an expected pick-up in economic activity, improved consumer sentiment and a  resilient rural economy which has been less impacted by the pandemic. Icra said the shift towards personal mobility from public transport during  the pandemic will help the sector, with the SUV segment taking the lead. Inspite of the high growth forecast, capital accumulated growth rate for the five years from 2019 to 2024 will be just 3-4 per cent. When asked if the industry will cross the earlier peak in sales of 2018-19, Icra vice-president Ashish Madani said: “The V-shaped economic recovery has boosted consumer sentiments from the lows of the June 21 quarter even though it still remains lower than previous (2019) levels. “Consumer sentiments are one of the key indicators for non-discretionary purchases such as cars and luxury goods. Demand has remained strong post the festive seasons as both retail and wholesale dispatches witnessed recovery,” he said. The industry posted record volumes in the second half of last fiscal driven by inventory restocking and pent-up demand. Besides, the amount of discounts fell as the demand situation improved. The long-term industry growth drivers such as a relatively low penetration, weak public transport infrastructure, high financing penetration and favourable demographics remain, Madani said. He warned that sales may be affected by high fuel prices and rising prices in general, which tend to inhibit first-time buyers.  Supply chain disruption could impact production volume as well as a steady increase in vehicle prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||MFIs seek RBI intervention in credit pricing calculation||Microlenders want the intervention of the Reserve Bank of India in widening the scope of calculation of the credit pricing of non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) amid declining base rates. The RBI on the last working day of every quarter announces the base rates for NBFC MFIs. The regulator takes the average base rates of the five largest commercial banks to arrive at the interest rates to be charged by the NBFC MFIs to their borrowers in the ensuing quarter. This method has been in place since 2014. The regulator has also placed caps on the interest rates – minimum of either cost of funds plus margin (10 per cent for large MFIs and 12 per cent for small MFIs) or 2.75 times the average base rate as specified above. With the base rate for the April-June quarter of 2021-22 set at 7.81, the prescribed interest rate works out to 21.47 per cent for the quarter. But according to microlenders, banks including the big five are not the only source of funds for these institutions. Strict credit rating requirements often make it difficult for smaller MFIs who in turn depend on NBFCs. “The small and mid-sized MFIs which have a portfolio of less than Rs 200 crore do not always have easy access to the top five banks. They depend on other NBFCs where the rate of interest is much higher running to 15-16 per cent which inflates cost of funds,” said P. Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan, a self regulatory organisation of MFIs. Moreover, the applicable average base rates have been on a declining trend in line with the falling interest rates. While this is good news for borrowers, the microlenders point out that this puts a pinch on the margins. “Further decline in rates will put severe pressure on the margins. There is a need to realign the credit pricing, identify which banks and NBFCs have higher exposure to MFIs and make the rate calculation more broad based,” said Kuldip Maity, MD and CEO of Village Financial Services. The average base rate as declared by RBI has come down from 9.21 per cent for the first quarter of 2019-20 to 7.81 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22. MFI associations have suggested to the RBI to widen the basket of financial institutions beyond the top 5 banks and include NBFCs, medium sized commercial banks and small finance banks who are also source of funds for NBFC MFIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Tata Steel recasts four utilities and infrastructure services unit||Tata Steel has transferred its stakes in four utilities and infrastructure services entities to a wholly owned subsidiary as it continues to restructure and simplify its business. In line with the stated policy of the senior management, the company is reorganising its India footprint into four clusters to drive scale and achieve synergies in operations. The exercise will also simplify operations and create value for all stakeholders. The four clusters are in long products, downstream, mining, and shared service and infrastructure verticals. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (TSUISL), formerly Jamshedpur Utilities & Services Co Ltd (JUSCO) — the company which manages the Jamshedpur township for Tata Steel — has been chosen as the anchor company for the services cluster. As part of the reorganisation, Tata Steel on Saturday transferred its  100 per cent stakes in Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited and in Tata Pigments Limited to TSUISL. Tata Steel also transferred its 32.67 per cent stake in Jamipol Limited and 20.99 per cent stake in Nicco Jubilee Park Limited to TSUISL. In November, the company had said it would merge Tata Metaliks Ltd and Indian Steel and Wire Products to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd. In January, Tata Steel transferred its 51 per cent stake in Jamshedpur Continuous Annealing and Processing Company Private Limited to Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited. Tata Steel Long Products Ltd (formerly Tata Sponge) and Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited (formerly Tata Ryerson Ltd) are the two anchor entities for the long products and downstream businesses. It is Tata Steel Long Products Ltd which acquired the steel business of Usha Martin Ltd. Moreover, the Tatas have put forward this listed company to submit an expression of interest for Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL). The reorganisation also involved the merger of Tata Steel BSL Ltd (formerly Bhushan Steel Ltd) with Tata Steel Ltd. The shareholders of both the companies gave their consent to the proposed merger in the last week of March. The company is also restructuring the international business, spanning over Europe and Asia. Several companies are being merged to simplify the structure. Tata Steel has transferred its stake in four utilities and infrastructure services entities to a wholly owned subsidiaries as it continues to restructure and simplify the business. In line with the stated policy of the senior management, the company is reorganising its India footprint into 4 clusters to drive scale, synergies and simplification and to create value for all stakeholders. The four clusters will operate in long products, downstream, mining and shared service and infrastructure verticals. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (TSUISL), formerly Jamshedpur Utilities & Services Co Ltd (JUSCO) — the company which manages the Jamshedpur township for Tata Steel — has been chosen as the anchor company for services cluster. As part of the reorganisation, Tata Steel on Saturday transferred the 100 per cent stake it held in Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited and in The Tata Pigments Limited (TPL), 32.67 per cent stake in Jamipol Limited, and 20.99 per cent stake in Nicco Jubilee Park Limited to TSUISL. In November, the company had informed that it would merge Tata Metaliks Ltd and Indian Steel and Wire Products to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, as part of this exercise. In January, Tata Steel transferred 51 per cent and 50 per cent stake in Jamshedpur Continuous Annealing and Processing Company Private Limited (JCAPCPL) and Tata BlueScope Steel Private Limited (TBSPL) respectively to Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited (TSDPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of TSL. Tata Steel Long Products Ltd (formerly Tata Sponge) and TSDPL (formerly Tata Ryerson Ltd) are the two anchor entities for long products and downstream business. It is the TSLPL which acquired the steel business of Usha Martin Ltd. Moreover, Tatas have put forward this listed company to submit an expression of interest for Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL). The reorganisation also involved the merger of Tata Steel BSL Ltd (formerly Bhushan Steel Ltd) with Tata Steel Ltd. The shareholders of both the company gave their consent to the proposed merger in the last week of March. The company is also restructuring the international business, spanning over Europe and Asia. Several companies are being merged to simplify the structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||ByteDance alleges govt freeze on bank account illegal||China’s ByteDance has told an Indian court that a government freeze on its bank accounts in a probe of possible tax evasion amounts to harassment and was done illegally, according to a filing seen by Reuters. ByteDance in January reduced its Indian workforce after New Delhi maintained a ban on its popular video app TikTok, imposed last year after a border clash between India and China. Beijing has repeatedly criticised India over that ban and those of other Chinese apps. An Indian tax intelligence unit in mid-March ordered HSBC and Citibank in Mumbai to freeze the bank accounts of ByteDance India as it probed some of the unit’s financial dealings. ByteDance has challenged the freeze on the four accounts in a Mumbai court. None of ByteDance India’s employees have been paid their March salaries due to the account freeze, said two people familiar with the matter. The company told the court it has a workforce of 1,335, including outsourced personnel. In the 209-page court filing lodged on March 25, ByteDance told the high court in Mumbai the authorities acted against the company without any material evidence and gave no prior notice, as required by Indian law, before such “drastic action”. Blocking accounts “during the process of investigation amounts (to) applying undue coercion,” ByteDance argued. It is “intended, improperly, to harass the petitioner.” India’s directorate general of goods & services tax intelligence, and the finance ministry which oversees it, did not immediately respond to requests for comment over the weekend. The details of the tax investigation have not previously been reported. The tax agency told ByteDance last year it had reasons to believe the company suppressed certain transactions and claimed excessive tax credits, the filing shows. ByteDance declined to comment on its court filing but told Reuters on Tuesday it disagrees with the decision of the tax authority. HSBC declined to comment, while Citibank did not respond. The court declined to grant ByteDance immediate relief in a brief hearing on Wednesday. The next hearing is scheduled for Tuesday. The investigation centres on potential evasion of taxes related to online advertising and other financial dealings between ByteDance India and its parent entity in Singapore, TikTok Pte Ltd. TikTok did not respond to an email seeking comment. ByteDance told the court its India workforce includes 800 people working in its “trust and safety” team that supports activities like content moderation overseas. The company has “robust business plans in India and is not contemplating winding up,” it said, urging the court to lift the freeze on the accounts. The tax agency started investigating the company in July. It inspected documents at the company’s office and summoned and questioned at least three executives, the filing says. Authorities also asked ByteDance to submit documents, including invoices and agreements signed with some clients. ByteDance representatives “appeared multiple times” before tax officers and provided documents, the filing says. TikTok, one of India’s most popular video apps before it was banned, has faced scrutiny around the world. Under then-President Donald Trump, the United States alleged the app posed national security concerns. The new administration of Joe Biden has paused a government lawsuit that could have resulted in a de facto ban on TikTok’s use there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Money pointers||The new financial year starts and brings with it a new set of rules you need to comply with. This isn’t going to be a year of great changes though — just a few small ones that you must acquaint yourself with. Let us take a quick look at them. This year, while filing your income tax returns in July, you will have to pick one of the two optional regimes which decides the rate of tax you pay. Under the old regime, you can claim tax deductions to reduce your outgo but need to pay a higher rate of tax on your taxable income. The new regime, which started from financial year 2020-21, allows you to pay a lower rate but needs you to forgo deductions such as investments, insurance, loan interest etc. If you are still undecided between the two, try to apply the following rule of thumb. Do all your tax-saving measures amount to 20 per cent or more of your income? If they do, your tax liabilities may be lower in the old regime, and, therefore, you should pick that. As the financial year has already passed, you cannot do any more tax-saving measures, and, therefore, you must settle for the decisions you have already made. If your deductions do not reach the 20 per cent level, the new regime may be the one for you. Use an online income tax calculator to arrive at your decision. The amalgamation of several government banks was announced in 2019. From April 1, cheque books and passbooks of the amalgamated banks will stop working, and you will needto avail fresh ones from the anchor bank to which the smaller banks were amalgamated. The amalgamation may also impact account numbers, IFSC, MICR codes and branch addresses. Syndicate Bank, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank were absorbed by the Union Bank of India. Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank went to Bank of Baroda, and Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India to Punjab National Bank. If you had an account with any of the amalgamated banks, look out for their communications and contact them to avoid operational problems with your bank accounts, deposits, loans etc. Interest earned on the Employees’  Provident Fund was tax-free for eligible subscribers. However, now, large investors in the EPF scheme will find their earnings taxed from this year. The interest earned on an employee’s contributions exceeding Rs 5 lakh a year will attract taxes according to the slab rate. The tax would not apply to the employer’s contribution to the fund nor to the outstanding balance of the fund. Therefore, you could voluntarily contribute up to Rs 41,666 per month without attracting this tax. The limit is sizeable and most subscribers will comfortably fall under it. If you have turned 75 and earn your income from pension and bank interest, you no longer have to file your tax returns. This benefit is limited to those pensioners who earn interest via the same bank in which the pension is deposited. If they are earning interest from other banks, they would not be able to get the benefit. This benefit does not imply that the eligible pensioner must no longer pay tax — it will still be deducted by the bank directly and paid to the government, with the pensioner’s approval. Pensioners need to be in touch with their banks to enable this benefit if they so wish to. Two new conditions that were to be imposed on April 1 have now been deferred. The new wage code, which was to kick in from April 1, has been deferred by six months. Once imposed, your salary structure could see a substantial change. According to the new recommendations, your basic pay must be at least 50 per cent of your total pay, which would impact how your provident fund and gratuity contributions are calculated, which in turn would impact your take-home pay. Second, according to the RBI’s mandate, standing instructions for bill payments and subscriptions on debit and credit cards were to be disabled from April 1 if such transactions didn’t have the added safety layer of authentication by such means as OTP. However, this decision has been stayed and the RBI has now allowed time to banks till September 30 to roll out the programme. You must contact your bank to understand how this impacts you and avoid any difficulties you may face if your bill payments were to stop abruptly. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Steelmakers pare debt using unprecedented rise in prices and higher margins||Indian steel giants are improving their balance sheets by reducing debt, making the most of the unprecedented rise in prices and higher margins. Steel Authority of India Ltd shaved off gross debt by Rs 16,150 crore in 2020-21, making it the second steel company after Tata Steel Ltd to carry out such an aggressive deleveraging of the balance sheet. In a year pockmarked by the Covid pandemic and lockdown-induced demand destruction during the first quarter,  the steel players prioritised debt reduction over capital expenditure. SAIL’s gross debt, which typically excludes the cash and cash equivalents of a company would have, came down to Rs 35,330 crore at the end of 2020-21 compared with Rs 51,481 crore at the end of 2019-20. In comparison, Tata Steel brought down its gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore in the first nine months of the last fiscal. The company guided to chop off the block another Rs 12,000 crore in the last quarter alone. Net debt for Tata Steel came down by Rs 18,609 crore during the nine months, backed by strong cash generation from the second quarter onwards. The company went slow on the expansion at Kalinganagar during this period, allocating only Rs 1,394 crore. It restarted work on the pellet plant and cold rolling mill complex from January . Jindal Steel & Power Ltd, a company promoted and managed by Naveen Jindal, also fast-tracked its payments to its creditors. A company, which was in the throes of a crushing debt burden, brought down the net debt by Rs 10,298 crore in nine months, partly also by asset sale. JSW Steel, promoted and managed by Naveen’s elder brother Sajjan Jindal, could only bring down the net debt by Rs 1,680 crore in nine months. However, it may be the only large integrated player whose debt level would go up by fiscal-end. Driven by entrepreneurial instinct, Sajjan Jindal neither soft paddled on expansion nor shied away from big-bulge acquisitions. JSW Steel completed the Rs 19,750-crore acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd in the last week of March, commissioned a fresh 5-million-tonne expansion at Dolvi, Maharashtra and bought two downstream companies and assets —  Asian Color Coated Ispat Ltd and the plate and coil business of Welspun Corp Ltd respectively. The debt reduction exercise undertaken by the frontline integrated steel producers appears to have topped the estimates of the analysts. Crisil, for instance, had guided a cut of Rs 25,000-crore debt in this fiscal and another Rs 10,000 crore in the next fiscal. Domestic hot-rolled coil prices, which touched Rs 56,000 per tonne in March, rallying from Rs 39,200 a tonne in March 2020, have started moving northwards again from April, taking cue from the 10 per cent discount that exists with the international prices. Icra expects that the recent spurt in Covid cases may moderate domestic demand but steel players are said to be diverting their production to the international market to take advantage of the buoyant prices. An analysis by the rating agency pointed towards the firepower of the steel majors that laid siege on the debt mountain. It suggested that the operating margins of 21 companies accounting for 60 per cent of the domestic steel capacity rose sharply quarter-on-quarter to 30.1 per cent in Q3 of 2020-21 from 21.3 per cent in Q2 (14.6 per cent in Q3, 2019-20) due to a steep hike in steel prices and higher sales volumes. Crisil expects that cash accruals of the top five players could surge over 40 per cent year-on-year to Rs 40,000 crore in this fiscal and another 10 per cent in the next fiscal. Icra expects the operating profitability of the industry in Q4 FY21 to improve further to around 32.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||India||Kangana's plea on Javed Akhtar defamation suit dismissed ||A sessions court in Mumbai on Monday dismissed an application filed by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut challenging the proceedings initiated against her by a magistrate's court in connection with a defamation complaint lodged by veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar. Additional Sessions Judge S U Baghele said the plea filed by the applicant (Ranaut) is dismissed. Ranaut (34) had sought the sessions court to quash the legal proceedings and summons issued by the magistrate's court in suburban Andheri in the defamation complaint lodged against her by Akhtar. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the magistrate's court in last November claiming the actor had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. The sessions court in Dindoshi in Mumbai had on April 3 reserved its order on the application filed by Ranaut. In her application, Ranaut had challenged the issuance of the process and the legality and validity of the February 1, 2021 order passed by the magistrate and the subsequent action of issuing a bailable warrant against her for failing to appear before the court. Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee had argued in the sessions court that as per provisions of section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), a magistrate has to first examine and record the statements of the complainant and the witnesses before issuance of notice or proceedings in criminal complaints. Siddiquee claimed that since the magistrate's court had not recorded the statements of the witnesses, it had vitiated the procedure. Ranaut in her plea had sought the sessions court to suspend and quash the proceedings initiated against her. Advocate Jay Bharadwaj, appearing for Akhtar, had opposed the application and submitted that the order passed by the magistrate did not warrant interference. On March 1, magistrate R R Khan had issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut after she failed to appear before the court as per earlier directions. Ranaut later sought cancellation of the warrant before the magistrate. The court on March 25 cancelled the warrant after Ranaut furnished a cash bail of Rs 20,000 and a surety of Rs 15,000. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. The magistrate had directed the Mumbai police to carry out a preliminary probe into the complaint. In February, the police submitted a report to the court saying an offence of defamation was made out against Ranaut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Modi to interact with CMs on Thursday over rising Covid cases, vaccination drive||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers on Thursday to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, sources said Monday. Modi's last interaction with chief ministers was on March 17 during which he had expressed concern over the rise in COVID-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with 1,03,558 new infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. At a high-level meeting with senior officials, Prime Minister Modi had on Sunday reviewed the COVID-19 situation and vaccination exercise in the country amid the "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths. Modi had said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic, according to an official statement that was released after the meeting. The reasons for the sharp rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour, especially in the use of masks and social distancing, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, according to the statement. A special campaign for COVID-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100 percent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities will be organised between April 6-14, the statement had said. In the meeting, the prime minister had highlighted the need to enforce the COVID-appropriate behaviour in the coming days and ensure the availability of beds, testing facilities and timely hospitalisation. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, home secretary, chairperson (Empowered group on Vaccine Administration) and health secretary besides other senior officials attended the meeting on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Congress rakes up Rafale after French media claims of Euro 1.1 million 'commission'||The Congress on Monday sought a thorough probe in the Rafale defence deal and demanded answers from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after a French media report claimed that Euro 1.1 million was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer. Chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told a press conference here that the French news portal's report has proved that Rahul Gandhi's oft-repeated allegations of corruption in the deal were correct. While there was no immediate response from the BJP or the government on the charges, they have in the past denied any irregularities in the country's biggest defence deal. Surjewala said as per the French portal's report, an investigation conducted by the French Anti-Corruption Agency (AFA)' has revealed that after signing of the deal in 2016, Rafale's manufacturer Dassault allegedly paid Euro 1.1 million to a middleman -- Defsys Solutions -- which is an Indian company. "Does it now not require a full and independent investigation into India's biggest defence deal to find out as to how much bribery and commission in reality, if any, was paid and to whom in the Indian government," he asked at a press conference. "Will Prime Minister Narendra Modi answer to the nation now?" he asked. Surjewala said this amount was shown as expenditure by Dassault as "gifts to clients". The Congress leader said that the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) as also the stated Indian government policy envisage there will be an Integrity Clause in every defence purchase contract which clearly states that there can be no middleman or payment of commission or bribe. Surjewala said that as per the DPP, any evidence of middleman or commission or bribery has serious penal consequences including the banning of the supplier, cancellation of contract, registration of an FIR and imposition of heavy financial penalties on the company. "Has it not vitiated the Rafale deal entailing imposition of heavy financial penalties on Dassault, banning of the company, registration of an FIR and other penal consequences," he asked. He asked whether the payment of Euro 1.1 million shown by Dassault as 'Gifts to Clients' in reality a commission paid to the middleman for the Rafale deal. "How can 'middleman' and 'Payment of Commission' be permitted in a 'government-to-government Defence Contract' or in any Defence procurement in India in violation of the mandatory Defence Procurement Procedure," he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||AAP tells govt to accelerate inoculation drive in India before sending Covid jabs outside||The AAP questioned the Centre for sending COVID-19 vaccines across the world instead of further accelerating the inoculation drive within the country, claiming it will take at least 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India at this rate. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha questioned the reason for "exporting" vaccines and not supplying it to the people in India first. "Vaccination doses have been exported to 84 countries. The amount exported is higher than the number of vaccine doses given to the people in India. Should we care about people from our own country or from other countries?" Chadha said. "Where has the Centre's vaccine nationalism gone? The AAP demands an increase in the rate of vaccinations against COVID-19 so that each and every Indian can get vaccinated," he said. He further claimed that it will take 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India if vaccination drive continues at the current pace. "Some scientists say that to contain the virus at least 70 percent of the population has to be vaccinated. It will take 10 years to inoculate 70 per cent of the population of the country if the vaccination continues at the current pace while at the current pace, vaccinating everyone in the country will take about 15 years," he said. In India, cumulatively, 7,91,05,163 vaccine doses have been administered through 12,31,148 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 90,09,353 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose, 53,43,493 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,37,850 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose, and 41,33,961 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh anti-naxal operation was poorly designed, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the operation against naxals in Chhattisgarh, in which 22 security personnel were killed, was "incompetently" executed and "poorly designed". "Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will," Gandhi said on Twitter and demanded that each Indian jawan be given body armour for protection. Out of the 22 fatalities in the Saturday naxal attack in the state, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos, while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and five from the Special Task Force. "No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier," the Congress leader said. Citing a media report quoting CRPF Director General Kuldeep Singh as saying there was no intelligence failure in the operation and an equal number of ultras were killed, Gandhi said, "If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation." Officials on Sunday had said that 30 security personnel were also injured in the ambush by naxals. The security personnel were ambushed by naxals when they were out on a combing operation in a forest along the border of the Bijapur and Sukma districts of the state. Director General Singh had acknowledged that his personnel were "surprised and ambushed" during the attack on Saturday that lasted several hours. Other officials in the know of the developments said the forces may have been waylaid by the naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Maharashtra home minister steps down after HC orders CBI probe||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh resigned on Monday after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of extortion against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh submitted his resignation letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP minister Nawab Malik told reporters. Deshmukh also tweeted a copy of the letter, in which he said the high court had passed an order for a preliminary probe by the CBI into the petition filed by advocate Jayshri Patil into the allegations. "I don't have the moral right to continue in office after the court order.I have decided to quit. Kindly relieve me from my post," Deshmukh's resignation letter said. After the court order, Deshmukh met NCP president Sharad Pawar and expressed his desire to step down as he felt it was inappropriate to continue in office after the CBI steps in, Malik said. "Deshmukh went to hand over the letter to Thackeray after Pawar gave his "green signal" to quit," Malik said. Singh's allegations are baseless but the party respects the court and hence the minister will quit, Malik said, adding the truth will come out. "The state government has already ordered a probe by a retired judge into the claims but we respect the judiciary and after the court orders, Deshmukh himself said he doesn't wish to continue," Malik said, referring to his party colleague. After Deshmukh's resignation the home department will be with the chief minister, who would decide after consulting the MVA allies on who would be the new home minister, he said. There is speculation that Dilip Walse Patil, another NCP minister, may get the Home portfolio. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said he is happy that Deshmukh has quit, adding there will be many "shocking revelations" in the CBI probe. "Those who make mistakes should be punished or else democracy won't be strengthened. Many skeletons will tumble out after the 15-day CBI preliminary parobe," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||CoBRA commando abducted by Maoists, search on ||Security agencies are working to ascertain a claim made by naxals that they abducted a CoBRA commando after the ambush in Chhattisgarh on Saturday that left at least 22 security personnel dead, official sources said. A top officer in the security establishment said that they have "reasons to believe" that this claim, made over phone on Sunday evening to a journalist based in Bijapur by a purported Maoist group, is true. "We have not been able to locate commando Rakeshwar Singh Minhas of the 210th CoBRA battalion till now. However, we do not have concrete evidence to substantiate the claim made by some naxal elements that he has been taken away by them," a senior officer told PTI. He said multiple units of the security forces are still out in the jungles to look for the commando who hails from Jammu, and also to intercept movement of the ultras. Constable Minhas was with the unit that went out for the anti-Naxal operation on Saturday morning. His friend, another officer said, was killed in the ambush in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. The Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) is the specialised unit of the CRPF that was raised in 2009 to undertake intelligence-based operations against Maoists and insurgents in the north east. Out of the 22 fatalities in the Saturday naxal attack, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos, while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and five from the Special Task Force. Senior CRPF officers, state police officials along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel are in Jagdalpur to review the situation in the aftermath of the deadly attack. Over 10 rebels killed Senior officers claimed more than 10 Maoists had been killed in Saturday’s encounter but other sources said the police had found the body of a lone rebel — a woman. The Maoists are known to carry away their dead and injured. Unofficial accounts by CRPF and state police sources suggested the insurgents had laid a trap for the forces in the middle of a five-pronged anti-Maoist offensive, but inspector-general of police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P dismissed any “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. “The security forces fought bravely and inflicted a heavy blow on the ultras during the face-off,” PTI quoted Sundarraj as saying. ‘Waylaid’ Sources said five teams totalling 2,000-plus security personnel had on Friday night launched a concerted operation in the Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. The operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed in Bijapur, and Minpa and Narsapuram in Sukma. While a team was advancing through the forests near Jonaguda, around 500km from state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by some 250 Maoists on Saturday afternoon, a CRPF officer said. He said the forces were scattered and trapped along a 2km stretch of forest. A senior police officer gave PTI a somewhat different account. He said some 400 Maoists had strategically positioned themselves on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it. The patrolling team from Tarrem came under heavy fire, prompting some of them to move to what appeared a deserted village, where the Maoists lay in wait for them. Visuals from the spot showed slain jawans lying in the fields and on the village streets, PTI added. It quoted an eyewitness as saying the jawans' bodies had bullet injuries and gashes inflicted by sharp weapons. The Maoists fled with the weapons, bullet-proof jackets and the shoes of the dead troops, sources said. ‘Lapses’ Sources in the security establishment said that initial reports suggested an intelligence failure and poor leadership on the part of the CRPF, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. “The commanders did not handle their men properly and counter the ambush,” a security official said, requesting anonymity. “The Maoist leadership is said to have been giving arms training to its cadres for the past few months in the jungles. They were well prepared and our jawans walked into the trap and were slaughtered. Who is accountable for this intelligence and operational failure?” He added: “Has this government fixed any accountability for the gross intelligence failures in the Pulwama massacre and the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh? These killings are likely to go the same way.” CRPF chief Kuldiep, who rushed to Chhattisgarh from Delhi, denied any intelligence or operational failure on the part of the country’s top anti-Maoist agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||HC asks CBI to probe Param Bir's allegations against Deshmukh||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry within 15 days into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said this was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. The court said since the state government had already ordered for a probe by a high-level committee into the matter, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) need not immediately register an FIR in the case. It said the CBI must complete the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and then take a decision on further course of action in the case. The bench delivered its verdict on a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) and writ petitions seeking several reliefs and a CBI probe into the matter. The pleas had been filed by Singh himself, city-based lawyers Jayshree Patil and Ghanshyam Upadhyay, and local teacher Mohan Bhide. The HC disposed of all the pleas on Monday. "The CBI's director is allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Such preliminary inquiry be ordered in accordance with the law and be concluded within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, director CBI (will) be at discretion to (decide on) further course of action," the high court said. The HC had last Wednesday reserved its verdict on the pleas following a day-long hearing. "We agree that this is an unprecedented case before the court...Deshmukh is Home Minister who leads the police...There has to be an independent inquiry...But, the CBI need not register an FIR immediately," the court said on Monday. On March 25, Singh filed a criminal public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The remaining PILs were filed around the same time. The minister has denied any wrongdoing. Singh's counsel Vikram Nankani had argued that the entire police force was demoralised and was working under pressure due to the interference of politicians. The HC had then asked why Singh did not lodge an FIR against Deshmukh, if he was aware of the alleged wrongdoing committed by the minister. Patil, one of the other petitioners, had told the HC that she lodged a complaint against both Deshmukh and Singh at a local police station. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the state government, had urged the HC to dismiss the pleas. Singh had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging he was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner after he complained to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh. The apex court had termed the matter as quite serious, but asked Singh to approach the high court. Singh then filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his allegations against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Shah pays homage to security men killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist attack||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said that the government is determined to take the ongoing fight against the unrest created by naxals to its logical conclusion. The minister, who is on a visit to Chhattisgarh, made the comment after paying tributes to the 22 security personnel who were killed by naxals in the state on Saturday. "Paid tributes to the brave security personnel who were martyred while fighting the naxalites at Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "The country will never forget your bravery and sacrifice. The whole country stands behind the bereaved families. We are determined to take the ongoing fight against the unrest created by the naxals to its logical conclusion," said Shah. The minister will chair a meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Jagdalpur to review the security situation arising out of Saturday's incident and also meet some of the injured security personnel in hospitals, an official said. Thirty security personnel were injured in the ambush by naxals and were admitted to different hospitals in the state, officials had said on Sunday. After arriving in Chhattisgarh's Jagdalpur town from Delhi, Shah paid his last respects at the Police Lines here, where the mortal remains of 14 personnel were kept in coffins draped with the national flag. Besides Shah, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and other dignitaries also laid wreaths on the coffins. This is Shah's first visit to the Bastar region of the state after assuming charge of Union home minister, an official said. The review meeting in Jagdalpur, will be attended by Chief Minister Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), he said. Shah will then leave for the Basaguda camp of the CRPF in Bijapur in a chopper and will have an interaction and lunch with the CRPF and state police personnel there, he said. Security personnel were ambushed by naxals when they were out on a combing operation in a forest along the Bijapur and Sukma districts of the state. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA battalion (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One CRPF inspector is still missing, officials said. The home minister on Sunday vowed to give a befitting response to the Naxals and said that the battle against the extremists will be won through joint efforts by the central and state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases cross one lakh mark for the first time in India||Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the the outbreak of the pandemic with 1,03,558 new infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The single-day rise in cases surpassed the earlier peak of 97,894 infections reported on September 17, last year, making it the highest so far. The death toll increased to 1,65,101 with 478 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Last year, it took 76 days for the single-day rise in coronavirus cases in India to reach the then peak of 97,894 from 20,000. However, this time the daily rise in cases have galloped at a much faster pace taking just 25 days (March 10 to April 4) to cross the grim milestone of one-lakh infections. Registering a steady increase for the 26th day in row, the active cases have increased to 7,41,830 comprising 5.89 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.80 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,16,82,136, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,90,19,657 samples have been tested up to April 4 with 8,93,749 samples being tested on Sunday. The 478 new fatalities include 222 from Maharashtra, 51 from Punjab, 36 from Chhattisgarh, 31 from Uttar Pradesh, 15 from Karnataka, 14 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 each from Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. A total of 1,65,101 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 55,878 from Maharashtra, 12,778 from Tamil Nadu, 12,625 from Karnataka, 11,081 from Delhi, 10,344 from West Bengal, 8,881 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,239 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,083 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit Chhattisgarh naxal attack site||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will arrive in Chhattisgarh on Monday to chair a high-level meeting in connection with the Naxal attack in the state's Bastar region that claimed the lives of 22 security personnel, a senior official said. Shah will reach the Jagdalpur airport (in Bastar district) at around 10.35 am, following which he will attend the wreath-laying ceremony to pay respect to the martyred personnel at the Police Lines here, he said. It will be Shah's first visit to the Bastar region after assuming the charge of Union home minister, he said. In Jagdalpur, the wreath would be laid on the mortal remains of 14 security personnel, while tributes would be paid to the other deceased jawans at the Bijapur district headquarters, the official said. Shah will later chair a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre here on the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will attend the meeting, he said. Shah will then leave for the Basaguda camp of the CRPF in Bijapur in a chopper and will have an interaction and lunch with the CRPF and state police personnel there, he said. He will later go to Raipur and visit three hospitals where the injured personnel are admitted. Shah will leave for Delhi at 5.30 pm on Monday. Twenty two security personnel were killed and 31 others injured in the gunfight with Naxals between Jonaguda and Tekalguda villages along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts on Saturday. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One jawan is still missing, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||India is no longer the country of 'Midnight's Children': Salman Rushdie||Salman Rushdie has used the 40th anniversary of the publication of Midnight’s Children to express regret that “India is no longer the country of this novel”. Many literary critics in the West say that Midnight’s Children is possibly the most profound novel to come out of India since Independence. It won both the Booker Prize and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in 1981, and was awarded the Booker of Bookers and the Best of the Booker in 1993 and 2008, respectively, to celebrate the Booker Prize’s 25th and 40th anniversaries. In a long article in The Guardian newspaper on Saturday, the author describes the five years it took him to write the novel and how India has changed in the four decades since its emergence: “Forty years is a long time. I have to say that India is no longer the country of this novel.” He goes on: “When I wrote Midnight’s Children I had in mind an arc of history moving from the hope — the bloodied hope, but still the hope — of Independence to the betrayal of that hope in the so-called Emergency, followed by the birth of a new hope. India today, to someone of my mind, has entered an even darker phase than the Emergency years.” His comments not only mark the 40th anniversary of the novel’s publication; they coincide with the Assembly elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Although Rushdie’s target is not specifically identified, there is no doubting who his words are directed at. “The horrifying escalation of assaults on women, the increasingly authoritarian character of the state, the unjustifiable arrests of people who dare to stand against that authoritarianism, the religious fanaticism, the rewriting of history to fit the narrative of those who want to transform India into a Hindu-nationalist, majoritarian state, and the popularity of the regime in spite  of it all, or, worse, perhaps because of it all — these things encourage a kind of despair.” In the novel, his principal protagonist, Saleem Sinai, is born “handcuffed to history” and with a protruding nose, at the stroke of midnight hour as India becomes independent but is swapped with another baby from a wealthier family in a Bombay nursing home. “When I wrote this book I could associate big-nosed Saleem with the elephant-trunked god Ganesh, the patron deity of literature, among other things, and that felt perfectly easy and natural even though Saleem was not a Hindu,” writes Rushdie in the UK-based newspaper. “All of India belonged to all of us, or so I deeply believed,” he says. “And still believe, even though the rise of a brutal sectarianism believes otherwise. But I find hope in the determination of India’s women and college students to resist that sectarianism, to reclaim the old, secular India and dismiss the darkness. I wish them well. But right now, in India, it’s midnight again.” That he believes India has entered a period even darker than the Emergency is also spelt out in an interview he has given to CNN to discuss his novel. He personally was not like Saleem Sinai but they had grown up in post-Partition Bombay, which he remembers as “a beautiful city then and I think happier than it is now without really any measurable communal discord”. He recalls “how little religion was a subject, it just really wasn’t a very big subject. And that, amongst my immediate friends, they were people of every religion and no religion, and they were Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Sikhs, every kind of child.” He laments: “The non-sectarian atmosphere of my youth has very largely disappeared. The country has a lot more trouble between the majority Hindu community and the minority communities. I would call it a sad time, because the India that people like me were brought up in and kind of bought into, which was the Nehru-Gandhi idea of the secular nation, that idea seems to be crumbling.” If he were to write the novel today, he would write a darker tale: “I hate to say it, but I think things are worse than they used to be.” Rushdie, who has been involved with Pen America, an organisation that fights to protect free expression worldwide, says he wants “to fight for the principle of free speech, which is the rock on which free societies stand. Far from the world getting more accustomed to free speech, it seems free speech is more imperilled these days than it used to be.” In his article in The Guardian, he has given an insight into the cosmopolitan structure of Midnight’s Children and also the way he has used the English language. He had considered the great books in the West as possible models. “But I was also thinking about another kind of capaciousness, the immense epics of India, the Mahabharata and Ramayana, and the fabulist traditions of the Panchatantra, the Thousand and One Nights and the Kashmiri Sanskrit compendium called Katha-sarit-sagar (Ocean of the Streams of Story). “I was thinking of India’s oral narrative traditions, too, which were a form of storytelling in which digression was almost the basic principle; the storyteller could tell, in a sort of whirling cycle, a fictional tale, a mythological tale, a political story and an autobiographical story; he — because it was always a he —could intersperse his multiple narratives with songs and keep large audiences entranced,” he wrote. “I loved that multiplicity could be so captivating. Young writers are often given a version of the advice that the King of Hearts gives the White Rabbit in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, when the Rabbit becomes confused in court about how to tell his story: ‘Begin at the beginning,’ the King said, very gravely, ‘and go on until you come to the end; then stop.’ It was inspiring to learn, from the oral narrative masters of, in particular, Kerala in south India, that this was not the only way, or even the most captivating way, to go about things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Twenty-two jawans killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist gun battle ||At least 22 jawans were killed and 31 injured in a four-hour gun battle with Maoists in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, with unofficial accounts suggesting they had walked into a trap though the police brass dismissed reports of a “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. Security officials alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders and drew parallels with the February 2019 Pulwama massacre of 40 personnel in the run-up to the general election. However, CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh denied any lapses. Union Home minister Amit Shah on Monday is scheduled to chair a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Raipur on the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will attend the meeting, an official said. The bullet-riddled bodies of 17 jawans were recovered on Sunday, after five had been found on Saturday, from the forests on the Bijapur-Sukma border while one jawan was still “missing”, a senior official said. This is the highest casualty the security forces have suffered at the Maoists' hands since April 2017, when the insurgents ambushed and killed 25 CRPF personnel near Burkapal in Sukma. Former diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “The #NaxalAttack is like a horror film replay. It happens time & again due to intel failure & repetitive operational & patrolling flaws. Who is answerable? HM of course. But his mindspace is preoccupied with elections & BJP politics. Is this sustainable?” Senior officers claimed more than 10 Maoists had been killed in Saturday’s encounter but other sources said the police had found the body of a lone rebel — a woman. The Maoists are known to carry away their dead and injured. Eight of the dead jawans were from the CRPF — seven from the elite Cobra commando unit — while the rest were from various state police units. Two of the dead CRPF jawans were from Assam, where Assembly polls are on. Unofficial accounts by CRPF and state police sources suggested the insurgents had laid a trap for the forces in the middle of a five-pronged anti-Maoist offensive, but inspector-general of police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P dismissed any “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. “The security forces fought bravely and inflicted a heavy blow on the ultras during the face-off,” PTI quoted Sundarraj as saying. Sources said five teams totalling 2,000-plus security personnel had on Friday night launched a concerted operation in the Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. The operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed in Bijapur, and Minpa and Narsapuram in Sukma. While a team was advancing through the forests near Jonaguda, around 500km from state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by some 250 Maoists on Saturday afternoon, a CRPF officer said. He said the forces were scattered and trapped along a 2km stretch of forest. A senior police officer gave PTI a somewhat different account. He said some 400 Maoists had strategically positioned themselves on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it. The patrolling team from Tarrem came under heavy fire, prompting some of them to move to what appeared a deserted village, where the Maoists lay in wait for them. Visuals from the spot showed slain jawans lying in the fields and on the village streets, PTI added. It quoted an eyewitness as saying the jawans' bodies had bullet injuries and gashes inflicted by sharp weapons. The Maoists fled with the weapons, bullet-proof jackets and the shoes of the dead troops, sources said. Sources in the security establishment said that initial reports suggested an intelligence failure and poor leadership on the part of the CRPF, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. “The commanders did not handle their men properly and counter the ambush,” a security official said, requesting anonymity. “The Maoist leadership is said to have been giving arms training to its cadres for the past few months in the jungles. They were well prepared and our jawans walked into the trap and were slaughtered. Who is accountable for this intelligence and operational failure?” He added: “Has this government fixed any accountability for the gross intelligence failures in the Pulwama massacre and the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh? These killings are likely to go the same way.” CRPF chief Kuldiep, who rushed to Chhattisgarh from Delhi, denied any intelligence or operational failure on the part of the country’s top anti-Maoist agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu releases book by  BJD MP||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday released a book titled “Neelimarani: My Mother, My Hero” at the Raj Bhavan here. Authored by Dr Achyuta Samanta, the ruling Biju Janata Dal MP from Kandhmal and founder of  Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) deemed university  and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), the book speaks about the struggles of his mother who raised her seven children braving acute poverty. Releasing the book, Naidu, who began his two-day visit to Odisha on Friday, said, “We read biographies of entrepreneurs, explorers, and scientists, but writing the biography of a mother is something different and unique. Writing a biography on one’s mother is very inspiring.” The vice-president said, “When I was going through the pages of the book, I could not but feel enormous respect and reverence for a mother who fought every odd to single handedly raise her seven children. Despite abject poverty and lack of resources, she ensured that all her children got good education and became responsible citizens. I was moved by the account of Dr Achyuta Samanta’s father’s death.” “Despite such life-shattering experiences, Smt Neelimaraniji never wavered from her humane approach towards the poor and downtrodden and kept on working for their upliftment. I am very happy to know that with the help of her sons, she turned her native village Kalarabanka into one of the first smart villages of its kind in the country. This is inspiring!” said Naidu who urged people not to forget their roots. “No matter where you are, you should always remember your mother, motherland and native place,” he said. In his address on the occasion, governor Prof. Ganeshi Lal said, “We should not only serve humanity but also worship humanity. At such a young age Dr Samanta has written such an important book. I am reminded of Thakkar Bapa when I see Achyuta Samanta.” Speaking at the release ceremony, Dr Samanta talked about his encounter with women power right since his childhood and said that has always been emphasising the need for women empowerment. “Women’s power helps in the holistic development of a nation and society. If importance is given to women’s empowerment, the nation and society will certainly develop,” he said. Neelimarani, the mother of Dr Achyuta Samanta was an ordinary human being with extraordinary dreams and vision to help society. Her ideology had a deep impact on Dr Samanta and created in him the urge to do something for the society. Living a life full of struggles, Neelimarani developed a small remote village into a smart village. Her constant reminder to Dr Samanta to work for the development of their native village Kalarabanka, about 60km from here, is the main theme of the book. Due to the accidental death of Dr Samanta’s father, his mother Neelimarani became helpless at the age of only 40. This tragedy caused her unimaginable hardship and made life a struggle. But she never gave up as she had a strong willpower and followed moral principles. Dr Samanta has attributed all his achievements to the values that his mother taught him while growing up. She made him what he is today. He has dedicated all his accomplishments in life to his mother Neelimarani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Night curfew in 10 Odisha districts ||The Odisha government has decided to impose night curfew in 10 districts of the state from Monday and is mulling to impose day curfew following the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. For the last three days, Odisha has reported more than 400 Covid positive cases per day. All shops, commercial establishments, offices, institutions and movement of individuals shall remain closed or prohibited between 10pm and 5am. The districts where night curfew will be imposed are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Malkangiri. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday sealed the main branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) here after seven of its employees were diagnosed with Covid-19. The bank will be sealed for 48 hours and will only be opened for public use after proper sanitisation of its premises and Covid test of all its employees. “The SBI main branch is sealed for the next 48 hours from April 4 to April 7 after its seven staffs were found positive for Covid-19,” said BCM commissioner P.C. Chaudhury, adding the BMC will go for sanitisation, contract tracing and testing at the bank. The BMC will conduct sanitisation, contact tracing and testing at the bank during these two days, he added. Earlier, the BMC had sealed a shopping mall at Unit-II Market building on charges of violation of Covid guidelines. Taking into account the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple was closed on Sunday for devotees to carry out the necessary disinfection drive. Henceforth, on every Sunday the temple will be closed for devotees for the purpose of carrying out the sanitisation process. As the number of Covid cases are going up, the state government is mulling to impose curfew even during the daytime. Odisha Legislative Assembly Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro on Sunday gave a hint of this. “Chief minister is reviewing the Covid-19 situation. Seeing the rise in cases, a decision to impose curfew in day time may be taken in next four to five days,” said Patro. Meanwhile,  the number of Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day crossed the 400 mark in the state. While on Sunday 471 Covid cases were reported in the state, it had witnessed 452 cases on Saturday and 461 cases on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Merchant and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s aide killed||The brazen murder of a well known businessmen and close aide of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in Katihar town, around 300km east from Bihar capital, has rocked the state. The Opposition has put the government in the dock and attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar over his silence. Clothes and textiles merchant Nirmal Bubna, 55, was shot dead by a few unidentified motorcycle-borne persons while he was returning home after shutting down his shop on Saturday night. The incident took place in an area under Salmari police station. The miscreants fired 27 bullets of which 15 hit him. He collapsed on the spot and was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital where people rushed him. Those involved in the assault went on to allegedly rob a nearby petrol pump of Rs 2 lakh. They escaped from the scene. The CCTV cameras installed around the scene of the crimes have captured their actions. Bubna had been associated with the RJD for decades and was planning to contest from Kadwa Assembly constituency in the state elections held in October-November last year. He could not contest because the seat went to the Congress, one of the partners of the Opposition Grand Alliance. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar told The Telegraph that the killing could be an outcome of some old enmity. “We are carrying on investigations in the case. Around five to six persons who came on two motorcycles are involved in the murder. We have obtained the CCTV footages related to it. The forensic team and dog squad of the police are also on work,” Vikas said. Reacting to the murder of his party leader, Tejashwi, who also happens to be the leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, put Nitish in the dock. “Respected Nitishji, is your sensitivity dead? The killers enjoying the patronage and protection of the ruling power are causing mayhem. Your criminals have become so brazen that they fire 27 bullets while dancing in a leisurely manner at one person because they know that their protector is sitting in Patna,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader added that it was “becoming difficult to venture out in the state due to the mayhem of criminals and murders happening all around”. There has been a spate of murders in Bihar, causing further worry for the common people who are already anxious about the continuously deteriorating law and order situation. Around three dozen people have been killed in various incidents across the state over the past one week. The figures include the murder of five members of a family in Madhubani district, an incident that is being seen as a caste-related killing. Besides, 18 persons have lost their lives in Nawada and Begusarai districts allegedly after consuming illicit liquor in a state that implemented total prohibition on April 5, 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Stone-throwing returns in Kashmir||Security forces fired and lobbed tear gas shells to quell protests against an anti-militancy operation in a Pulwama village on Friday, injuring about a dozen people and reinforcing the view that stone-throwing was returning as a normal feature of encounters in Kashmir. While most of the injuries were caused by metal pellets and tear gas shells, at least one villager suffered a bullet hit for which local people blamed the troops, who blamed the militants. Three militants died in the gunfight near Kakapora, during which clashes broke out between stone-throwers and the security forces near the encounter site. The trend of young men risking their lives by storming encounter sites to rescue trapped militants had begun in early 2016, but the forces had largely succeeded in curbing the practice in run-up to the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in August 2019. But such clashes have gathered momentum in recent weeks. Inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar recently claimed that stone-throwing had become a more serious problem than militancy. Kumar said two of the three dead militants were involved in Thursday’s attack on the home of a senior BJP leader in Srinagar during which a police constable was killed. Local people said the troops had targeted not just the protesters but also others. Ishrat Aziz, 25, received a bullet injury inside her home while she was busy with her household chores. Ghulam Nabi Dar, 61, a retired government teacher, had his arms and torso riddled with pellets. The former teacher said he was targeted without any provocation, insisting there was no stone-throwing in his area. Hospital sources in Pampore, Pulwama, said they had treated 11 people from areas near the encounter site, some with pellet injuries and one, a woman, with bullet injuries. Two patients came with pellet wounds in their eyes, they said. Videos purportedly showed protesters raining stones on a security vehicle at the encounter site. In recent years, the forces had intimidated prospective stone-throwers through the frequent use of pellet guns, arrests and other measures, prompting the Centre to claim to have “restored” peace in the Valley. Pellets have blinded hundreds in Kashmir over the years. Police sources said they frequently encountered stone-throwing mobs during encounters these days. “But in most cases they are not allowed to come close to the encounter sites,” a source said. Videos showed the forces using explosives to blow up a residential house where the militants were apparently holed up — a common anti-insurgency tactic employed by troops. While violent protests are re-emerging, militancy-related violence shows no sign of ebbing. The militants are targeting BJP leaders in particular. Two BJP councillors, Reyaz Ahmad and his father-in-law Peer Shamsuddin, and a constable were killed in an attack in Sopore on Tuesday. Two days later, militants attacked the Srinagar home of senior BJP leader Mohammad Anwar Khan. He was unharmed but his personal security officer was killed. The secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir BJP, Farida Khan, who was the target of the Sopore attack, told this newspaper that party members were feeling unsafe in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Second wave is likely to be larger than first, surveillance failure and Covid denial to blame||Covid-19 denial among sections of the population and the failure of disease surveillance mechanisms to detect and contain localised infection clusters have contributed to India’s second wave, a top public health expert has said. India on Sunday recorded over 93,000 new Covid-19 cases in the previous 24 hours and the epidemic appeared only a day away from surpassing its previous daily record of 97,894 cases. Dr T. Sundararaman, global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement and a former executive director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre, New Delhi, to deconstruct the second wave tells The Telegraph why it is difficult — for now — to predict the peak or duration of the second wave. Q: India’s second Covid-19 epidemic is growing even faster than during its first growth phase in July-August 2020. Was this anticipated? T. Sundararaman: Yes, the rate of spread is much more rapid that in the first wave. In the first wave it took India 61 days to go from about 25,000 cases to 92,000 cases. In the second wave it has taken just 22 days — about one-third the time. The second wave should have been anticipated. Almost every country has had a second wave. But better-performing countries have had slower, flatter second waves. The Indian government appears to have been taken by surprise. It is not the government alone. Premature predictions from the scientific community that there would be no second wave and even a science and technology ministry-supported modelling effort confidently predicting the end of the pandemic in February have been misleading. Further, considerable levels of Covid-19-denial at the population and community level have contributed to this wave. Fortunately, after a cabinet secretary review meeting held on April 2, the government has expressed serious concern and directed a comprehensive response plan. But it would have been better if these measures had been done in four-month-long trough between the waves. Q: Surveys in Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, had indicated that 25 to 30 per cent of the population had already been infected by December. These prevalence figures along with declining counts in December-January had stirred speculation that India may be approaching herd immunity. Why then has such a growth taken place? Sundararaman: The “threshold level of herd immunity” required to prevent Covid-19 spread is estimated to be anywhere between 60 per cent and 75 per cent. The exact level depends on the infectivity of the virus. Given that only 25 per cent of the population was immune in December, another 450 million would have to get infection if we were to reach a herd immunity level of 60 per cent through natural infections alone. Even with 1 per cent or less mortality rates, the number of deaths in the country would be unacceptably high. Achieving this herd immunity threshold level of 60 per cent does not mean elimination of the disease. It only means the epidemic shrinks vastly. New cases and deaths would continue and there could be outbreaks in sections of the population where infection or vaccination levels are low, like rural areas. Achieving herd immunity by infection — as different from vaccinations — was never a strategy of control and we were never near achieving it. Nor is it a credible explanation for the declining cases after the first wave. Q: What drives this second wave? Is it even possible to predict how high can the peak go or how long this wave will last? Sundararaman: In most countries the second wave has been larger than the first. In some there has been a smaller second peak but then a large third wave. Only New Zealand and a few other countries are an exception to this rule. Some countries that did well in the first round have done a good job of containing the second round. Like South Korea or Australia or Thailand — but others like Brazil and Mexico or many European countries did not. Second and subsequent waves are not due to re-infections. Reinfection remains an exceptional event. Second waves are also unlikely to be due to mutant strains. Mutant strains in India have not been linked to increased infectivity (except to some extent in Punjab) and cannot explain the second wave in most countries. Blaming slackening of social distancing and masking, has some truth to it, but this is only a partial and inadequate explanation. Covid-19 infection spreads along social networks of people in frequent contact with each other. Within a geography like a village or city ward, there are multiple heterogeneous social networks in terms of inter-mixing, observance of rules, cultural practices, health-seeking behaviour, and stigma. The inter-connections between networks or clusters of people are semi-random, irregular and unpredictable. Thus, the disease can burn out within one cluster of the people by a combination of this group having more immune persons, and/or better control measures and health behaviours. But the disease continues to spread at low levels within non-immune persons in this cluster and to other clusters which are more susceptible. Soon, the density of cases within new clusters reaches levels that spark off outbreaks. A very good disease surveillance system should be able to detect and respond promptly to small potentially-containable cluster-level outbreaks — but discovered too late these multiple outbreaks have snowballed into a second wave. Another reason for late discovery and response to small cluster outbreaks is the laxity in implementing test, track and treat protocols outside known hotspots and, surprisingly, extensive stigma and Covid-19-denial in the community. We have observed this in our field studies. Going by other countries’ experience, India’s second wave is likely to be larger than its first, but how high it will go will depend both on effectiveness of control measures and on this unpredictable element of how it spreads within these inter-connected clusters. There is no accurate way to predict the peak or duration of this second wave. Maharashtra’s cases are already more than double the September peak, and still rising. Perhaps this wave will subside by May, but as long as the majority of people are non-immune to the disease, and disease surveillance and response is sub-optimal, there would be even more waves to follow. Achieving adequate levels of herd immunity through scaling up vaccination is currently the most ethical and effective way to get out of this crisis situation — but even this is not a standalone solution. Q: Is the Centre better prepared to face the second wave as compared to the first? The Centre has attributed the spread to two factors (1) lack of precautions by people, (2) laxity in public health measures such as isolation, contact tracing, quarantine, and testing with RT-PCR. How best can these be addressed? Sundararaman: There are some strengths India has acquired while managing the first wave. Firstly, vaccines are now available. We must urgently develop a vaccine delivery strategy that prioritises the population sub-groups by occupation and marginalisation, who are most at risk and from whom spread is most likely. Secondly, India has immensely expanded testing capacity — from 1,200 tests and three testing centres to over 1.2 million tests per day and about 2,500 testing centres. Over 90 per cent of production is domestic. The challenge here is to address inequities in access due to both due price and non-price barriers. Another strength is that the necessary intensive care unit management skills and equipment and beds have increased considerably. But the concern is that this would still be short of requirements. Also, the cost and quality regulations in the private sector care are very poorly designed and implemented, and even patients with PM-JAY coverage are unable to access free hospital services. However, there is clearly much to be done on health behaviour. The failure to achieve behaviour change must not be blamed on people in a passive and helpless manner. By now the public health leadership should have gathered good evidence from research on the most effective approaches to behaviour change communication within specific circumstances in which people are living. An excessive reliance on law and order approaches is worse than ineffective. It leads to stigmatisation and denial of the problem that makes measures like contact tracing, isolation and testing even more difficult to practise. There are examples of community engagement for such purposes — but this requires to be made the norm and scaled up rapidly. Q: The Centre says for each positive case, at least 20 close contacts should be traced and quarantined. For 80,000 new cases, that would mean tracing 1.6 million contacts across the country daily. Is that even possible? What is the best strategy forward? Sundararaman: A nationwide aggregation of the figure makes the task look impossible. But this average of 20 close contacts per case is an eminently achievable and essential objective. Centralised solutions like Aarogya Setu have failed quite miserably. To achieve this objective, the government must decentralise this task completely to local governments, to employers, to social security agencies and to other local organisations and associations — all of which should be working with outreach workers of the public health system. Contact tracing is not a police function. It is the function of social workers who have the community’s trust. Contact tracing remains relevant even when community transmission is established and disease is widespread — since at the local level, the target is on limiting spread within clusters and across clusters. Physical barricading of houses and streets where there are infections in contrast, followed at local levels, is a useless if not a harmful measure. The government has an old weakness in failing to make communities active participants in health care. This has only worsened with home departments and general administration taking over these public health functions. But the second wave is an opportunity to get back the public into public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Finger at Modi government’s anti-maoist policy failure||Several security experts on Sunday questioned the Narendra Modi government’s anti-Maoist policy as news arrived that the insurgents had ambushed and killed at least 22 security force personnel in Chhattisgarh. “The recurring attacks on security personnel in Chhattisgarh belie the government’s tall claim that the demonetisation had choked the Maoists’ funds and broken their backbone,” a former CRPF director-general told The Telegraph. He said Amit Shah had after taking over as Union home minister in 2019 told the security bosses at his first meeting with them that Kashmir and the Maoist insurgency were his topmost priorities. “But the government has so far not delivered. This government has no strategic formulation to counter the Maoists,” the ex-DG said. Soon after coming to power in 2014, the Modi government had promised a “hard-nosed” anti-Maoist policy, criticising the UPA for adopting what it alleged was a “weak-kneed” strategy. Then home minister Rajnath Singh had unveiled a four-pronged strategy after meeting the chief secretaries and police chiefs of the 10 Maoist-affected states, including Chhattisgarh. The four prongs were: security, development, the rights and entitlements of the tribal people, and the management of the public perception. However, the ambitious policy remained on paper, apparently because the home ministry failed to achieve the required level of coordination with other ministries such as tribal affairs, rural development, road transport and highways, and environment and forests. “The policy got tied up in red tape and finally junked. It required inter-ministerial consultations, and the infrastructure-related projects needed clearances from other ministries,” a home ministry official said. He said that during the UPA rule, then home minister P. Chidambaram too had announced a “clear, hold and develop” policy but it did not yield significant results. The dead Eight of the dead jawans were from the District Reserve Guard, seven from the CRPF’s elite Cobra commando unit, six from state police’s special task force and one from the CRPF’s Bastariya battalion. The lone missing jawan belongs to the Cobra unit. Two of the dead Cobra commandos were from Assam: Dilip Kumar Das from Barpeta and Bablu Rambha from Goalpara. Shah cut short his election campaign in Assam, returned to Delhi and held a high-level meeting on Sunday evening to review the security situation in Chhattisgarh. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar and senior CRPF officials attended the meeting. Shah had earlier told reporters in Assam the government would give a fitting reply. President Ramnath Kovind and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted condolence messages. Chhattisgrah chief minister Bhupesh Baghel promised intensified anti-Maoist operations. Maoists have killed security personnel in a series of attacks in Chhattisgarh since the demonetisation. On March 23 this year, five District Reserve Guard personnel were killed when the Maoists blew up their bus in Narayanpur district. On March 21 last year, 17 jawans were killed in an ambush in Minpa, Sukma. On April 9, 2019, BJP legislator Bhima Mandavi and four security personnel were killed when the Maoists blew up their vehicle in Dantewada. In April 2017, the Maoists massacred 25 CRPF personnel in Burkapal, Sukma, a month after killing 12 CRPF jawans in Sukma. Of the country’s 31 Maoist-hit districts, 13 are in Jharkhand, 8 in Chhattisgarh and 4 in Bihar. Intelligence reports suggest the rebels are regrouping in Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Maharashtra. A Union home ministry report says that Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand together accounted for over 70 per cent of Maoist violence and 75 per cent of the killings in 2017 and 2018. Bihar, Odisha and Maharashtra reported 13 per cent, 8.2 per cent and 7.1 per cent of the violence, respectively. Some 90,000 CRPF personnel are now deployed in the Maoist zones of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections 2021: Punch-line push in last lap||The campaign for the April 6 Tamil Nadu polls ended on Sunday evening, its last leg marked by a high-voltage ad blitz focused more on punch lines than bread-and-butter issues. On Friday, the DMK-led alliance that includes the Congress, Left, MDMK, VCK, IUML and other small parties, took out a two-page ad in the major dailies urging the voters not to fall for the ruling coalition’s “bizarre fascist dreams”. The ad contained cartoons attacking the Citizenship Amendment Act and the new farm laws, among other issues, and chided the ruling AIADMK for supporting ally BJP on these matters. The AIADMK hit back on Sunday with a four-page ad strewn with images of news reports from a decade ago  — when the DMK was in power  — about power cuts and alleged land-grabbing by the then government. In between, the BJP had come out with a full-page advertisement on Saturday charging the DMK with being anti-Hindu and corrupt. It also accused the DMK of doing nothing, as a partner in the then ruling UPA, to stop the killing of Tamils during the last phase of the Sri Lankan civil war in 2009. Rarely has this kind of a media war been witnessed during elections in the state. The BJP sought to send out a discreet eleventh hour signal to the voters by announcing the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for superstar actor Rajinikanth. But it was DMK president Stalin who made merry with a famous one-liner from a Rajinikanth film, where he plays a man named Arunachalam: “Aandavan solran, Arunachalam seigiraan (Whatever God says, Arunachalam does).” Stalin used it in the sense of “Whatever Stalin says, Palaniswami does”  — a sly allegation that chief minister E.K. Palaniswami’s campaign consists of parroting promises earlier made by the DMK leader. While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has portrayed the battle as a BJP-RSS bid to dominate the state by “controlling” the AIADMK, Stalin has concentrated his attacks largely on the AIADMK. Stalin made a whirlwind tour of the 16 Chennai city constituencies on Sunday, winding up in Kolathur from where he is contesting. He accused the AIADMK government of the last 10 years of ignoring issues related to people’s daily lives. “Commission, corruption, collection” was the ruling party’s motto, he alleged, adding that even the government’s handling of the pandemic was not free of these “three Cs”. AIADMK campaigners led by Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam dubbed the DMK the “originators” of corruption in the state, asking voters not to give the party of “land grabbers” another chance. They also raised the spectre of lawlessness if the DMK returned to power. The AIADMK’s principal ally, the BJP, built on this negative narrative. “Do you want development or Udayanidhi Stalin?” asked Union home minister Amit Shah, hitting out at Stalin’s son while campaigning for actor Khushbu Sundar, BJP candidate from the Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai. Udayanidhi is contesting from the neighbouring Chepauk-Triplicane seat where 30 per cent of the electorate are minorities and view the new citizenship regime with concern. Udayanidhi has directed a series of barbs at Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his campaign speeches, prompting the BJP to accuse him of defamation in a complaint to the poll panel on Saturday. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam electioneered on their respective home turfs of Edappadi in Salem and Bodi in Theni on Sunday, consolidating their campaigns on the last day. Actor Kamal Haasan’s MNM and the AMMK, led by Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, leading the two other fronts battling for the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly, spiritedly ploughed their own furrows, unfazed by the glitter of the two Dravidian majors’ campaigns. Campaigning ended on Sunday also for the 30-seat Puducherry House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Protesting farmers try to gherao minister Som Parkash ||Protesting farmers on Sunday tried to gherao Union minister Som Parkash at the BJP office at Shastri Nagar in Hoshiarpur, Punjab, but police thwarted their attempt. The Union minister of state for commerce and industry had gone to the local BJP office to attend a party meeting. When the farmers protesting against the three farm laws heard of this, they headed there to gherao him but were stopped at three points by the police. Farmers then raised slogans against the Central government and the minister, who is also the MP from Hoshiarpur. Parkash remained in the party office for about two hours and then left under heavy police protection. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against  BJP leaders to register their disapproval of the three new farm laws forced by the Centre that they see as their “death warrant”. On Saturday, farmers were injured in Rohtak, Haryana, in police action when they were protesting against the chief minister’s visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||How the saffron cat has been catching the mice||Deng Xiaoping famously said it did not matter if the cat was white or black as long as it caught mice. This was considered pragmatism about an open-market-oriented economic policy for China. China’s spectacular economic success since then as a rising superpower has led to repeated celebrations of this quip as a self-evident pragmatic truth about relying on economic liberalisation as the way to success. If pragmatism is a virtue in itself, it should apply elsewhere too. Politics is not so distant from economics, so let us see how it fares there. China’s one-party system is a good pink cat because it catches more than 99 per cent votes in any election anywhere, including Hong Kong. Deng, who did not carry the excess baggage of any ideology, would probably have agreed. Now see how it works with its biggest neighbour India, which takes pride in its multi-party democracy. In the electoral game each party is out to catch the maximum possible number of mice, namely seats. And in our first-past-the-post system, Narendra Modi is the hero with the BJP getting about 38 per cent votes but enjoying a majority in Parliament. How does it matter whether it’s a black, white or saffron cat? It has caught the mice all right. Absolute pragmatism is not bound by ideology. However, this is not true of the BJP. It has Hindutva, which sets a boundary to its pragmatism. In the absence of any coherent theory, ancient Indian “history” is a cornerstone of its ideology. As Prime Minister Modi explained: “India’s history is also that which the common people of India have kept in the folk stories of India, that has been carried forward by generations.” (Deccan Herald, February 17, 2021). Anthropologists and historians often take myths and rituals seriously as a possible source from which undocumented history might be deciphered. Not so with our current Prime Minister and many of his colleagues. Unadulterated myth is history for them. So Ganesha’s elephant head was a result of plastic surgery (Modi). The Mahabharat’s Sanjay had Internet technology and satellites to aid him (Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb). Darwin’s theory of evolution is wrong because our ancestors haven’t said anywhere that they have seen a monkey turn into a man (then junior HRD minister Satyapal Singh). Nuclear tests are not new to India because the sage Kanad had conducted a nuclear test centuries ago (Ramesh Pokhriyal, who has since become Union education minister). It’s a short distance from this to the saffron establishment’s modern-day beliefs like the cow being our mother and Ram having been born in a particular spot, where the Ram temple will be built. This rather remarkable version of India’s ancient history, embellished with its modern-day beliefs, appeals to many in this land of gurus and babas. And yet this version of Indian history, black or white, was not a good enough cat that could catch enough mice to propel the BJP to political power. It required pragmatism of a different kind, which was injected in two massive doses. First, a version of history that was marinated in the hatred of Muslims by depicting them as invaders who had violated that glorious ancient history, diminishing the Hindus. Neither V.D. Savarkar nor Guru Golwalkar ever quite explained why the Muslims alone and not the British deserved this distinction. The Hindu elements even in the Congress may have had some sympathy for this view, but officially fought against the British coloniser. The RSS never joined the anti-colonial movement; rather, it helped the British. So it took a long time for the BJP to be counted as a serious contestant for power. However, once the BJP broke that barrier, a heavier second dose was administered. It emphasised that the Hindu Rashtra in the making needed to be protected against Muslims in particular, and perhaps other religions too. The government under the BJP took up that challenge. However, meeting that challenge required that no fine distinction be made between government and country. Once you see the beauty of the equation, the rest follows easily. The government has to defend the county against invaders from inside and outside, including those anti-nationals who have either destroyed our glorious history or betrayed the country by criticising its government. Naturally they have to be ruthlessly dealt with for the sake of the nation, which means the government. What appears to many to be unjustified repression of all kinds of dissent is the need of the hour to defend the country. What appears legitimate dissent against government policy can never be legitimate. It is dangerous and must be dealt with ruthlessly using the sedition law. This is a sound strategy under a determined leader who knows how to be decisive and use authority, with the country in awe of his authority. It’s a wonderful strategy, this sedition law. It neatly divides the people between those who support the leader, the real nationalistic patriots, and the treacherous anti-nationalists who are out to divide the country. There is of course a silent middle (maybe they are in the majority), but who cares so long as they are in awe, if not of the leader then certainly of the sedition charges that can in one stroke destroy their lives. The silent majority will see no evil, hear no evil and most important, speak no evil against the government. Can there be a better pragmatic cat that can catch all the mice? And the people will be made aware of the colour of the cat, which is neither black nor white, not even red, but saffron. But then, why is this fool-proof strategy not working so well on the ground? Too many fault lines seem to be appearing. Portent of an earthquake? Take for example the project of the Hindu Rashtra. Dalits started questioning its very foundation — the caste system, which they claim is loaded against them. Following Ambedkar they went back to Bhima Koregaon to commemorate the historic event of Dalit valour against the upper caste Peshwas. They had to be stopped, and two local upper caste patriots did the needful rioting. However, for a delicate matter like the caste system this was too crude, tending to widen the fault lines. Pragmatism fortified by the sedition law demanded a better solution. The police took little time to change the narrative, shifting the focus from caste to sedition, in particular a conspiracy to kill our leader. Charges of a conspiracy to wage war against the State were lodged in no time against a group of writers, lawyers, poets and human right activists. They were all anti-nationals, not in awe of the government, and had been committing the worst crime of seeing, hearing and speaking out against evil. Evidence was found in their computers. The cat had caught the mice. But then, who would have known that there are experts in Boston who would come up with evidence of malware implanted in the suspects’ computers? It could not be hushed up, because there are newspapers like The Washington Post, which had brought down former US President Richard Nixon over the Watergate scandal. Unlike our pliable media which sees no evil and therefore speaks no evil so that the citizens hear no evil, The Post published the opinion of the Boston experts. One of the lawyers who had argued against the conspiracy case and had arranged to send the supposed police evidence to Boston, said this was only the tip of the iceberg. Some more anti-nationals immediately saw the evil possibility of similarly implanted malware and the tampering of the electronic voting machines. Other political parties should have had an interest in taking this up vigorously, but they did not. Of the largest national parties, one is paralysed by the parivarvad of “Mummy and her two”, and the other is paralysed by another parivarvad of “Hum do, hamara do” (We are two, and have nurtured two). So the cat can probably continue to catch all the inconvenient mice, with a silent middle. But that silent middle, for long blind, deaf and mute to evil, is suddenly stirring to life. They are the farmers, millions of them across the country who have started seeing through this game of evils. The cat is being swamped by mice, millions of them. If the cat is pragmatic, it should realise that the show cannot go on much longer. Amit Bhaduri is an economist and was professor emeritus at JNU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: All eyes on cleric who talks jobs, education and amity ||The 31 seats going to polls on Tuesday in the third phase will decide whether the new political equation put forth by the CPM and agreed upon, albeit reluctantly, by the Congress will change Bengal’s political landscape. In their struggle for existence, the two parties have held the hand of a religious leader from the minority community who keeps the skullcap on his head, but talks about education, jobs, Hindu-Muslim and Muslim-Dalit unity and not the dogma that he spewed till even a year ago. The next phase of polls in parts of South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly does not have the high profile focus of the second phase that saw Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikary locking horns in Nandigram. But it will be watched for Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui, the newest entrant in Bengal’s politics who has latched on to two grand old parties: the Congress and the Left. Both have been out of power in Bengal for some time now. Congress had a brief taste between 2011 and 2012 when it was in alliance with the Trinamul. It is largely forgotten that the Bengal Congress despite its shrunken size had a role to play in putting an end to the 34 years of Left rule in Bengal. The Muslim vote in Bengal is between 28 per cent to 30 per cent and since the 2008 panchayat polls, the vote has shifted from the Left to Mamata. The next phase of polling is crucial because it will decide whether the emergence of Siddiqui has made any dent in Mamata’s support base among the minority community. A shift in the Muslim vote could help the Left in retaining some of the vote share that it had lost to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The ISF has fielded 26 candidates _ Bengal has 294 seats in all _ after several rounds of parleys with the CPM. The adjustment has not been smooth with the Congress, for, a section of the party has been uneasy at sharing a dais with the religious cleric turned political leader. “Do you want a government that will say something else to Hindus, Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis? Or, you want a government that will speak in the same voice and language to all the communities?” Siddiqui asked at a rally in Uluberia last week. The Left Front chairman and veteran CPM leader, Biman Bose, accompanied Siddiqui that day.  Some CPM leaders have taken pains to “groom” Siddiqui and keep his focus on socio-economic problems and the importance of communal harmony in a state like West Bengal. “However rough they play we will stop only after hitting the goal. Whatever needs to be done to form the government in 2021, we will do that,” said Siddiqui. The ISF candidates' list for the 2021 polls is a mix of Muslims and Hindus, including Brahmins and Dalits. It has fielded candidates in Kulpi, Mandirbazar Canning East (South 24-parganas), Jagatballabhpur (Howrah), Jangipara, Haripal and Khanakul (in Hooghly) which will vote on April 6. Elsewhere in these three districts, the ISF will campaign extensively for Left candidates. In late November 2019, when the Pirzada was toying with the idea of a political party, Siddiqui had sent out feelers to all major political parties in Bengal, barring the BJP, seeking an electoral alliance or adjustment. It so happened that both the CPM and the Congress, who had then made up their mind to reignite the experiment of 2016, thought it prudent to include another partner, the CPM more welcoming than the Congress. Traditionally, Bengal has never had a Muslim political leader with a pan-Bengal appeal. The Congress or the Left parties have had many a stalwart from the minority community. But none of those leaders, like, say, the Congress’ ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury, were representative of the community in the strict terms. In 2016, Mamata had picked up the Bengal unit chief of the Jamait Ulema-e-Hind, Siddiqullah Chowdhury, a bitter critic of the Left, who held sway over 900 Madrasas in the state and was believed to have a say in the community. For years, Muslim clerics made appeals from the Trinamul dais to vote against the CPM. At one point of time, Mamata had actively wooed Abbas Sidiqqui’s uncle Pirzada Toha Siddiqui. Siddiqullah went on to become a minister in the incumbent government. The decision then was considered a masterstroke. Cut to 2021. Despite facing her most crucial election, Mamata ignored the overtures of Siddiqui, opting instead to rely on her connect with the community via her “service”. Whether that decison was to her advantage will be known only on May 2 when the EVMs are opened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi’s tone while addressing Mamata ‘unbecoming of a PM’||A news conference was held at Trinamul Bhavan on Sunday to voice concern at the harassment of a woman by the Prime Minister, possibly the first time such a charge has been brought against the occupant of the highest office in the country. The conference was addressed by Bengal minister of state for women and child development and social welfare Shashi Panja, state child rights commission chairperson Ananya Chakraborti and actor and politician June Malia who is a Trinamul candidate from Midnapore. The tone in which Narendra Modi has been addressing chief minister Mamata Banerjee, repeatedly calling out to her as “Didi, o Didi”, was unbecoming of a Prime Minister, the speakers said. Panja said the conference had been called to express concern about the Prime Minister’s behaviour. “We respect the chair that the Prime Minister occupies. He is not showing respect to that chair. So it is becoming difficult for us as well to show respect for the person who occupies that chair,” she said. The way Modi was calling out Banerjee’s name qualified as “taunt kata” or “titkiri mara”, Panja said. The Bengali expressions refer to men making lewd comments about women. This was misogynistic and worrying, Panja said. “That the chief minister of a state was being humiliated in this way was a matter of grave concern,” she added. “The law of the country protects women from such harassment and such heckling,” Panja said. “We believe in the judicial system and we believe that there will be justice.” Malia said she had not imagined even in her nightmares that she would have to address such a matter. She said the Prime Minister’s words were an insult to all women. She added that no Indian Prime Minister in history had ever stooped so low. In a patriarchal society it is very easy to “assassinate the character” of women but the high chair of the Prime Minister should preclude such activity, she said. Chakraborti said that “dharma” meant upholding the right values and she did not feel Modi was following any dharma. The Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah, who are frequenting the state to address electoral rallies, are showing complete disregard for their positions in their speeches, the speakers said. Saying she was quoting from data the Gujarat government had placed in the Vidhan Sabha, Chakraborti said the BJP-ruled state had reported two murders and four rapes every day on an average in the last two years. State capital Ahmedabad reported the highest number of incidents of rape. In two years, 460 rape incidents have been reported in Ahmedabad. Bengal should not be turned into a Gujarat, Chakraborti said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Didi dubs Narendra Modi’s cash order illegal ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had illegally and unconstitutionally instructed state government officials to make a list of farmers eligible for funds from the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. During a poll rally in Hooghly on Saturday, Modi said if the BJP government came to power in Bengal it would transfer the PM Kisan grant amount, including arrears, to the tune of Rs 18,000, to accounts of farmers before Durga Puja. “You are giving instruction to my workers when election is on. What do you think of yourself? Are you God or Superman?” Mamata said without naming Modi at her rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “Yesterday (Saturday) he came for a meeting (campaign rally) and what he said does not behove a Prime Minister. You may make a speech but as a Prime Minister how can you instruct state government officials to prepare a list in violation of election conduct (model code of conduct)? You have no right to instruct officials of my government. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” she said. Modi, with an eye on the farmer votes, had “issued instructions” to state government officials at a rally in Hooghly’s Haripal on Saturday. The central scheme of providing Rs 6,000 annually to farmers was a point of conflict between the Union and the state governments as the latter refused to implement initially. Later, the state government asked that the cash be routed through them, a plea the Centre refused. “…The government officials here, today I urge them as well, whatever happened in the past 10 years happened...now you’ll get the opportunity to serve Bengal. Now till May 2 when the results come out you have time. Wherever polls are over, officials there should start making the list of farmers, check their bank accounts and Aadhaar numbers, so that as soon as the decision is made, the money starts getting disbursed immediately,” Modi had said. Mamata, who addressed five rallies in Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas on Sunday, the last day of campaign for constituencies going to the polls on April 6, criticised Modi for his “desperation”. “They will not win 50 seats and dream of coming to power in Bengal. What will happen if I instruct your officials in Delhi?” Mamata said in Baruipur of South 24-Parganas on Sunday. Mamata attacked Modi for saying that he would attend the swearing-in of the new BJP government in Bengal. “Prime Minister, we will not invite you to our swearing-in. Your presence at the oath-taking ceremony means inviting blood in Bengal…Their (BJP) security deposits will be forfeited in many seats,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul and BJP vie for tea and tourism votes ||Political parties, particularly Trinamul and the BJP, are putting every effort to win support from stakeholders of the tea and tourism industries in the run-up to the Assembly elections in north Bengal — set to start from phase 4 on April 10. Tea has been the main employer for decades in north Bengal, a region with 54 Assembly seats. Even today, around four lakh people are directly associated with the sector in five of eight districts of north Bengal. However, the impetus on tourism spiked particularly after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, and over the decade this industry emerged as the largest employer with around five lakh people associated with this sector directly and indirectly. During past 10 years, the Trinamul government has managed to increase the daily tea wage from Rs 67 to Rs 202. The state government has also extended social welfare schemes to the tea population, developed roads, opened the first Hindi college of the state in the Dooars tea belt and facilitated the reopening of a number of closed tea gardens. For the first time last year, it also took up the initiative to provide free houses to tea workers under a state-sponsored scheme. “Lakhs of tea garden workers have gained from these initiatives. The BJP leaders and the central ministers, on the other hand, have only made hollow promises. We are confident that the tea population is with us,” said Mannalal Jain, a leader of Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union. The saffron camp, on the other hand, has also come up with announcements, keeping in mind the Assembly elections of Assam and Bengal, the two major tea producing states of the country. This year, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed to provide a corpus of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of tea workers, particularly women and children. In its Bengal poll manifesto, BJP said that if voted to power in the state, it would ensure tea workers get a daily wage of Rs 350. “We have said that the new (central) labour codes can help tea workers get higher wages and other benefits, too,” said Manoj Tigga, the BJP MP of Alipurduar. In the tourism sector, Trinamul is believed to enjoy an edge over the BJP. Arguably north Bengal’s tallest leader from Trinamul, state tourism minister Gautam Deb — who is hoping to retain his Dabgram-Fulbari seat for the third time, pointed out the major developments in the tourism sector in the region under Mamata’s rule that include “Bhorer Alo,” the mega tourism hub, the Bengal Safari Park, the new tourist destination, Lamahatta, and new accommodations in the hills and Dooars. “During the past decade, thousands have found earning options in the tourism sector, and not just in north Bengal (but the entire state). The concept of homestay accommodations has developed and people even in remote rural areas are earning from home,” said Deb. In recent months, the BJP is also giving importance to the tourism sector. Earlier this year, the BJP-ruled Centre held cultural events in Cooch Behar and Darjeeling to promote local culture and tourism, its first such initiative in the region. “We have tourism in focus and plan to introduce new tourist circuits, along with development of infrastructure. Those have been elaborately mentioned in our poll manifesto,” said Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate from Siliguri. “Both the rival political camps have come up with announcements and sops related to these sectors, which makes the 2021 elections more interesting in north Bengal,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Let women poll agents replace cowards, says Didi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday asked Trinamul leaders to depute women as polling agents to replace “cowards” who leave booths unguarded on vote day in the face of alleged threats from the BJP. Her directive came after her party failed to depute polling agents in some 28 polling stations in Nandigram on April 1, where she contested against her former party colleague and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in what is being seen as the epic poll battle of 2021. “I am not ready to listen to excuses like BJP’s threats or BJP’s attacks for not (someone from Trinamul) being present at the booth on the day of polling. I request those who are not brave, please don’t go to the booth. I am asking you (leaders) to depute women as polling agents in a booth. Assign my Kanyashree sisters, my students as polling agents,” said Mamata at a rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “In case the bravehearts are not available, find a woman who can argue, who has the strength and place them as polling agents. Depute the women at booths and I will see who comes to threaten (them),” Mamata said. Sources said that though Mamata spoke of the BJP’s threats, in Nandigram many Trinamul agents were actually hand-in-glove with the BJP, indicating the saffron camp’s alleged use of money power. A polling agent plays a vital role in ensuring fairness inside the booth by objecting to and reporting electoral malpractices. Thus, the absence of a polling agent of a particular party gives an advantage to its rivals. Trinamul leaders welcomed the suggestion to depute women at polling booths but they also pointed out  that there were not many women who had the experience to handle the job. “The job is very tough as the agent needs to mark all voters in the list who have cast their votes. We always send experienced persons inside booths. Agents need to be trained about their duties inside the booth. We don’t know whether we will get sufficient women to work as polling agents at this eleventh hour. However, we will try,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Hooghly. On Sunday, Mamata asked her party workers at a rally in Howrah’s Amta to bring polling agents from other places in keeping with new norms of the Election Commission of India. The earlier rule of a polling agent having to be a voter of that specific polling station has been amended this time. The Election Commission this time has ruled a person enrolled as a voter in an Assembly constituency can be a polling agent anywhere in that constituency. “Those who say that they are afraid, don’t allow them to be inside the booth. Now, according to the BJP’s wishes the Election Commission has allowed deputing polling agents from other booths, too. Think about it.  You (leaders) have to keep polling agents always in booths in some pockets where the BJP will try to loot the votes,” Mamata said at a rally in Howrah’s Amta. The chief minister also spoke about the reason for her going to the polling booth in Nandigram’s Boyal on April 1 and staying there for over “three hours”. She said that it was her way to foil the BJP’s “plan” to capture 70 booths with the help of the police or BJP supporters in police uniforms. “They had planned to cast false votes in 70 booths with the help of the police or their (BJP) men in police uniforms. I went and stayed there for three hours. I did not enter inside the booth but waited outside. I know the rule. Let the (Election) Commission send me a notice,” said the chief minister at a rally in Baruipur of South 24-Parganas on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Pre-midnight crowd cheers for young Left leader||A young Left leader took to the stage in Jadavpur’s Gangulybagan at 11.20pm on Saturday before a packed house that cheered her loudly. The sight was unusual, both because of the late hour and because the rally was organised by the CPM, which was ousted from power in Bengal 10 years ago and got a meagre 7 per cent vote share in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But Minakshi Mukherjee, 37, the state president of DYFI and the CPM’s bet in Nandigram against chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, proved she was a star, no matter what the results on May 2 say. The Nandigram election got over on April 1, and since Saturday, Minakshi is campaigning for Sanjukta Morcha nominees across the state. She was at Gangulybagan to campaign for CPM veteran and Jadavpur MLA Sujan Chakraborty and the party’s Tollygunge candidate Debdut Ghosh. The moment her arrival was announced, the crowd started chanting “Comrade Minakshi Mukherjee laal salaam”. Youngsters with cell phones rushed to record her speech or click pictures. Chakraborty had defeated Trinamul’s Manish Gupta by 14,942 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls in Jadavpur, considered a Left bastion. “The welcome and warmth of the people of Jadavpur was overwhelming. Most of whom who had turned up for the meeting so late in the night were not party cadres. They were common people, many had lost their jobs or did not have one,” Minakshi told The Telegraph, adding some 4,000 people were present at the meeting that ended around 11.45pm. The CPM believes that individuals do not matter and places party’s policies and programmes above anything else. Still, the CPM did recently tap into the goodwill of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee who in a recorded message urged voters to support Sanjukta Morcha candidates. “The sight of a crowd waiting to hear Minakshi so late in the night goes to show that individuals do matter in parliamentary democracy,” said a CPM supporter present at Saturday’s rally. Throughout Saturday, Minakshi campaigned for many Morcha candidates. “I’m doing whatever the party is asking me to,” she said. The excitement around Minakshi is not a one-off case, said Indraneel Dasgupta, who teaches economics at the Indian Statistical Institute. “A normal middle-class Bengali citizen still looks up to government jobs. In the last 10 years this area has gone for a toss. Even the private sector gives little employment opportunities in Bengal. As young Left candidates (Minakshi, Dipsita Dhar, Aishe Ghosh, Srijan Bhattacharya, Pratik Ur Rahman) are talking about correcting the situation, many voters are connecting to that,” Dasgupta said, adding that Minakshi also spoke without jargons that added to her appeal. “She is somebody who seems to be speaking to the average person about things that matter in a way that is refreshingly free of jargons. She comes with the credibility of having been there and done that in terms of struggling through life,” Dasgupta said. “Her nomination from Nandigram has added to her popularity.” A state CPM leader admitted that a large crowd so late  was unusual. “We still have a base in Jadavpur, yet this Saturday crowd was an eye-opener for us in many ways.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC to pit Jaya Bachchan against Mithun Chakraborty for campaign||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan reached Calcutta on Sunday evening to campaign for the ruling Trinamul in the Assembly polls. The actress-politician and wife of Amitabh Bachchan will stay in the city till April 7 and is likely to start her campaign  on Monday from Tollygunge where Trinamul’s Aroop Biswas is pitted against singer-turned-minister Babul Supriyo of the BJP. “Respected actor Jaya Bachchan is in Calcutta to stand by Mamatadi. We are indebted to her. She will herself reveal the reason behind her visit to Bengal through a news conference on Monday,” said Trinamul national spokesperson Derek O’Brien. Sources in the party said that the Padma Shri winner was Trinamul’s answer to actor Mithun Chakraborty, now a  star campaigner of the BJP. Born a Bengali and known for her contribution to both Bengali and Hindi films, Bachchan is a known critic of the BJP government at the Centre. She will reach Trinamul Bhavan on EM Bypass on Monday where she will be received by the party’s parliamentary committee, after which she will address a news meet. A Trinamul source added that Bachchan was roped in to counter Chakraborty’s rallies and road shows. “It can’t be denied that Mithunda is still a star for Bengal and his rallies draw large crowds. Jayadi, we believe, has a similar aura among the Bengali electorate, which we want to use,” the source said. “It is also true that Mamatadi is trying her best to woo women voters and Jayadi might speak against the toxic masculinity of the BJP leaders and how it makes her feel as a woman.” Bachchan will hold two campaign rallies for Trinamul every day from April 5 to 7, and also share the stage with party chief Mamata Banerjee, sources said. On March 1, Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, had extended his support to Mamata at a news meet. “I will ask all our well-wishers to support Mamata Banerjee, to secure another victory for her…. We fully agree with her concerns about the BJP,” he had said. Mamata had written to leaders of 14 political parties on March 31, urging them to come together to save India’s democracy against the BJP’s alleged autocracy. “We welcome her to Bengal.… Bengal polls will become more colourful with her presence,” said Samik Bhattacharya, Bengal BJP chief spokesperson. “But, all said and done, none of this will help Trinamul’s sinking ship,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata’s Boyal booth charges incorrect, says Election Commission ||The Election Commission of India (EC) has rubbished chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s claims of the presence of outsiders in booth 7 of the Boyal Maktab Primary School in Nandigram and intimidation of voters by central force jawans during the poll process on April 1. The poll panel has termed the allegations “factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance”. Trinamul supremo Mamata, who is contesting from Nandigram, was stuck for over two hours inside the booth. In its five-page reply to the chief minister’s notes to the poll panel, which she wrote by hand when she was stuck in the booth, the EC said that the reports from various levels of officers engaged in the poll process suggest “there was no report of any violence, nor was there any intimidation of voters”. “It is self-evident from the perusal of all the reports that the allegations mentioned in your hand-written note are factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance. In fact it is a matter of deep regret that a media narrative was sought to be weaved hour after hour to misguide the biggest stakeholders which is the voters by a candidate who also happens to be Hon’ble CM of the state.… There could not have been a greater misdemeanour,” EC secretary general Umesh Sinha wrote to her on Saturday. Mamata could not leave the booth — flanked by two neighbourhoods divided between two communities and opposing political loyalties — as sloganeering crowds swelled. Riot police under the supervision of IPS officer Nagendra Tripathi came after she made a series of calls — to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the EC, police and administration. Sinha wrote that the situation became tense after she arrived at the booth at 1.45pm. Though Trinamul complained that its polling agent was not allowed inside the booth, the EC letter has pointed out that officials had tried to bring the agent as soon as complaints were received at 7.40am, but the agent was unwilling. At 3.35pm, he added, “Shri Nagendra Tripathi very efficiently took Hon’ble CM away from Polling Station with security coverage. People shouted slogans in favour of Hon’ble CM. Thereafter, immediately other people also left.” (sic) The poll panel also wrote there was “no evidence at all to suggest that the BSF jawans who were deployed at the polling station indulged in any inappropriate behaviour”. “Moreover, the complaint that they did not allow voters to go inside the booth is far from truth.” The letter pointed out that the CCTV camera installed in the booth made it clear that polling agents of the BJP, the CPM and an Independent were present inside the polling station during the entire duration of the polling process. “In the reports of officials at various levels there is no mention of either outsiders or guns and goons capturing the booth,” reads the EC letter. The poll panel on Sunday also asked Trinamul to stop enrolling Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste women under a scheme promised in its poll manifesto by way of a  helpline. Sources said Trinamul promised a monthly aid of Rs 1,000 to all SC and ST women in its manifesto. However, complaints emerged that Trinamul was enrolling women for the scheme in some areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Coal case: Enforcement Directorate arrests first police officer   ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Ashok Mishra, inspector-in-charge of Bankura police station, on Sunday, just two days ahead of the third phase of Bengal elections giving the BJP a chance to accuse ruling Trinamul of benefiting from the proceeds of illegal coal smuggling. Mishra is the first police officer to be arrested by one of the two central agencies probing the multi-crore coal pilferage case spanning across several districts of Bengal. “Mishra is instrumental in parking huge amounts of funds in the accounts of several beneficiaries,” said a senior ED officer. “There are reasons to believe about his active involvement in siphoning funds that was collected following pilferage of coal.” A 1995 batch officer, Mishra is believed to be a close relative of Vinay Mishra, a Trinamul youth Congress leader believed to be the kingpin of the multi-crore cattle smuggling case. The CBI had questioned Mishra on three occasions in the past. A few days back the ED had instructed the police officer to appear before a team of its officers in New Delhi for a round of questioning. On Saturday Mishra was interrogated for several hours at ED’s Delhi office. Early on Sunday he was arrested. Vinay is absconding and police have issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him. In March the ED arrested his brother Bikash from New Delhi. Sources in ED said that Bankura features prominently among several districts from where pilfered coal would find its way to small factory units and other buyers riding a nexus of senior police officers and businessmen who allegedly enjoyed political patronage. A large part of the money that was collected from the sale of pilfered coal across several districts of South Bengal, including Bankura, East and West Burdwan along with Birbhum would allegedly reach these politicians in Calcutta and Mishra played a key role in this distribution of money, ED officials alleged. “Mishra has thorough knowledge of how this nexus of politicians, businessmen and policemen worked. We would want to know from him about the nodes where money went,” said a senior ED officer. “It will help us track the money and identify the trail the money had taken.” Some police officers working in Bankura and West Burdwan districts said on conditions of anonymity that Ashok Mishra would help officers get lucrative postings against money since he enjoyed good rapport with some Trinamul leaders in Calcutta. Sources said Ashok Mishra and another police inspector who is now posted in Purulia and was already questioned by the CBI in Calcutta used to run a racket that ensured lucrative postings of police officers. “The ruling Trinamul and its leaders are direct beneficiaries of this illegal coal smuggling racket... Over Rs 900 crore has been sent directly to Vinay Mishra by the police officer arrested by the ED … This IC (inspector-in-charge) Mishra who has been arrested today was the main architect behind sending it (the money)…” Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari said. On Saturday, the CBI interrogated alleged coal kingpin Anup Maji a.k.a. Lala and Purulia SP V. Selvamurugan in connection with the coal pilferage case. The CID, also probing the same scam since February, has arrested BJP leader and alleged coal smuggler Rajesh Jha a.k.a. Raju and Randhir Singh, an associate of Anup Maji. Both are now in custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul's hill old-timers shun Gurung backers||The Trinamul hill leadership’s decision to support Bimal Gurung in the three hill Assembly seats this time has provoked some Trinamul old-timers into blaming the new leadership of acting in their “self-interest”. Some “founders” of Trinamul in the hills said they could not forget atrocities allegedly perpetrated by Gurung’s party when in power in the hills. Their main grouse was Gurung’s alleged excesses against them between 2012 and 2017. Chewang Bhutia, president of the party’s Kalimpong block 2, said: “Without consultation, three-four leaders took the decision (to back Gurung) for their personal gain. We will not agree to it.” “We were attacked, our families displaced, we had to flee to Siliguri and other places during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation,” alleged Bhutia. For this Assembly election, Mamata Banerjee left the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to Trinamul’s “friends in the hills”. Both Morcha factions, one headed by the Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang, are allies of Trinamul but are contesting against each other. On Saturday, Shanta Chhetri and L.B. Rai, Trinamul district presidents of Kalimpong and Darjeeling, announced backing Gurung. Their reasons were Tamang’s decision not to campaign with Trinamul leaders in the hills, Gurung’s sincerity to support Trinamul in the plains, need to sustain the party in the hills and feedback from Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team. Binny Sharma, a party “founder” in the hills and past district general secretary, said he took up the matter with the party leadership in Calcutta. “The matter has reached our leader Mamata Banerjee’s ears. I was given to understand that there was no such directive from her,” said Sharma. Chhetri on Saturday told this paper the party was working under I-PAC’s direction. “Through The Telegraph we came to know they are claiming the decision was influenced by the I-PAC team. I called the top command in I-PAC and they, too, said the decision had not come through them,” Sharma said in a news meet at Kalimpong on Sunday. Sharma and Bhutia said they would “adhere to any decision of Mamata Banerjee.” “But this decision has not come from her...,” said Sharma. Trinamul started spreading its wings in the hills from 2012 after which the region saw two phases of statehood agitations in 2013 and 2017. During the 2017 agitation, Trinamul was virtually wiped out from the hills but started mushrooming after the Tamang faction of the Morcha tied up with Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Adult female rhino found dead at Jaldapara National Park||An adult female rhino was found dead at the Jaldapara National Park, Bengal’s largest habitat of the one-horned rhino, in Alipurduar district on Sunday. Foresters said its horn is missing and suspect poaching. Senior officials of the state forest department have ordered a probe, but no arrests have been made so far. Sources said on Sunday, forest guards patrolling in Bania 1 & 2 compartments of Chilapata range under Jaldapara wildlife division spotted the carcass. “Preliminary probe showed it died couple of days back. Our men used a metal detector on the carcass and found metal. It seems the rhino may have been shot,” said a senior forest official. Around 300 rhinos reside in Jaldapara. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north), said they have sought a comprehensive report of the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trident of worries for Trinamul in South 24-Parganas bastion||Bankim Hazra, 71, a three-term Trinamul MLA from Sagar in South 24-Parganas, is a relaxed man on Friday. The septuagenarian is finally relieved that his toughest ever campaign schedule spanning 10-11 hours a day has come to an end and his fate has been sealed in EVMs on April 1. “I never had to campaign so hard in my entire political life. I fought against the CPM in 2001 and won with little effort. I had barely campaigned for hours a day in 2001. This time I had to leave home around 6 in the morning and never got the opportunity to take a nap after lunch. It was a tough war this time,” said Hazra, adding that with polling day gone, he could now relax a bit and meet Trinamul workers at nearby party offices in a lighter mood. Not only Hazra, all 31 Trinamul nominees in South 24-Parganas, four of whose seats went to polls on April 1, are devoting extra time to avoid a breach in the party bastion. “It is a perform or perish election for us,” said a Trinamul candidate. Elections to the remaining seats will be held in two phases on April 6 and 10. Bengal’s second largest district has a long coastal stretch and a large part of which is the Sunderbans. The district with a population of over 82 lakh is expected to play a crucial role in deciding who forms the government after May 2. Along with East Midnapore, Trinamul has had an unhindered spell of dominance in South 24-Parganas since 2008. South 24-Parganas is the only district in Bengal that staved off the BJP wave in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the party bagged 18 seats in the state. Trinamul not only secured all three Lok Sabha seats here but had leads in all 31 Assembly segments. Trinamul insiders said Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee had asked all candidates in the district to live up to the challenges of the 2021 polls. Despite Trinamul’s confidence, many party leaders conceded that anti-incumbency, the BJP’s polarisation card and a possible split in minority votes following the Indian Secular Front’s tie-up with the Left and the Congress posed a major challenge to Mamata Banerjee’s party. The other worry was the resentment among the people over corruption involving Amphan relief work. South 24-Parganas has around 36 per cent Muslim population and the community can make or break the fortunes of candidates in at least eight Assembly constituencies. The minority voters are mainly concentrated in constituencies like Bhangar, Baruipur, Canning, Kulpi, Maheshtala and Magrahat. Trinamul sources said that till the last polls, the majority of Muslims had voted the ruling party. However, Trinamul is now facing a challenge from the ISF, launched by Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui who has a following among Muslims in the district. “If you consider Bhangar, around 70 per cent of the voters are Muslims. Till 2019, we had always been sure of winning here. Now the votes will get split between the ISF and Trinamul. The Sanjukta Morcha has left five seats to the ISF in the district, including Bhangar, Mandirbazar and Kulpi. The ISF has fielded the party’s working committee chairman Nawsad Siddique from Bhangar and he is expected to split the minority votes. “It is a fact that Trinamul will have no space among the minorities this time. Believe it or not, the people here have decided not to support Trinamul any more. People are annoyed and they have come to us,” said Naushad, whose party is campaigning against both Trinamul and the BJP. Trinamul, however, is desperate to keep its minority vote bank intact and has been telling people that voting for Naushad will benefit the BJP. To counter the possible split in votes, Trinamul is focusing on how the Mamata government has ensured development in minority areas and developed local infrastructure. “The ISF will not be a factor here as Muslims understand that voting for them will help the BJP. The BJP is asking Hindu voters to vote for them and the ISF is making the same plea to Muslims. We are telling people not to fall into this trap of dividing Hindus and Muslims,” said Saukat Mollah, Trinamul MLA and nominee for the Canning East seat. Alleged misappropriation of Amphan relief aid has become a major hurdle for Trinamul. In its poll rallies, BJP star campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, are firing salvos at Trinamul over “looted money”. Such widespread had been the irregularities that the chief minister had to intervene. The Opposition parties have identified it as a major poll plank. Mamata in her recent rallies in the district has highlighted how she had spent a sleepless night in Nabanna on the day of the cyclone while the BJP did not bother about the affected people. She, however, conceded that there could be one or two mistakes as the government had tried to provide help in a hurry. “It is true that certain flaws occurred in the distribution of Amphan relief. But it is a closed chapter now. It was a gigantic job and we tried our best to rectify the mistakes. We are hopeful that people will not keep it in mind since they have benefited from the welfare schemes of the government, which we are trying to focus more on,” said Manturam Pakhira, the minister for Sunderbans affairs and Trinamul’s Kakdwip candidate. Left candidates could be in an advantageous position because of their effort to provide help to the needy people after the cyclone. Kanti Ganguly, the CPM’s Raidighi candidate, had supervised construction of breached river embankments in different pockets. Scheduled Castes make up around 30 per cent of South 24-Parganas’ population. They mainly depend on fisheries and collecting honey from forests. The BJP-RSS alliance has tried its best to polarise people against the Mamata government. Several leaders said the polarisation issue was so strong in a few pockets that other issues such as corruption and development might not work. Ganguly, the CPM veteran and the party’s candidate for Raidighi, said he had never seen an election like this in his 60-year political career. Ganguly, like in the past, was the most visible face of support when people needed help post-Amphan. “Yes, people love my party and I will go to them to offer more help if I become an MLA. But the level of polarisation is something I have never seen before,” the leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Focus on Ajmal in last leg of polls||Campaign for the third and final phase of the Assembly elections in Assam ended on Sunday evening with both BJP-led mitrajot and the Congress-led mahajot exuding confidence of forming the next government in an election which insiders and political observers feel is too tight to call after the AIUDF and BPF joined the Congress-led alliance. In fact, the run-up to the third phase to be held in 40 constituencies, mostly in minority-dominated lower Assam on April 6, has been marked by the BJP and its allies continuous attack on AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal. The AIUDF is contesting 13 seats, turning him into a major factor to “polarise” voters. Union home minister Amit Shah is among those who have attacked Ajmal. Having had to cut short his campaigning in Assam to rush back to Delhi on Sunday to review the situation triggered by the Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh, Shah could not attend two of three rallies during the day, including the mega rally at Sualkuchi in cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s constituency Jalukbari. Like Shah, Chhattisgarh’s Congress chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who was also campaigning for the 10-party grand alliance, flew back, on Sunday. But before flying back to Delhi, Shah, in a brief interaction with mediapersons, urged the electorate to vote for Sarma, to strengthen the hands of prime minister Narendra Modi by voting BJP for another term and attacking Ajmal. “Can Ajmal be the identity of Assam?” he asked. An hour later, Sarma attacked the Congress and AIUDF at the Sualkuchi rally. “The Congress started their campaign with a visit to Batadrava (Srimanta Sankardeva’s birth place) but ended it with Ajmal,” he said suggesting that the Congress has “surrendered” itself to the AIUDF chief to defeat the BJP at the cost of the state. The BJP has been relentless in showcasing Ajmal as a protector of Bengali-speaking Muslim immigrants and continuously attacking the three-time Lok Sabha MP to “polarise” the voters. In the first phase, the BJP alliance had attacked the “unholy alliance” between the Congress and AIUDF but in the run-up to the second and third phase it trained its gun on Ajmal by going to the extent of equating him with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP’s recurring poll pitch has been: Do you want Modi or do you want Ajmal? Can Ajmal stop (ghuspetiyas) infiltrators and can he be the identity of Assam? Like the BJP-led alliance leaders got together at the Sualkuchi rally to end the party’s long drawn campaign to retain Assam, the Congress-led grand alliance leaders too addressed a joint press meet. And like the BJP-led alliance, the Congress-led mahajot too exuded confidence of forming the next government because of  its “politics of vision” against the BJP’s “politics of division”. Assam PCC president   Ripun Bora said the BJP’s attempts to “polarise” the voters have not worked on the ground evident from the support the grand alliance received the first and second phase and is set to sweep the third and final phase. “Neither do we believe in divide and rule nor do we practice favoritism like the current BJP government. Our five guarantees will be meant for everyone equally irrespective of region, religion, caste or any other parameter that is meant to divide Assam,” the grand alliance said in a press release. RJD leader Sheikh Shonarul Shah Mustafa said since the BJP had no other issue they continued to attack Ajmal but the people of Assam have seen through their game-plan and supported the Congress-led alliance. RJD is part of the grand alliance. Vikas Tripathi, a political observer, told The Telegraph that Ajmal’s influence and leadership is uncontested both in his party as well as among the majority of Bengali speaking Muslim voters of the two regions — Brahmaputra and Barak Valleys. “ Precisely, for this reason, he has been at the centre of BJP' attack as the party makes the issue of protection of cultural identity as the key issue in this elections,” Tripathi said, trying to give a perspective to BJP’s constant attack against Ajmal. Assam has 126 seats. The first phase saw polling in 47 seats while the second in 39 seats. BJP-led alliance had comprehensively won every election after winning the 2016 state polls but the Congress-led ten party alliance has mounted a strong challenge evident from the frequent visits by the BJP leadership to the state to campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
05-04-2021||North East||Elections come and go, but Assam’s flood problems linger||Dimbeswar Talukdar, 65, from Patacharkuchi constituency in lower Assam’s Bajali district is a retired government employee. But problems — flood and erosion — he grew up with at his Gahinpara village continue to torment him. Life is no different for Upen Das, a 40-year-old daily wager from the same area who has to spend at least 15 to 20 days every year in relief camps or on an embankment because of floods caused by the Pahumara river flowing close by. Although flood and erosion have been routinely flagged by political parties, religiously figuring in their election manifestos before every Assembly and general election, those affected by the twin problems say they continue to suffer. Union home minister Amit Shah had made flood a key poll plank during campaigning for the ongoing elections, seeking another term for the BJP in Assam, where three-phase polling will end on April 6. He has pledged to make Assam flood-free in the next five years. Shah has even spelt out how — by building large reservoirs to divert excess water that could be subsequently used for irrigation, among others. The BJP later included it in its sankalp patra or poll manifesto. Assam has been synonymous with flood and erosion. Any talk on the issues attract attention because of their gravity. “The months from May to September see Assam in the headlines because of lives and houses lost due to floods. The visuals are stunning but soon it drops off the radar. But the affected wait anxiously for the next round. We are in deep water,” said Simanta Baruah of Pathsala. Government reports suggest the Brahmaputra and its tributaries alone wash away over 8,000 hectares of land every year, over 4.27 lakh hectares since the 1950s, which works out to 7.40 per cent of the state’s total area. The width of the Brahmaputra is about 15km at some places due to bank erosion, according to the state water resources department. Coupled with the fury of the annual flood, which had affected over 50 lakh people in 31 of the 34 districts of Assam in 2020 and left over 100 dead, those living by the riverbanks face an uncertain future. About 31.05 lakh hectares of the state’s 78.523 lakh hectares is flood prone, about 39.58 per cent, according to government reports. The release of water from the Kurichu hydropower plant in Bhutan, about 30km from Barpeta Road, is a source of constant worry for the people living in downstream lower Assam districts such as Barpeta, Baksa, Bongaigaon, Nalbari and Chirang. It floods the Beki, Manas, Pagladia, Kaldia and Pahumara rivers. “We welcome Amit Shah’s commitment but assurances and promises won’t help tackle these issues. A long-term and practical plan is needed along with the right intent. I have grown old but there seems to be no end to the problems,” retired schoolteacher Surendra Nath Choudhury told The Telegraph at Gahinpara, about 5km from Pathsala town in Patacharkuchi constituency which is about 120km northwest of Guwahati. Choudhury added: “As a teacher I have seen the havoc wrought by floods and erosion caused by the Pahumara and the Beki. I have seen at least six villages being wiped out and another six almost wiped out. Only those who have lost know what they are going through.” Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass is involved in a three-cornered contest with the Congress and the Assam Jatiya Parishad candidates in the third and last phase of the state polls on April 6. For the Talukdars and the Choudhurys, elections will come and go but the government of the day needs to find a permanent solution. Talukdar is happy because the government has started work on an embankment that was breached twice last year. He just hopes the embankment-cum-road is completed as soon as possible. The Pahumara flows about 400 meters from his house. The river breaches the embankment every year. “I have seen it since 1971. Pathsala town, which is about 5km away, suddenly becomes a 20km trip as we have to take a detour. Then the water stays for two-three days, sometime even more. Many households have had to give up farming because of flood and siltation. It becomes very tough during the monsoon. We just want that the government find a permanent solution so that the younger generation does not face the problems we are facing,” Talukdar said. Choudhury said that apart from building the road along the Pahumara, the government should also strengthen the bank upstream for at least 20km so that water released from the source at Laogaon does not cause havoc. Every affected household has a story. Every household wants a solution. Certainly people like Upen Das, who said:“ I want to live in my own house, not on the road.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
05-04-2021||Opinion||Beti bachao: India's gender gap||In a precipitous slide, India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report, 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. The report examines gender-based disparities in four critical areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment.  India fell steeply in the political empowerment subindex — the share of women ministers halved, that of women in Parliament and at the head of a state remained stagnant. This is not surprising given that in spite of repeated promises to pass the women’s reservation bill, it has been languishing in the Lok Sabha for over 10 years. There has also been a considerable decline in economic participation of women — data from several sources have already shown that the increasing domestic burden caused by the restrictions owing to the pandemic has resulted in the loss of employment for women — and they are now seven times more likely to lose their jobs than men. India also ranks among the bottom five countries in the health and survival subindex largely because of the skewed sex ratio at birth, institutionalized violence against women, forced marriage and discrimination in access to health. When it comes to education, in spite of some gains, 34.2 per cent women are illiterate compared to 17.6 per cent of men — once again, several surveys reveal that female students bore the brunt of the inequalities of online education, with household chores eating into their time. The question is how does this situation endure in spite of a slew of government policies ostensibly devised for the economic and social uplift of women? The answer lies in the gap between existing legislation and the understanding required of lawmakers about the challenges women face as well as their apathy towards these. Women’s empowerment campaigns have failed to go beyond the populism that governments indulge in. To cite one example, between 2014 and 2019 only Rs 159 crore — less than 25 per cent — of the Rs 644 crore allocated by the Centre for the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ scheme reached the districts and the states. Rights-based employment initiatives must be mobilized on a war-footing to make labour, health, education and politics representative. Perhaps the first step to address this yawning chasm would be to alter the idea of development, which, in recent times, has come to mean rising GDP accompanied by a corresponding fall in holistic social, human and economic growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
05-04-2021||Opinion||Reason helps: Appeal to safeguard personal devices||Among the many happenings that are newly familiar is the swooping down of police and investigators on laptops, computers and so on used by the writers, professors, journalists, lawyers and activists who are detained on charges of terrorist or anti-national activities. A group of academics has petitioned the Supreme Court asking it to specify guidelines for police and investigative agencies regarding the seizure, examination and preservation of personal digital and electronic devices and their contents. The petition represents a reassertion of the value of academic research, urgently needed at a time when academic and intellectual work is being deliberately devalued, and not only by the focus on terrorism and sedition. Abrupt confiscation of devices followed by arrests seems intended to intimidate and destroy respect, and to project preserved work as either suspicious or unimportant. The petition says that years of research can be damaged, distorted, lost or prematurely exposed by such seizures, since the police manual has no rules regarding the recovery of digitally stored material. The damage is not only an irreparable loss to growing knowledge, but also equivalent to the loss of livelihood of the researcher or writer, since the work is the product of lifelong study and fieldwork. Although the petition glances at the confiscation of electronic devices of some academics, it refrains from mentioning the allegations associated with these seizures, whether against the persons arrested or the agencies making the arrests. It does not go into recent allegations of planted material in computers. With unfussy reasoning, the petition asks for the right to academic freedom as part of the right to freedom of expression, the right to privacy, the right against self-incrimination, and the right to privileged communication. It has a few suggestions to induce accountability in the police — the owner or user of the device must be told why his material is needed, for instance. The person being arrested should not be forced to reveal passwords or encrypted material. The hard drive should be examined before the user and a neutral computer professional, and a copy of it taken; alternatively, a copy should be given to the user. By asking for accountability, lawful procedure and the restoration of the values of a thinking society, this petition demonstrates a different way of confronting the violation of rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
05-04-2021||Opinion||Read the reader||Sir — While book reviews have been one of the most enduring features of newspapers, few have ever thought of reviewing the kind of readers. Just such a unique review was carried in an online portal recently, with categories such as ‘the reader on the train who misses her station’ and ‘the reader who re-reads’. One thing is for certain, given the general aversion to reading in the age of vlogs and podcasts, any kind of reader — whatever their shortcomings — is a blessing in disguise.  Koyel Dutta, Calcutta Sir — Collar Up, a Hyderabad-based non-governmental organization, has come up with a unique idea to prevent stray animals from being hit or run over by vehicles at night; this is laudable. Reflective, fluorescent collars are put on the animals so that they can be spotted from a distance at night. This will also prevent road accidents that occur while trying to save animals. An early morning ride can tell us how dangerous life on the streets has become for stray animals — we come across so many crushed carcasses lying on the highways and the arterial roads. What is more, besides coming up with this brilliant idea, the group has also created job opportunities for women. The NGO has tied up with women entrepreneurs from rural areas thereby creating a source of income for them. It is encouraging that such work is being done in the country.M. Pradyu, Kannur Sir — Hopes of young children of going back to school will be dashed with the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. City schools are now deliberating a return to monotonous online classes. There was hope in the academic community that school might resume soon for all students, irrespective of the level they were at because the contagion was under control and vaccines have been rolled out. Unfortunately, laxity among the masses when it comes to adhering to preventive measures, the emergence of more virulent strains and the slow pace of the inoculation drive are the reasons for the recent surge. Another year of isolation will cost young students dearly. Physical and psychological health will suffer. More underprivileged pupils will be held back from learning owing to a lack of technical support. Child labour, early marriages, human trafficking and other social evils will spike too. Today’s young learners — who can see the leader of the country is now organizing election rallies at odds with safety guidelines in the name of democracy — will rightly blame us for the cost that these distractions are extracting from them.  Satabdi Dutta, Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||More than meets the eye||If you think the Sachin Vaze controversy has revealed the rot in Mumbai’s police force, wait till you hear what is happening in China’s port city of Lianyungang. This ancient city was one of the 14 coastal cities that first opened up to foreign trade in 1980. It has seen Japanese occupation, but the sordid goings-on that have come to light now might put those dark days to shame. It is a sleazy world that rules Lianyungang, going by a recent judgment in which a 27-year-old policewoman was sentenced to 13 years’ imprisonment and a fine of five million yuan. She had joined the city’s police force as an auxiliary (temporary) police officer at the age of 19. In the next five years, says the judgment, she extorted 3.72 million yuan from nine men, eight of them senior officials and four of them policemen, by sleeping with them and then blackmailing them, sometimes with claims of pregnancy. Alongside the five million yuan fine, the policewoman also has to return the extorted money. Not convinced But netizens are not convinced that the young policewoman is guilty. Could a 19-year-old be in a position to seduce the director of her police station, and then within five years do the same with two police station heads, the deputy director of the Public Security Bureau, the vice director of a hospital, a primary school principal and the president of a trade union? Or, as netizens ask, is it a case of a clique of officials using a young rookie and compelling her to keep quiet? Moreover, how did these public servants have so much money to give her? On an average, the amount works out to 4,00,000 yuan per official, with the highest payment being 1.28 million yuan. The public debate on the judgment has embarrassed the administration. No sooner was the judgment posted online by a lawyer than a police officer called him with a request to take it down. The lawyer not only refused to do so, claiming that it was a public document taken from the court’s website, but also posted a recording of the phone call online. The judgment was immediately removed from the court website, with the court issuing a statement saying that since the case had gone into appeal, the judgment had not been implemented yet. Not even the official news agency, Xinhua, has bought this explanation. Tawdry reputation While the convicted policewoman’s voice remains unheard, her family has spoken up. If she was indeed extorting money, says her father, why did not the men go to the police? Because they were police themselves! The money they gave her was nothing but compensation for her “lost youth’’, he maintains. Her mother has revealed that the deputy director had reassured her that he would “take care’’ of her pregnant daughter. Her uncle alleges that the family is not being allowed to hire a lawyer of their choice to argue the appeal. At the foundation of the popular support for the policewoman lies the tawdry reputation of the Chinese Communist Party. Party officials, say netizens, are known to have lovers on the side; in this case, they got together to exploit a vulnerable girl. Why have they not been investigated? In the face of overwhelming public pressure, the local government quickly put out a statement that administrative disciplinary action had been taken against seven of the officials; the eighth was jailed last year for bribery. But netizens are not satisfied. Given the power of the officials involved, the trial ought to have been held outside Lianyungang, they say. Now, the appeal definitely must. Whether the demand is met or not, the public has decided who is guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls 2021: The need for public goods||The Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have made their election manifestos public. The winner is supposed to deliver public goods, such as defence, primary education, health, poverty eradication, and so on. Only a government can provide public goods. In the light of the electoral promises made by the political parties, it is important to assess the degree of ‘publicness’ of the goods promised in the manifestos. Some of the electoral promises may be interpreted as privatized public goods in contrast to pure public goods. The privatization of public goods implies the provision of public goods targeted at a section of the population with tangible and immediate benefits. This act of privatization of public goods is known as political clientelism. The lack of education and awareness as well as the desperation amongst people to get benefits entice them towards privatized public goods instead of pure public goods, resulting in the lower provision of the latter. I have divided the major electoral promises of the TMC and the BJP to separate promises of privatized public goods from those of pure public goods. Assurance of a monthly basic income to female heads and Rs 10,000 per acre per annum to small and marginal farmers by the TMC fall in this category. The BJP’s assurances like the annual transfer of Rs 10,000 to refugee families, Rs 6,000 to fishermen and the continuation of the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana fall in this category too. The BJP’s promises of 33 per cent reservation in government jobs for women, free education for girls and free public transport for women limit the benefits to females only but the benefits are tangible and immediate. Free doorstep delivery of ration and Rs 5 per meal — the TMC’s pledges — offer immediate relief instead of addressing endemic poverty. The TMC’s student credit card targets the youth; the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana as promised by the BJP gives immediate benefits to tertiary healthcare seekers without caring about core public health initiatives. The assurance of effective implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission by the BJP would appeal primarily to government servants while the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and immigration curbs delimit the access to public goods and benefit certain groups directly. Contrastingly, the promise of more jobs, industries and MSMEs, increasing irrigated areas, uplifting the annual per capita income for people below the poverty line are important promises by the TMC towards the provisioning of broad-based public goods. Similarly, the BJP’s promise of a common admission test for all state government jobs makes access to public employment fair for everyone. The TMC has fewer assurances for education as a pure public good. Both TMC and BJP have promises in health, but the TMC’s promises — doubling health spending from 0.83 per cent to 1.5 per cent of the state GDP and establishing medical college-cum-super speciality hospitals in 23 district headquarters — have far-reaching implications. The BJP has talked of creating three AIIMS. The TMC offers greater pure public goods in agriculture — increase in cultivable land, cropping intensity and agricultural productivity — apart from assuring low-cost housing in urban and rural areas, piped drinking water, drainage, all-weather roads and 24x7 electricity in the sphere of basic services. The BJP has pledged to create a Sonar Bangla fund worth Rs 11,000 crore and constitute task forces to curb illegal and criminal activities. The analysis shows that the TMC has promised more pure public goods while the BJP has offered greater privatized public goods. Politicians are constrained in their efforts to provide pure public goods. The only way to make politicians deliver pure public goods is by raising awareness about the nature of their promises and their implications. If the pros and cons of different public goods are communicated effectively, then people would prefer long-term gains with higher implications for upward mobility than sops yielding short-term benefits. There should also be a process of evaluation of the provision of pure public goods. Independent agencies must create developing metrics instead of devising electoral campaign strategies for political parties. Pro-democratic crowd funding may be used to finance the initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||Different departures||One decision can sometimes be followed by another. The intervening time between the two can be short or extended, invariant or transformational. How important is this time and can it affect the final decision? This provides the framework for the following discussion. Dr B.R. Ambedkar was a modern liberal. Inspired by modern ideas of rationality, equality, freedom and liberty, he fought against inequality and untouchability in the caste system. His unique approach to modernity is examined here, in the context of the temporal framework. Modernity in the West distanced itself from all that is pre-modern, including Greek metaphysics and Christian theology, both of which justified the practice of inequality. René Descartes, the father of modern philosophy, lays down a clear-cut terrain of modernity in his Discourse on Method, by totally disinheriting everything from the pre-modern. This disinheriting included history, oratory, poetry (as it was considered a gift of the mind rather than the fruit of study), moral writings of pagans, customs and the evolutionary growth of societies. He rejects childhood as it is controlled not by reason but by appetite and teachers. Descartes also rejects classical logic and mathematics for their association with the pre-modern. Like Descartes, Ambedkar, too, embraced modern ideals. He used modern liberal ideas to critique Hinduism. This led him to move away from Hinduism, distancing him from leaders like M.K. Gandhi. Ambedkar felt that Hindu society is “devoid of humanity”. It does not “recognise the importance of an individual” and specifically does not respect Dalits as individuals. Untouchability — which is “nothing but concrete inequality” — pervades Hinduism. The only alternative for Dalits, according to Ambedkar, is to leave Hinduism. Thus there is an underlying thread connecting Descartes and Ambedkar — their desire to distance themselves from the societies that practice inequality in the pre-modern. This similarity is, however, confined to the domain of departure. There is a need to closely examine the other aspects involved in the process, especially the time between departure from the pre-modern and arrival at the destination, as also the nature of the place of arrival. Descartes, who finds nothing from the pre-modern to be acceptable, takes no time to decide between leaving the pre-modern and arriving in the modern. The modern that he wants to arrive at is governed by cognition which follows rationality, especially instrumental rationality, where there is a direct relationship between cause and effect. However, there are differences between Descartes and Ambedkar on two accounts. One is concerning Ambedkar’s choice of an alternative path from the past to ease the transition to modernity. The other is about the duration between their departure from the pre-modern and arrival at the modern. Interestingly, Ambedkar made the unique choice to consider alternatives from the pre-modern instead of toeing the Cartesian path of modernity. This was not acceptable to Descartes. Options from the pre-modern in any form are not permitted in modernity or to Descartes. This was also contested by B.K. Roy Burman. Here I would like to draw attention to the intervening time between Ambedkar’s decision to depart from Hinduism and his final arrival at Buddhism. A study of this interim period will throw a different light on how he arrived at this decision. There were about 21 long years — from 1935 to 1956 — between his decision to leave Hinduism and finally convert to Buddhism. During this time, he weighed various options — Islam, Christianity, Sikhism and Buddhism. He finally settled on Buddhism as it rejected the deeply entrenched hierarchy and inequality in Hinduism. Though modernity was a readily available option, Ambedkar did not feel that an immediate move to modernity would be a suitable path for the Dalits. Here I would like to highlight the significance of the time taken by Ambedkar between these two decisions. This eluded the attention of those like Burman. The long process of weighing different options before he arrived at the decision to convert to Buddhism should not be ignored. Ambedkar’s decision seems to have been governed more by the ethics of care than by radical politics. He felt that after being oppressed for so long, Dalits were not in a position to immediately embrace the ideals of abstract Cartesian individualism. This required long preparation, including education, literacy and learning to live a modern life. Ambedkar realized this and chose Buddhism as he felt that it provided both relief from oppression and opportunities for Dalits. Ambedkar used the analogy of a sailor who plans and makes the necessary arrangements before embarking on a voyage to explain the process of conversion and the need for prior preparation. Descartes, on the other hand, used the metaphor of demolishing an old house and living in an interim place while the new home was built. He envisaged the transitory phase to be brief whereas Ambedkar rightly predicted that it could be quite long. Hence, his decision to first convert from Hinduism to Buddhism instead of embracing modernity right away. The merits of the path taken by Ambedkar are apparent when compared with the activities of other Indian academics educated in the West. They, too, inherited the path of Descartes and modernity. However, unlike Ambedkar, they did not pay sufficient attention to calibrating their modern views for India. Not surprisingly, their attempts to forcibly fit modern ideas into Indian society remained unsuccessful. Ambedkar, on the other hand, turned his gaze away from the Cartesian path to critique Hinduism and liberate Dalits, and seriously deliberate on the suitability of modern ideas to the Indian situation. What distinguishes those like Ambedkar from Indian academics is turning towards or returning to India after learning political ideas from the West. This is reminiscent of the failed return of Pahom in Tolstoy’s short story, “How Much Land Does a Man Need?” or Abhimanyu’s failure to return from padmavyuham. In this context, the works of Ambedkar and other Indian thinkers will be an immense academic contribution in understanding different aspects of Indian society, particularly those that overlap with modern Western political ideas. A detailed reading of them will help us understand not only the similarities and differences with contemporary philosophers from the West but also enable us to appreciate the unique Indian approach to time and temporality. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 19 Bokaro Steel Plant employees test Covid positive in 5 days||Bokaro: Around 19 Bokaro Steel Plant employees have tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to Bokaro General Hospital. BSL has issued an advisory asking its employees to follow Covid protocols. In the first phase of the pandemic, there were around 194 executives and non-executives of BSL who tested positive and all of them were cured. Bokaro General Hospital has dedicated a 10 bed ward for BSL executives. Chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said, “BGH has 62 positive cases of Covid-19. They are admitted in three Covid Wards functional including Critical Care Unit (CCU). Those admitted patients include 19 BSL employees.” The district has 154 active cases of Covid. More than 100 positive cases surfaced in the past five days. As a precautionary measure, the management has advised all BSL employees to avoid mass gathering in public places, public grounds, public  parks, markets  and religious places etc. Civil surgeon, Bokaro, Dr A.K. Pathak said there is a sharp rise in positive cases of Covid in five days. “48 positive cases surfaced on Sunday which is highest in past two months span. We are appealing people to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” he added. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: Nine villagers including three women have been injured when the commercial vehicle they were travelling in, skidded and turned on Monday. The victims were residents of Badkdi Sidhawara and were going to attend a wedding ceremony under the Gola police station area of Ramgarh district. CRPF jawans of 26 battalion and local villagers rushed to the spot and helped the victims. They were sent to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital. Four critically injured victims have been referred from there to RIMS, Ranchi. The incident occurred at Ledaam village situated in the foothills of Maoist prone Jhumra under Gomia Block. There were 20 passengers riding the vehicle. The others suffered minor injuries. The police officer said the driver lost control over the vehicle and it skidded off the road and turned turtle which was later lifted by villagers. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A vegetable seller was shot dead on Bishnupur road behind Balyogeshwar Ashram under Telaiya police station in Koderma on Monday morning. Victim was identified as Baleshwar Yadav, a resident of Piprahi village under Chandwara police station of the district. Yadav came with vegetables to Telaiya market and at 10am, was returning to his village on his bike. Near the Ashram, someone fired at him, killing him on the spot. Sources said shooters were hired to kill Yadav. Police have taken two youths into custody. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Agriculture University postpones admissions due to Covid cases on campus||Birsa Agriculture University, the state’s premier agriculture varsity, on Monday announced postponement of the counselling process for admission into post graduate and Ph.d programmes till further notice owing to the shutdown of its administrative unit for two days after three staff members tested positive for Covid on Sunday. “Counselling for all PG and Ph.D programmes for admission scheduled on April 7, 9 and 12, is hereby postponed due to the second phase of Covid outbreak. The next schedule for Offline / Online counselling will be announced well in advance,” read a statement from the varsity. Vice chancellor Onkar Nath Singh, said, the decision to postpone admissions was taken after a meeting with all the deans of the varsity in the afternoon in the wake of the virus threat. Singh added that all the resident students of the varsity including staff have been asked to be alert and not venture out unnecessarily without taking enough mandatory precautions. The varsity also announced its decision to return to the online mode of teaching by suspending all offline classes as precaution. On the other hand, Marwari College, an autonomous college affiliated to Ranchi University has also announced to suspend offline mode of mid-semester exam for undergraduate and post graduate students that was scheduled to commence from April 7. A notice in this regard has been put up on the college’s website in the evening. Principal of Marwari College, U.C. Mehta, said, “Students of UG (2020-23) and PG (2020-22) had their mid-semester exam scheduled from April 7 via offline mode, but that has been cancelled due to the rapid rise in the covid-19 cases in Ranchi. We have now decided to take online exams, but fresh dates will be notified on the website after modalities are chalked out soon.” Educational institutions, which started functioning earlier this year after being closed for months since last year’s lockdown, has been hit by increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Last week, over two dozen students and staff of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Bundu got infected with the virus forcing authorities to seal the school as a precaution. Bishop Westcott boys in Namkum too closed after a few students and teachers tested positive during the same time. In Jamshedpur too, at least three schools were shut down owing to Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad and Ranchi emerge winners in JSCA under-14 cricket tournament||Dhanbad defeated Koderma by nine runs at Tata Digwadih Stadium on Monday on the inaugural day of JSCA Under-14 Inter District Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Dhanbad scored 180 runs at the loss of seven wickets in 40 overs. Md Muzammil who scored 39 runs with the help of five fours emerged as the most successful batsman. Openers Siddharth Sinha and Soumya Raj who scored 31 and 29 runs respectively also played an important role in scoring the total for their team. Chasing the victory target Koderma players scored 171 runs for a loss of eight wickets in 40 overs but lost the match by nine runs due to slightly slower run rate. For Dhanbad Eklavya Singh took maximum wickets while Sunny Kumar Samad, Zishan Hussain, Md Muzammil and Ranvir Singh took one wicket each. In the second match played at Jealgora stadium, Ranchi defeated Khunti by six wickets. Khunti batted first and scored 87 runs in 25.5 overs. Chasing the target, Ranchi showed some good batting and comfortably won the match in 15 overs by scoring 91 runs. For Ranchi, Aman Kumar scored 20 runs. For Khunti, Aditya Raj took two wickets while Ranbir Singh and Sushil S Raj took a wicket each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid patient flees MGM hospital in Jamshedpur ||A 42-year-old Covid patient fled the MGM Medical College and Hospital's Covid ward on Sunday night, prompting authorities to launch a frenetic search so as to stop him from becoming a silent virus spreader. "A 42-year-old male patient fled the medical college hospital's Covid ward on Sunday night. We along with the hospital authorities are searching for the patient, "said Sahir Pal, the district surveillance officer. Hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar said that the 90 Home Guard jawans who maintain the security system of the hospital have been on strike for the past 10 days. "Had the Home Guard jawans been on duty, perhaps such an incident would not have taken place," said Kumar. At present, the medical college hospital's Covid ward has 26 patients, but only one guard to handle security arrangements. The East Singhbhum health department has stepped up Covid-19 testing and vaccination efforts. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said, "By Monday one lakh has crossed in Covid vaccination in the district. We are trying to expedite the vaccination drive further in near future."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal outfit gears up for annual hunting festival at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary||Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, has started preparations for Bishu Shikar, an annual hunting festival, at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary. The samity convened a meeting at Gadra on the outskirts of Jamshedpur on Sunday evening to discuss the festival, called Sendra, celebrated every year between April and May. Chaired by Rakesh Hembrom, chief priest of DBSS, the members focussed on the global pandemic which had played a spoilsport to Sendra last year. The nationwide lockdown had kept the tribals living in villages dotting the sanctuary and suburbs of Jamshedpur indoors. Hembrom said they would announce the date of the festival on April 9 and would invite the Dalma forest authorities when they meet for the second time. "Bishu Shikar is an annual event celebrated by us at the Dalma sanctuary. We will celebrate the occasion by keeping with the tradition and rituals. Invitations to our tribal brethrens will also be sent on April 14," he added. Tribals from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha, armed with spears, bows and arrows and even firearms, converge inside the elephant abode, and spend the day there in the festival, held symbolically, as hunting is banned in the sanctuary. Besides DBSS, Dolma Buru Sendra Dishua Samiti (DBSDS), a parallel tribal outfit, also celebrates the festival. The outfit is likely to announce a separate date. Dalma authorities keep a tight vigil at the sanctuary in the run-up to the hunt festival. Patrol teams tour the sanctuary and also siege traps and nets which are spread at strategic pockets by the tribals. Frisking is also done at the Makukalocha and Fadlugora entry points to prevent entry of firearms. “We will request DBSS to celebrate the festival sans killing of innocent animals. We will ask the members to keep the festival symbolic,” an official at the forest range office in Mango said. According to him, Sendra is likely to be held in the first week of May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand men qualify for National Games in handball||Jharkhand’s men’s handball team made it to the 36th National Games in Goa by virtue of making it to the quarter-finals of the just concluded senior national championship. The state outfit reached the last eight in the 49th Senior Men’s Handball Championship held at Malwa Institute of Technology in Indore, Madhya Pradesh between March 30 to April 3. Jharkhand lost the quarters to Delhi. Jharkhand last played the National Games held in the state in 2011. Eight top teams qualify for the National Games. Expressing happiness, Jharkhand State Handball Association (JSHA) secretary Khurshid Khan said it was an honour to once again qualify for prestigious tournament. “We last played the Games in Jharkhand in 2011. We didn’t qualify for the 2015 Kerala Games. Our team played very well in Indore but lost to Delhi in the quarter-final,” he added. Khan, also the co-chairman Handball Federation of India’s technical committee, said the dates of the Goa National Games was yet to be announced but they were keen to prepare the state outfit in an adequate manner. “We don’t want to wait for the Goa Games to be announced. We will shortly convene a meeting and discuss plans for coaching camp. We also have plans to play as many tournaments as possible. After all, National Games is a huge event and we want to put in a solid show,” the JHA secretary said. The state association is working professionally under the leadership of its president Pradeep Kumar Balmuchu, a former Congress member of Rajya Sabha. The association sends its men and women teams of different groups to compete in national competitions. The game of handball is growing in Jharkhand and has produced internationals, mostly from Jamshedpur. Tata Steel sports wing runs a dedicated handball training centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. Around 10 trainees of the cradle have found employment, mostly in the armed forces and railways. The National Games in Goa was originally scheduled in 2019 but got postponed due to the general elections. It was re-scheduled to October 2020 but the global pandemic played spoilsport. With Covid making a comeback in the country, the showpiece event might see yet another postponement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to re-launch Covid centre for pregnant women||The Dhanbad district administration has developed the SSLNT women’s Hospital situated in Bank More area into a dedicated Covid Care Centre for pregnant women. The centre, to be inaugurated on Tuesday, has been developed at the instruction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh in view of the rising Covid cases in the district. The dedicated Covid care center for women was first established during first week of August 2020 and functioned for more than four months but as the Covid situation improved and no patients turned up the center was discontinued. Singh said that deputation of doctor, medical staff and other workforce besides provision of other logistics including, equipments and medicines have already been made at the hospital which will start functioning from tomorrow. “The decision to re-launch the center for women patients in addition to the six existing Dedicated Covid Care Centers for common Covid patients has been taken to provide separate treatment facility for women and pregnant women have been taken in view of possible rise in the number of Covid affected women patients,” said Singh. In a related development, district administration led by Chief Executive officer of District Disaster Management Authority, Shyam Narayan Ram on Monday developed 10 containment zones at different places of the district Nawadih 265 mouza (Purvi Tundi); Jha Niwas Vrindawan Colony near Sabalpur petrol pump;Harmony apartment near Pragati Nursing home Saraidhela; Sunflower Apartment, Nawadih; Veer Kunwar Singh Colony Karmik Nagar; Main road near Raj Ground Jharia; Nagri Kala Tetulmari; Rajganj Number 198; Kharkhari 307; C block ward number 22 near Saraidhela. At present 120 active Covid cases are there in the district and there are 19 containment zones including 10 containment zones developed on Monday. Dhanbad has recorded 117 cases in the last four days, including 27 cases on April 4 (Sunday), 26 cases on April 3 (Saturday); 33 cases on April 2 (Friday) and 31 Cases on April 1 (Thursday). Meanwhile, Dhanbad Sub Divisional officer, Surendra Prasad on Monday carried out inspection of three containment zones including two at Karmik Nagar Dhanbad and one in Karmik Nagar, Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||3 lakh vaccine doses left in Jharkhand, supply delay may hit immunisation ||A delay by the Centre in providing vaccine vials to Jharkhand may prove to be a stumbling block in the immunisation drive against Covid-19 as Jharkhand is now left with about 3 lakh vaccine doses which may not last for more than a week, officials spearheading the vaccination programme in the state said on Monday. Health officials in the state are hopeful that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will provide additional vials of Covishield as well as Covaxin vaccines to the state by the end of Tuesday. However, if the vaccines do not reach on time, then the state may have to deny the first jab to some residents in order to save them for second jabs, which are  supposed to be given within six weeks of the first. A senior official in the health department, requesting not to be quoted, said there was no reason to panic as the state would get more vials of vaccines from the Centre before the available doses are administered to beneficiaries. However, the immunisation programme may get affected if fresh doses are not provided on time, he admitted. “We are expecting more vaccine vials from the Centre on Tuesday. The immunisation programme will continue,” said the official, adding that the vaccine in stock will last up till April 10. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 80,000 residents, but the second dose was only administered to 2,391 people, hardly 2 per cent of the over 1.4 lakh registered beneficiaries. If 80,000 people are administered vaccine jabs every day, then the stock will last for hardly four days. Jharkhand has so far received around 21 lakh doses of vaccine from the Centre and more than 16 lakh people have been administered the jabs in the state since the launch of the immunisation programme on January 16, said Dr Ajit Prasad, the immunisation officer of Jharkhand. The health department has been pressing for timely vaccination in order to tackle the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Sunday that besides taking precautions, it was important to get vaccinated on time in order to defeat Covid-19. The state recently ran a panchayat level vaccination campaign in which more than 8 lakh rural residents got the first jab of the vaccine. Covid cases have been on the rise in Jharkhand since mid-March. As per government data, the active caseload in the state has jumped above 5,000, while that in Ranchi has crossed the 3,000 mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town auto drivers protest 'illegal' parking fees||More than 100 auto rickshaw drivers on Monday carried out a day-long strike and staged a demonstration in front of  Dhanbad Municipal Corporation protesting against collection of "illegal" parking fees and the lack of demarcated auto stops. The protesters burnt the effigy of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation commissioner Satyendra Kumar. The agitators have been on the boil over the beating of one of their colleagues on Sunday near the Bartand based bus depot by one of the parking agents of the corporation. The protesters, who were also demanding an end to the practice of collection of illegal parking charges from them by allottees of the DMC parking lot on the road away far away from the parking lot threatened to intensify their strike if immediate steps are not taken to improve the situation. Chhotan Singh, president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh said, “Everywhere in the district, illegal parking charges are being realised by the allottees outside the parking lots despite the fact we are already paying the charges designated for parking lots.” “The problem of illegal parking charges realization is prevalent everywhere in district be it Bartand Bus depot or Bank More or Shramik Chowk,” said Singh. Citing an example of difficulties faced by them, Sunil Rawani an autodriver said, “On every trip of journey we are being compelled to illegally pay Rs 10 at the three to four places in name of parking charges.” Md Rashid, the auto rickshaw driver who was beaten, said “the parking lot agent yesterday caught hold of me outside the lot near the Bus depot and beaten up despite the fact that I was ready to pay the parking charge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bodies of 2 minor boys found in Chatra pond||Police on Monday recovered the bodies of two minor boys who went missing on Saturday afternoon from their Gwala Toli mohalla in industrial town Tandwa. The recovery led to widespread anger in the area as locals suspected a pre planned murder. Hundreds of people gathered on the banks of the pond and demanded the arrest of the culprits. The boys namely Sumit Kumar,7 and Vivek Kumar, 8, were students of Class two. The boys stepped out of their house to play in a field close to their mohalla. As they had to go for their tuition class but didn’t return back till 3pm on Saturday afternoon their parents started a search. Their bodies were spotted in a pond. Vivek Kumar was the son of Ramu Yadav, a health department employee and Sumit was the only son of mason Ishwar Yadav. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said police will solve the case soon. He said sub divisional police officer of Tandwa, Vikas Pandey has been given the responsibility to investigate the case. He said investigation will be done keeping all aspects in mind. “We will wait for their postmortem report also,” said Jha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 788 fresh Covid cases, 149 recoveries in a day||At least eight more Jharkhand residents, including five from Ranchi and two from Dhanbad, died of a Covid-19 infection on Sunday, while the count of active cases in the state crossed the 5000 mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state reported 788 fresh cases of infection on the day against 149 recoveries, and the active caseload jumped to 5244, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. With 446 fresh cases, Ranchi alone accounted for more than 60 per cent of the cases on Sunday, which took the active caseload here to 3015, the NHM bulletin further stated. Sunday’s casualties took the Covid toll in the state to 1130 and that in Ranchi to 267, the second highest among districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum has so far reported 358 Covid casualties, the highest in the state. Bokaro also reported one Covid casualty on the day, while two Covid patients’ death in Dhanbad took the toll there to 121. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand crossed the national average of 0.45 per cent on the day, revealed government data. As per figures with the NHM, the growth rate of infection in the state shot up from 0.10 per cent in February to 0.48 per cent on Sunday. Meanwhile, the doubling rate in Jharkhand also dropped below the national average. As per NHM data, it would take 145.97 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 153.35 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days in the first week of March. As per government data, as many as 1,27,246 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far, and 94.98 per cent of them have recovered. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 12,072 people and more than 5 per cent of them were found infected. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday admitted that the second wave of Covid-19 has hit Jharkhand and urged the residents of the state to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also requested Jharkhand residents to get vaccinated on time. On Sunday, the state administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 80,184 people, thereby achieving 70 per cent of its target for the day, NHM data highlighted. More than 80,000 of the beneficiaries on Sunday were commoners above the age of 45 years. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to only 2,391 beneficiaries, hardly 2 per cent of the over 1.41 lakh people registered for the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
05-04-2021||Jharkhand||Award hattrick for two Jharkhand panchayats||Two gram panchayats of Jharkhand have created hattricks of sorts by bagging national panchayat awards for three consecutive years for their outstanding performances. While Bundu pnachayat of Bokaro district bagged the award for being the best child-friendly panchayat in the state in 2019-20, Kapila panchayat of Giridih received the Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar for its outstanding contribution to socio-economic development by involving gram sabha. B.K. Behara, economic adviser to the Union panchayati raj ministry, in a letter addressed to panchayat secretaries of different states on Wednesday, informed about the panchayats that had bagged awards for their performances during 2019-20. Bundu panchayat had also received the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar in recognition of the good work done by it during 2017-18 and also for being a child-friendly panchayat in 2018-19. Similarly, Kapila panchayat had also bagged the Deen Dayal award in 2017-18 and the gram sabha award in 2018-19. Besides these two panchayats, Khutahari gram panchayat in Sahebganj district bagged the Gram Panchayat Development Plan Award for drafting its development plan according to specific guidelines during 2019-20. Khunti zilla parishad, panchayat samitis or intermediary panchayati raj institutions at block level of Golmuri-Jugsalai in East Singhbhum district and Khunti proper of that district and gram panchayats of Budhudih in Giridih district, Chapri in Bokaro and Pindrakon in Hazaribagh also bagged the Deen Dayal award for their good performances during 2019-20. After the expiry of their terms, fresh elections for panchayati raj institutions that became due in 2020 could not be held in Jharkhand because of the coronavirus pandemic. At present, the outgoing mukhiyas (chiefs) of gram panchayats are working as pradhans (heads) of executive committees that are running the show. On the reasons why the Bundu panchayat was recognised as the best child-friendly panchayat in the state for two successive years, its former mukhiya and present head Ajay Kumar Singh said: “Every child in our panchayat goes to school. They all are also covered under the immunisation programme and their nutrition issues are addressed properly.” “We have well-run anganwadi centres for kids and also developed playgrounds for the children,” he further said, adding that the panchayat members got themselves involved at every stage and even rushed children to hospitals in case of medical emergencies. Asked about the recognition received by Kapila panchayat for outstanding contribution towards socio-economic development by involving gram sabhas, its former mukhiya and present head Indu Devi said: “We hold gram sabha regularly and plan development programmes only after taking consent from villagers. We also maintain transparency at every stage.” “That is why we get whole-hearted support and cooperation from the villagers, who are the members of gram sabha, at every stage during execution of any work that is taken up with its consent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
