06-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State mulls taking jab to doorstep||The state government is considering taking the Covid-19 vaccination drive to big housing complexes and corporate houses so that more people can be inoculated against the disease that is spreading much faster than it did at the peak of the epidemic last year. The state health department on Monday met representatives of several private hospitals to discuss how off-site vaccination could be done in Calcutta. Till now in Bengal, Covid-19 vaccines are given only at designated hospitals and clinics, including those run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and other civic bodies. Private hospitals as well as the health department are flooded with requests from big residential complexes and corporate houses to conduct vaccination on their premises. Representatives of some hospitals also proposed that vaccination centres be set up at sites like Netaji Indoor Stadium and Geetanjali Stadium in Kasba. The state has around 2 crore 20 lakh people eligible for Covid vaccine doses. Till Monday evening, nearly 60 lakh have received at least one dose of a vaccine, a health department official said. “Private hospitals and the health department are getting requests to take vaccination to people’s doorsteps. Also, since the number of Covid cases is rising sharply, there is a need to speed up vaccination, especially in urban areas. A protocol has to be developed, after which the guidelines for off-site vaccination can be issued," the official said. Monday’s meeting discussed how to set up temporary vaccination centres at housing complexes and offices, those who attended the meeting said. Health officials have said off-site vaccination should be done at those places where at least 150 people, residents of a housing complex or employees of an office, are ready to take the shot. For Covid-19 vaccination, a waiting area, a vaccination room and an observation room are required to be set up. The vaccination room and the observation room have to be air-conditioned, the official said. Also, arrangements have to be made to store the vaccine vials in a refrigerator and ensure prompt medical attention to anyone who develops an adverse reaction. “Many big housing complexes and offices have such facilities. Housing complexes have community centres that can be used for vaccination,” said another official of the health department. “Some states have started off-site vaccination and this is the need of the hour to contain the new wave. Covid vaccination only at healthcare facilities will not help, as many young and working people may not have the time to visit such a facility for vaccination,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “However, the Centre should ensure adequate supply of vaccine doses. Otherwise, such exercises will have no effect.” Demands for off-site vaccination were being raised even before everyone above 45 became eligible for the Covid shot on April 1. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has received such requests from at least eight big housing complexes and six corporate houses, said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of the hospital chain. “Setting up vaccination camps at these housing complexes and offices is the only way to get more people vaccinated. We have been able to vaccinate only around 2,500 people between 45 and 59 since April 1. The target was to vaccinate 4,000 people. Since cases of adverse reactions after vaccination are rare, we can start the drive taking adequate precautions,” said Barua. He said ambulances with ICU facilities will be kept at the vaccination site to transport anyone falling sick after getting the shot to hospital. The Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has been approached by three to four corporate bodies and a few housing complexes for doorstep vaccination. “We are keen to start such a drive but are waiting for the state government's guidelines,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Several hospitals said despite keeping vaccination centres operational on Sunday, the response was poor. At Belle Vue Clinic, only 20 people took the shot on Sunday, compared with the daily average of 450 to 500. At Peerless Hospital, only 80 people were administered the jab on Sunday, compared with 200 on other days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Light, light every 20m but not a lamp that shines||Several roads and lanes in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as the sun sets because the street lights installed there do not work. The 4km road that connects EM Bypass to Salt Lake has street lights at 20m intervals but none of them is functional. This road — from the Chingrighata crossing to EE Block, running parallel to the Eastern Drainage Canal — connects several blocks as well as housing complexes of the township, including the Jal Vayu Vihar and Mahavir Vikas complexes, and KB, KC and IC Blocks in Sector III and FF and EE Blocks in Sector II. To add to the worries of the motorists and pedestrians, construction materials like concrete blocks, sand and iron rods remain scattered on the sides of the road for the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro Railway viaduct. It has become tricky for drivers and two-wheeler riders to navigate the road as there are several potholes. A resident of IC Block, Piyush Agarwal, said at night the entire stretch becomes so dark that spotting the construction items as well as potholes becomes quite difficult. “The other day one of my neighbours got a flat tire because he drove over an iron rod that was jutting out from the side of the road. We have lodged several complaints with the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but they have not paid any heed to our pleas,” said Agarwal. The situation is similar on several lanes of FE Block where many street lights don’t work. In Sector I, large stretches of the road along the Kestopur canal are completely dark. “We have sent several letters to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but no action has been taken,” said Bhaskar Ganguly, a resident of AE Block. In HA Block, too, a resident said half of the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. A section of residents said they had asked candidates from political parties, including Sujit Bose from the Trinamul Congress and BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta, to do something about the lights. “They told us that they will ensure that the lights will get fixed but nothing has happened till now,” said one of the residents, who did not wish to be named. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation pointed out several reasons, including shortage of men and the Assembly elections, for the delay in carrying out repairs. “Many of our men are on election duty.” Another official of the civic body said they would start repairing the lights soon. “Engineers have been directed to carry out a survey where the lights need to be repaired or replaced,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt asks private hospitals to add beds or open satellite units||The Bengal government on Monday asked private hospitals to increase the Covid bed count or reopen satellite centres they had been running last year for Covid patients, the request triggered by an alarming rise in the number of people testing positive for the coronavirus. Several private hospitals said they had closed the satellite units following a sharp drop in the number of Covid patients towards the end of last year, a trend that persisted for several more weeks before cases started rising again early March. “Private hospitals have been told to increase the number of beds. At the same time they should explore the possibility of reopening satellite facilities as the number of cases is rising sharply in and around Calcutta,” an official of the state health department said after a meeting between the department and private hospitals on Monday. The satellite facilities, which were taken on rent by hospitals, were for patients with mild symptoms or those who were asymptomatic. In most cases, hotel rooms were used for such facilities. However, by the end of last year, almost all these centres were closed down because there were not many takers. Most patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms opted for home isolation. When health department officials asked the private hospitals to increase the Covid bed count, representatives of several healthcare units expressed helplessness, saying they could not do what they had done during the height of the pandemic last year. They told health officials that the pressure of non-Covid patients was very high, unlike this time last year. Also, hundreds of surgeries and procedures are lined up over the next few months, and so it would be difficult to allot beds for Covid patients beyond a point. The Telegraph has reported how private hospitals are struggling to increase Covid beds. Many hospitals are converting single rooms into twin-sharing facilities to increase capacity. “So, we asked the hospitals to also explore the possibility of creating facilities outside their premises which could be used as satellite centres,” the health department official said. Belle Vue Clinic had started a 100-bed satellite unit in August last year but shut it down in December. “There were 52 patients at the most, so running the facility was no longer viable,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had started a satellite centre in July with a capacity to treat 52 persons. “It never had more than 30 patients at a time and eventually the number came down to zero. We had to close down the unit in December,” said an official of the hospital. “We now have 40 beds in the Covid wards, where 22 patients are admitted. If the number increases, we’ll first try to add Covid beds within the existing capacity, If that is not possible, we will think of resuming the satellite centre,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. ILS Hospital had around 48 beds in its satellite centre, which it had started after tying up with a hotel in mid-April last year. The facility was closed in October. However, some hospitals said they would not go for satellite centres. “Oxygen supply is one of the most crucial parts of Covid treatment. It’s difficult to have steady flow of oxygen supply at such satellite centres,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We now have around 50 Covid beds and almost all are occupied. We are trying to increase the capacity, but beyond a point we’ll again have to contact hotels to set up a satellite centre,” said Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||State health department directs districts to ramp up Covid tests||The state health department has asked officials in all 23 districts of Bengal, especially the ones close to Calcutta, to ramp up Covid tests after a review revealed several of them were not even close to meeting the halfway mark of the daily target. Officials in the districts have been asked to ensure that health workers reach out to as many people as possible and convince them to get tested for Covid if there are any symptoms. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said that in several districts a large number of people were either reluctant to turn up for tests or were ignoring their illness believing they just had a bout of common cold. They are going for tests, and are testing positive, weeks later, by when the symptoms have worsened. At a meeting on Monday, senior health officials from Swasthya Bhavan told their colleagues in the districts that health workers would have to intensify their outreach so that more and more people with mild symptoms got tested early. “The officials have been told that any delay in identifying a Covid patient will, in turn, delay the process of tracing those who have come in contact with him or her. This should not happen,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan. A few weeks back, the health department had drawn up daily targets of Covid-19 tests for each district so that 20,000 tests could be performed every day. North 24-Parganas has to conduct 1,400 tests daily, Bankura 700 tests, and Purulia and West Midnapore 800 each. “Several districts including Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore are not even touching the 50 per cent mark,” said the health department official. “South 24-Parganas and Murshidabad are among the better performers with a daily score of more than 80 per cent.” Officials of some districts said it was difficult to meet the daily target because a section of the staff was engaged in poll duty. Some said they were unable to launch awareness drives because of rallies. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,293, to 11,446, on Monday. The state recorded 1,961 new infections and 664 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||No CU practicals for even semester||Calcutta University will not reopen its campuses for in-person practical classes at the postgraduate level this semester, making a U-turn from its decision in the previous semester that ended in March, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. Online theory classes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels for the ongoing semester started on Monday. In the previous semester (odd semester), CU was the only university in Bengal that reopened its campuses for practical classes. Asked about the prospect of reopening labs in the even semester, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said: "We are not going to allow this now. (Covid) Cases are rising all over. It would not be advisable to recall students to the campus now. We cannot compromise with the health of students. As pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Asish Chatterjee had told the heads of all departments last week, only theory classes in the online mode will be held till the situation improves.” The VC stressed that there had been a “drastic change in the ground situation” between the odd semester and the ongoing even semester. CU had in January allowed practicals at Ballygunge Science College, Rajabazar Science College and other campuses and students were asked to attend the classes in small batches. A month after the CU campuses reopened, education minister Partha Chatterjee had on February 3 sought to know from the pro-VC (academic) why the university had resumed lab classes in the absence of any directive from the education department. Days later, VC Chakravarti Banerjee justified the reopening, saying many teachers and students had appealed to the university to resume practicals. But the situation has drastically changed since. "Cases are rising sharply. Bringing students to the campus amid this could pose a health risk…. Under the circumstances we don’t want the campuses to reopen,” said Parthiba Basu, the president of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. The same association had on January 1 urged the VC to allow resumption of practicals by following all Covid-19 safety protocols. CU departments had last month held their practical exams online in the form of viva voce or by asking students to solve a problem on digital platforms. A renewed surge in Covid cases is forcing institutes across the country to rethink their decision to recall students to the campuses. IIEST Shibpur has called a meeting of the senate on April 7 to decide whether the supplementary exams could be conducted online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Auto runs over elderly pedestrian near JU||An elderly woman who was trying to cross the road in front of gate number three of Jadavpur University died after being hit by an autorickshaw on Monday morning. The accident occurred on the first working day of the week on a busy Raja SC Mullick Road in the heart of Jadavpur, which usually remains crowded with vehicles and pedestrians during office hours. The woman, around 80 years old, was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. The driver has been booked under IPC sections related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief. Police officers who were the first to reach the spot said the autorickshaw was moving at a high speed and the driver could not control the vehicle when the woman suddenly came in front. “Autorickshaws are light vehicles that can be stopped immediately if the brake is pressed at the right time. But in this case it appeared that the three-wheeler was moving at such pace that the driver failed to negotiate the speed even after pressing the brake,” said an officer of Jadavpur police station. The incident brought back the scare of rogue autos that blatantly violate traffic rules, jump signals, carry extra passengers and often flaunt political connections when caught by the law agencies. People in the neighbourhood said the woman, whose name could not be ascertained till Monday evening, was often spotted begging on Jadavpur footpaths. The driver of the killer auto was arrested and the vehicle seized from the spot. There were two passengers in the autorickshaw when the incident happened. The police said the number of accidents involving autos in the city had reduced in the past year following the imposition of lockdown. Most auto drivers had been a little more careful in maintaining the Covid-19 protocol and the road rules as they took out their vehicles after a gap of a few months, the period when the city was under lockdown. “But now it seems that as life is returning to normal and more and more people are stepping out, autos, too, are going back to their normal ways of rash driving,” said an officer of the traffic department. Officers said pedestrians, too, should be careful while crossing roads. “It is very important for pedestrians to cross the road only when the traffic signal is red for vehicles and they cross over through zebra-crossings,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Rain brings temperature down||Parts of Calcutta received a sharp spell of rain in the afternoon on Monday. In some areas, the showers were accompanied by hailstorms. The rain came from localised clouds, formed because of the pent-up heat and moisture in the atmosphere, said a Met official. The conditions were not as windy as during the squall on Sunday. But two bouts of showers in two consecutive days brought temporary relief from the scorching conditions the city had been subjected to over the past few days. The rain was sporadic on Monday. The Met office recorded 32mm of rain in Alipore between 4pm and 5.30pm. At the same time, Behala hardly got any showers. Areas like Kasba and Patuli got some rain, accompanied by a hailstorm. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.1 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 22.6 degrees, two notches below normal. “There is very little chance of thundershowers over the next couple of days...,” said the Met official. The city is yet to get its first Nor’wester this season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
06-04-2021||Business||IMF predicts 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, stronger than that of China, the only major economy to have a positive growth rate last year during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Washington-based global financial institution, in its annual World Economic Outlook ahead of the annual Spring meeting with the World Bank, said the Indian economy is expected to grow by 6.9 per cent in 2022. Notably in 2020, India's economy contracted by a record eight per cent, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said as it projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for the country in 2021. China, on the other hand which was the only major economy to have a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020, is expected to grow by 8.6 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Chief Economist at IMF Gita Gopinath said: We are now projecting a stronger recovery in 2021 and 2022 for the global economy compared to our previous forecast, with growth projected to be 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.4 per cent in 2022 . In 2020, the global economy contracted by 3.3 per cent. "Nonetheless, the outlook presents daunting challenges related to divergences in the speed of recovery both across and within countries and the potential for persistent economic damage from the crisis," she said in her foreword to the report. According to the report, after an estimated contraction of 3.3 per cent in 2020, the global economy is projected to grow at 6 per cent in 2021, moderating to 4.4 per cent in 2022. The contraction for 2020 is 1.1 percentage points smaller than projected in the October 2020 World Economic Outlook (WEO), reflecting the higher-than-expected growth outturns in the second half of the year for most regions after lockdowns were eased and as economies adapted to new ways of working. The projections for 2021 and 2022 are 0.8 percentage point and 0.2 percentage point stronger than in the October 2020 WEO, reflecting additional fiscal support in a few large economies and the anticipated vaccine-powered recovery in the second half of the year, the report said. Global growth is expected to moderate to 3.3 per cent over the medium term, reflecting projected damage to supply potential and forces that predate the pandemic, including aging-related slower labour force growth in advanced economies and some emerging market economies. In a blog post, Gopinath said the pandemic is yet to be defeated and virus cases are accelerating in many countries. Recoveries are also diverging dangerously across and within countries, as economies with slower vaccine rollout, more limited policy support, and more reliant on tourism do less well, she said. Gopinath said policymakers will need to continue supporting their economies while dealing with more limited policy space and higher debt levels than prior to the pandemic. This requires better targeted measures to leave space for prolonged support if needed. With multi-speed recoveries, a tailored approach is necessary, with policies well-calibrated to the stage of the pandemic, the strength of the economic recovery, and the structural characteristics of individual countries, she said. "Right now, the emphasis should be on escaping the health crisis by prioritising health care spending, on vaccinations, treatments, and health care infrastructure. Fiscal support should be well targeted to affected households and firms. "Monetary policy should remain accommodative (where inflation is well behaved), while proactively addressing financial stability risks using macroprudential tools," she said. Once the health crisis is over, policy efforts can focus more on building resilient, inclusive, and greener economies, both to bolster the recovery and to raise potential output, Gopinath said. "The priorities should include green infrastructure investment to help mitigate climate change, digital infrastructure investment to boost productive capacity and strengthening social assistance to arrest rising inequality," she added. The global economy shrank by 4.3 per cent last year, over two-and-a-half times more than during the global financial crisis of 2009.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Tuesday, tracking high volatility amid concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of coronavirus infections in the country. After swinging around 646 points during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 42.07 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 49,201.39. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 45.70 points or 0.31 per cent to 14,683.50. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 4 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, HUL, HDFC, Dr Reddy's, Nestle India and M&M. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities were quite volatile and gave up most initial gains as sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across the country and resultant mobility restrictions continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sharp spike in COVID-19 cases and localised lockdowns have dented investors' sentiments, he noted, adding that domestic markets are expected to remain volatile in the near term until the coronavirus spread is controlled. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended in the red, while Seoul was in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.43 per cent higher at USD 63.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||After starting on a weak note, equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index pared its initial losses and rebounded 313.14 points or 0.64 per cent to 49,472.46, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 99.80 points or 0.68 per cent to 14,737.60. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, HDFC duo and Infosys. On the other hand, Titan was the sole laggard. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 49,159.32, down 870.51 points or 1.74 per cent, and Nifty sank 229.55 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,637.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 931.66 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a significant fundamental factor from the market perspective is that the US and China are leading the global economic recovery. This is likely to translate into earnings growth particularly in emerging markets like India. "An important market trend in India is the outperformance of small-mid cap indices. While Nifty is up 4.7 per cent YTD the small and midcap indices are up by 14 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively. This outperformance is likely to continue since there is more value in this segment," he said. Further, he noted that while rising COVID-19 cases is a matter of concern, it is unlikely to have a major economic impact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. US equities witnessed sharp rebound with Dow and S&P 500 scaling fresh highs as investors continued to get comfort from steady improvement in key economic data, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 62.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||LG Electronics to wind down loss-making mobile division after failing to find a buyer||South Korea’s LG Electronics Inc will wind down its loss-making mobile division after failing to find a buyer, a move that is set to make it the first major smartphone brand to completely withdraw from the market. Its decision to pull out will leave its 10 per cent share in North America, where it is the No. 3 brand, to be gobbled up by Samsung Electronics and Apple Inc with its domestic rival expected to have the edge. “In the United States, LG has targeted mid-priced — if not ultra-low — models and that means Samsung, which has more mid-priced product lines than Apple, will be better able to attract LG users,” said Ko Eui-young, an analyst at Hi Investment Securities. LG’s smartphone division has logged nearly six years of losses totalling some $4.5 billion. Dropping out of the fiercely competitive sector would allow LG to focus on growth areas such as electric vehicle components, connected devices and smart homes, it said in a statement. In better times, LG was early to market with a number of cellphone innovations, including ultra-wide angle cameras, and at its peak in 2013, it was the world’s third-largest smartphone manufacturer behind Samsung and Apple. But later, its flagship models suffered from both software and hardware mishaps which combined with slower software updates saw the brand steadily slip in favour. Analysts have also criticised the company for lack of expertise in marketing compared with Chinese rivals. While other well-known brands such as Nokia, HTC and Blackberry have also fallen from lofty heights, they are yet to disappear completely. LG’s current global share is only about 2 per cent. It shipped 23 million phones last year which compares with 256 million for Samsung, according to research provider Counterpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||SC appoints two special judges to handle coal scam cases pending since 2014||The Supreme Court on Monday appointed two special judges — Arun Bharadwaj and Sanjay Bansal — to continue with the trial of the Rs 1.75 lakh coal scam cases pending since 2014. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde passed the order appointing the two judges in place of judge Bharat Parashar who has dealt with the case since 2014, when the top court had appointed a probe by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate into the allegations. Judge Parashar had earlier made a request to be relieved of the duties as a special judge since he had already completed six years in the post.  According to sources Judge Parashar is due for his elevation. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian agreed to appoint the two special judges who will hold separate courts on the issue. Earlier, special public prosecutor in the case and senior advocate R.S. Cheema informed the court that more than 40 cases are still pending adjudication. Cheema suggested the top court may appoint two special judges to replace judge Parashar. There are now 41 cases on the coal scam. The court also agreed to examine next week the plea of Cheema for his own replacement from the case The apex court on March 15 had requested the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court to provide names of five trial court judges of “high caliber and absolute integrity” for appointing one of them as the special judge to replace Parashar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Manufacturing activity falls to seven-month low||Manufacturing activity fell to a seven-month low in March with demand constrained by the rise in Covid-19 cases, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) fell from 57.5 in February to a seven-month low of 55.4 in March. “Production, new orders and input buying expanded at softer rates,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “survey participants indicated that demand growth was constrained by the escalation of the pandemic, while the rise in input buying was curtailed by an intensification of cost pressures. “With Covid-19 restrictions expanded and lockdown measures re-introduced in many states, Indian manufacturers look set to experience a challenging month in April.” Darren Aw, Asia Eeconomist, Capital Economics said “the renewed surge in new Covid-19 cases is a growing threat to the broader economic recovery”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires Aakash Educational Services Ltd ||Byju’s has acquired Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL) in a deal worth almost $1 billion (Rs 7,300 crore), the largest transaction in this space. The acquisition, which is through a mix of cash and stock, is expected to improve Byju’s presence in the test preparation business in the country. As part of the transaction, Aakash’s founders and Blackstone will become shareholders in Byju’s. Byju’s, which was recently valued at $13 billion, is backed by marquee investors such as Mary Meeker, Yuri Milner, Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, Tencent, Sequoia Capital, Tiger Global and others. It is estimated to have raised over $2 billion in funding to date and is reportedly in talks to raise an additional $600-700 million. Earlier, it has acquired TutorVista and Edurite (from Pearson in 2017) and Osmo in 2019. Last year, it had bought coding training platform WhiteHat Jr for $300 million. “Our complementary strengths will enable us to build capabilities, create engaging and personalised learning programmes. The future of learning is hybrid and this union will bring together the best of offline and online learning, as we combine our expertise to create impactful experiences for students,” said Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO of Byju’s. Byju cited industry reports and said the test preparation and after school tutoring (high school) segment is estimated to be a $7-8 billion opportunity in India and is expected to witness 55-60 per cent growth over the next 4-5 years. “This will be the largest integration in the education space in India, especially in the startup space,” said AESL managing director Aakash Chaudhry. Meesho raises $300m Social commerce platform Meesho on Monday said it has raised $300 million (about Rs 2,201.7 crore) in a funding round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2. The latest investment values Meesho at $2.1 billion and saw participation from existing investors — Prosus Ventures, Facebook, Shunwei Capital, Venture Highway and Knollwood Investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Govt amends insolvency law to provide for pre-packaged resolution process for MSMEs||The government has amended the insolvency law to provide for a pre-packaged resolution process for micro, small and medium enterprises to ensure a quicker, cost-effective and value maximising outcome for all stakeholders. The solution will be least disruptive to the continuity of their businesses and would preserve jobs. An ordinance was promulgated to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) on April 4. The latest move comes less than two weeks after the suspension of certain IBC provisions ended. The suspension — wherein fresh insolvency proceedings were not allowed for a year — had started on March 25, 2020. Under the ordinance, it is considered necessary to urgently address the specific requirements of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) relating to the resolution of their insolvency because of the unique nature of their businesses and simpler corporate structures. “Taking a cue from other countries where similar provisions have been proved to be beneficial, this process may act as an efficient alternative insolvency resolution process for genuine MSMEs,” said Rashi Suri, managing partner — Upscale Legal Soumitra Majumdar, partner at J Sagar Associates, said: “While modelled on debtor-in-possession approach, it vests significant consent rights to the financial creditors such that the mechanism cannot be misused by errant promoters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Adani Ports and SEZ acquires 25 per cent stake of Vishwa Samudra Holdings||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) on Monday said it has acquired a 25 per cent of  Vishwa Samudra Holdings in Krishnapatnam Port for Rs 2,800 crore. This will result in APSEZ increasing its stake from 75 per cent to 100 per cent in Krishnapatnam Port. Krishnapatnam Port, located on the east coast of India in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, is an all-weather, deep water port. It has a multi-cargo facility with a current capacity of 64 million tonnes (mt) per annum. With a waterfront of 20 km and 6,800 acres of land, Krishnapatnam Port has a master plan capacity of 300mt and a 50-year concession, it said. “Together with the 75 per cent ownership acquired in October 2020, the acquisition implies an enterprise value of Rs 13,675 crore,” the firm said. The port is expected to have volumes of 38mt, revenues of Rs 1,840 crore and an EBITDA of Rs 1,325 crore in 2020-21, it said. Karan Adani, chief executive officer and wholetime director of APSEZ, said: “The consolidation of our ownership in Krishnapatnam Port reinforces APSEZ’s stride towards 500mt by 2025 and achieving our broader strategy of cargo parity between the west and east coasts of India.” He said Krishnapatnam Port is on track to handle double the traffic by 2025 and will deliver high growth through a multi-product and cargo enhancement strategy while enhancing return on capital employed. On March 23, APSEZ had said it will acquire a controlling interest in Gangavaram Port Ltd (GPL) from DVS Raju and family for Rs 3,604 crore taking its stake in GPL to 89.6 per cent. GPL is located in the northern part of Andhra Pradesh next to Vizag Port. APSEZ had announced the acquisition of Warburg Pincus’ 31.5 per cent stake in GPL on March 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rejigs portfolios of deputy governors||The Reserve Bank on Monday rejigged portfolios of its deputy governors, with the key monetary policy department remaining with Michael Debabrata Patra. The reshuffle follows the retirement of deputy governor B.P. Kanungo on completion of his one-year extension. As deputy governor, Kanungo headed the departments of currency management, infotech, payment and settlement systems, foreign exchange, and internal debt management. The central bank has now reshuffled its 32 departments among the three deputy governors — M.K. Jain, Patra and M. Rajeshwar Rao. Patra has been assigned 10 other departments too, including external investments and operations, statistics and information management, financial markets operations and financial stability unit. Jain has been assigned 11 departments, including of co-ordination, infotech, supervision, financial inclusion and development. Rao will look after 10 departments, including regulation, communication, currency management, payment and settlement systems, legal, foreign exchange and risk monitoring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee begins its three-day meeting ||The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) started its three-day meeting on Monday amid expectations the panel would keep the policy repo rate constant and retain its accommodative stance on liquidity as the second wave of the coronavirus threatens the nascent economic recovery. The focus is also on whether the six-member rate setting body will revise its inflation forecast given the uptick in February numbers and sticky core inflation. Besides, central bank’s comments on the yield curve are of interest as the government looks to borrow record sums to prop up growth. Observers are also watching out for any announcement on open market operations. Retail inflation in February had inched up to 5.03 per cent which was below the central bank’s medium term target of 4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent even as elevated core inflation — the price basket stripped off the food and fuel components — remained a worry. The high core inflation has led to expectations of a status quo on the policy repo rate which is 4 per cent at present even as the economy witnesses an uneven recovery. “There will likely be some re-assessment of the growth outlook even as the RBI may not rush to reduce its FY22 growth forecast of 10.5 per cent dramatically amid second wave and series of local lockdowns,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist at Emkay Global Financial Services. Arora pointed to the opposing forces acting on prices. On one hand, “the risks of increasing input costs and commodity prices, seasonal or new supply disruption-led upside in food prices and better pricing power could prod MPC to take a relook at its 2021-22 inflation forecast”. However, local lockdowns could impact services demand negatively and put downward pressure on core inflation and act as a balancing factor to emerging upside risks to inflation. “We see core inflation outdoing headline inflation through the most part of 2021-22. While this could worry the policymakers, the policy stance will likely remain accommodative on both the rates and the liquidity front in the current calendar year.’’ In its February monetary policy, the monetary policy committee had projected inflation based on consumer price index at 5.2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, 5.2-5 per cent in the first half of 2021-22 and 4.3 per cent in the third quarter of the next fiscal, with risks broadly balanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||US treasury secretary Janet L. Yellen makes case for a global minimum tax||Treasury secretary Janet L. Yellen made the case on Monday for a global minimum tax, kicking off the Biden administration’s effort to help raise revenue in the United States and prevent companies from shifting profits overseas to evade taxes. Yellen, in a speech to the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, called for global coordination on an international tax rate that would apply to multinational corporations, regardless of where they locate their headquarters. Such a global tax could help prevent the type of “race to the bottom” that has been underway, Yellen said, referring to countries trying to outdo one another by lowering tax rates in order to attract business. Her remarks came as the White House and Democrats in Congress begin looking for ways to pay for President Biden’s sweeping infrastructure plan to rebuild America’s roads, bridges, water systems and electric grid. “Competitiveness is about more than how US-based companies fare against other companies in global merger and acquisition bids,” Yellen said. “It is about making sure that governments have stable tax systems that raise sufficient revenue to invest in essential public goods and respond to crises, and that all citizens fairly share the burden of financing the government.” The speech represented Yellen’s most extensive comments since taking over as treasury secretary and she underscored the scope of the challenge ahead. “Over the last four years, we have seen firsthand what happens when America steps back from the global stage,” she said. “America first must never mean America alone.” Yellen also highlighted her priorities of combating climate change, reducing global poverty and the importance of the United States helping to lead the world out of the crisis caused by the pandemic. Yellen also called on countries not to pull back on fiscal support too soon and warned of growing global imbalances if some countries do withdraw before the crisis is over. In a sharp break with the administration of former President Donald Trump, Yellen emphasised the importance of the US working closely with its allies, noting that the fortunes of countries around the world are intertwined. Overhauling the international tax system is a big part of that. Corporate tax rates have been falling around the world in recent years. Under the Trump administration, the rate in the US was cut from 35 per cent to 21 per cent. President Biden wants to raise that rate to 28 per cent and increase the international minimum tax rate that American companies pay on their foreign profits to 21 per cent. Yellen said she is working with her counterparts in the Group of 20 advanced nations on changes to the global tax system that will help prevent businesses from shifting profits to low-tax jurisdictions. New York Times New Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Benchmark index crashes 871 points as investors spooked by Covid second wave||The Sensex on Monday crashed 871 points as investors feared the second wave of coronavirus in the country would derail growth. As the markets tanked — the Sensex fell 1449 points intra-day —  the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) began its three-day deliebrations while  corporate India warmed up to announce its March quarter results from next week. Though India Inc is expected to report good numbers, the rising Covid-19 cases in the country may affect corporate performance in the first quarter ended June 30, 2021. “April is likely to be highly volatile with fourth quarter earnings, rising Covid cases and higher bond yields to determine the trend,” said Hemang Dani, head of equity strategy, broking and distribution at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Latest data showed the number of coronavirus cases  hit a record daily high of over one lakh in the country. It led to badly affected states such as Maharashtra announcing strict measures which is expected to hurt economic activity. Various other states have also come out with measures that is expected to affect people’s movement. On Monday, Care Ratings said the measures announced in Maharashtra will lead to a decline in output by around Rs 40,000 crore for the state and that it will erode 0.32 per cent from the gross value added growth at the overall domestic economy level. Maharashtra is the largest state in the country in terms of gross state domestic product (GSDP) and has a share of around 15 per cent in GVA, followed by Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. While these states have also put restrictions, they are not of the same scale as Maharashtra. “The market witnessed a huge selloff on Monday as India’s second wave of Covid-19 is getting bigger than anticipated and is expected to ruin the pace of economic recovery. High valuations added further concern because of a possible downgrade in the first quarter 2021-22 earnings,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. The 30-share Sensex opened lower at 50020.91 and hit an intra-day low of 48580.80 — a fall of 1449 points as investors sold banking and other stocks. It later pared some losses to finish at 49159.32, down 870.51 points, or 1.74 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty sank 229.55 points, or 1.54 per cent, to 14637.80. Financial stocks led the selloff. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, plunging around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. Some experts maintain that investors should use the opportunity to pick up quality stocks. They added that though the country is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases at present, its pace will decline as  people get vaccinated. “Overall markets are likely to remain in a consolidative mode for some time awaiting fresh positive triggers. Hence, investors would do well to  gradually accumulate good quality companies on any declines in the market,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||India||Centre advises its employees above 45 to get vaccinated against Covid||The Centre on Tuesday asked all its employees aged 45 years and above to get themselves vaccinated to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19. They are further advised to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination by frequent washing of hands and sanitisation, wearing a mask or face cover and observing social distancing, etc., an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. “The government has been monitoring the situation very closely, and based on the strategy adopted for prioritising the groups for vaccination to contain the spread of Covid-19, currently, all persons of the age of 45 years and above can participate in the vaccination exercise,” it said. “In view of the above, all central government employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19,” said the order issued to all the central government ministries and departments. The order comes amid an alarming spike in Covid-19 cases in the country in the last few weeks. More than 43 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours on April 5, the highest single-day coverage till now, taking the total doses given in the country so far to 8,31,10,926, the Union Health Ministry said earlier in the day. As on day-80 of the vaccination drive (April 5), a total 43,00,966 vaccine doses have been given out of which 39,00,505 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 48,095 sessions for 1st dose while 4,00,461 beneficiaries received the 2nd dose, according to the data updated at 7 am. "This is the highest single day vaccination coverage in the country so far," the ministry said. Eight states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have shown a steep rise in the Covid daily new cases accounting for 80.04 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 47,288. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 7,302 while Karnataka reported 5,279 new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 7,88,223 and now comprises 6.21 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 46,393 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Twelve states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt, Deshmukh move SC against HC order for CBI probe||Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday challenging the Bombay High Court order directing CBI probe into the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. "We have filed an appeal on behalf of the state government against the Bombay High Court order of yesterday," said Maharashtra standing counsel Sachin Patil. Deshmukh's counsel Sudhanshu S Choudhari said that he has also filed a petition in the apex court against the high court order. Earlier in the day, Bombay-based lawyer Jayshree Patil, on whose criminal writ petition the high court had ordered the CBI probe, had filed a caveat in the top court seeking to be heard before any order is passed in the matter. After the high court order on Monday, Deshmukh, a veteran politician from Vidarbha, resigned from the state government. The high court said it was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. In its 52-page judgement, the high court said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police. Such allegations, made by a serving police officer, against the state home minister could not be left unattended, and were required to be probed into, if prima facie, they made a case of a cognisable offence, the high court said. It said a probe by an independent agency was necessary in the case, to "instill public confidence and safeguard the Fundamental Rights of the citizens". The high court had pronounced the verdict on three public interest litigations (PILs) and a criminal writ petition filed last month, seeking several reliefs as also a CBI probe into the matter. One of the PILs was filed by Singh himself, and the other two were filed by lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay and local teacher Mohan Bhide. The criminal writ petition was filed by Patil. The high court had ordered the CBI inquiry on Patil's plea. The court also disposed of all the pleas. Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing. The high court had also said the nature of the allegations and the subsequent proceedings were unprecedented, and something that the two judges presiding over the pleas had never seen before. It said all courts were committed to ensuring the rule of law and preventing any breach of Constitutional principles, irrespective of the high office an accused occupied. The court said even though the state government had ordered a high-level committee to probe into the allegations, an inquiry based on Patil's complaint was necessary as per the law. Since the police investigating complaints against the home minister and a serving police officer would not be most appropriate, it is a fit case for ordering a CBI probe, the high court said. It directed the CBI director to conduct a preliminary inquiry based on Patil's complaint and a letter written by Param Bir Singh to state Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Patil had attached to her complaint. The high court said the CBI need not immediately register an FIR, but it must complete its inquiry within 15 days and then decide on further course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||CPI(M) demands enquiry into Rafale deal||The CPI(M) has demanded an enquiry into the Rafale fighter jet deal after a French media report claimed that Euro 1.1 million was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer. The BJP has already denied the allegation in the French media report as baseless. "The current revelation in a French media portal that one million euros were paid to a 'middleman' in the deal to buy 36 Rafale jets has once again raised the issue of kickbacks and other illegal payments in the Rafale deal. The report is based on an analysis of the Dassault company's accounts of 2017," CPI(M) politburo said in a statement. "The dogged refusal by the (Narendra) Modi government to order a probe into the Rafale deal raises suspicion that it has something to hide in the matter. The CAG audit report could not obviously look into the issue of illegal payments," it said. It demanded a high-level investigation into the cancellation of an earlier order and the issuance of a fresh order for 36 fighter jets. According to Mediapart, its report was based on an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency Agence Francaise Anticorruption (AFA), which found that after inking the deal, payment was made by Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of Rafale fighter jets. According to the report, the manufacturer has not been able to answer the queries posed by the AFA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Justice Ramana appointed as next Chief Justice of India ||Senior-most Supreme Court judge Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana was on Tuesday appointed as the next Chief Justice of India. According to a notification issued by the government, Justice Ramana would take over as the 48th CJI on April 24 after incumbent CJI S A Bobde demits office a day before. Justice Ramana would retire on August 26, 2022. "In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of Article 124 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, Judge of the Supreme Court, to be the Chief Justice of India with effect from 24th April, 2021," the notification read. As per convention, Principal Secretary to the prime minister P K Mishra and Secretary (Justice) in the Law Ministry Barun Mitra handed over the warrant of appointment signed by the President to Justice Ramana this morning, sources said. Justice Bobde had recently recommended Justice Ramana as his successor in keeping with convention and norms of seniority. The CJI's recommendation to the union government had came on a day when the Supreme Court had made public its decision to dismiss a complaint of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy against Justice Ramana after giving the matter "due consideration". As per norms, a written communication from the incumbent Chief Justice is sent a month before his retirement. Born on August 27, 1957 in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000 and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. Justice Ramana has dealt with several high-profile cases in the apex court. A five-judge constitution bench headed by Justice Ramana had in March last year declined to refer to a larger seven-judge bench a batch of pleas challenging the constitutional validity of the Centre's decision to abrogate provisions of Article 370. He was part of a five-judge constitution bench which had in November 2019 held that office of the CJI is a public authority under the Right to Information Act. In the November 2019 verdict, the top court had also said that "judicial independence has to be kept in mind" while disclosing information in "public interest". In an another important verdict, Justice Ramana-led bench had in January last year held that freedom of speech and conducting business on the Internet are protected under the Constitution and had directed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to immediately review curb orders. The bench had directed the authorities in the Union Territory to immediately review all orders suspending Internet services and said orders not in accordance with the law must be revoked. He was also a part of a five-judge constitution bench of the top court which had in a landmark verdict in 2016 ordered restoration of the Congress government in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the "clock should be turned back", as it quashed all decisions of the Governor that precipitated its fall in January, holding them "violative" of the Constitution. In November 2019, a bench led by Justice Ramana had ordered floor test for then Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to prove his majority in the House saying there is a "possibility of horse trading" in case of delay. Justice Ramana-led bench has also dealt with a plea which raised the issue of inordinately delay in disposal of criminal cases against former and sitting lawmakers. In September last year, the bench had said there has been no substantial improvement in disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting and former lawmakers and directed the chief justices of high courts to submit an action plan for rationalisation of special courts to deal with these matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Night curfew in Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am in view of rising Covid cases||In view of rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, the Arvind Kejriwal government on Tuesday imposed seven hours of night curfew with immediate effect but exempted people of certain professions from it. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the COVID-19 situation in the city. The DDMA order for curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will continue till April 30. People travelling during curfew hours for COVID-19 vaccination will require s soft or hard copy of an e-pass which can be obtained from the website www.delhi.gov.in. According to the order issued by the chief secretary and chairperson of the executive body of DDMA, a sudden increase in COVID-19 cases in the recent past along with a high positivity rate has been observed in the national capital. "It is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the NCT (National Capital Territory) of Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am, except for essential activities and services, as an emergency measure for the wellbeing and safety of people," the order stated. Those exempted from the night curfew include pregnant women, patients, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus on showing tickets, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats, and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card. Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services such as health and family welfare and all related medical establishments, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services will also be exempted. Officials of district administration, pay and accounts office, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, disaster management and related services, NIC, NCC and municipal services, and all other essential services will also be exempted from the night curfew on the production of valid identity card. Private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedical, and other hospital services, diagnostic centres, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and other medical and health services will be exempted, the order stated. Movement of persons related to commercial and private establishments, including grocery, fruits and vegetable shops, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, medical equipment shops, banks, insurance offices and ATMs, private security agencies, mediapersons, telecom and Internet services, Information Technology and IT-enabled services, e-commerce of essential services, will be allowed on production of e-pass. Employees of petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units, cold storage and warehousing services, manufacturing units of essential commodities will also be exempted on carrying e-pass. Public transport such as Delhi Metro, DTC and cluster buses, autos and taxis will be allowed to ply within the stipulated time for transportation of only exempted categories of people during night curfew, said the order. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state transportation of essential and non-essential goods. No separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements, it said. All district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police, as well as authorities concerned, will ensure strict compliance with the DDMA order. Enforcement authorities are required to note that these restrictions fundamentally relate to the movement of people, and not to that of essential goods and services, the order stated, adding violation of curfew restrictions will be dealt with under the relevant section of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Friday said that Delhi is witnessing the fourth wave of COVID-19 but any decision on lockdown will be taken after due public consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Police exploring all channels to trace missing jawan||Police are exploring all channels, including contacting local villagers, to trace the missing CoBRA commando whom the Maoists claim to have abducted after an encounter in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region three days back, a senior official said on Tuesday. Police informers have also been activated to gather information about the missing jawan, he said. Constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, of the 210th battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), went missing on Saturday after the gunfight along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts. Twenty two security personnel were killed and 31 others were injured in the fierce gun-battle. A journalist from Sukma on Monday said he had got a call from Maoists, claiming that the commando is in their captivity and he will not be harmed. "As of now we cannot confirm that the missing jawan is in the captivity of Naxals as they haven't issued any statement or photographs in this connection. We are trying to trace him through all possible channels," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. The police are also contacting local villagers to check if they have any information related to the missing jawan, he said. Another senior police official posted in Bastar said there is a strong possibility of the jawan being in the captivity of Naxals, because the forces cordoned off the entire encounter site and area around it in the last two days, but could not find him. The CoBRA jawan was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation on Friday night in the forests of Bijapur and Sukma border. On Saturday, the gunfight broke between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos and a jawan from its Bastariya battalion, while eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited Jagdalpur and Bijapur to review the situation and said the government will intensify its ongoing fight against the Naxal menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||India registers over 96,000 fresh Covid cases in a day||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections in India remained above 90,000 for the third consecutive day taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,26,86,049, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 96,982 cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,65,547 with 446 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India on Monday recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 single day new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours. Registering a steady increase for the 27th day in row, the active cases have increased to 7,88,223 comprising 6.21 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.48 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,32,279, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,02,31,269 samples have been tested up to April 5 with 12,11,612 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Modi urges people to vote in large numbers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to vote in large numbers in the assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Polling is taking place for 31 seats in the third of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections, while 40 seats are at stake in the final and third phase of the assembly elections in Assam. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are voting on Tuesday in single-phase assembly elections. "Elections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters," the prime minister tweeted. Modi also tweeted in Bengali, Assamese, Tamil and Malayalam, urging voters in the four states and the union territory of Puducherry to vote in large numbers and strengthen the festival of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd named as the recipient of 1 million euros from Dassault Aviation||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, which has been named as the recipient of 1 million euros (Rs 8.62 crore) from Dassault Aviation of France in connection with the Rafale deal, is a company based in Hoskote, Karnataka, and was set up in January 2007. The company, owned by defence middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta, has a paid-up capital of Rs 6.95 crore and is “involved in research and experimental development on natural sciences and engineering”. “This class includes systematic creative work in the fields of research and development in natural sciences, medical sciences, agriculture and engineering and technology,” says Zauba Corp, a provider of commercial information and insights on businesses in India. The Defsys Solutions website does not contain any details about the promoters or the top management. The company says it holds a proven track record of “On Time” delivery of several advanced systems designed and developed in-house perfectly in line with the nation’s objective of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Sushen Gupta came into the limelight in 2019 when he was accused by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) of a key role in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. He was then an alleged defence agent. Sushen Gupta could not be contacted by this newspaper on Monday for comment. The ED had then reportedly claimed that Sushen Gupta held classified documents and sensitive information pertaining to the defence ministry, the Indian Air Force and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). Its charge was that he allegedly paid almost Rs 56 crore as kickbacks to influential people to swing the deal in favour of AgustaWestland. The ED’s chargesheet had alleged that kickbacks from AgustaWestland and other deals were placed in the bank accounts of Interstellar Technologies, a company controlled by Sushen Gupta, and the accounts of Rajiv Saxena, an accused-turned-approver. In the AgustaWestland kickback case, the ED had said that Sushen Gupta was the key link to Ratul Puri, nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and former MD of optical storage device maker Moser Baer India. In the case filed before Delhi High Court against Ratul Puri, the ED had claimed that Puri’s role in the AgustaWestland kickbacks was established “post the deportation of Rajiv Saxena and the arrest of Sushen Gupta”. Defsys Solutions has offices in Gurgaon, Bangalore and Hyderabad. According to its website, it provides advanced solutions for a variety of defence and aerospace applications. The company also claims to have experience in design, manufacture and integration of advanced electronic systems. It is involved in the design and manufacture of integrated electronic systems, electro-optical payloads, thermal imagers, flight and firing simulators, weapon replicas, electro-mechanical systems, on-board electronic sub-systems, and automated test equipment (ATE) among other things. In a media statement issued earlier this month, Defsys Solutions had said that under the expertise of Sushant Gupta (his relationship with Sushen Gupta could not be ascertained), it had achieved another milestone in the design, development and production of the 450mm Gimbal Payload Assembly (GPA) for the DRDO lab of the Government of India. The statement added that the GPA was intended to be used with multiple sensors for the Airborne EOIR system to be deployed on the upcoming Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMMA) of the Indian Coast Guard. The Guptas have also acted as agents of Pratt and Whitney, the maker of engines for airplanes. “India Avitronics, a company founded by his grandfather Brij Mohan Gupta, has an association with Pratt & Whitney as their India agents going back to many decades,” a Cobra Post report has said. A report by India Today in 1986 detailing the role of middlemen in defence contracts said Brij Mohan Gupta and his sons -- Deb Mohan, Surinder Mohan and Harsh Mohan Gupta – belonged to a family of old Delhi cloth merchants who entered the business of aviation just after the Second World War. Sushen Gupta owns a number of other companies and several of them have their registered offices in Delhi’s upmarket locality in Hailey Road. These include software publishing and supply company Actia India Pvt Ltd, and real estate entities like Kairali Estate and Exports Pvt Ltd and American Hotels and Restaurants Pvt Ltd. Gupta is also listed as a director on several other companies: Horizon Air Support Maintenance (India) Pvt Ltd, DM South India Hospitality Pvt Ltd, DM Luxury Resorts Pvt Ltd, Foresight Solutions Pvt Ltd, Darun Hospitality LLP, Deftronics (India) Pvt Ltd, DM Power Pvt Ltd, and Chowgule Resorts Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Rafale:  Dassault paid one million euros to Indian middleman, says French report||The Rafale deal involved the payment of 1 million euros to an Indian middleman by the fighter aircraft maker Dassault, a French media report said on Sunday. The report contradicts assertions by both the Indian and French governments in the past that no middlemen were involved in the inter-government agreement. It also breathes fresh life into a scandal that has survived a refusal by the Supreme Court of India to order a probe, vehement denials and an attempt by the Narendra Modi government to construe the mandate of the 2019 general election as a clean chit, and silence by large sections of the media. The report by Mediapart, which describes itself as an independent French online investigative journal, noted that the deal had “threatened to tarnish” both governments. “In India, it implicated someone very close to the ultra-nationalist Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had announced the deal in April 2015. The affair potentially threatens two Presidents of France: François Hollande and his successor Emmanuel Macron. Also potentially in the firing line is Jean-Yves Le Drian, who as defence minister effectively became Hollande’s roving Rafale salesman before being named foreign minister under Macron,” according to the report. It said France’s anti-corruption agency, Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA), found that an expenditure of 508,925 euros was incurred by Dassault under the heading “gifts to clients” during an audit of the company’s accounts of 2017. In the first of a three-part exposé released on Sunday night, Mediapart said: “French and Indian investigators, in fact, discovered a great deal of compromising information in the background to the deal; hidden commissions, dubious middlemen, suspicions of confidential documents being leaked and anti-corruption clauses being removed from contracts. But the affair was buried in both countries.” Even in this instance, Mediapart suggests that the AFA, which is answerable to both the budget ministry and the justice ministry in France, did not refer the matter to prosecutors “against all apparent logic”. The AFA’s inspectors found that Dassault had agreed to pay 1 million euros to a middleman just after the Rafale deal was signed in 2016. “That middleman is now accused of money laundering in India in another defence deal. The company said the money was used to pay for the manufacture of 50 large replica models of Rafale jets, even though the inspectors were given no proof that these models were made,” Mediapart said. Citing a confidential report by the AFA, Mediapart said the agency found the amount of 508,925 euros spent for gifts to clients “disproportionate in relation to all the other entries” under the same heading. “The sum is indeed huge for a gift. Though French law does not set out precise limits, legal precedents suggest that giving a watch or an expensive meal costing several hundred euros can be enough to constitute corruption,” Mediapart commented. As justification for this “larger than usual gift”, Dassault supplied the AFA with a “proforma invoice” dated March 30, 2017, provided by an Indian company, Defsys Solutions. From the AFA report, Mediapart quoted: “This invoice, which related to 50 per cent of the total order (€1,017,850), was for the manufacture of 50 models of the Rafale C, with a price per unit of €20,357.” The AFA sought an explanation from Dassault, asking why it had ordered an Indian company to make models of its own aircraft, at 20,000 euros a plane; why this expenditure was entered in the accounts as a “gift to client”, and whether these models -- each was supposed to be the size of a small car -– were ever made. “Mediapart understands that Dassault was unable to provide the AFA with a single document showing that these models existed and were delivered, and not even a photograph. The inspectors thus suspected that this was a bogus purchase designed to hide hidden financial transactions,” the news report said. Defsys Solutions, which purportedly sold the Rafale models, is one of Dassault’s sub-contractors in India on the Rafale contract. The Defsys Solutions website does not specifically indicate that it creates aircraft models though design and manufacture of “weapon replicas” is part of its repertoire. The one-million-euro invoice for the jet fighter models was sent to Dassault in March 2017 – six months after the September 2016 signing of the Rafale deal by the defence ministers of the two countries – by Sushen Gupta, who was arrested in March 2019 by the Enforcement Directorate on charges of money laundering in the AgustaWestland chopper case. “Sushen Gupta’s arrest and the revelations in the Indian press did not escape the notice of the Agence Française Anticorruption. By 2020, when it came to finalise its report of its Dassault audit, the AFA had hard information incriminating Dassault: the proof that the aeronautical company had paid an Indian middleman – and one who had since been accused in a separate case -- via a one-million-euro deal for model aircraft that may not even exist,” the Mediapart report said. “Yet the director of the AFA, Charles Duchaine, decided not to refer the matter to the prosecution authorities. Instead, the aircraft models issue was relegated to two short paragraphs in the AFA’s final report on its Dassault audit.” In India, the Rafale deal has been mired in controversy ever since Prime Minister Modi announced it during his April 2015 visit to France, primarily because then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar had in a pre-departure briefing told the media that the Premier would not be discussing it during his meetings. Asked if any progress could be expected on the negotiations for the Rafale deal, Jaishankar – who is now the foreign minister – said: “My understanding is that there are discussions under way between the French company, our ministry of defence, HAL (Hindustan Aeronautics Limited) which is involved in this. These are ongoing discussions. These are very technical, detailed discussions. We do not mix up leadership-level visits with deep details of ongoing defence contracts. That is on a different track. A leadership visit usually looks at big-picture issues even in the security field.” Three days later, in a surprise move, the Prime Minister announced at a joint media meeting with then French President Francois Hollande that India had ordered 36 ready-to-fly Rafale jets, thereby junking the earlier deal for which negotiations had begun during the UPA years. The terms of the Rs 59,000-crore deal, formally signed in September 2016, had an offset clause, according to which the supplier had to spend half the money in India. Dassault Aviation decided to end its negotiations with HAL and created a joint venture with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Infrastructure to meet its offset obligations, leading to allegations of the Modi government giving preferential treatment to the Ambanis. This allegation got more traction after Hollande told Mediapart in September 2018 that France did not have a choice but to partner with the Ambani group. To a question on who selected Reliance Infrastructure and why, Hollande -– who by September 2018 had stepped down from office -– said: “We did not have a say in that. The Indian government proposed this service group, and Dassault negotiated with Ambani. We did not have a choice, we took the interlocutor we were given.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Isro case: Centre moves Supreme Court seeking urgent hearing||The Centre on Monday urged the Supreme Court to take action on the court-appointed panel’s recommendation for action against certain officials responsible for falsely implicating eminent Isro scientist S. Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 alleged espionage case. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said it understands the importance of the matter but there was no need for any urgent listing as urged by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “We understand the importance. But there is no urgency in it. Let’s have it next week,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told the government law officer after he sought an urgent listing of the matter preferably on Tuesday. Mehta said the report by the high-level probe panel headed by retired apex court judge Justice D.K. Jain appointed by the Supreme Court to take erring cops to task for “anguish” caused to Narayan has been submitted. He said the sealed cover report be examined by the court on Tuesday for passing appropriate directions. While urging the court that the matter be listed for hearing on Tuesday, Mehta said: “It’s a national level case…” “Why tomorrow? We’ll list it next week,” CJI Bobde said. However, no specific date was fixed for the hearing. On September 14, 2018, sending a strong message to police that “malicious prosecution” would not be tolerated, the apex court had awarded a staggering Rs 50 lakh compensation to Narayanan, earlier arrested by Kerala police in the alleged espionage case. The apex court had also set up a committee headed by Justice Jain to determine the appropriate disciplinary action against the then investigating officers — S. Vijayan, the then inspector, special branch, Thiruvananthapuram city, K.K. Joshwa, the then deputy superintendent of police, CB-CID, Thiruvananthapuram and S. Siby Mathews, the then deputy inspector-general (crimes) — of the special investigation team. The bench of then Chief Justice Dipak Misra, Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and D.Y. Chandrachud had further clarified that the Rs 50 lakh compensation to Narayanan would be in addition to the Rs 1 crore defamation suit he had filed in a Kerala civil court which is still pending. It for the scientist to decide whether he wants to pursue the civil suit or not, the apex court had said. The apex court had passed the historic verdict on an appeal filed by Narayanan challenging a 2015 judgment of Kerala High Court refusing to order disciplinary action against the erring police officers for falsely implicating him and others in the case. The CBI, which had earlier taken up the espionage case, had also stated in a report that no case was made against Narayanan and others. Instead the central agency, which had taken up the investigation on the request of the state government, had recommended disciplinary action against the erring police officers for malicious prosecution and custodial torture of Narayanan. On January 20, 1994, an FIR was registered at Vanchiyoor police station against one Mariam Rasheeda, a Maldivian national, under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, and paragraph 7 of the Foreigners Order for alleged espionage activities. Subsequently, in November 1994, cases under the Official Secrets Act were also registered in which another Maldivian national Fousiya Hasan, D. Sasikumaran, a scientist, and Narayanan, were all arrested. On December 4, 1994, upon a request from the state government the CBI took over the case. After the investigation, the CBI submitted a report before the chief judicial magistrate, Ernakulam, under Section 173(2) of the CrPC stating that the evidence collected indicated that the allegations of espionage against the scientists at Isro and the other accused were not proved. The trial court, while accepting the CBI report on May 2, 1996, discharged all the accused. On June 27, 1996, the Kerala government, being dissatisfied with the CBI report, issued a notification withdrawing the earlier one issued to entrust the matter to the agency and decided to conduct re-investigation of the case by the state police. This notification for re-investigation was challenged by Narayanan before the high court, which on November 27, 1996, however, upheld the state’s decision to conduct a re-investigation. However, the Supreme Court on an appeal from Narayanan quashed the notification. In the meantime, the National Human Rights Commission in 2001 had also awarded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to Narayanan. In 2015, Kerala High Court had also declined to order disciplinary action against the police officers, aggrieved by which Narayanan appealed in the apex court. In his appeal, Narayanan who personally appeared in the case during the hearing and was also represented by a senior advocate argued that the prosecution launched against him by the Kerala police was malicious for two reasons, the first being that it had a catastrophic effect on his service as a leading and renowned scientist at Isro thereby smothering his career, life span, savings, honour, academic work as well as self-esteem. Secondly, the arrest and incarceration for nearly 50 days had a total devastation of the peace of his entire family which is an ineffaceable individual loss, and the irreparable loss caused to the Isro space research programme of which he was a senior scientist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||CRPF jawan feared taken hostage by Maoists||The CRPF jawan missing since Saturday’s Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh that killed 22 security personnel has been taken hostage by the insurgents, sources in the security establishment have told The Telegraph. The abducted constable, Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, is a resident of Jammu and Kashmir and a member of the CRPF’s elite Cobra commando unit. “We got a message from the Maoist leadership that he is in their custody. Talks are on with them to ensure his safe release. The Maoist leadership has assured us that no harm will come to him,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He declined to reveal whether the Maoists had put up any demands in exchange for the constable’s release. A joint team from various police and CRPF units had apparently walked into a trap during an anti-Maoist combing operation on the Sukma-Bijapur border. The four-hour gun battle that followed killed 22 personnel and injured 31 while one jawan was declared missing. Security officials have alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders but CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh has denied any lapses. Sources in the security establishment suspect the Maoists planned the ambush meticulously with the intention of drawing the forces in and then inflicting the maximum possible casualties. “Reports from the ground suggest that the Maoists used light machine guns, under-barrel grenade launchers and desi (indigenous) rockets,” a security official said. A CRPF officer posted in Chhattisgarh said: “The Maoists were conducting a ‘tactical counter-offensive campaign’ and were present in numbers giving arms training to their cadres inside the jungle. Their aim was to cause the maximum damage to the security forces.” Union home minister Amit Shah travelled to Chhattisgarh on Monday and chaired a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Raipur. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and senior officers of the state police and the CRPF attended the meeting. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday criticised a statement issued by the CRPF chief that denied any intelligence failure and claimed that around 30 Maoists had been killed. Rahul alleged that the anti-Maoist operation was “incompetently” executed and “poorly designed”. The body of one Maoist, a woman, has so far been recovered. The rebels are known to carry off their dead and injured. “If there was no intelligence failure, then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation. Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will,” Rahul tweeted. “No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier.” Of those who died on Saturday, eight were from the CRPF — seven Cobra commandos and a jawan from the Bastariya battalion — eight from the District Reserve Guard and six from the state police’s special task force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Shah was busy campaigning when jawans were killed in Chhattisgarh: Congress||The Congress on Monday asked if Amit Shah was a “holy cow” in the Narendra Modi government who could not be questioned despite his indifference to the massacre of jawans, pointing out that he had continued to hold election rallies even after the worst Maoist attack in four years that has left 22 CRPF men dead. In the past, a home minister had to quit because he had changed his clothes on the day of a terror attack, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala recalled. “The encounter between the Maoists and security personnel took place on Bijapur-Sukma border in Chhattisgarh at 11.30am on April 3. The first reaction of the home minister came after 24 hours. What was Amit Shah doing all this while? He was doing roadshows and addressing election rallies. Can a home minister be so cruel, so irresponsible?” Surjewala asked. “When the encounter happened, Amit Shah was doing a roadshow in Thousand Lights Assembly constituency in Tamil Nadu. The ex-CRPF chief was present in Chhattisgarh and he is always on hotline with the home minister. But Shah went to address another public rally in Tirunelveli and then moved to Kerala for an election rally in Sultan Bathery and then a roadshow in Kozhikode. “When the bodies of our jawans were lying on the roads, the home minister was doing roadshows. Has any home minister in independent India behaved in this manner? I know Amit Shah is a holy cow and nobody can question him but can the home minister behave so irresponsibly? Next day also, he went to Assam and addressed a public rally in Sarbhog. He finally did a favour to the country by cancelling his next two rallies in Assam and talked to the media about the Chhattisgarh tragedy.” Surjewala recalled how Shivraj Patil had to resign as home minister in the wake of the Mumbai terror strike because the media pounced on him for changing clothes during the day. “Here the home minister is doing roadshows and doesn’t even react for 24 hours, but nobody is asking questions. No rescue party was sent to the spot for 24 hours. How can such a person continue as home minister?” The Congress had also raised questions when Prime Minister Narendra Modi continued shooting for a documentary when the news of Pulwama attack came. The Congress also has raised questions about the handling of the anti-insurgency operation in Chhattisgarh and pointed finger at intelligence failure. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation. Our Jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will.” In another tweet he said: “No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier.” Over 5,000 Naxalite-related violence have occurred since the Narendra Modi government assumed office besides a large number of major terror strikes, including the daring raid on the Pathankot Air Force base and the army camp in Uri.Even the number of civilians and soldiers who have died during this phase is much higher compared with the previous regimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Rafale: Congress asks Modi to answer questions thrown up by French media report||The Congress on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to answer the questions thrown up by a French media report on “hidden commissions and dubious middlemen” in the Rafale fighter aircraft deal. Citing findings by the French investigating agency AFA (Agence Francaise Anticorruption), the Mediapart report confirmed the payment of 1 million euros (Rs 8.6 crore) to the Indian company and promised to reveal more in successive parts of the exposé. The Congress, which had led the Opposition in accusing Prime Minister Modi of wrongdoing in relation to the fighter jet deal with France, levelled allegations of “commissions” and “middleman” and repeated its demand for a thorough investigation. According to the Congress, the BJP-led government bought the jets at a higher price compared with one negotiated earlier by the UPA, and that Modi had personally intervened to ensure the offset contract went not to public-sector Hindustan Aeronautics Limited but a company owned by Anil Ambani. “The devastating sensational revelations in the last evening report of French news portal/agency — Mediapart.fr — have now revealed existence of middleman, payment of commission and red flags raised by the French Anti-Corruption Agency — AFA,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference on Monday. “The allegations of causing losses to the public exchequer, bribery and payment of commission in India’s biggest defence deal once again stare the Modi government in the face.” Surjewala said the purchase of 36 Rafale fighters from French company Dassault Aviation was a sordid saga of “squandering national interest, propagating the culture of crony capitalism and violation of the mandatory aspects of procurement prescribed in the Defence Procurement Procedure”. “An investigation conducted by the AFA has now revealed that after the signing of the deal in 2016, Dassault paid 1.1 million euros to a middleman i.e. Defsys Solutions. This amount was shown as expenditure by Dassault (under) ‘gifts to clients’.” “Defsys Solutions, the company mentioned in the report (which is a sub-contractor in the deal) is actually a company undertaking the assembly of flight simulators and optical and electronic systems, etc,” Surjewala said. “Was the payment of 1.1 million euros, shown by Dassault as ‘gifts to clients’, in reality a commission paid to middleman for the Rafale deal? How can ‘middleman’ and ‘payment of commission’ be permitted in a ‘government-to-government defence contract’ or in any defence procurement in India in violation of the mandatory Defence Procurement Procedure?” Surjewala asked the Prime Minister to answer these questions. “Does it now not require a full and independent investigation into India’s biggest defence deal to find out how much bribery and commission in reality, if any, was paid and to whom in the Indian government?” he said. Surjewala suggested the courts were not equipped to probe the whole gamut of violations and the only capable instrument was a joint parliamentary committee. He said that’s why the Congress had never gone to the Supreme Court over the matter. BJP’s stand Hitting back at the Congress, BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad dismissed as “completely baseless” the allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal. He said the Opposition party made a big issue of the defence deal in 2019 Lok Sabha polls but lost badly. The Supreme Court had rejected a demand for a probe in the purchase of the fighter aircraft and the CAG also found nothing wrong, Prasad said. The allegations of corruption were “completely baseless”, the minister said, and suggested that a report in the French media about the alleged financial irregularity in the deal may be due to “corporate rivalry” in that country. Prasad said: “the Congress is raising the Rafale issue again. It lost in the Supreme Court. They campaigned in the 2019 polls on the Rafale issue, threw all kinds of abuses at the Prime Minister and still lost. How many seats did it get?” The minister noted that Sushen Gupta, the alleged middleman whose name has cropped up in the French report on the Rafale deal, was arrested in the AgustaWestland case by the Enforcement Directorate in 2019. In this probe, the names of many Congress leaders had surfaced, Prasad said and accused the Congress of trying to “weaken” the security forces. The Indian Air Force received a fleet of fighter aircraft from Rafale after 30 years, he said, adding that had they been there the during the time of the Balakot operation, Indian aircraft would not have to cross the borders to carry out the strike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh resigns, BJP guns for Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh resigned on “moral grounds” on Monday after Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Singh’s allegations are baseless but the party respects the court and hence the minister has quit, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said. The truth will come out, he added. Dilip Walse Patil of the NCP has been named the new home minister. Hours after Deshmukh stepped down, the BJP demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s resignation. “Anil Desmukh in his letter has said that he was resigning on moral grounds. How about the moral responsibility of the chief minister?” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked. “I think Mr Uddhav Thackeray has forfeited the moral authority to govern,” Prasad, who was fielded by the party to raise the heat, said. The BJP, which has been trying to destabilise the Opposition government in Maharashtra for a long time, looked elated on Monday as the high court ordered a CBI probe. The party feels that a CBI probe into the corruption allegations against Desmukh would lead to the chief minister’s resignation and pave the fall of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine. “You (Uddhav) always defended your minister, who has resigned on moral grounds today. But where is your morality?” Prasad asked. He said the CBI should conduct a thorough probe into the corruption issue, stressing that it was “beyond Desmukh”. The ruling alliance in Maharashtra fears the central probe agency could be used to destabilise its government. Though Desmukh quit after the high court ordered a CBI probe, the government has decided to challenge the decision in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||50 public health teams sent to tackle Covid surge||India on Monday recorded 103,558 new Covid-19 cases over the previous 24 hours, amid indications the number of active patients under the current epidemic growth rate would within days surpass the previous peak count of about a million. The Union health ministry said the country’s total caseload of active patients on Monday increased by over 50,200 to around 741,800, only about quarter of a million cases less than the peak count of a little over one million recorded during mid-September last year. Eight states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab — currently show the sharpest rise in daily new cases and account for nearly 82 per cent of the country’s new cases. Maharashtra alone accounted for more than 57,000 daily new cases followed by about 5,000 in Chhattisgarh, 4,500 in Karnataka and about 4,000 each in Chhattisgarh and Delhi. The Centre has sent 50 public health teams to 30 districts in Maharashtra, 11 districts in Chhattisgarh, and nine in Punjab for control measures in areas that have reported “very large numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases and daily deaths”. The teams will guide local authorities on testing, contact tracing, surveillance and containment measures, hospital infrastructure, intensive care, ventilators and oxygen, enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by the public and vaccination. Health officials and critical care medicine specialists are concerned that at this growth rate, the caseloads could quickly overwhelm healthcare facilities in some areas, particularly intensive care units and ventilators. A top health official has said the Centre and states had collectively last year prepared hospital facilities to meet a daily new case count of about 150,000 patients. But doctors underline that the average doesn’t really matter when neither hospital facilities nor infections are unevenly distributed. “The previous wave didn’t go beyond about 97,000 daily cases — so the nation as a whole did not experience any gross shortages in facilities, but there were times around April when many patients were unable to find place in hospitals,” a health expert said. The Centre has urged states to address laxity about wearing masks and avoiding crowds among the public and lack of appropriate and efficient public health and containment measures by local health authorities in areas with clusters of infections. The Union health ministry has directed states to aggressively pursue a policy to contain outbreaks and accelerate the vaccination campaign that hasn’t moved as fast as health officials had hoped it would because, some experts suspect, persisting levels of vaccine hesitancy among some recipients. The campaign has so far inoculated about 10.5 million people with both doses of the vaccines required to protect them. Medical advisers to the campaign are worried that at such a slow pace, the vaccination campaign will do little to curb the epidemic’s current growth phase. Illegal beneficiaries Amid the slow campaign, the health ministry has asked the Delhi government to send a showcause notice to two private hospitals in the national capital which had allegedly registered beneficiaries below the age of 45 years as healthcare and frontline workers to vaccinate them. The ministry said the hospitals had violated Covid-19 vaccination norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Yogi ‘live’ video clip with foul word||A video clip featuring Yogi Adityanath and containing a foul word attributed by some to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister has been widely circulated since Monday morning. No statement had come from the chief minister’s office till late night but a state information department official told reporters the video had been tampered and threatened legal action. He didn’t name anyone. News agency ANI, which had shot the video, denied that Adityanath had used foul words but did not elaborate. It posted a new video, saying it was retracting the previous “live sound byte (sic)”. Adityanath was having his statement recorded by ANI at the Civil Hospital here on Monday morning after taking his first Covid-19 vaccine dose. The video shows him thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and scientists for coming up with the vaccine, when there’s a moment of silence followed by a male voice uttering an expletive in a lower tone. Adityanath continues to be seen on the screen. Some Twitterati alleged the chief minister had spoken the abusive word. Surya Pratap Singh, a retired IAS officer who was among those to tweet the video (he did so at 8.59am), suggested that Adityanath was chiding the cameraman for interrupting him after a glitch. The Uttar Pradesh information department official who spoke to reporters said: “The video was edited mischievously. A few words were added at the end to tarnish the chief minister’s image. We are thinking of filing a case against those involved.” Contacted by this newspaper, Kamna Hajela, ANI bureau chief in Uttar Pradesh, said: “It’s all wrong. No such thing ever happened.” After government representatives alleged tampering, Surya Pratap, the former bureaucrat, tweeted at 2.23pm: “I openly dare all the video experts of the government, those aware of the law and forensic teams, to prove me wrong and arrest me.” At 2.40pm, he tweeted: “The camera auto aperture moved at 17th second, the camera person realised his mistake at 19th second, the CM was stopped, the immortal words broke out at 22th second.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs: Violence after coaching institutes shut in Bihar||In what appears to be the first case of violence over enforcing Covid-19 curbs, students went on the rampage in Sasaram town, the headquarters of Rohtas district in Bihar, for several hours on Monday after the administration tried to close down coaching institutes flouting the state government’s order to shut down all educational institutions till April 11. The students hurled brickbats, indulged in arson and disrupted traffic. They also attempted to torch the collectorate in Sasaram. The students became angry when the local administration team, including the executive officer of the Sasaram municipal council, went to close down coaching institutes running despite the state government’s order on Saturday to shut all educational institutions in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases. Thousands of students studying in the coaching centres in Gorakshani locality and adjacent areas in Sasaram came out on the streets as the team tried to enforce the government’s directions. They ran amok and started attacking the administration team and the police personnel accompanying it. As the ruckus increased, the team walked away and the students started attacking passers-by, vehicles and government property. They burnt tyres, pulled down steel drums and iron frames serving as road dividers and barricades and marched towards the collectorate. Shops and business establishments downed their shutters out of fear. Many of the students were heard saying that the “coaching centres are being shut down, but the government is holding all the entrance and job-related examinations despite a raging Covid-19 pandemic”. “How will we study and prepare if we cannot attend classes?” one of them asked. What followed over the next two hours was complete mayhem. The students in the age group of 16 to 25 years hurled brickbats, forcing the police personnel deployed in the area to flee. Sasaram Town police station in-charge Kamakhya Narayan Singh, several other policemen and a few journalists were injured. The students barged into the collectorate campus and started ransacking various offices. They also set fire to a visitors’ shed. Heavy police reinforcements, led by Rohtas superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti, rushed in and resorted to mild lathicharge to control the situation. Several youths have been either detained or arrested from the spot. “The executive officer of the municipal council and police personnel had gone to enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. At that time some people, mainly students, started rioting after being instigated by some persons. They indulged in stone pelting, arson and created a law and order situation in the city. “The situation is under control now. Some people have been arrested and lawful action is being taken against them. An FIR is being registered against them as well as against the instigators,” Bharti said. Rohtas district magistrate Dharmendra Kumar issued an appeal to the people to adhere to the Covid guidelines. “Some owners of coaching institutes instigated the students to indulge in unlawful acts. We have got their video footages from different sources. The students are being identified and legal action is being taken against them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Police seize Rs 50 lakh of unaccounted cash in Puri||Odisha police on Monday seized around Rs 50 lakh of unaccounted cash near Tarakaja Chhak under Pipili police station in Puri district. The Pipili Assembly constituency is going to witness a bypoll on April 17. Police detained two persons in connection with the incident and seized a motorcycle. Sources said during routine check on Monday afternoon near the Pipili check gate, police asked two persons riding a motorcycle to stop. But instead of stopping they sped away. Police chased them and seized the money from their possession. A ruling Biju Janata Dal delegation met the chief electoral officer and lodged a complaint about attempts by rival parties to influence voters by adopting unfair means. In a memorandum to the chief electoral officer Sushil Kumar Lohani, the BJD said, “Rs 50 lakh has been seized from two BJP leaders in Pipili today. Due to the growing fear within BJP of the losing the Pipili bypoll, the BJP has now been pumping in huge amounts of money in a bid to influence the Pipili-bypoll.” Demanding police patrolling and surveillance teams to be increased to ensure that the BJP does not become successful in its illegal activities of pumping money into the election, the party said, “We demand that strict investigation must be undertaken to trace these illegal funds and bring all those guilty to justice.” BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantasinghar told The Telegraph, “These allegations are totally false, baseless and fabricated one. The ruling party is in fear of losing the election and that’s the reasons they resort to such low level tactics. However, they will not be successful. We will ready for any kind of probe. People are with us.” Pipili has been a politically volatile constituency prone to violence. The byelection is being held to fill the vacancy caused by the death of BJD veteran Pradeep Maharathy who represented the constituency seven times. His son Rudra Pratap Maharathy is the BJD candidate this time. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik is likely campaign for his son. While retaining the seat is a prestige issue for the BJD, rival BJP is trying its best to snatch the seat away from the ruling party. The Congress, too, is a factor in this battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress will disintegrate after May 2, claims Modi  ||As the thrid phase of polling was on in Bengal on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave voice to a thought that has been shared privately by a large number of citizens, ordinary voters as well as those in the thick of politics: what will be the fate of the Trinamul Congress post the Assembly polls? “The anger against Trinamul leaders among its own party workers is erupting daily. People have started discussing after the staggering defeat of May 2, the Trinamul party will disintegrate. T will go some way, M will go this way and C that way,” Modi said addressing an election meeting at Howrah’s Dumurjola. Tuesday was also the day when the BJP was formed some 41 years ago, emerging out of the remnants of the Janata Party to spread the political and economic ideologies of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. “Situation is such that the polling agents are revolting and she realises this,” said Modi. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when Bengal first witnessed the rapid saffron surge, around 26 of Trinamul parliamentarians and legislators have joined the BJP. Ask any voter in Bengal, which party do they expect will face defection in case the BJP falls short of a simple majority. The answer they gave is Trinamul. The biggest catch for the BJP in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls was Suvendu Adhikary, the former Trinamul leader from East Midnapore. As long as he was in the Trinamul, he was the only other leader aapart from  Mamata Banerjee who had a strong support base. Since then three MPs – Dinesh Trivedi, Sisir Adhikary and Sunil Mondol—have joined the saffron outfit. Several MLAs in the incumbent Assembly have also switched camps that has prompted the question whether the Trinamul would survive the BJP onslaught in the coming days. Leaders like the octogenarian Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, Sital Sardar, Dipak Haldar, Jatu Lahiri and Dipendu Biswas were denied tickets by their former party and are now contesting on the BJP symbol. Sarala Murmu from Malda, however, quit Trinamul and joined BJP even after being given a ticket. The largescale defection from the Trinamul ranks has helped the BJP make up some of its shortcomings. Like its organisational weaknesses. While votes from a vast majority of former CPM supporters and a section of the disgruntled Trinamul supporters may have helped the party take giant electoral strides in the Lok Sabha polls, that is not enough for the BJP to form the first ever government in Bengal. One reason for that is that there isn't much of a Left vote share remaining in the kitty for the BJP to make electoral gains from. Second, without a strong election machinery and organisation, establishing control over large swathes of territory in Bengal is nearly impossible. It was organisation that had helped the CPM government survive for 34 years. It has been the same with Mamata too. The Trinamul chief herself is wary of the situation within her party. In her recent campaign meetings, Mamata has been talking about the remaining “gaddars” – a name that she has given to Trinamul turncoats. Mamata had formed the Trinamul Congress after breaking away from the Congress and weakening the grand old party organisationally in the state, something that she is now trying to accuse her former party colleagues of having done. “Truth does not transform. It remains today what it was yesterday. Didi is threatening the people of Bengal. Didi says amraa dekhe nebo (We will see). We want an opportunity to serve the people of Bengal. Those who attend our rallies, she accuses them of accepting money. Isn’t she insulting you? Don’t you get angry with her? Punish her that she cannot make any such accusations against you,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Over 70% voting in third phase as parties trade charges||Five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, while clashes between rival political groups erupted during the third phase of polling in West Bengal on Tuesday with the Election Commission reporting a turnout of over 77 per cent till about 5pm, two hours before polling ended. Amid accusations of violence by both the Trinamul and the BJP, police arrested five persons -- three members of the TMC and two of the BJP -- for their alleged involvement in assaulting TMC candidate Sujata Mondal in Arambagh earlier in the day, an officer said. Voting was conducted in 31 seats spread over Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, officials said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, campaigning in North Bengal during the day, tweeted a video, claiming that central forces on poll duty in Bengal were trying to secure votes for BJP. “The blatant misuse of central forces continues unabated. Despite us repeatedly raising this issue. ECISVEEP continued to be a mute spectator while men in uniform are being misused at several places to openly intimidate TMC voters and influence many to vote in favour of one party,” Mamata tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, countered the chief minister's allegations. Claiming that a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and that his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicated that she had lost the polls. The turnout in Hooghly was the highest at 79.29 per cent at 5.45 pm and 77.92 per cent and 76.74 per cent in Howrah and South 24-Parganas respectively. In the fray in the third phase of the Bengal polls are hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies. Among the big contenders whose fortunes are dependent on Tuesday’s voting is former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. Former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. Candidates as victims Trinamul nominee in Arambagh in Hooghly Sujata Khan Mandal was chased by a group of alleged BJP supporters at Mahallapara, Arandi, where she had gone to look into complaints of rigging in some booths. “The BJP had plans to rig the booths and would not allow any of our voters to step out of their homes. Once I reached there, villagers started coming out of their homes to vote. BJP goons chased me with lathis and I had to run to the fields to escape,” she said, claiming some of the blows landed on her neck and back. She also demanded that voting be declared void in two of the booths. In Falta in South 24-Parganas, BJP nominee Bidhan Parui alleged he was beaten by Trinamul workers when he was moving around while voting was on. “Voters are not being allowed to come out. Trinamul has unleashed terror in the area,” Parui said. Actor attacked BJP candidate for Uluberia South actor Papia Adhikary was attacked by alleged Trinamul supporters when she went to visit an injured BJP worker at  the Uluberia sub-divisional hospital. “The men were armed with sticks. I have never faced such a situation,” Papia alleged, adding that she would complain to the election commission. State minister and Trinamul nominee Nirmal Maji alleged that two of his security personnel were injured in brick-batting at Muktichowk in Uluberia North. Maji claimed he escaped being hurt as he was wearing a helmet apprehending an attack. Violence against voters CPM nominee for Diamond Harbour Pratikur Rahman intervened in a clash between CPM and Trinamul supporters at Basuldanga, Dakshinpanchannagram. “Two of our supporters were injured. I am not in a position to write text messages, so I am sending voice texts,” Rahman said in a message. In another village, Panakua Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas, a woman was forcibly stopped from going to a polling booth, as per a video that was widely shared. An unidentified man is heard threatening the woman who is heard dismissing him. Home fired upon Debnath Pramanik, a local BJP functionary in Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas, alleged he and his family members were forced to escape to adjoining farms near their homes after they were fired upon. Pramanik claimed he fled Monday night, while his wife and daughter escaped in the morning after repeated gun shots were allegedly aimed at their home. Row over death Sunil Roy, a 72-year-old Trinamul leader, who held the position of booth president in Hooghly’s Goghat, passed away on Tuesday while on his way back from the booth after casting his vote. Bikash Roy, his son and Trinamul’s booth agent in Hatpukur, Goghat, alleged a group of BJP supporters had heckled him while he was leaving the booth. But the BJP nominee, Biswanath Karak, claimed Trinamul was trying to politicise a natural death. EVMs found The Election Commission suspended a section officer, a sub-inspector and three home guards on Tuesday after EVMs and VVPAT sets were found from the home of a local Trinamul leader in Uluberia North’s Tulsiberia village. The incident happened late on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: turncoats, ex-ministers an actors  ||Over 77 per cent votes were cast till 5pm in the 31 seats of Bengal where polling is underway for the third phase on Tuesday amid accusations of violence by rival parties. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday claimed BJP activists were forcibly occupying polling booths and attacking TMC members, including party candidates, and asserted that she would not get bogged down by such "intimidatory tactics". Addressing a public meeting in Alipurduar district, the TMC supremo said her party's nominee in Arambagh, Sujata Mondal, was chased and hit on head near a polling booth by saffron party workers. She claimed she had received over 100 complaints of assault and violence since morning, and that the EC had been duly informed but to no avail. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, countered the chief minister's allegations. Claiming that a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and that his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicated that she had lost the polls. In the fray in the third phase of the Bengal polls, are hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies. Among the big contenders is former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. The former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP, Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. TMC far ahead Going by numbers, the ruling Trinamul is far ahead of all it’s rivals in the fray. Of the 31 seats where polling is being held, the Trinamul is ahead in 29 seats, while the remaining two are with BJP as per the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results. Rival alliance partners- Congress and the Left- who fought the Lok Sabha polls separately, were reduced to single digits in terms of vote share. The Congress and Left in alliance with the Indian Secular Front are desperate to see a section of the voters it had lost in 2019 return to its fold. In 2016, out of the 16 seats in South 24-Parganas, the Left had won only one seat, the rest going to the Trinamul’s kitty. The Trinamul, in 2016, had won all the eight seats of Hooghly that are voting on Wednesday, though three years later the BJP had marched ahead in two of the seats: Goghat and Pursurah. The biggest worry for the Trinamul is infighting and charges of corruption. Logic of 8 phases Mamata also questioned the logic behind holding Bengal assembly elections in eight phases. "It could have been done in 3 or 4 phases," she said. "Was it not prudent to hold the elections in fewer phases and wrap it up early in view of the COVID-19 situation?" the chief minister asked. Banerjee also claimed that the coronavirus situation was not grim in the state as of now. Heavy security To ensure that the more than 78.5 lakh voters can exercise their voting rights to decide the fate of 205 candidates 618 companies of CAPF deployed to guard 10,871 polling stations, all of which have been marked "sensitive" by the Election Commission. State police forces have also been deputed at strategic locations to aid the CAPF. Sharpening its attack on the TMC over issues ranging from corruption to political violence, the BJP held power- packed campaigns across the three districts over the past few days, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who addressed several public meetings. The TMC chief, who is still recuperating from her injuries, traversed the length and breadth of the three districts on her wheelchair, highlighting her government's development schemes, and hurling barbs at the BJP over price rise, and other central government policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC alleges attack on supporters||Clashes were reported from several parts of Bengal, where polling is underway in the third phase of assembly elections, with TMC candidates Sujata Mondal and Nirmal Majhi alleging that they were heckled and assaulted by BJP workers, a charge denied by the saffron camp. Mondal, who is contesting the elections from Arambagh, said saffron party men chased her and hit her on the head, when she was out visiting polling booths in Arandi area of the constituency, after having received reports that "voters were not being allowed to exercise their franchise". "My bodyguards saved my life... I came to know that BJP members were thwarting people from casting their votes in Arandi. I went there to find out what went wrong. I was assaulted, hit with bamboo sticks by saffron party men," Mondal, estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, said. Her rival and BJP candidate Madhusudhan Bag, when contacted, stated that no one from his party attacked Mondal. "It was the villagers who put up a resistance when the TMC leader tried intimidating them," Bag said A section of villagers also claimed that Mondal had threatened them with dire consequences if they "visited polling booths to cast their vote". According to police sources, one of Mondal's security guards had brought out his revolver to resist the attackers from chasing the TMC candidate. Villagers, armed with bamboo sticks, however, drove him away, the sources said. Chief Electoral Officer Ariz Aftab has sought a report from poll personnel in Hooghly district in connection with the alleged attack on Mondal, an official said. Senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said he has apprised the Election Commission of the Arambagh episode, and was also "in touch" with Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain. In yet another incident of violence, TMC candidate Dr Nirmal Maji said that he was "heckled" by BJP supporters and his vehicle vandalised when he tried visiting a booth in Uluberia (Uttar) constituency. Majhi was made to wear a helmet and escorted out of the troubled area by the police. One of his security guards sustained serious injuries when bricks were hurled at him, a police officer said, adding that he is currently undergoing treatment at a local hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s minority votes slipping out of her hand, claims Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for seeking en bloc voting by Muslims for the TMC and said had his party made a similar appeal to Hindus, it would have been criticised and censored. Asserting that Mamata has problems with people sporting a Tilak and wearing saffron, Modi said the TMC supremo's appeal to the Muslims reflects that her "minority votes are slipping out of her hands." Claiming a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicate that she has lost the polls. "Didi recently asked all Muslims to vote en bloc for her. It shows that the Muslim vote bank is slipping out of her hands. Had we said the same thing that all Hindus should unite, everybody would have criticised us.The EC would have sent us notices. We would have been censored," he said while addressing an election rally in Cooch Behar. Taking a dig at Mamata's comment, rhetorically questioning whether BJP leaders predicting the party's victory were gods or superhumans, Modi said no one needs be superhuman to predict BJP's victory as the wave in favour of the saffron camp speaks for itself. "Didi's exit is imminent. That is clear after the first two phases of polling," he said. Modi also claimed Mamata had hurt Bengalis' self- esteem by alleging people come to his rallies for money. Accusing the TMC dispensation of indulging in rampant corruption, Modi said: "Didi has started a new tax in Bengal - 'Bhaipo Service Tax'!". "For 10 years, your goons continued to loot Bengal, and you were a mute spectator. For 10 years, injustice with North Bengal continued, but you chose to be a mute spectator," he alleged. Modi said, sensing defeat, Mamata has turned jittery and was criticising everybody and everything, from EC to EVMs. Referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, Modi mocked the TMC boss, saying this proves that Didi has accepted her defeat and is looking for another seat. "Didi is now looking for a place for herself outside Bengal," Modi said, who had won the Lok Sabha election twice from Varanasi in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP men forcibly occupying booths, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday claimed BJP activists were forcibly occupying polling booths and attacking TMC members, including party candidates, and asserted that she would not get bogged down by such "intimidatory tactics". Addressing a public meeting here in Alipurduar district, the TMC supremo said her party's nominee in Arambagh, Sujata Mondal, was chased and hit on head near a polling booth by saffron party workers. "They have inflicted serious injury on our Scheduled Caste candidate Sujata, when she visited a booth. They also hit another candidate in Khanakul. In Canning East, security forces prevented our nominee Shaukat Mollah from entering a booth. There had been numerous such instances of attack on our candidates, party workers across the state," Banerjee said. The CM further stated that she has received at least 100 complaints of assault and violence since morning, and the EC has been duly informed but to no avail. Alleging that a deep-rooted conspiracy has been hatched by the BJP leadership in Delhi after experiencing "poor turnout" in rallies, Banerjee said "Security forces have been asked not to resist booth capturing." "Four of our activists have been murdered since the elections began, but no action has been taken. But you (BJP) cannot terrorise us, intimidate us by such acts," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Of turncoats, former ministers and Rajya Sabha members, and an actress  ||Hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies, the third phase of polling now underway in Bengal has all the elements. Among the big contenders in Tuesday’s polling are the former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. The former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP, Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. Till 3 pm on Tuesday, 68.04 percentage of votes were cast in 31 seats where polling is underway for third phase. Training her guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, Mamata eyeing a third term in office said that Bengal will be ruled by its own people and “not by anyone from Gujarat.” "I will win Bengal with one leg and Delhi with two legs," Mamata said. Going by numbers, the ruling Trinamul is far ahead of all it’s rivals in the fray. Of the 31 seats where polling is being held, the Trinamul is ahead in 29 seats, while the remaining two are with BJP as per the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results. Rival alliance partners- Congress and the Left- who fought the Lok Sabha polls separately, were reduced to single digits in terms of vote share. The Congress and Left in alliance with the Indian Secular Front are desperate to see a section of the voters it had lost in 2019 return to its fold. In 2016, out of the 16 seats in South 24-Parganas, the Left had won only one seat, the rest going to the Trinamul’s kitty. The Trinamul, in 2016, had won all the eight seats of Hooghly that are voting on Wednesday, though three years later the BJP had marched ahead in two of the seats: Goghat and Pursurah. The biggest worry for the Trinamul is infighting and charges of corruption. In 2017, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had pulled up Chinusrah MLA Asit (Tapan) Mazumdar at an administrative meeting telling him to let go of his “commission” to bring down the cost of a stadium project. While campaigning this time, Mamata promised voters in Hooghly that her nominees —  Mazumdar and Tapan Dasgupa, of Saptagram, will not commit any “wrongs.” Mamata also questioned the logic behind holding Bengal assembly elections in eight phases. "It could have been done in 3 or 4 phases," she said. "Was it not prudent to hold the elections in fewer phases and wrap it up early in view of the COVID-19 situation?" the chief minister asked. Banerjee also claimed that the coronavirus situation was not grim in the state as of now. The country recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 coronavirus infections in a day pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. In West Bengal, 1,957 more people had tested positive for the infection on Sunday. To ensure that the more than 78.5 lakh voters can exercise their voting rights to decide the fate of 205 candidates 618 companies of CAPF deployed to guard 10,871 polling stations, all of which have been marked "sensitive" by the Election Commission. State police forces have also been deputed at strategic locations to aid the CAPF. Sharpening its attack on the TMC over issues ranging from corruption to political violence, the BJP held power- packed campaigns across the three districts over the past few days, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who addressed several public meetings. The TMC chief, who is still recuperating from her injuries, traversed the length and breadth of the three districts on her wheelchair, highlighting her government's development schemes, and hurling barbs at the BJP over price rise, and other central government policies. With the Covid-19 situation in the state taking a turn for the worse, polling will be held amid strict adherence to health protocols across all 31 constituencies -- 16 in South 24 Parganas (part II), seven in Howrah (part I) and eight in Hooghly (part I).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||EVMs, VVPATs found at TMC leader's residence in Uluberia||Four EVMs and a similar number of VVPATs were found at the house of a Trinamool Congress leader in West Bengal's Howrah district, following which a poll official was suspended, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The incident happened in Tulsiberia village in the Uluberia Uttar assembly segment, he said. Villagers spotted a vehicle with an Election Commission sticker outside the house of the TMC leader in the early hours, after which they started protesting, he added. Then, it was found that the officer of sector 17 Tapan Sarkar was visiting the TMC leaders house with the EVMs, the official said. The EVMs and VVPATs were seized and the officer suspended, he said. "The four machines are not being used in today's polling. We have sought a report from the District Election Officer," he added. The sector officer claimed that he reached the area very late and found the polling booth closed, following that he decided to spend the night at his relatives residence, unable to find any "safe place" to stay. A huge team of central forces had to be deployed in the area as the locals protested, alleging malpractices. Even the Block Development Officer (BDO) was gheraoed when he had reached the spot to pacify the crowd. BJP candidate Chiran Bera alleged that the incident was part of TMCs plan to rig the election, a charge denied by the ruling party. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "This is an old habit of the TMC. It takes time to get over the old habits. They have been caught red-handed and it shows what they are up to." Polling was underway in the area in the third phase of elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: For Mamata Banerjee, real battle begins on Tuesday||The eight-phase battle for Bengal will enter its most interesting arenas in the southern districts on Tuesday, when 78 lakh voters decide the fate of 31 Assembly seats in the third phase of the election. “For us, the real battle begins tomorrow (Tuesday) as the contest comes to our known strongholds,” a Trinamul insider said a day before seven seats in Howrah, eight in Hooghly and 16 in South 24-Parganas go to the polls. Unlike previous Bengal elections, the voting trend in the first two phases — involving 60 constituencies in the western districts — has remained somewhat hazy against the backdrop of unprecedented polarisation and high-decibel BJP claims of a virtual sweep. With the BJP narrative featuring claims by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Mamata Banerjee has lost in Nandigram, a Trinamul source said, the remaining phases will be a “test of nerves” for the party managers. “But we are ready and the morale of the supporters is very high. Our ground-level management tomorrow will prove that the BJP’s claims have done little to dampen our spirit,” a source said. Having ruled the state for a decade, Trinamul may be expected to boast a well-oiled poll machinery — a crucial asset in Bengal elections — as the Left did in its heyday. The key question is, however, whether organisational strength is enough to prevent the apparent saffron surge in these areas. A common characteristic in these predominantly rural seats, where livelihood depends on agriculture and fishing, is anti-incumbency against Trinamul against a backdrop of corruption charges against the party's ground-level leaders. Besides, with the minority population varying between 10 per cent and 40 per cent in these 31 seats, the electorate has been subjected to a barrage of identity politics propaganda. Trinamul had mopped up 29 of these 31 seats in 2016, with the Left and the Congress sharing the remaining two. Even amid the BJP's stellar show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had secured leads from 29 of these constituencies while the BJP led from 2 Hooghly seats. However, these seat numbers may not be the yardstick to gauge the possible intensity of Tuesday's contest, and one may need to look at the vote shares. While Trinamul's vote share in these constituencies rose by a little less than 1 per cent between 2016 and 2019 to reach 51 per cent, the BJP's skyrocketed by more than 30 per cent to end up above 37 per cent. "There's a surge in our favour and our vote share will increase even further. We'll surprise Trinamul in this phase," said BJP Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee, who is believed to have been instrumental in expanding her party's base in Hooghly. Of the three districts that vote on Tuesday, Hooghly is expected to produce the stiffest contest between the BJP and Trinamul as the district has a sizeable saffron presence. Injecting an intriguing element into Tuesday's battle will be the fledgling Indian Secular Front, part of the Left-Congress alliance, which is in the fray in seats like Jangipara, Khanakul and Haripal in Hooghly, Canning East and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas, and Uluberia East in Howrah. "The average minority vote in the seats that go to the polls on Tuesday is about 20 per cent, going up to 40 per cent in some constituencies," political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said. "There is little doubt therefore that identity politics will have an impact." Chakraborty said that Abbas Siddiqui, the man behind the ISF, had been drawing huge crowds. "If he can nibble a part of the Muslim vote, it will hurt Trinamul," he said. That Siddiqui has become a thorn in some Trinamul strongholds was clear from Mamata's campaigns in Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas, where she urged the voters not to split the anti-BJP vote. Siddiqui's party has sizeable bases in these districts. Sources in the BJP said their party was banking heavily on the ISF to divide the Muslim vote. "In a polarised environment, such a split will surely help us," Chatterjee said. Trinamul poll strategists are, however, not overly concerned about the prospective split in the minority vote, primarily for two reasons. One, support for Mamata among the Muslims is so overwhelming that the ISF is unlikely to secure a share of the minority vote significant enough to hurt Trinamul, they reckon. Second, they believe that Bengal's Muslims are tactical voters and would not make the mistake of backing anyone other than Mamata in such a do-or-die battle. A consolidated Muslim vote bank, however, is not the only asset the Trinamul brains trust is counting on. "Bengal's women are with Didi; that's our biggest strength. Besides, initiatives like the Duare Sarkar have helped us deal with anti-incumbency," a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Will Amphan after-effects hit Mamata in her stronghold||Seated on an earthen dam under the scorching sun with his two grandsons, 70-year-old Robin Koyal of Patlikhanpur village in North 24-Parganas’ Hingalganj stares at the sky. The elderly farm labour is apprehending a “Kal Baisakhi” in the last fortnight of the Bengali calendar year. “Roder tej barlei jhorer bhoy hoi... Gato bachoro tai hoyechilo (whenever the sun beats down, we apprehend a storm),” he tells this correspondent with a vacant look, referring to last year’s Cyclone Amphan that wreaked havoc and rendered him homeless. Ten months after Amphan, when political parties are making promises galore to woo voters ahead of elections, impoverished Patlikhanpur village in the Sunderbans is no exception. Koyal remains homeless and has been literally living under the sky — in a 6ft-by-5ft ramshackle tent with his ailing wife. He lost his house in Amphan but received no immediate financial relief, except tarpaulin and a packet of flat rice (chira). For the last 10 months, the elderly couple and the family of his only son have been surviving on rice and atta provided by the government. With monsoon barely two months away, the septuagenarian and his neighbours are living in fear of a fresh onslaught that would scar their lives again. Koyal and at least 42 other families live near a thatched earthen dam along the embankment of the Dasa river, a tributary of the Ichamati. Every year, the dam gets swept away by tidal waves stirred up by seasonal cyclonic storms. “Calamities of varying proportions visit us every year.… This year won’t be any different. This time I will probably lose my only shelter,” Koyal says, adding that he has no money for repairs because he has no work. Many agricultural fields in the area have been converted into fisheries and Koyal is too frail to work there. During the last 50 years Koyal and his neighbours like Ranjit Mondal, 65, Biswajit Mondal, 68, and Suren Koyal, 63, have seen villagers appealing to the powers that be for the construction of a pucca dam or a reinforced cement concrete (RCC) dam along the river bank, but to no avail. After the severe cyclonic storm Aila hit Bengal in May 2009, the Left Front government had announced that all earthen dams in the Sunderbans would be converted into RCC ones. The project did not proceed beyond a few dams in Sandeshkhali. “Voting has become meaningless for us. It is clear now that there will be no change in our lives. A pucca dam could have brought some change, but that never happened. Every year we lose our house and small savings and try to rebuild our lives from scratch. But, last year’s Amphan has robbed us of our mental strength too,” says Ranjit Mondal. “Over 100 families once lived in this village, but they gradually left to settle elsewhere. We could not for lack of money. Our financial situation has only deteriorated since last year. Now we can’t even imagine leaving this village as we don’t have any income,” he adds. Most families in the area have not got work in the past 10 months under the MGNREGA, the central government’s flagship 100-day rural job scheme. “A scheme supervisor had asked me to hand over my card to him and offered me Rs 2,000, but I refused. We have not got work since then. The panchayat had engaged us to repair the dam just after Amphan but we are yet to get our wages,” says Joyanti Mondal Koyal, a young homemaker in Patlikhanpur. Supervisors are usually workers of the ruling party. “For the past few months most of us have been trying to catch fish in bheris abandoned due to high salinity. We manage to catch some crabs and prawn, which fetch us Rs 50 a day at most,” Joyanti says. Patlikhanpur is not an aberration. Many villages at Minakhan, Haroa, Sandeshkhali and Basirhat in North 24-Parganas and Gosaba, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kakdwip and Canning in South 24-Parganas have been struggling since Amphan. The cyclone, followed by heavy rainfall and strong tidal waves, had caused rivers to breach earthen dams, leading to infiltration of saline water. This water damaged crops, horticulture produce and fisheries at several places. Trinamul leaders like Sunil Singh, a panchayat member at Patlikhanpur, does not think the failure to construct a pucca dam will be an issue in the elections. “The BJP has been trying to make it a poll plank, misleading the people. But people will vote for Didi (Mamata Banerjee) without any doubt,” Sunil says. Gostho Singh, a former Trinamul leader and panchayat member, does not agree. “People like Sunil Singh can hardly ever realise the pain and sufferings of people. He is not bothered about how people are living under the open sky in constant fear of further doom. He and his party men have deprived the Amphan victims of relief materials, compensation, shelter under housing schemes and even jobs under the MGNREGA. These people don’t think twice before demanding Rs 20,000 from the poor to get them houses under government schemes. I have left the party in disgust,” Gostho says. In areas like Hingalganj, Minakha and Haroa, where acres of agricultural land have been converted into bheris over the past few years, many farm labourers have been left jobless. Ranjit Mondal, the Hingalganj resident, says: “Earlier I used to work as a farm labourer. But frequent inundation has increased the salinity of the soil and compelled landowners to turn to fish farming. There are many like me who are too old and weak to work in bheris. Now most of us work in brick kilns, where work is available for barely five months a year. A pucca dam could at least help us to survive.” Hingalganj’s sitting MLA and Trinamul candidate Debesh Mondal says: “The absence of a pucca dam is a genuine problem, but not an election issue. I am hopeful the new Trinamul government will solve this problem”. His BJP rival Nimai Das counters: “Trinamul will get no more time. Once Kal Baisakhi hits the region, whatever is left of the earthen dams will be destroyed once again, inconveniencing thousands of families.” None knows the situation better than CPM leader Kanti Ganguly. The former minister had led villagers to repair earthen dams in the aftermath of Amphan. Speaking to The Telegraph on the delay in building concrete dams, Ganguly accused the Mamata Banerjee government of showing little interest in taking forward the initiative of the Left Front government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021:  Do not hijack my religion and democracy from me, says Jaya ||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, in Calcutta to campaign for Trinamul Congress candidates, on Monday backed Mamata Banerjee’s fight to preserve the democratic rights of the people of Bengal and said she didn’t want her religion and democracy to be “hijacked”. “I want to say, do not hijack my religion from me. Do not. Never. Do not hijack my democracy and my democratic right from me. And when I say, me, I represent all the people. And that is why I’m here because Mamata Banerjee is fighting, struggling, a single lady to preserve democratic rights of every individual of Bengal,” Bachchan said at a news meet at Trinamul headquarters. Bachchan also said Bengal would develop more if Mamata continued to be the state’s chief minister. To the people who criticise Mamata, Bachchan said: “Lojja! Lojja! (shame, shame).” “…Love and respect for Mamataji, for a single woman who is fighting against all atrocities. Head broken, leg broken, but they have not been able to break her heart and brain and her determination to move ahead and make Bengal one of the best in the world,” Bachchan added. The actress and Padma Shri awardee, popular for her work in both Bengali and Hindi films, introduced herself first as Jaya Bachchan and then said her maiden name was Bhaduri. She mentioned that she is the daughter of Tarun Kumar Bhaduri, an eminent journalist and writer. “We are probashi (expatriate) Bangali, but Bangali,” she said. The intention behind this introduction was to woo the Bengali sentiment, the biggest weapon Trinamul leaders are engaging in this 2021 polls, sources said. During her six-minute odd news meet, Bachchan not for once mentioned the BJP by name, but kept hinting at the saffron camp’s flaws. Pointing at women journalists present, she said, “(Bengal is the) safest state in the country for women. One doesn’t need to say much about it. You all will understand yourselves what I’m saying.” Trinamul sources said that Bachchan was referring to the continuous atrocities women face in Uttar Pradesh, the state that she represents in the Rajya Sabha. “Jayadi campaigning for us serves two purposes. First, Bengalis still connect with her. Second, she is a woman and represents UP, which is the epitome of the collective failure of the administration (of the BJP government),” a Trinamul source said. Bachchan also thanked her party chief Akhilesh Yadav for supporting Mamata and giving her, Bachchan, the opportunity to campaign for Trinamul. Later, she campaigned for Aroop Biswas, Trinamul’s candidate for the Tollygunge Assembly seat. Her campaigns will continue on Tuesday and Wednesday as well. She is also being pitted as Trinamul’s reply to BJP’s star campaigner, actor Mithun Chakraborty, who earlier was a Trinamul MP to the Rajya Sabha, but switched sides and joined the BJP last month. His campaign rallies have been drawing large crowds. “No one can be an answer to someone,” countered the BJP’s state chief Dilip Ghosh. “Yes, she (Bachchan) was popular and liked by people in Bengal once upon a time. But that is not important now. What has she done for Bengal in recent times? Mithunda on the other hand has done a lot of work (for Bengal).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nadda no-show at two of three public events||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda cancelled two of the three public events he was supposed to attend in Bengal on Monday, party sources off the record citing paltry turnout. Nadda attended a road show in Tollygunge, Calcutta, but cancelled two other scheduled public meetings in Serampore and Chinsurah. Both these places are in Hooghly and go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10. While BJP officially cited emergencies for the cancellations, sources in the party said that both events had to be cancelled because Nadda refused to physically address a thin crowd. “We had made arrangements for 6,000 to 7,000 people at the Serampore stadium. Not more than 500 people turned up. Chinsurah’s ground (the venue) is huge. Some 400-500 people turned up and Naddaji cancelled the meeting and left for Delhi,” a state BJP office-bearer said. Nadda, who reached Calcutta on Sunday evening, was supposed to address the public meeting at Serampore first. According to information provided by the BJP’s media cell, the meeting was scheduled at 11.30 am. Around noon, BJP leadership present at the meeting were told that Nadda would not arrive personally but speak virtually instead. He addressed the few people at the venue on phone for around 20 minutes. The saffron leadership appeared unsure of the exact reason behind Nadda deciding not to come. While some leaders said Nadda stayed back in Calcutta for urgent organisational work, others like state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu cited a glitch in Nadda’s helicopter. “People were likely to come in due course. But, once it was announced that Naddaji won’t come, whoever was on their way decided to go back,” Basu, who was at the meeting himself, said. “There was an issue with his helicopter, he couldn’t fly,” he added. A Serampore district BJP organisational committee leader said many people thought the event would begin at 1pm. Nadda went to Tollygunge to attend a road show in support of BJP candidates Babul Supriyo and Payel Sarkar. This rally was moderately crowded. At the end of the rally, Nadda told journalists that the BJP was coming to power in Bengal and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee would lose from Nandigram. Last on Nadda’s schedule was the Chinsurah public meeting, but he gave it a miss and flew back to Delhi. The BJP officially stated he “has to leave for New Delhi for an urgent meeting.” State BJP leaders saw ominous signs in Monday’s events. “Both these seats and adjoining ones go to polls on April 10. If five days before that the party’s national chief is forced to cancel an event because of low turnout, it isn’t a good sign,” a Hooghly BJP leader said. Trinamul leader Bratya Basu was sarcastic. “There was huge trickle of two people at BJP rallies and they had to cancel the meetings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Earthquake of 5.4 magnitude rocks Siliguri||An earthquake of 5.4 magnitude rocked Siliguri and the surrounding areas on Monday evening. Source in the India Meteorological Department said the quake’s epicentre was on the Sikkim-Nepal border, which is 38km east-southeast of Gangtok. The epicentre was 10km below the earth’s surface. The tremor which occurred at 8.49pm was felt in Sikkim and some parts of Bengal, including Calcutta, Bhutan and Northeast. No damage has been reported||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:  Mamata attacks BJP’s silence on its leaders ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday invoked the Saradha and Narada issues to attack the BJP and alleged that saffron camp leaders involved in those cash scandals were being spared. Mamata made the charge at a rally in Hooghly’s Chinsurah while referring to allegations that Trinamul was a “Saradha, Narada party”. Trinamul sources said Mamata wanted to underscore the message that BJP leaders, too, were involved in the scams. Mamata made BJP MPs Babul Supriyo and Locket Chatterjee the butt of her attack. The BJP has fielded Chatterjee as the party’s candidate from Chinsurah and Supriyo from Tollygunge. “They (BJP) labelled us as a party of Saradha, Narada. But their leaders are like a baby in the lap of Narada and Saradha. Babul Supriyo once said Saradha was the first rose of Rose Valley (deposit mobilisation company). Locket (Chatterjee) is the locket around Rose Valley’s neck. I know everything but no step is taken against those (BJP) leaders,” said Mamata. Mamata went on to say that leaders like Locket would become MPs and MLAs and “eat everything” but no action would be taken against them. Responding to Mamata, Chatterjee said: “This is election time and hence all such allegations have been levelled against me. The intention is to affect my and my party’s support (base). But this will not help Trinamul.” Several Trinamul turncoats, including Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who switched over to the BJP, figured in the controversial Narada tapes, whose veracity however has not been independently verified by The Telegraph. “The BJP attacks our party over extortion and misappropriation (of funds), but never talks against leaders who have joined their party. The Narada video was deleted from BJP’s social media pages after Suvendu (who was purportedly seen in the sting video) joined the party,” said a Trinamul leader. A day ahead of phase 3 polls in 31 seats, many with a sizeable minority presence, Mamata at Hooghly’s Chanditala attacked Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui, without naming him, calling a “gaddar (traitor)” for creating a division among Muslims. “I know all family members of Furfura Sharif...They are all good. But, a gaddar has come out of the family...You should teach him a lesson. You have to control the cobra before it causes damage,” she said, accusing him of working for the BJP. Trinamul fears that the  ISF, which has aligned with the Left and the Congress of the Sanjukta Morcha on minority voters, may harm its chances in many seats in twin 24-Parganas and Hooghly. “Some people accuse me of appeasing Muslims...But I never did so…I have no religious prejudice. All communities are safe here only because of me,” Mamata added in an attempt to wean away Muslims who may have been influenced by Siddiqui’s oratory. Speaking at a poll rally in Hooghly on Monday, Siddiqui accused Mamata of “misusing” government funds to appease Muslims and Hindus. Mamata on Monday renewed her appeal to people not to vote on religious lines. At back-to-back public meetings in Hooghly and South 24-Parganas she urged people to defeat the BJP’s bid to create rifts on social and religious lines. “Hindu, Muslim vote bhagabhagi cholbey na (Division of Hindu, Muslim votes will not work),” she said at a rally in Bhangar on Monday. ISF’s Haroa candidate Kutubuddin Fatehi was allegedly assaulted by Trinamul supporters in Sashan on Monday. Fatehi was allegedly greeted with black flags and shoes, heckled and assaulted until a police team rescued him. Angry ISF supporters later blocked the Rajarhat connector near Sashan police station, demanding the arrest of culprits. Trinamul supporters planned to kill him, Fatehi alleged later. ⚫Total constituencies: 31 ⚫Districts: 3 — Howrah, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas ⚫Number of booths: 10,871 ⚫Central force: 618 companies ⚫Key contests: Diamond Harbour, Raidighi, Arambagh, Joynagar and Satgachia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging, TMC blamed in Dalkhola||A 25-year-old BJP worker from a village under Dalkhola police station of North Dinajpur district was found dead and hanging at a deserted place near his home on Monday morning. His family members and local BJP leaders accused some Trinamul supporters of killing him and then hanging the body, charges that Trinamul leaders have denied. Police have started a probe. Sources said Satyajit Singha, the deceased, went missing on Sunday night from his home in Sitaidighi village. His body, hanging from a tree some 200 metres from home, was spotted on Monday morning by some residents. Satyajit’s mother Jayanti Rani Singha said she last spoke to him on phone briefly around 9pm on Sunday when he said he was being detained. She said their entire family supported the BJP and her son was an active party worker. “A few days back, some local Trinamul supporters had threatened him and had asked him not to participate in BJP's political activities. On Sunday afternoon, my son went to the local market on an errand and did not return home. I tried him on his phone after a couple of hours but found it switched off. Around 9pm, I could contact him. He could only tell me that some people had detained him, and then, I suspect, his phone was snatched. He did not return home at night, and today (Monday), we found him dead. I suspect some Trinamul supporters have killed and hanged him to make it look like suicide,” the mother added. Satyajit, she said, used to run a grocery shop. As the news of his death spread, BJP leaders and supporters who went to the spot pointed out injuries on the youth’s head, limbs and torso. “Trinamul has resorted to this tactic across the state. They are killing our men and hanging them,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the North Dinajpur district BJP president. Trinamul denied the charges. “We suspect suicide. It has become a trend of BJP to accuse us falsely. The police should probe and find out the truth,” said Sandip Biswas, district spokesperson of Trinamul. A police team spoke with Satyajit’s kin and neighbours. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death,” said a  Dalkhola police officer. Last year, the BJP had raised a similar allegation after Debendranath Roy, their MLA from Hemtabad in the same district, was found dead and hanging near his house. The party has fielded his wife Chandima Roy from the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Left and Cong slam joblessness, polarisation||Senior Left and Congress leaders — poll allies under the Sanjukta Morcha banner — accused the Mamata Banerjee government of failing to create jobs for Bengal’s youths and the saffron camp of playing the polarisation card for electoral gains. On Monday, state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Choudhury and CPM state secretary Surjyakanta Mishra, along with leaders and candidates of both parties, attended a public meeting in Baghajatin Park of Siliguri. This was the first major public event organised by the Sanjukta Morcha or the Left-Congress-ISF alliance in north Bengal. However, no one from the ISF was present. Mishra, addressing the gathering of 5,000-odd people, said Trinamul was all set to lose the elections. “So far, two phases of elections have been held. There are clear indications that they cannot thwart the BJP…” said Mishra. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri who is contesting from the seat again, said they are striving to retain the three seats of Siliguri sub-division. In 2016, Bhattacharya won from Siliguri and the Congress from the other two seats (Matigara-Naxalbari and Phansidewa). “We are also putting every effort to win the Dabgram-Fulbari seat this time,” said Bhattacharya. Dabgram-Fulbari comes under Jalpaiguri district but comprises 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, the two-time Trinamul MLA from the seat, is looking at a hat-trick. The CPM has pitted Dilip Singh against Deb. Earlier in the day, Choudhury attended a road show in Jalpaiguri and spoke at a meeting in Ghughudanga on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “The Trinamul government here has completely failed to create job opportunities for youths of the state. That is why unemployed youths are forced to migrate to other states in search of jobs,” said Choudhury. “The BJP comes up with lengthy promises but does not deliver. During BJP’s regime, attacks on poor and backward classes have increased across the country. If we are voted to power, youths, farmers and other sections of the society would be helped,” the Congress leader added. Bhaichung’s message Popular former footballer Bhaichung Bhutia has posted a video message for Siliguri residents on Monday, urging people to vote for CPM candidate Asok Bhattacharya. “He is a sincere politician and was instrumental in carrying out comprehensive development in Siliguri and in north Bengal as a whole. People should vote for a right leader like Asok Bhattacharya,” Bhaichung said in his message. Back in the 2016 Assembly polls, Bhaichung had been fielded in the seat as a Trinamul candidate against Bhattacharya. Bhaichung, however, got defeated by 14,072 votes. Later, Bhaichung, who hails from Sikkim, quit Trinamul and formed a political party in Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Distance and terrain take ballots to voters early in Kalimpong||Candidates in the Kalimpong Assembly segment have just started election campaign after having been allotted their symbols two days ago but the voting started on Monday. The Kalimpong district election office sent polling personnel to the homes of absentee voters of senior citizens and people with disabilities to exercise their franchise 12 days before the voting on April 17. “We started early as the terrain is difficult in our constituency. At many places, officials have to walk considerable distance to reach the voter’s house,” said Vimala Ranganathan, the district magistrate and district election officer of Kalimpong constituency. The authorities had identified absentee voters of 5,500-odd people — citizens aged above 80 and those with disabilities — through the voters’ list. One has to meet the benchmark disability criterion of 40 per cent to avail oneself of the facility which was introduced in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our officials then went to their houses with form 12-d to know whether they wanted to cast votes through postal ballots at their doorstep or visit the polling station on the voting day,” said Vimala. Around 2,400 absentee voters wanted to exercise their franchise sitting at home. The visiting polling team comprises two election personnel, a videographer, one micro-observer and paramilitary troopers and state police personnel numbering two each. A video released by the district administration shows Krishna Maya Rai, an octogenarian, who cast her vote on Monday. The video says she cast her vote after 63 years. “Booth Level Officers (BLO) are intimating the voters and the family of the scheduled visits by the polling personnel in advance as they cannot read text messages,” said Vimala. The authorities are planning to complete the process within 10 days. “At some places like Today-Tangta in Gorubathan, it might take more than two hours to visit just one house,” the official added. Only four to five voters can be covered in a day in certain areas. “We have put in a lot of meticulous planning for this exercise,” Vimala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Three arrested in Manipur for rhino poaching ||The special task force (STF) of Manipur arrested three persons suspected to be members of a gang linked to the killing of a one-horned rhino at the Jaldapara National Park of Alipurduar district. Two of the arrests were made on Sunday night and one was made on Monday, all in Manipur. The rhino’s carcass, with its horn missing, was found in the park on Sunday morning. Senior forest officials, who immediately ordered an inquiry, said the animal had been killed at least two days back. Vets who performed the animal’s autopsy confirmed it was shot from point-blank range. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of the state, confirmed the arrests made by the STF in Manipur. “We suspected a poachers’ gang from the Northeast was involved and it is good that arrests have been made. Alipurduar district police have submitted a prayer before the court in Manipur so that the arrested can be brought here on transit remand. We hope to recover the horn,” said Yadav. In 2017 and 2018, six rhinos were killed by poachers in Jaldapara. Investigation by the forest department along with the police had revealed the involvement of poachers based in the Northeast. On Sunday, when this rhino carcass was spotted, foresters and the police immediately passed on this information to their counterparts in the Northeast, which swung into action. “We have also come to know that the poachers had stayed in some private cottages in nearby Chilapata. We will speak with cottage owners and residents to ensure that in future they alert us in case they find any suspicious guest checking into these accommodations,” said a forest official. The Bengal forest department, sources said, also intends to constitute a special task force. “This force will be engaged for better protection of forests and wildlife across the state,” said a source. Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested six suspected members of a gang that planned a robbery, with weapons, from near Manikchak in Malda district on Monday morning. Police recovered a firearm, three rounds of live cartridges and a gas-cutter, a drilling machine, among others, from them. A team of Kaliachak police station also arrested one Mobarak Sheikh on Sunday night, with 262 gm of brown sugar and Rs 3.30 lakh in cash. At least 20 Trinamul supporters got injured as the pick-up van they were in flipped on one side while on way to Balurghat on Monday. Sources said around 25 supporters of the party from Bolla and Bahicha villages of South Dinajpur, were heading towards Balurghat to join in a rally that was planned ahead of submission of nominations by party’s candidates. On the way, the driver lost control while trying to negotiate with a motorcycle. The vehicle turned side near Pagliganj-Pollapara area under Patiram police station. Residents rushed them to the superspecialty hospital in Balurghat. Some of them are still under treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi to discuss Covid surge with CMs of all states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with chief ministers and chief secretaries of all states at 6.30pm on April 8 to discuss Covid-19 situation in the country. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata Banerjee might not be able to attend the video-conference because of her pre-scheduled election rallies, but the chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, would take part in the session. Senior government officials in Bengal anticipated that some restrictions might be announced for the states to stop rapid spread of Covid-19 after daily positive cases in the country crossed 1 lakh mark for the first time on Sunday. Sources said the timing of the meeting clearly suggested that some restrictions were likely to be announced to arrest the rapid spread of the virus, which is considered to be the second wave. “Elections in all other states, which had alongside Bengal, would be over by April 6 and in case any re-polling is required, it would be over by 6.30pm on Thursday. The PM is holding meeting soon after elections are over in all other states, except Bengal. This suggests some restrictions might be announced by the PM,” said a source. The sources also said the anticipation of imposing some restrictions was gaining momentum as the chief secretary had called a meeting with the districts where elections were over on April 9, a day after the PM’s video conference. “The chief secretary would hold a video conference with the DMs, SPs and CMOHs of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, East Midnapore and West Midnapore where elections are already over. It gives a hint that some restrictions are likely to be announced in these districts alongside rest of the country,” said an official. Bengal would have five more phases of elections, the last phase of polls would be held on April 29, after the PM’s meeting. “The restrictions might not apply for the Bengal districts where elections are yet to be held. But it is clear a district would come under the restrictions as soon as elections would be over in the district,” said another official. Sources in the health department said besides the restrictions, Modi might lay stress on following Covid -19 protocols strictly and lay stress on vaccination programme. “But it is unlikely that a complete lockdown would be announced. Measures like night curfew and restrictions on public gathering could be announced,” said a source in the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Tmc urges BJP not to induct their leaders in the saffron camp||Ranjan Sarkar, the president of the Trinamul Congress’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, has urged the BJP not to induct Trinamul leaders in Siliguri into the saffron camp. Such Trinamul leaders work only to fulfil their own interests and hence, they should be stopped from entering any political platform, he added. “We will always have political differences with the BJP… but I would like to request senior leaders of the BJP to shun the political culture of inducting the selfish and traitors into their party. These people, who have defected from Trinamul, worked only for their personal gains,” said Sarkar. Nantu Paul, his wife Manjushree, Dipak Seal and Jyotsna Agarwal were among the Trinamul leaders who joined the BJP in recent days. “These people have never worked for Siliguri residents but have used the party for their own interests. Such people should not be allowed access to any political platform and we believe their presence in the political arena would only hinder the development of Siliguri,” said Sarkar. Paul and his wife Manjushree are former councillors of wards 11 and 12 in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and are believed to enjoy clout among shopowners. Siliguri’s Bidhan Market is located in the two wards. Sarkar’s strategy to reach out to the business community of these two wards and simultaneously send a message to the BJP is aimed at preventing the leaders who have deserted Trinamul from trying to drum up support for Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate of Siliguri, said observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
06-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly Elections 2021: Five polling officials suspended for “dereliction of duty”||Five polling officials have been suspended for “dereliction of duty” after a booth in Assam’s Haflong constituency polled 181 votes in the second phase of Assembly polls on April 1, though the number of registered voters there was 90. The anomaly came to light on Monday evening after a press note was issued by the chief electoral officer, Nitin Khade, based on information provided by the district election officer of Dima Hasao. “During the scrutiny of presiding officer’s diary and other documents, it was found out that the presiding officer and the polling officers of 107-A Khothlir L.P. (Lower Primary) School have allowed 181 persons to cast their votes against the total 90 voters against that P.S (polling station). The presiding and first polling officer in their statements have admitted that they allowed the voters registered against the main polling station to cast their votes in the auxiliary polling station,” the note said. The auxiliary polling station was set up for the first time to facilitate voters in the remote area as the polling percentage in the 2019 parliamentary election was only 34 per cent. Haflong Assembly constituency registered 74 per cent turnout this time. The district election officer has suspended the sector officer, the presiding officer and three other polling officers of 107A Khothlir L.P. School, for dereliction of duty. The main polling station — No 107 Mualdam LP School — has 616 voters. It takes “about 20 minutes” to reach the auxiliary polling station from the main polling station which is another “four-hour drive” from Haflong, which is over 320km from Guwahati. Moreover, the returning officer has recommended repolling at both the auxiliary and the main polling stations. The incident has evoked widespread criticism. A polling official said it had occurred because of “miscommunication but what actually happened and why will come out in the official probe”. This is the second incident related to the second phase polls that attracted widespread attention and criticism. Four polling party personnel were on Friday suspended for “violating transport protocol” while ferrying an EVM from Ratabari constituency to the strongroom in Karimganj in south Assam on Thursday night in a vehicle belonging to the wife of the BJP MLA from Patherkandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Bridge of hope over Brahmaputra that no party can claim||A visit to Zero Point has become almost a daily ritual for 50-year-old Aminur Rahman. This is the site in Adabari Part 2, about 4km off Dhubri town, where India’s longest river bridge — stretching 19.03 km — is to come up by 2028 and connect Dhubri in Assam with Phulbari in Meghalaya across the Brahmaputra. Work began at the site shortly before Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the bridge through videoconferencing on February 18, just 37 days ahead of the start of the three-phase Assam elections on March 27. Residents’ faces here light up at any mention of the under-construction bridge, which has generated much more excitement and hope than the ongoing election. Rahman, a contractual employee with the State Institute of Rural Development, said the bridge would cut down to 20 minutes a journey that now takes four to five hours by ferry. Since ferry travel is impossible or risky in rough weather, especially when the river is in spate, people often have to take a circuitous land route that stretches 205km and involves six hours of travel. This land route — from Phulbari via Agia (Goalpara district) through North Salmara (Bongaigaon district) to Dhubri — involves crossing the Brahmaputra via the Pancharatna bridge in Goalpara apart from negotiating a couple of other bridges over smaller rivers. Both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress-AIUDF combine have tried to turn the Dhubri-Phulbari Bridge project into a poll plank but residents at Zero Point said neither grouping would benefit from it. “They tried to make it an issue but gave up soon because people here know that everybody has contributed towards the project taking off,” Rahman said. He said talk about a bridge had begun as far back as the 1970s but the demand picked up in the 2000s. The initial steps were taken under the Manmohan Singh government before the Modi-chaired cabinet committee on economic affairs approved the project in March 2019. Bridges have been an important poll plank for the ruling BJP that has been hard-selling its development agenda since coming to power in Assam in 2016. For instance, the 9.15km Dhola-Sadiya Bridge in Tinsukia district, inaugurated in May 2017, and the 4.9km Bogibeel rail-cum-road bridge connecting the Dibrugarh and Dhemaji districts, opened in December 2018, helped boost the BJP’s fortunes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had flagged both these bridges over the Brahmaputra, inaugurated by Modi, during the first phase of the Assembly polls in Upper Assam. But the Dhubri-Phulbari bridge resisted such attempts. “Senior leaders of all the parties were present during the foundation-laying function. It has been our collective dream and demand,” Rahman, who has on an average to make one work-related trip to Phulbari a month, said. “I visit the site almost regularly to keep abreast of the progress of the project — and also because of a growing attachment to it. A lot of opportunities will open up for business, education and healthcare. We hope it is completed by the 2028 deadline.” Once the bridge is functional, it will be easier for Phulbari and its neighbourhood to get their supply of goods from Dhubri town and send their students and patients to schools, colleges and hospitals across the river. Like most people in Adabari, Rahman knows almost everything about the project. “Larsen & Toubro began creating the basic infrastructure for its staff and workers before starting work on the actual project. The JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency), which is funding the project, has had lots of interaction with the stakeholders, including the local boatmen who will be adversely affected (because the ferry service will be hit),” he said. “But an overwhelming majority here supports the project. We just hope the momentum is sustained. It’s a bridge of hope for us.’ The bridge will also provide an additional link for Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and the Barak Valley region of Assam with the rest of the country. It will also improve international connectivity, joining Bangladesh to Bhutan through Dalu (in Meghalaya on the India-Bangladesh border) and Hatisar (in Assam on the India-Bhutan border) via Tura, Phulbari, Dhubri, Srirampur and Samthaibari. Dhubri-based social activist Benoy Bhattacharjee and advocate Bikash Sethia said the “life-changing” project was the best thing to have happened to Dhubri in recent years, and would bring “unimaginable” social, economic, security benefits. Sethia said the bridge would help the government increase its tax base and improve law and order through better connectivity with the now almost inaccessible char (sandbar) areas. Shokiyotullah Sheikh, 60, who makes two to three trade-related trips a month to Phulbari, mainly to import bamboo, said he was “very happy” that the project had begun. “Besides being time-consuming, the trip is also very risky. Many people have died while crossing the river. This will hopefully change once the bridge is completed. We are very happy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-04-2021||North East||Abducted oil employees released in Northeast||Two employees of an oil drilling company, who were abducted by rebels from Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh on December 21 last year, have been released. While Ulfa (Independent) released Ram Kumar, 35, in Mon district of Nagaland on Monday morning, his colleague Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, was set free at Nampong in Changlang district on April 1. Lt Col Sumit K. Sharma, public relations officer (defence), based in Kohima, said in a two-paragraph statement that a patrolling team of the Mon battalion of Assam Rifles intercepted Kumar, a radio operator with the New Delhi-based Quippo Oil & Gas Infrastructure Limited, at Lungwa village along the border with Myanmar. Like Kumar, Gogoi, a drilling superintendent with Quippo, too was intercepted by the Jairampur battalion of the Assam Rifles. Both the employees were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) rebels on December 21 from Diyun in Changlang, one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. Gogoi had told reporters that the two were kept together till they were separated on March four, after they were promised that they would be released through different routes. Kumar, who hails from Khagaria district of Bihar, was handed over to Arunachal Pradesh police at Tizit, about 50 minutes drive from Lungwa. Charaideo police in Assam took Kumar into their custody around noon. “He is absolutely fine but a bit tired. He is in our ‘safe keep’ and it will be his call if he wants to return to Changlang or to home. I have already informed the Khagaria deputy commissioner,” Charaideo superintendent of police S. Mishra told The Telegraph. The Ulfa (I), whose stated goal is “sovereignty” for Assam, had reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the release of the duo. The outfit had on January 12 also warned that Kumar may face harm if the company failed to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
06-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly Elections 2021: Final phase polling on Tuesday||The third and final leg of the Assembly elections in Assam will be held in 40 constituencies amid tight security on Tuesday. Sources said the number of companies deployed in the final phase is more than in each of the first two phases. As many as  320 companies of Central Armed Police Forces have been deployed to ensure free and fair polls, a source said. The run-up to the polls saw the ruling BJP’s media cell lodging a complaint with the chief electoral officer against the Opposition Congress on Monday. Seeking strong action against its arch rivals, the BJP social media cell convener Paban Lahan  accused the Congress of running a social media campaign to woo voters by promoting their “5-guarantee campaign” on Monday even though campaigning ended on Sunday evening. The 40 constituencies are spread over Lower Assam districts and will decide the fate of 337 candidates, the prominent ones being state BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass and state minister Pramila Rani Brahma and Chandan Brahma of the Bodoland People’s Front. The first phase on March 27 saw polling in 47 seats  and the second phase on April 1 in 39 seats. There are 126 constituencies in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
06-04-2021||Opinion||India has a good claim to be at the high table of Afghan talks ||It has been a diplomatic embarrassment for India in more ways than one. First there’s the unpleasant fact that Pakistan was able to convince an old Indian ally like Russia to keep us out of the March 18 Moscow conclave on Afghanistan. Even worse, Pakistan was able to convince our new friends Washington to deny us a place at the table. During a 55-minute call, Pakistan army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa prevailed on US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, reportedly arguing that India was "a spoiler", that "cannot be given a role in the peace effort". Russia, which wants to secure its Greater Eurasian backyard from radical groups like Daesh and the Taliban, is clearly distancing itself from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But why has Washington which brought India into the Quad, the four-nation grouping to counter China in the Indo-Pacific, played along? Washington has attempted to make amends. It ensured India took part in the 9th Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan in the Tajik capital, Dushanbe on March 29-30 and also that it will be at the forthcoming six-nation U.N. peace conference in Istanbul, to be held at an unspecified date later this month. The Turkey meet will now include the "Troika Plus One" -- the United States, Russia, China and Pakistan plus India, and Iran. Mind you, India has a good claim to be at the high table. It has strong ties with all the major players in Afghanistan including Afghan President Ashraf Ghani -- also not invited to Moscow -- and his arch-rival, former president Hamid Karzai. Then we have links with Dr Abdullah Abdullah and also ethnic warlords like fiery Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and others. New Delhi’s clout has been acknowledged even by US Special Envoy on peace Zalmay Khalilzad, who has won the confidence of US President Joe Biden, much as he did the Trump administration. India is also said to have persuaded Ghani to back down from his position that he would only hand over power to an elected leader. On the last day at Dushanbe, Ghani all but agreed to be a part of an interim arrangement with the Taliban. India also needs to drop its tired platitudes about an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, Afghan-controlled” peace process when it’s amply clear that the Afghans are being led, owned and controlled by non-Afghans. Delhi, respected by Afghans across the ethnic divide, must not prop up only its Northern Alliance political protégés but widen its support by calling for a truly representative government that brings in the apolitical, educated next generation, women and minorities. It should also drop External Affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s clichéd poser of "a double peace" within and outside Afghanistan. We need to move quickly to mend frayed ties with Moscow, as a first step towards stopping Pakistan from capitalising on its key geostrategic positioning in landlocked Afghanistan.  Gen. Qamar Bajwa – and not Pakistan’s civilian leadership – confers with Blinken as he does with Khalilzad. Bajwa oversees Khalilzad’s meetings with the heads of Pakistan security agencies in Islamabad, and in Bahrain with the Afghan national security adviser Hamdullah Mohib and intriguingly, UK’s Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Sir Nicholas Carter and UK High Commissioner to Pakistan, Dr. Christian Turner. Similarly, Russia has grown into the role of the mullahs’ most sympathetic interlocutor.  Kremlin point-person on Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who set up the Moscow meet, routinely confer, not with India, but with Pakistan’s military leadership, and the Doha-based Taliban. Most crucially, India must drive home to the Russians that a Taliban ascendancy will see the proliferation of safe havens and terror camps of Al Qaeda, Islamic State- Khorasan, Daesh or the Haqqani Network, in Pakistan. The East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and the oppressed Uighurs will gain traction with Taliban support, and pose a threat not just to India, the West and the United States, but also to Moscow and Beijing. Delhi should convince Russia and the US not to release another 7,000 prisoners from US and Pakistan jails in addition to the first 5,000. Then it should also make it clear there’s no need to withdraw all US-NATO troops from Afghanistan by May 1, a Taliban pre-condition for a cease-fire. Security forces blame the released Taliban for the spate of attacks on students, working women, journalists and the educated workforce as well as Afghan security forces, with many killed by sticky bombs made in Pakistan, that cannot be tracked by bomb detectors. Clearly, the China-Russia-Pakistan confluence of interests seeks to limit the US and India’s role in Afghanistan. The joint military and naval exercises between Russia and Pakistan, and the state visits by Russian foreign and defence ministers to Islamabad, point to a bigger game in which Pakistan is working to lull Washington and Russia into believing it can be a trusted partner in peace. Biden’s team has tried to bring India in as its watchdog. It has appointed India to head the Taliban Sanctions Committee in the UN Security Council to monitor Taliban-orchestrated violence within Afghanistan. In this role – which dovetails into its moves to keep Pakistan on the Financial Action Task Force "grey list," -- India can help direct sanctions if it’s proved that violence against Afghan civilians and other targets emanates from sanctuaries within Pakistan. Can India do anything more to safeguard its own flanks? Taliban sources have told this writer that multiple approaches by Indian officials have been cold-shouldered and its requests that its "investments" be safeguarded have been laughed out of court. India needs to shrug off the pressure to talk directly to the Taliban and ensure that the onus on protecting its diplomatic missions, its workforce and construction projects lies with the US. India must emphasise that only Pakistan can bring about a 90-day cessation of hostilities because it controls the Quetta Shura and also the Taliban leadership in Doha. The next steps, which include setting up an interim transitional government in the run up to a Bonn 2.0 in Istanbul and overseeing a free and fair election to a new parliament, choosing a new president and a prime minister by a popular vote, will require not one conference but several before any agreement can be hammered out. All these require Pakistan not to play spoiler. The Bonn conference in 2001 succeeded because the Pakistan-backed Taliban had been pushed out of Afghanistan, and like-minded parties such as former King Zahir Shah-era émigrés, the Pashtun aristocracy and the Northern Alliance mujahideen and some Taliban were talking. Can a Bonn 2.0., which attempts to bring two bitter enemies together, succeed where even Doha has failed? Obviously, the US is eager to exit from Afghanistan. But if it moves too quickly that could open the doors to a fresh ‘spring offensive’ by the Taliban and a takeover of large parts of the countryside and the main cities. The Taliban’s also attempting to stoke resentment against the “Ghani Boys’ by spinning the narrative of corruption, accusing the head of the Central Bank of allegedly smuggling gold through a Gulf country. Then it points at three of Ghani’s cabinet members who are said to not even be of Afghan origin. There is some talk that India is making quiet moves to promote the son of legendary Northern Alliance leader Ahmed Shah Massoud. Alternatively, the head of the powerful Durrani clan’s name is being floated to head a possible future government. As India faces up to the reality that it has been reduced from once powerful kingmaker to backroom policeman, the Taliban’s ability to find new patrons is an alarming and fascinating replay of the past. Once it was Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Today if there’s one man shaking up the status quo it is Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, as much a key interlocutor for the United States and Russia, as he is for the Doha-based Taliban. Some say the new Taliban leadership will rid itself of Pakistan’s Army, just as they did the Saudi royals, citing their little-known refusal to meet Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman when he arrived on an official visit to Islamabad in 2019. With all eyes on Istanbul, Biden’s biggest challenge is to effect an honourable exit from Afghanistan, while hoping that international conferences with international stakeholders will be the quick fix. But given the power play between the Troika, the age-old conflicts that continue to divide Afghanistan’s essentially tribal society, and with nobody willing to commit to a cessation of hostilities, it looks like the "longest war" can only get longer. (Neena Gopal is an independent foreign policy analyst and author)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Death zone: Bastar bleeds||Bastar bleeds with a frequency that is chilling. Yet another ambush on security forces by Maoist insurgents in Bastar has led to heavy casualties. The recent attack — over 20 security personnel perished in it — had been preceded by similar strikes whose frequency has apparently increased since demonetization. The Narendra Modi government’s claim that demonetization had broken the back of the Maoist movement by choking their funds clearly merits closer scrutiny, as do the concerns that have been raised regarding the tactical and operational problems that continue to plague the security forces. There is scope to improve the quality of intelligence — the jawans had walked into a well-laid trap on Saturday. The scale of missions must be flexible: smaller teams acting on reliable intelligence have greater chances of success than operations involving ponderous troop movement. There are infirmities in the political stratagem adopted by successive Central governments. Soon after assuming power, the National Democratic Alliance, which had lambasted its predecessor, the United Progressive Alliance, for being soft on Maoists, had adopted a four-pronged strategy that prioritized security, development, the protection of the rights of tribal people and the management of public perception. It is now fairly evident that security has been prioritized over the other — equally critical — elements in the policy. The adoption of an iron hand has been the favoured strategy at the Centre. It has had some success: the theatre of conflict has shrunk to 30 districts. But an iron hand will not be able to eradicate the malaise: for that, it needs to be fitted in a velvet glove. This would mean severing the public support that the insurgents rely on. This, in turn, can only be achieved if the Centre is able to strike a healthy balance between security concerns and public welfare. Addressing the grievances that led the movement to strike roots — the stripping of the rights of the tribal people over land and other natural resources, embedded discrimination against indigenous people, poverty and its affiliated traps, predatory industrialization, to name a few — could be one way of re-engagement. Intermediaries — bona fide civil society groups and non-government organizations with deeper knowledge of relevant issues — should be accommodated into the parleys. Bengal, under Mamata Banerjee, fused the fist and the glove well to neutralize the red menace in the state. The Centre could learn from that experience. Given the state of federal ‘bonhomie’ in India, such collaboration is unlikely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Dubious move: Trinamul Congress supports Bimal Gurung||Sir — The decision of the Trinamul Congress to support the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction over the rival Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction can have far-reaching implications. It would help to remember that Gurung was booked under several charges by the Mamata Banerjee government, including murder and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, following the violence that broke out in Darjeeling over the demands for a separate Gorkhaland. At the time, Tamang’s faction stood by the TMC in the hill district. Now that the TMC has extended its support to Gurung, it remains to be seen how the alliance plays out. Gurung has emphasized that his party is not moving away from their demand for a separate Gorkhaland and has pledged support to the party which can take it forward. The question, now, is whether Banerjee will yield to this demand in the hope that Gurung’s support will reverse the waning political fortunes of the TMC in the hills.S.S. Paul,Nadia Take rest Sir — One of the casualties of working from home has been a good night’s sleep, as was corroborated by a nationwide study conducted by Wakefit. The report revealed that in Gurgaon, 42 per cent of the respondents complained about work keeping them up at night as compared to 17 per cent last year. This must be addressed immediately. It is essential to have a work-life balance for leading a healthy life. Jitendra Sharma,New Delhi Laughter therapy Sir — In times of crisis, humour can be reinvigorating (“They are not amused”, April 4). Laughter is infectious and, when shared, can bind people together and increase happiness. We lead stressful lives and the Covid-19 pandemic has turned our world upside down. Moreover, the political situation in our country is quite grim. In such circumstances, humour can help us face challenges in life and comedy, if done right, can open our eyes to our shortcomings as individuals and as a society. The importance of comedy cannot be overstated. We must all work towards nurturing a sense of humour. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Free for all: Irrational electoral promises||Sharp criticism of irrational electoral promises has come at last. In the context of changing an assembly constituency to a general one in Tamil Nadu, the Madras High Court has sent a series of probing questions to government departments and the Election Commission. The target of the high court’s ire is the promise of freebies in pre-election manifestos of political parties. The court has asked whether the Centre was coming up with a law governing manifestos, how many manifestos the EC has vetted since 2014, what action was being taken against political parties for not implementing promises and so on. Tamil Nadu holds its assembly elections today, and the escalating promises of competing political parties intended to lure voters form the immediate background of the questions. Freebies make people lazy; it makes them so unwilling to work that they run the danger of losing their properties to migrant workers. Most striking was the Madras High Court’s reported definition of the distribution of freebies as a corrupt practice: it destroys the purity of the poll process. Distributing mixer-grinders and televisions instead of paying attention to the improvement of infrastructure or employment opportunities is a corrupt way to garner votes. Corruption is contagious. Not only does the taxpayer stand by silently while government funds are drained by paying for freebies, but voters, too, sell their votes for the money political parties offer. They get the leaders they deserve. The Madras High Court’s observations have a countrywide resonance. Most political parties are culpable in this matter; some more than others. A promise of Rs 15 lakh for every bank account before a general election may be recalled in this context, as well as the promise of free Covid-19 vaccinations for everyone before an assembly election. The last promise had a twist: all governments attempt to make vaccines free in a pandemic — it cannot be a freebie offered by one particular party in one state. If democracy is to be meaningful, the culture of freebies and vote-buying must be resisted on all fronts. The court’s questions will have to be answered; ironically, the answers will come from the very entities that encourage and expand this form of corruption. Only the people can free electoral practices of taint. Not an easy battle, but it can be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||The political jab: Vaccine wars||The Anglo-Swedish company, AstraZeneca, collaborated with researchers at Oxford University to create one of the early vaccines to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Back in 2014, two years before the Brexit referendum, AstraZeneca’s board successfully rebuffed an $118 billion takeover bid by the US pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, which has developed the other major vaccine for Covid-19. The then David Cameron-led Conservative Party government supported the deal, while the former Labour leader then in Opposition, Ed Miliband, viewed it as an attempt by an American pharmaceutical giant to cut down its tax liability at the cost of the United Kingdom’s scientific and research base. In addition to the political point about sovereignty and the taking back of control that has been made ad nauseum, Brexit is also about a particular trajectory taken by British capitalism since the Thatcherite years. This has entailed privileging capital in circulation over manufacturing, creating an economy dangerously lopsided towards the services sector that is further skewed by the preponderant role of finance in the UK’s economy. Ardent Brexiteers are celebrating the rapidity of the UK’s vaccine roll-out as one of the early signs of success of the UK leaving the European Union. An Anglo-Swedish company collaborating with Oxford University researchers prompted the British government to put the British flag on the vaccine’s packaging. The juvenile character of the Boris Johnson government was on display, once again, when the education secretary, Gavin Williamson, bragged that the UK was a better country than all the others because of which it was ahead in the race. The EU’s vaccine roll-out has been disparagingly characterized as a slow-moving tanker in comparison to the UK moving ahead like a speedboat by the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, herself. To add to its vaccine woes, the EU was left in an embarrassing situation when it was involved in an unseemly row with AstraZeneca over reduced supplies of its vaccine to the EU. The EU threatened the invocation of Article 16 of the Northern Ireland Protocol that would have prevented the entry of supplies of the vaccine from the Republic of Ireland into Britain via Northern Ireland. This rash move brought up the question of the hard border on Ireland that the tortuous Brexit negotiations did so much to avoid, with the EU beating a hasty retreat after criticism by the Republic of Ireland’s Taoiseach, Micheál Martin, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. In Europe, doubts have been raised about the efficacy of the AstraZeneca vaccine, especially after fears of blood clotting. However, the European Medicine Agency has declared that the vaccine is safe. The UK may well be in an advantageous position as far as the vaccine roll-out is concerned on account of its quick decision-making, the formidable nature of its scientific research base and the global reputation of its universities. Ironically, Brexit threatens to damage the very sectors of the British economy — scientific research and cultural exports, for instance — that have been its success stories. The Covid-19 pandemic as well as vaccine nationalism seem to have exposed the bitterness that characterizes Britain’s ties with the EU after Brexit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Himalayan blunder in Uttarakhand||The unfortunate disaster that struck Rishiganga-Dhauliganga Valley in early February is a sad reminder of the consequences of undermining the natural vulnerability of the Himalayas. We should not delude ourselves into believing that this is the last disastrous Himalayan event that caused losses to life and property, including two hydropower plants. In an article in Nature in 2013, yours truly had cautioned that rising temperatures in the Himalayas raise the threat of glacial lake outburst floods. Of the 8,800 glacial lakes in the Himalayas, more than 200 have been classified as dangerous. Himalayan nations were urged to build an international network to monitor risks such as those from glacial lakes and give early warning of hazards — similar to the tsunami warning systems installed around the Indian Ocean. Did anyone listen and act on any of the prescriptions? No. That the Himalayan river catchments are vulnerable to landslides that temporarily dam rivers is well-known. The landslides are triggered by a plethora of natural and man-made factors such as heavy rainfall, earthquake, active geological features, deforestation, large-scale land-use changes and so on. In a relatively young mountain range such as the Himalayas, there are multiple reasons that lead — independently or synergistically — to hazard events such as the one we witnessed. Before jumping to conclusions, we must understand the non-linearity related to such events. Peddling half-baked ideas borrowed from grey literature and hearsay can be embarrassing. Watching the live pictures as they came in, it appeared to be a mudflow — a mix of debris, rocks, clay with some amount of water that is either contributed by heavy precipitation (rain or snow), a lake breach or the base flow of a river. Was it a glacial lake outburst flood? Not really. There aren’t any GLOF events known from the Indian Himalayas so far. Of the 34 GLOF events in the Himalayan region known thus far, four are from Bhutan, 16 from Tibet and 14 from Nepal. GLOFs occur mostly in monsoon, typically following a cloudburst and dense rain. That wasn’t the case here. The possibility of an avalanche and/or landslide driven flood event appears to be high. With more information trickling in from the site, this seems to have been the case. The sliding slope and the avalanche carried down massive quantities of debris comprising ice, snow, firn, rocks, clay and mud. Not many know that the Dhauliganga Valley, from Vishnuprayag to the Reni-Tapovan stretch — the site of destruction — has numerous geothermal (hot) springs, which indicate the underlying reasons for the area being geologically active and unstable. Recent evidence suggests that the Himalayas are warming more rapidly than other world mountains. The presence of geological features such as geothermal springs, can potentially trigger massive material movement of glaciers, snow, water and sediment. The Dhauliganga Valley between Reni village and Vishnuprayag is narrow; this prevented the voluminous debris flow from spreading, thereby downscaling its volume and speed. It may be useful to remind ourselves that the origins of the destructive 1970 floods that caused devastation in the Ganga Valley also lay in the Rishiganga watershed. Those floods became a precursor to the world famous Chipko Movement. Today, the memorial of Gaura Devi, the leader of ‘Chipko’, on the outskirts of Reni village, overlooking the massive destruction below, stands as a mute spectator to the drama that has unfolded. Why do we continue to suffer death and destruction despite the available scientific information? The difficulty seems to be the post-mortem approach in policymaking. We only respond through instruments such as disaster relief and other rescue mechanisms. Sadly, our investment in pro-active scientific approaches — natural hazard surveillance or flood forecasting — to prevent disasters is missing. In absence of robust science-policy-based instruments, we are left with the sad option of recovering dead bodies and counting our losses. The other concern is that our policymaking doesn’t appear to take good science seriously. This space has been left open to the media. Much of what goes into social media and grey literature is bad science and frivolous information. Consider the claims of the so-called experts on television channels: some said that dams are responsible for this tragedy, while others pontificated that the Himalayan glaciers will disappear in the next decade. This is patently unscientific information and the media, if they want to remain credible, must avoid falling prey to poorly-informed sources. To deal with the long-term sustainability of the Himalayas and their inhabitants, the following measures may be useful. Administrative controls, law enforcement and sanctions in case of violations are necessary to prevent environmental destruction. The introduction of environmental easements to the local citizenry in the Himalayas would protect the fragility of the mountains and address the concerns about providing economic incentives to the local people without harming the environment. Compensatory afforestation programmes funded by hydropower corporations need to be effectively monitored. These activities must mandatorily involve local communities, civil society and women’s self-help groups for meaningful results. The relocation of vulnerable villages/buildings to safer areas and the imposition of penalties for erecting structures on riverbanks are also necessary. Primary and secondary school curricula in the Himalayan states must include basic knowledge of geology and ecology of the mountains to ensure long-term environmental and human security. Finally, policymakers need to actively engage with scientists and experts with proven credentials to build a network of information based on land-use changes, hazard surveillance, weather monitoring and forecasting systems along the lines of the tsunami warning system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Common concerns||The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, an informal arrangement among the United States of America, India, Australia and Japan, has gained prominent space in the larger public domain. On March 12, the US president, Joe Biden, hosted the first-ever summit-level meeting of the Quad that was attended by the executive heads of all four democracies. In their joint statement, an attempt was made by the four leaders to signal that the arrangement has multi-dimensional functionality. The statement reflects an ambition in terms of defining security and areas of cooperation broadly by including “shared challenges, including in cyber space, critical technologies, counterterrorism, quality infrastructure investment, and humanitarian-assistance and disaster-relief as well as maritime domains”. The potential of the arrangement has excited the public at large, particularly keen observers of and practitioners in the Indo-Pacific region. In this respect, moving away from the rhetorical pitch of the four leaders that accompanies such formal summits with the concomitant public relations exercise, the overall scope of the arrangement should be examined objectively. In this regard, the often neglected domestic impulses over foreign policy and informal international arrangements should also be factored in as these could be both an enabler of as well as an impediment to the goals and objectives. In all the four countries, there is public goodwill attached with the Quad in contrast to other fora established recently in Asia. The reasons are not hard to decipher. The four are established democracies and the already existing people-to-people contact among the four countries acts as an incentive for the democratically elected political elite in each one of these nations to engage with one another with ease. China’s political, economic and military heft has given the forum an additional weight in popularizing the group in the larger public space. Each of the four countries has been at the receiving end of China’s hyper-nationalist economic or militaristic designs. In Australia’s case, the present political elite, which was earlier sensitive not to annoy China, particularly during the rule of the Labor party, has now come out openly to join the Quad. Australia’s criticism of China’s handling of Covid-19 led to Beijing’s retaliatory policy of imposing high tariffs on Australian beef and wine exports. Indian public opinion is still raging against China’s military aggression along the Line of Actual Control on Ladakh’s frontier. The perennial highs and lows of the Japan-China antagonism rooted in World War II continue on account of various factors, including territorial contestations over the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands. The US-China relationship is a subject of enormous and voluminous details. In brief, the economic relationship continues to be tarred by China’s alleged currency manipulation, unfair trade practices, the charges of hacking of government and corporate data, among other aspects. Although the Biden administration has given diplomacy and corralling of allies in Asia precedence over the polemical impulses of the Trump era, the de-facto reality is that the new US administration will continue to play hardball with China. All four Quad countries have strong economic interests in the ethnically and religiously diverse group of Southeast Asian nations, a vibrant economic region with varying political systems and a population of over 655 million. In each of the four countries of the Quad, there are domestic factors that need to be considered in terms of realizing the long-term potential of this group. First, the ability of the US, which is the prime anchor in this arrangement owing to its unrivalled economic and military strength, hinges on the ability of the Biden administration to strike a balance between domestic protectionist impulses and an ambition to restore the country’s leadership in the globalized economy, particularly in Asia. Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser, has reiterated that the Biden government wants a foreign policy that seeks to strongly factor in the interest of middle-class America. In a highly polarized US, the blue collar workers, particularly in the mid-West, are nearly evenly split in the swing states between the two parties. This may constrain Biden’s ability to support economic policies that are aimed at diversifying the supply chains based on the logic of comparative advantage in the area of manufacturing. Coming to Asia, Japan’s participation in international coalitions to maintain peace and security has been constrained on account of Article 9 of its Constitution. The provision forbids Japan to exercise the use of force as a means of settling international disputes. The earlier reluctance had been shunned by the Japanese political establishment and the provision has been creatively reinterpreted in the recent past. Japan’s Self-Defense Forces had started participating in UN peacekeeping operations since the 1990s. However, there is still internal resistance on the question of completely giving up Article 9. The internal debate on its abolishment will leave its imprint on the broader scope of the Quad’s future role. Australia has excitedly tied its fate with the Quad but the return of the Labor party in the upcoming elections may influence its future engagement with the grouping. India may prove to be crucial, just as it has during the Covid-19 crisis, with its manufacturing capacity because of labour surplus. Diversifying supply chains is at the heart of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. Support to development of India’s infrastructure would be crucial to any strategy in this regard. Many in India have urged for a cautious approach that is predicated upon maintaining strategic autonomy. Indian’s participation in the Quad’s potential should certainly not be at the cost of its role in other fora, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and BRICS where China is a co-member. The frequency of Sino-India territorial contestations along the LAC flared up in 2013, 2017 and 2020 just as India’s role in the SCO was increasing. India joined the SCO as a full-fledged member in 2017 after becoming an observer in 2005. A forum like the SCO, much like the Quad, is not a guarantor of peace between India and China along the LAC. However, the Quad’s multi-dimensional potential is much higher compared to other fora because of various factors. On top of it, each country within the Quad will continue to trade and engage with China. Apart from being a member of the P5, it is the world’s largest economy when measured by Purchasing Power Parity. On issues of global importance such as climate change, China’s participation is pivotal as it reportedly emits 28 per cent of the world’s total CO2 emissions. To sum up, the Quad provides a platform for four democracies to discuss and formulate strategies in meeting the prevailing common set of security and economic challenges. But to continue the momentum in the future and to create a connection between ambition and execution, the Quad requires a detailed blueprint by factoring in the local realities of all its constituent members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Centre promises 10 lakh vaccine doses to Jharkhand by April 9||The Centre has assured Jharkhand that it would provide 10 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine by April 9, until which time the state would have to manage with the less than 3 lakh doses available in its stock, the communication coming at a time when several districts have stopped administering the first dose to eligible recipients fearing a shortfall later. Late on Tuesday night, the state government stated that in response to its demand for more vaccine doses, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had promised to provide 20 lakh doses to Jharkhand, half of which  would reach the state by April 9. “We have requested the Centre to provide us more vaccines as our state, like many other states in India, is dealing with the second wave of Covid-19, and timely vaccination was an important part of combating this menace,” said Health Minister Banna Gupta. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), the state has been provided about 21 lakh doses of vaccine so far, and is left with only around 2.8 lakh doses in stock. Due to the shortage of Covaxin in some parts of the state, doses were administered only to those beneficiaries who were registered for the second jab on Tuesday, sources said. The state also administered vaccine jabs to fewer residents on Tuesday compared to Monday. Over 80,000 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand on Sunday and Monday, but the count of those administered the first jab dropped to 23,078 on Tuesday. The second dose was administered to only 3,998 beneficiaries, hardly 2 per cent of the total residents registered for the dose on the day. A senior health official admitted there was a shortage of vaccine in some parts of the state, but the shortage, he said, would not impact the immunisation programme as the state would receive more doses of vaccine within the next 72 hours. East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal said that there was a supply disruption in government health hubs, claiming that some health centres were borrowing vaccines from neighbouring districts to meet the demands. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V.B. Prasad, however, denied reports of vaccine shortage in the district. He said that many beneficiaries registered for the second dose were asked to come after 15 days as the protocol has changed and now beneficiaries are supposed to get the second jab at least 6 weeks after the first. “People could not understand the reason why they were asked to come after 15 days, and thought that there was a vaccine crisis,” said Pathak. As per government records, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to as many as 17,25,891 residents, including nearly 13 lakh people above the age of 45 years. As many as 2,74,153 of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab, figures with the NHM reveal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders all schools shut; shops, restaurants must close by 8pm amid Covid spike||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday decided to close all government and private schools, besides mandating that all shops, restaurants, clubs and bars would have to down their shutters by 8pm in the wake of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, . However, students appearing for their board exams will be allowed to visit their respective examination centres and appear for the exams as per the schedule set by the various boards. Other students will attend classes online and through digital mediums,a notification released by the Home Prison and Disaster Management Department stated. Chairing a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), Chief Minister Hemant Soren pondered upon measures that could slow down the spread of the virus in the state. During the meeting, the authority decided to close gyms, swimming pools and amusement parks, which were reopened earlier this year after staying closed for almost a year during the first wave of Covid-19 in the state. Jharkhand has also prohibited all social gatherings other than marriages and funerals. The government notification stated, “All indoor and outdoor congregations are prohibited in the state with the exception of marriage functions with the upper limit of 200 people and last rites with the upper limit of 50 people.” The government imposed a ban on all kinds of processions, fairs and exhibitions until further notice. All sports events shall remain prohibited until further notice, the notification stated. But sportspersons would still be allowed to train in the various facilities including gyms and swimming pools. Bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate only at 50 per cent capacity till 8pm. While dine-out facilities will not be allowed after 8pm, restaurants can deliver food at home through delivery partners like Swiggy and Zomato, a source who attended the SDMA meeting said. As per Tuesday's notification, the number of persons gathering at religious places shall not exceed 50 per cent of the accommodation capacity. Besides, people will not be allowed to enter government offices, airports, railway stations, bus stands and places of worship without a facemask. The Covid-19 trajectory in the state has witnessed an upward trend since mid-March with the active caseload shooting up from hardly 500 to over 6,000 in a fortnight. Covid casualties have also been on the rise lately. The state has reported more than two dozen Covid deaths in the past 48 hours, while the growth rate of the infection in the state has surpassed the national average for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi University reverts to online classes||Ranchi University, the state’s oldest varsity, will be back to conducting online classes for all disciplines in undergraduate and post graduate studies from Wednesday. A formal order in this regard by issued by the varsity on Tuesday evening to all the departmental heads, constituent and affiliated colleges following a meeting of RU’s covid-19 task force. Acting vice chancellor Kamini Kumar said that online teaching was the best option available under the present scenario when the state was witnessing a surge in number of Covid cases, as it would enable students to continue regular classes. “All head of the departments have been asked to devise roster and relay it to the respective teachers and students so that we can conduct regular online classes,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Norwesters likely over Jharkhand on Thursday, Friday ||Fed up with the prevailing heat and sultry conditions? Respite is at hand with the weather office issuing a Nor'wester alert over Jharkhand on Thursday and Friday. "Situations are gradually becoming conducive for Nor'wester activity in Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Tuesday. "Today's (Tuesday's) weather chart analysis and satellite pictures suggest Nor'wester activity on April 8 and 9. A low-pressure trough over Jharkhand is expected to trigger Nor'westers. There will be rain accompanied by lightning, thunder and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 40kmph. The rain and thunderstorm will cover districts located in north-east, central and southern Jharkhand," he said. Usually,  Nor'westers occur due to excessive heating of land. Dry weather with maximum temperature over two to three degree Celsius as been prevailing in most parts of the state for the last few days. As per Met statistics, Tuesday's reading at Daltonganj in Palamau hovered around 40 degree Celsius. Similarly, the day's reading at Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district was close to 40 degree Celsius. It has been so for the last 48 hours. The maximum reading in capital Ranchi and its adjoining areas has been hovering between 36 and 37 degree Celsius for the last two days. The day reading at Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas has been around 39 degree Celsius for the last two days. As per the forecast issued by IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, the day's reading is expected to rise by another two to three degree Celsius during the next 48 hours followed by a gradual fall in temperature by at least two degree Celsius. Weathermen asked people to stay indoors and not take shelter under trees during Nor'westers that would be accompanied by lightning and rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city cyclist rues cruel joke, no job even after being summoned to Ranchi ||Jharkhand’s lone international cyclist Lakhan Hansda does not seem to have much hope when it comes to the prospects of getting a government job. He was among the 39 sportspersons who were called to Ranchi where Chief Minister Hemant Soren handed over job letters last month. However, Hansda missed the chance. He is now keeping his fingers crossed if he would be ever called again. The chief minister handed job letters to 27 sportspersons while the rest returned home empty handed.  Hemant, however, has said the government would chalk out an action plan for providing employment to those who have been left out. “I went to Ranchi with high hopes of finally getting a job. However, I was disappointed when I was told that my name was not on the list,” Hansda, a resident of Damodih village in Potka block of East Singhbhum, 25 km from Jamshedpur, recalled. The 32-year-old who  won bronze for Jharkhand in the team trial event at the 2011 National Games in Ranchi, said he was not sure as to when the government would offer him a job. “I have run from pillar to post for a government job. Despite getting so close I could not make it to the list. I am very disillusioned and don’t know how to sustain my family,” Hansda said on the phone from Damodih. The talented tribal cyclist has joined Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) as a cycling coach. He accompanied the Indian cycling team to Abu Dhabi as one of the coaches for the Special Olympics World Summer Games in 2019. However, such assignments are temporary in nature and Hansda needs a permanent government job to make ends meet. “I am keeping my fingers crossed but am disheartened. I don’t know if I would be able to get a job at all. I pray to the government to give me a job,” said the cyclist who has opted farming in his ancestral land. Asked if he was continuing training, Hansda said it was just for maintaining fitness. “I am not very inclined in taking part in competitions. What is the need for winning medals when I have to remain jobless,” he asked. He said that the wait for a job was getting longer and he was losing his patience. “I hope the government calls us and provides a job. It is proving to be difficult to wait any longer,” Hansda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma foresters conduct street plays to help stop animal hunting||Foresters at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary have come up with an innovative way to spread awareness among villagers about the futility of killing innocent animals and protecting the jungles from fires. Ahead of Bishu Shikar or Sendra, the annual hunting festival of tribals, the state forest department has been conducting street plays and playing videos to send messages to villagers in and around the area. The exercise has been going on for a few days now and covers villages under both eastern and western ranges of the elephant abode. ”The entire exercise is aimed at making the villagers understand about the importance of not killing animals and the need to protect the Dalma forests from fires,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. Villagers throw cigarettes inside the sanctuary and the embers cause fire. A part of the forest had been already ablaze but it is under control with foresters deploying two separate teams for the purpose. The forester said an amount of Rs 7,000 was being spent for each street play. “Some locals groups as well as a few from Jamshedpur have been roped in for the job. Village youths are coordinating the exercise and helping the forest team,” he added. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said street plays were being conducted Chilgu bazaar, Chandil bazaar, ,Chaliama, Tetla, Bandhdih, Makulakocha, Dangardih, Chakulia, Dahubera and other villages. The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, will announce the date of Bishu Shikar on April 9. The hunting festival will take place at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary on the earmarked date. Hundreds of tribals armed with bows and arrows, spears and other weapons will assemble at the sanctuary to try and kill animals. However, the forest department is serious about not making the festival bloodless. Though the number of animal killings have come down  for some years, the department is in no mood to take any chance. Strict vigil will be kept at the sanctuary. Teams from other forest divisions of Jharkhand will also participate to prevent hunting of animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||School students undergo Covid test on campus in Jamshedpur||The East Singhbhum district health department began conducting Covid tests on students of private English medium schools in Jamshedpur on Tuesday starting with DBMS English High School in Kadma where a student had contracted the virus last week after which the  school had to be closed for sanitisation. Health officials said over 200 students between Class IX and XII underwent RT-PCR tests that were conducted in their classroom. "The school authorities called students for undergoing the Covid test, reports of which will be sent through SMS to the respective students within the next 48 hours," said a health department official who conducted the tests. He said similar Covid tests would be carried out for senior students in other schools including Loyola that had to be sealed for three days last week after a teacher tested Covid positive. The management of DBMS English School and Andhra Association English School in Kadma had to close their schools on April 1 after a student and  teacher tested positive. There has been a a spurt in Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum district, especially in steel city, since the last one week. District health authorities have issued an alert to all hospitals over the rising cases of Covid-19. Sidhgora-based Professional College has been converted into a Covid care centre. "Almost everyday we are recording Covid positive cases from places like Kadma, Sakchi, Sonari and Mango in urban areas. Cases are also coming in from various rural blocks of the district. Covid tests have,  therefore, been intensified across the district," said Sahir Pal, the district surveillance officer. he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Two die of Covid in Jamshedpur amid vaccine shortage||Covid-19 claimed two lives here in the steel city in the last 24 hours in East Singhbhum district that saw 99 more cases, according to health department officials, who also confirmed on Tuesday that there was a shortage of vaccines in government health centres. The deceased, both men from Mango, were aged 34 and 61. In all, as per district health authorities, East Singhbhum district has recorded 702 Covid cases since March 1. Most of them are from the steel city. The total number of Covid cases in the district as of Tuesday was 19,364. According to district disease surveillance officer Sahir Pal, the 34-year-old man was admitted to Tata Main Hospital with high fever on Sunday. He was tested the same day. By Monday evening he was experiencing breathing difficulty, and finally succumbed to the ailment late at night. Pal said the 64-year-old was admitted to Tata Main Hospital five days ago with fever and a bad cough. He tested Covid positive on the of his admission. On Monday night, he complained of acute breathing problems and subsequently died late at night. "Two men died of Covid at Tata Main Hospital late on Monday night. This is the first twin deaths to have taken place in the steel city in the second phase of the pandemic," Pal told The Telegraph Online. The disease surveillance officer admitted Covid cases were mounting, adding that health officials were now paying more attention to detection of cases and vaccinations. Significantly, the district health authorities have stopped administering vaccines to first-time recepients as fressh vaccine stocks are yet to arrive. In most of the 20 goverment health hubs, the vaccine is being given only to those awating their second dose. But there is no vaccine shortage at the 27 private health clinics/hospitals where jabs are being offered for Rs 250 a dose. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal admitted there was a supply disruption at government health hubs. "A vaccine crisis has cropped up after several private health hubs have lifted stocks of Covishield from our departmental storage. But these stocks are being used. We will be able to get fresh stocks after submitting accounts of previous stocks," he said, adding that some health centres were borrowing vaccines from neighbouring districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Laser show comes alive at Birsa Munda Park in coal town||Authorities at Dhanbad’s Birsa Munda Park have started to conduct laser shows in the ground from this week, more than a month after it reopened, in a bid to attract more crowds. The 25-minute show, which is being held everyday from 6:30 pm, has been attracting a large number of people. The laser fountain was established in 2018 at a cost of Rs 3.75 crore and was the dream project of former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal. “We have conducted the demo show of laser fountain on Sunday, after which it is going on everyday. There is no extra charge for witnessing this show,” Niwas Kumbhkar, manager of the Birsa Munda Park, told The Telegraph Online. Kumbhkar said that previously, the show was held on two days of a week, on the weekends. He also informed that it depends on the availability of power supply. “We are running one show at present during the evening after it gets dark. The theme is that of Bollywood,” the manager added. However, other facilities in the park, like swings, slides, the toy train, and the vortex are still lying non functional for the lack of repair. “We have already sent the estimate for the repair of other facilities but are yet to get clearance for it. We will begin the work as soon as the fund is provided,” said Kumbhkar. As of now, the 24-acre park, established in 2009, is witnessing a footfall of around 500 persons per day generating enough funds for the payment of salaries of the 31 people working there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid curbs may come in the way of Tikait rally in steel city ||A farmers’ mahapanchayat that was scheduled to be addressed by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait might be marred due to strict restrictions imposed by the Jharkhand government in a few districts amid the second wave of Covid-19, sources in the chief minister's office indicated on Tuesday. Tikait, along with several other leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, is set to address kisan mahapanchayats at the industrial hub of Jamshedpur and Khunti, which witnessed tribals’ rebellion as part of the Pathalgarhi movement during the erstwhile BJP rule in the state. A solidary front, Kisan Majdoor Andolan Ekjuttha Manch a joint forum of rights defenders, NGOs, civil society organisations, trade union members and farmers expressing solidarity with farmer’s struggle has invited Tikait and other leaders of the SKM, including Darshan Pal Singh, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Balbir Singh Rajewal and several others. “Rakesh Tikait ji and other leaders  will be holding the mahapanchayat in Jamshedpur on April 18.They will also interact with academicians, trade union leaders, civil society representatives, NGOs and human rights activists in Ranchi on April 19 morning and address the media. They will then  leave for a mahapanchayat at Khunti on the same afternoon, before leaving for Delhi in the evening. The visit of the leaders representing the farmer's movement is to let people know about the demerits of the farm laws and intensify the agitation,” said the convenor of the manch. Members of the manch, informed that attending of large crowds would be a problem due to the government directive regarding holding such events. “We cannot have large gatherings due to Covid-19 restrictions. We will adhere to the guidelines and may have to hold the meeting on large grounds to ensure social distancing,” said Prakash Viplav,  representing CITU (Left backed trade union body) and a member of the solidarity front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
06-04-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1000 fresh Covid cases in the state in a day||Jharkhand on Monday reported over 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection – the highest in a day this year – and at least 10 Covid casualties, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1140, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. At least three Covid patients in Ranchi, two in East Singhbhum and one each in Simdega, Sahebganj, Lohardaga, Bokaro and Dhanbad died during treatment in 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The state has reported 18 Covid fatalities in the past 48 hours, highlights data with the government. As many as 1086 Jharkhand residents, including 569 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the mysterious virus on the day, while the state reported only 438 Covid recoveries. Monday’s test results take the active caseload in Jharkhand to 5882 and that in Ranchi to 3,267, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin released at 10.30pm on Monday. This is the first instance of Jharkhand reporting more than 1000 cases of infection in a day in 2021. For the first time since the entry of the virus in the tribal state, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand has surpassed the growth rate in India, officials said. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent on Monday against the national average of 0.51 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state has also dropped below the national average, indicating that it would take fewer days for the cases to double in Jharkhand than in India. As per NHM data, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 126.33 days against the national average of 136.20 days. As per government data, as many as 1,28,332 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 94.52 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from close to 99 per cent in the first week of March. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 18,230 people and more than 5 per cent of them were found infected. Ranchi Civil Surgeon, Dr. VB Prasad on Monday said that the health department will run special Covid testing programmes in suburban Ranchi and set up new vaccination centre in the urban areas. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in terms of caseload in Jharkhand and second worst-affected in terms of Covid casualties. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 virus to 89,787 residents, while the second jab was administered to 4,205 beneficiaries, stated a separate report released by the NHM. So far, the state has vaccinated close to 17 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
