07-04-2021||Calcutta||Life stories shared at Xavier’s TEDx||Men find it difficult to evolve and accept women as equals because emotionally they are “programmed” to believe they are superior, actor Adil Hussain said at an online event. He was the guest speaker at the TEDxStXavier’sCollegeKolkata partnered by The Telegraph on March 27. “It is probably a painful process for men to evolve and accept women as equal because emotionally they are designed or programmed or conditioned to believe that they are superior and that they can order women around, suppress and oppress women,” said Hussain. He said that it is difficult to find a man who actually believes that women are equal, and not just intellectually. “…how many men do you know who actually treat women equally in every respect... their decision-making process, their ideas, their ways of expressing themselves?” “It would need a revolutionary, radical education process in India in order to educate men, even women, that they are equal. There are a lot of women who believe they are not equal. It’s a patriarchal mindset that has been injected… In a civilised country like India, it is high time that we believe, not only believe but treat women equally with dignity and respect,” he said. Hussain suggested that education is a tool for this change, not just in schools but in households and through government programmes as well. The online event, which was open to students of the college and others, had six speakers who shared their journeys and life experiences. “The pandemic has impacted people in different ways — emotionally and economically. Many students have been affected mentally and to hear speakers (from different walks of life) share their life experiences encourages them. The speakers shared their experiences and how life has helped them experience new things and how they have been able to succeed,” said Reverend Dominic Savio, principal, St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta. The fact that students have been unable to come out of their homes is depressing but an event like this benefits them, helps them to interact, listen and feel motivated, he said. The chief guest for the evening, British deputy high commissioner Nick Low, spoke about the long-standing relationship between India and the UK. Low said that a global pandemic requires a global solution. Increasing cross-border communication and global unity will help combat the situation better, he said. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar spoke about the importance of getting vaccinated and the need to avoid social gatherings. “A vaccinated person has 70 per cent protection from getting the infection and almost 90 per cent protection from getting a severe form of the disease,” said Sarkar. “Getting vaccinated does not mean you stop wearing a mask. It is important to wear a mask and avoid social gatherings because this is not the time for parties,” he said. The other speakers at the event were Sayonsom Chanda, founder of Sync Energy AI; Sailesh Singhal, founder of Youth of India, a United Nations conference-accredited organisation; Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread, on whom Farhan Akhtar’s character in the film Sky is Pink was based; and Siddhant More, an alumnus of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, who is the founder of the website Mad Over Marketing (M.O.M).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Foundation work of two Tallah pillars will be completed by April||The foundation work of the two remaining pillars that are coming up on railway land for the proposed Tallah bridge would be completed by April, the state government has decided. Engineers said completing the foundation work on the eight pillars, including these two, by April would mean inching closer towards the target of finishing the construction of the bridge by 2022. The railway has agreed to block traffic from midnight till 5am for the entire month of April so that the foundation work of the two pillars can be completed. Machinery and men have also moved in so that the work can be wrapped up by April. Engineers said these eight pillars on the railway land stand at the centre of the two flanks of the Tallah bridge — one towards Shyambazar-end and the other towards the Dunlop-end — and remain the most crucial part of the construction process. Each of these pillars would stand at least 50 metre underground. Senior officials from the public works department, the agency that is implementing the Rs 340-crore project, said completing the foundation work of these two pillars would mean crossing one of the biggest hurdles before moving on the second stage of construction. The proposed Tallah bridge, which will connect large parts of north Calcutta, including Dunlop, Sinthee, Chiria More with Shyambazar, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle. These two spans, each measuring about 280 metre, would stand on 12 pillars. The deck in the middle will be about 230 metre long. “Once the foundation work of these eight pillars is completed, we would reach a landmark of sorts because of the complexities involved. The pillars would come up between railway tracks and will hold the main plank of the bridge,” said a senior PWD official. “The railway has extended full cooperation to us.” Engineers said meeting the April deadline would be the most vital step towards meeting the next target of completing work by August 2021. “By August we have set a target of completing almost 40 per cent of the construction work,” said a PWD official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Plea to Election Commission: Ensure adherence to Covid protocol||A number of Calcuttans have petitioned the Election Commission of India to take steps to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is observed during election campaigns, where safety protocols are now routinely violated. Environmental activist Subhas Datta wrote to the commission on Tuesday, saying one “cannot afford to be negligent” and stop taking protective measures against Covid, which is spreading at an alarming rate across the country, just because elections are on. He warned that violation of the mask mandate at election rallies might result in a disaster. Referring to “total lack of compliance” of safety measures, Datta wrote: “During the current course of the state Assembly elections, the political parties and their leaders are not at all following the prescribed practices of social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitisation process during the election campaign.” Several doctors’ organisations, including the West Bengal Doctors Forum and the Protect the Warriors, have also written to the poll panel with the appeal that adherence to Covid protocols be made mandatory at election rallies and roadshows. S.Y. Quraishi, a former chief election commissioner of India, told Metro on Tuesday: “Article 324 of the Constitution gives the commission the power to conduct free and fair polls. The commission can bar a candidate from campaigning for a day or more if it feels that his/her action has endangered the safety of voters, because it is also the commission’s responsibility to safeguard the safety of voters.” The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has witnessed a sharp spike and the numbers are rising every day. On March 1, Bengal had recorded 171 new infections. Calcutta had accounted for 70 cases. The number of active cases – people who are yet to recover or complete their quarantine period after testing positive -  in the state was 3,253 on March 1. Calcutta had 1,201 cases. The numbers have increased by nearly four times in little over a month, with the state recording 2,058 new cases (582 of them in Calcutta) on Monday. The number of active cases stood at 12,775 on Monday, with the city accounting for 4,338 of them. Public health specialist K. Srinath Reddy conceded that maintaining a gap of 6 feet between two persons might not be possible everywhere but he stressed the need to wear masks in public places at all times. “If everyone wears a mask, the risks of transmission of Covid-19 gets substantially reduced, even in a crowded place. Several studies have proved this,” said Reddy, the president of the Public Health Foundation of India. “Even at a place where people are shouting slogans, masks can protect people. But everyone needs to wear masks. Masks also protect people travelling in crowded public transport.” Datta and other petitioners want the election commission to bar a candidate from campaigning or impose other stringent punishments on a candidate if it is found that safety norms are flouted at a rally addressed by him or her. A doctor said he was surprised that no leader had ever urged supporters to wear masks during rallies. “When leaders are not behaving responsibly, the commission must step in and ensure that norms are followed,” the doctor said. The Covid-19 guidelines published by the ministry of home affairs mention that “wearing of face cover is mandatory in public places” and “individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet in public places”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: State govt raises poll vehicle rate by 20 per cent||The state government has revised the rates of hiring buses, minibuses, cars, lorries and other vehicles for the Assembly elections in Bengal, adhering to the demand of transport operators. The operators had threatened to withdraw their services unless the rates were revised. The government on Tuesday raised the rates by 20 per cent compared to the rates during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in the state. “The revised rates will be applicable when payments are made for all vehicles that have been hired so far and those that will be engaged for the remaining phases of the polls in the state,” a senior transport department officer said. According to the revised rates, buses — without fuel — will be hired for Rs 2,300 per day, up from Rs 1,910. Minibuses, minus fuel, will be hired for Rs 1,900 per day, up from Rs 1,580. Late on Tuesday afternoon, the transport department issued a letter to Bengal’s chief electoral officer (CEO) with details of the revised rates after the Election Commission of India cleared the state government’s proposal. Metro had reported about the bus, minibus and lorry owners’ demand for a revision in rates, without which they had said it would be difficult to let out their vehicles for the polls. In a letter to the CEO in March, the transport operators had also demanded that their dues from the 2019 Lok Sabha elections be cleared ahead of the Assembly polls. According to the Union ministry of law and justice guidelines, the amount spent on transporting election material, including ballot boxes and EVMs, is treated as expenditure incurred for conducting elections. “Close to 45,000 buses and two lakh lorries across the state are involved in the poll process,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “This (the hike in rates) has been a legitimate demand of ours and we are thankful to the state government for accepting our demand.” Several bus and minibus operators said they had expected a revision in the tiffin charge of the staff on duty as well. “The per day tiffin charge has remained unchanged at Rs 170. Is this amount enough for a bus staff? The state government could have revised this rate too,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP ‘more dangerous’ than others, says activist||Parties in power have often resorted to culture policing in Bengal but the BJP could be far more dangerous given the evidence they have presented when they are still in the opposition, an activist said at a demonstration in the College Street area on Tuesday. A play about the “dangers of fascism” was stopped midway, allegedly by BJP supporters, at Basanti in South 24-Parganas on March 27. The members of the group staging the play, who were allegedly attacked, had organised a protest meet in the College Street area on Tuesday. “In the past, both CPM and Trinamul as ruling parties have resorted to culture censorship,” said Kushal Debnath, the convener of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, one of the guest speakers at the meeting. “The BJP trying such strongarm tactics before coming to power is a sign of naked fascist aggression.” A ruling party trying to muzzle free voice and a party in the opposition, with three MLAs in the 294-member Assembly, daring to do it are different, said several speakers on Tuesday. “These people want to compartmentalise everything. They think ‘we are politicians, we will run the country’. You are the culture clan. Your job is to sing and dance. Don’t get involved in matters of the country,” said Soumitra Basu, a former professor of philosophy at Jadavpur University. The same mentality was behind the saffron ecosystem’s attack on Nobel laureate Amartya Sen for his unfavourable comments on the Narendra Modi regime, said Basu. Subhankar Das Sharma of Janaganamana, the cultural organisation which was allegedly attacked at Basanti, said the group had staged over 80 shows of the play across south Bengal since August last year. Written against the backdrop of the Modi government’s citizenship matrix, the play is titled Idurkol (Mouse Trap). The play begins with the following lines that translate to: “They are fooling people, training us to live alone, stoking riots between communities, jailing the protesters.” Many young people have come up with songs protesting the BJP regime’s majoritarian politics in general and the citizenship matrix in particular. Many of them have been brutally trolled and threatened, at times by prominent leaders of the BJP. Bengal is not unfamiliar with culture censorship. During the Left regime, plays like Poshu Khamar (based on George Orwell’s Animal Farm) and Winkle Twinkle had allegedly been stopped from being staged. Multiple speakers said on Tuesday that Trinamul hoodlums had also stopped musical performances that were part of political campaigns in districts as recently as 2018. To resist the attack on free speech is to take the message to the interiors of Bengal, said Debasish Majumdar, who runs a theatre group. “We have to take the plays beyond the Academy (of Fine Arts), to villages,” said Majumdar. Tuesday’s stage was set up near the Paramount sherbet shop. Lines of bookstores dot the busy road. Young participants sat on the pavement and seniors on chairs in front of the dais. A group of musicians recited poetry and sang songs of protest between speeches. “We have come to speak of hunger. Your rifle is pointed at us. You have unleashed armed goons on us. But we are not cowered. We are unfazed by your batons, bullets and tear gas. We have come to speak of hunger and homelessness,” said a poem. Tikri talking point The talking point at the farmers’ demonstrations on Delhi borders is the Bengal polls, a protester from Tikri, a protest site on the border of the national capital, said on Tuesday. “The people at Tikri and Singhu are watching news channels. Whenever a pro-BJP channel speaks in favour of the BJP, they switch off the TV,” said Anup Singh of the Kisan Social Army, which handles the social media operations of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. A six-member delegation, including Singh, is in Calcutta to lend support to the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. “The land of Bhagat Singh is pinning hopes on the land of Bose. A BJP defeat will be a big shot in the arm for us,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Environment activist molested while stalling hawker at Rabindra Sarobar||An environment activist hailed by many because of her efforts to protect Rabindra Sarobar was allegedly heckled and molested when she tried to stop a hawker from encroaching on a footpath outside the lake compound on Tuesday morning. Eight youths were arrested following a complaint by the woman but the activist was arrested, too, as the accused lodged a complaint of assault against her. She was booked under the bailable charge of causing grievous hurt and was granted bail at the police station. The eight youths, booked under non-bailable sections, will be produced in court on Wednesday. “This is so strange. I am the victim, I was molested. But the police arrested me. This is the state of women’s safety and security in the city,” she told Metro later. The environment activist said one of the youths who allegedly heckled and molested her had an injury mark on his face. He is a “goon” and must have suffered the injury in a clash, she said. “I have been asking a hawker who sells tea to not encroach on the footpath by placing so many stools. Today, when I was telling him not to block the gate of the lake, some youths came towards me and took his side,” the activist said after stepping out of Rabindra Sarobar police station on Tuesday afternoon. “One of the youths had a big fresh cut mark on his chin. He was very loud and said he was just back from some ‘action’ and warned me not to mess with him.” The woman said as she kept insisting that the hawker remove the stools, the youths pushed her and then molested her. She said the accused snatched her phone and walking stick and threw them on the road when she tried to click their photographs. A woman tea seller, who was accompanied by her daughter, gave the activist a phone, with which she called up Rabindra Sarobar police station. Police officers reached the spot and detained eight youths, who were taken to the police station. The woman accompanied them to the police station and lodged a complaint, following which the eight were arrested. The accused then lodged a complaint of assault against the woman and she was arrested, too. “I did not lose my calm and went through the formalities. My lawyer told me that I would get bail from the police station. This is not the first time I have been targeted because of my activities to save the environment,” she said. A senior police officer said they were probing the complaints lodged by the woman as well as the youths. “We will investigate both complaints and proceed accordingly,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Virulence blamed for fast spread||A group of 12 friends from Calcutta had gone on a leisure trip in end-March. A few of them developed symptoms of Covid-19 and about three days back, all 12 tested positive. A group of five from a family — the members are of ages four to 55 and they live in different houses — had gone to a star hotel for lunch last week. One of them developed symptoms of Covid and subsequently all tested positive. The virulence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid, is way more than what the country had witnessed last year, doctors said following reports that members of a group or a family are getting infected at the same time in increasing numbers. Also, younger people are being infected in larger numbers than in the first phase of the epidemic last year, the doctors said. Public health experts and doctors also blamed a general sense of false safety and carelessness among a large section of the population, active social life in the absence of a lockdown and tendency to travel for the rapid spread of the disease. “I am getting at least three to four Covid patients every day. All are family members. Last year, too, at the height of the epidemic, multiple members of a family were being infected but rarely did we find every member testing positive,” said physician Amitabha Saha. Doctors said one reason why so many people in close groups were getting affected could be that new strains of the coronavirus were more virulent than the previous ones. However, violation of safety protocols by a large section of the population is also to be blamed. “Earlier, there was panic among people, which is now mostly missing. There is a perception that Covid is gone. Also, many people are having a false sense of security and are not following safety protocols after taking the first dose of a vaccine. That is the reason why so many people are testing positive after taking the first dose,” said Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “The perception that Covid is gone is also the reason why people with symptoms are going for the test late. Earlier, many people did not want to be tested because of the fear of being stigmatised.” Panja cited another reason for the fast spread of the virus - increase in travelling within the city and outside and lack of restrictions on socialising in the absence of a lockdown. Hospitals providing home healthcare facilities said they were seeing people in groups getting infected. An agency that provides home healthcare said six students of a management institute in Calcutta had tested positive for Covid in the last week of March. All of them stayed at the institute’s hostel. “Within a couple of days, nine more students in the same hostel tested positive. All 15 are being monitored through video conferencing by our doctors,” said an official of the agency. Apollo Home Healthcare has around 100 Covid patients in Calcutta who are undergoing treatment at home. “We have seen this time that in many cases more than three members of a family are getting affected at the same time. Last year, even during the peak of the epidemic, we had seen mostly two to three people in a family getting infected,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare. “Also, around 50 per cent of those undergoing treatment at the moment under our supervision, are between 25 and 40. Last year, we had barely 10 per cent of this age group as patients.” Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,329, to 12,775, on Tuesday. The state recorded 2,058 new infections and 772 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Three IIEST dept is closed till Sunday after some teachers tested Covid positive||IIEST, Shibpur, has decided to keep three departments close till April 11 after some teachers attached to them tested positive for Covid-19, an official of the institute said. The acting registrar of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said arrangements could be made for the sanitisation of the civil engineering, physics and architecture, town and regional planning departments, which will remain closed till Sunday. Classes at the Shibpur institute are being held online but the teachers are visiting the campus to oversee research. Scholars pursuing research have returned to the campus in phases. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive issued last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. “At least three teachers tested positive, leading to the closure of the departments. We will assess the situation post-sanitisation and decide on reopening. The affected teachers are in home isolation,” said an official of the institute. “We will ask the research scholars who came in contact with the three teachers to undergo the confirmatory test for Covid.” The detection of cases is set to disrupt the institute’s decision to bring back to the campus final semester postgraduate students from mid-April, another official of the institute said. The IIEST senate, the highest academic body of the institute, had decided last month to call back the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students to the campus in a phased manner so they could have some hands-on training. Practical classes have not been held at the institute since the campus shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid. When asked whether it would be proper to ask students to return to the campus at a time Covid cases are surging across the country, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “We have called an emergency meeting of the senate on Wednesday to decide on this. It seems bringing back the postgraduate students now would not be safe. Let the members of the senate share their opinions.” The senate will also take a call on whether the supplementary exams will be held online. The institute had earlier decided to conduct the exams, scheduled from May 5, on the campus. Metro reported on Tuesday that Calcutta University would not reopen its campuses for practical classes at the postgraduate level this semester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: People neither wearing masks, nor maintaining social distancing||A woman who recently undertook a 12-hour train journey said she was among the handful of passengers in the packed AC 3-tier compartment who were wearing masks. A septuagenarian was told that Covid had disappeared when he asked a youth standing next to him at a shop and talking loudly to wear a mask. Calcuttans who are still wearing masks in public places, trying to maintain the physical distancing protocol and washing or sanitising hands frequently have become a minority, despite a renewed surge in Covid numbers. In markets, public transport or social gatherings, they are subjected to ridicule if they tell others to wear masks. Dipanjana Datta, a medical geneticist, boarded the Kanchankanya Express on Saturday from Sealdah. The journey to Siliguri lasted around 12 hours. Datta said almost everyone in the coach was without a mask. “People from other coaches were coming over to chat with friends or relatives. They were without masks and talking loudly. When I asked a man standing close to me to wear a mask, he looked very irritated,” Datta recounted. She said that people looked at her in a way as if she was doing something funny and foolish. “I did not take off my mask for once because others were behaving very irresponsibly. I even slept wearing a mask. Everyone looked at me in a way as if I was doing something very strange,” she said. Datta was not the only one to feel stigmatised in a gathering. A septuagenarian resident of Kasba had a similar experience when he asked a youth standing next to him and speaking loudly with the owner of a grocery to wear a mask. “When I asked the youth to put on a mask, he laughed and said Covid had gone. He did not put on the mask. Most of the others who were standing there, too, did not have a mask on. No one else told the youth to mask up,” the elderly man said. Datta said all through her journey she kept thinking about her three young daughters and her 75-year-old mother. “If I get infected, I may pass on the virus to them. I cannot understand why people fail to realise that they may make their loved ones suffer because of their callousness,” she said. A few other Calcuttans who are still following the safety protocols said most people take out a mask from the pocket when asked to wear one. But the masks look unclean and many of them wear a surgical mask for several days, against the advice of doctors. “A surgical mask should not be worn for more than six to eight hours,” a doctor said. “A lot of people do not wear masks because they do not have any symptoms of Covid-19. But what they fail to understand is that they could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus and may end up transmitting the virus to others,” the doctor said. “A large number of infected people may not have any external manifestation of the disease. Such people may unknowingly spread the virus to another person, who may develop serious symptoms and need hospitalisation. It is necessary for everyone to wear a mask, for his or her safety and for the safety of others,” said a doctor at a government hospital. Pramit Ghosh, an associate professor of community medicine at the Purulia Government Medical College and Hospital, said: “More people were wearing masks in the initial days of the pandemic because they perceived Covid-19 to be a dangerous disease. But with time the perception has changed. Many people no longer think the disease is very dangerous. The change is perception is not based on science.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||The debt of gratitude we owe to the melting-pot culture of Calcutta||Down the centuries, Calcutta has gradually moulded itself into a beacon of cosmopolitanism because it has been open to influences from around the world. From biryani to Borodin (Christmas), the best of Calcutta has been imbibed and then customised in a way that they became inseparable from the city. That melting-pot culture is now facing a threat like never before against the backdrop of the state elections that the Right-wing ecosystem is desperate to trump, Calcuttans from different spheres told The Telegraph. At stake, they said, was the soul of a culture that has always dared to be different in embracing various ways of life as its own. Some snapshots of what makes Calcutta different: Meat sellers across the city would vouch for Navami of Durga Puja as the busiest day every year. Navami is the final day of Navratri, a period when non-vegetarian food is forbidden in swathes of India. The mai n elements of the ubiquitous Sunday mutton curry — potato, onion, garlic and chilli — trace their origins to the outside world. Potato and chilli came to Calcutta from America via Europe and onion and garlic were Muslim ingredients. Some of Calcutta’s iconic structures like The Oberoi Grand, Stephen House, Park Mansions and Queen’s Mansions were built by a clan of mostly wealthy Armenian merchants who preceded the East India Company. There is similarity in the attire of three foremost icons of Bengal, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay — a distinct Persian influence. Biryani from Awadh, Chelo kebab from Persia and Fish Mueniere from France — Calcutta’s palate is one of the biggest examples of Calcutta’s cosmopolitanism. Foodlore has it that biryani came to Calcutta with Wajid Ali Shah, the last nawab of Awadh, who arrived in the city in 1856. Today, a celebration or a festival in Calcutta is synonymous with biryani. “On any given day, the number of Hindus eating biryani is much, much more than Muslims. Similarly, many Calcuttans look forward to Ramzan because of haleem (a thick and nutritious stew of meat and different lentils), which traces its roots to the Arabic Harees,” said Shahanshah Mirza, the great-great-grandson of Wajid Ali Shah, born and brought up in the city. Nitin Kothari, the owner of iconic Park Street restaurants Mocambo and Peter Cat, was on a two-day stopover at Tehran on his way to India from Germany many years ago when he had his first Chelo kebab. He introduced the dish at Peter Cat, with a dollop of butter and a fried egg, instead of the raw egg yolk served in Tehran. The dish became a runaway hit and has remained a top draw in the city’s culinary list, a reflection of how Calcutta imbibes something from another world and then makes it her own. “I have lived in other places too but the way Calcutta has imbibed, and then owned, aspects of other cultures is unique. This cosmopolitanism would not have worked had it been unidimensional, related to only food, for example. The same cosmopolitanism is visible in all spheres of life in Calcutta, be it architecture or music,” said Kothari, 74. A snippet about Nahoum’s bakery in New Market that had gone viral on social media a couple of years ago had summed up the city’s culinary character. Its central message — a Jewish bakery with Muslim chefs sees a long queue of mostly Hindus in a Christian festival (Christmas). The willingness to experiment and embrace the unknown has been an inherent part of Bengali culture, with Calcutta as its epicentre, said scholars and historians. The city’s status as a thriving trade hub also attracted many communities like the Armenians, Parsis and the Chinese. Jawhar Sircar, who retired in 2016 after having spent over four decades in the Indian Administrative Service, said “unorthodoxy and non-conformity” were the two fundamental characters of the “composite Bengali culture since its formative years in the fourteenth century”. “In keeping with that tradition, the Bengali culture led by Calcutta was the first to embrace western and Persian influences. The Persian influence is visible in the iconographic dressing style of Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay,” he said. Kite flying and pigeon petting in Calcutta also trace their roots to Persian influence. Wajid Ali Shah, who was deeply inspired by Persian culture, is said to have introduced kite flying to Calcutta. The sport has since evolved into being synonymous with Vishwakarma (the god of architecture) Puja in Calcutta, another example of how the city has made a borrowed sport its own. This readiness to adapt to foreign influences was also at the root of Calcutta’s emergence as the cradle of rational thinking in India, something that had prompted luminaries like C.V. Raman and D.R. Bhadarkar to shift base to the city for academic pursuits, said historians. Abanindranath Tagore, considered the father of the Bengal School of Art, is another case in point. One of his most famous paintings, The Passing of Shah Jahan, shows the fifth Mughal emperor on his deathbed, staring at the Taj Mahal. “His art is a tribute to the rich Indo-Islamic past of our country,” said Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta. “His Arabian Night Series is a rich tapestry of medieval Arabia and colonial Calcutta. Interspersed with characters from the Arabian fairy tales are characters from Jorasanko and Chitpore, around Nakhoda mosque — people Abanindranath grew up around,” he said. Anthony Khatchaturian, writer and amateur historian of Armenian origin, said the Armenians today numbered less than a hundred in the city but they once played a key role in shaping the history of Bengal and Calcutta. “We are a dwindling community now because of our internal politics but Calcutta has always given us love. Armenians have always lived peacefully with other communities like Parsis, Jews and Chinese in Calcutta,” said the Calcutta-born Khatchaturian who went to London for higher studies and worked in the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Service, better known as Scotland Yard, for a decade. The Armenian College in Calcutta will turn 200 this year. The Central Bank of Armenia is to issue a special coin to celebrate the occasion, he said. Calcutta’s politics is but a reflection of her social psychology, said historians and social scientists. At the root of that politics is the right to dissent, to not conform to a majoritarian view. The emergence of a Right-wing ecosystem poses an unprecedented threat to that political character, they pointed out. “The battle is between openness and orthodoxy, between an inherent heterogeneity and an inevitable homogeneity. It is non-conformity versus an imposed conformity,” said Sircar. “Till the emergence of the Right-wing ecosystem, no mainstream political party in Bengal openly indulged in communal politics. The Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha did but they were fringe players,” he added. Khatchaturian said “Muslims and Christians would be the first in the line of fire” if Bengal came under a Right-wing regime. “But I doubt if the BJP’s interpretation of orthodox Hinduism would sit well with the Bengali version of liberal Hinduism,” he said. Historian Sugata Bose, grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, said not differentiating between religions was the biggest tenet of Calcutta’s cosmopolitan character. “As a kid growing up in this city, Id meant a visit to the house of one of my closest friends. I used to savour the delicacies made by his grandmother. I had always known this was normal, that we never saw ourselves as Hindus or Muslims. I never thought I would have to highlight this to make a point,” said Bose. “A bigotry in a section of the educated Hindu middle class contributed to the Partition but we managed to recover our cosmopolitan character reasonably quickly. The huge number of Hindu refugees who entered India during the Partition were extremely vulnerable. But they did not veer towards the Right wing led by the Hindu Mahasabha,” Bose said. The “spectre of 1946-47”, Bose felt, was looming once again on Calcutta. “We have to bring out our cosmopolitan best to resist that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 460 points after RBI holds rates||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 460 points on Wednesday after the RBI expectedly left interest rates unchanged and maintained an accommodative stance as the economy faces a renewed threat to growth due to the resurgence of coronavirus cases. The 30-share BSE index jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49,661.76. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 135.55 points or 0.92 per cent to 14,819.05. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Bajaj Auto and Maruti. On the other hand, Titan, NTPC and HUL were the laggards. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday kept key interest rates unchanged at record lows while pledging to buy Rs 1 lakh crore of government bonds this quarter to cap borrowing costs in a bid to support an economy facing a resurgence of the pandemic. In the first monetary policy of the 2021-22 fiscal, the central bank stuck to its accommodative stance amid concerns of rising infections that could derail the nascent economic recovery. "In line with expectations, RBI has maintained status quo on policy rates and reassured the financial markets on its commitment to retain accommodative policy stance till the prospects of sustained economic recovery is secured," said Gaurav Dua, SVP, Head - Capital Market Strategy, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Even on liquidity front the signals are dovish, he said, adding the bond market has reacted positively with the 10-year bond yield easing by 6-8 bps during the day. "The easing of yield curves and commitment of keeping interest rate low with ample liquidity are positive for the equity markets too. The consistency and continuity in the monetary policy stance is welcome and will cheer up market sentiments," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.37 per cent lower at USD 62.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
07-04-2021||Business||Mukesh Ambani becomes richest person in Asia, number 10 globally: Forbes||India has the third highest number of billionaires in the world after the US and China, according to a new list by the prestigious Forbes magazine, which said Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani reclaimed his spot as Asia's richest person, dethroning Chinese business tycoon Jack Ma who was the richest person in the region a year ago. Forbes' 35th annual list of the world's billionaires is topped by Amazon CEO and Founder Jeff Bezos for the fourth year in a row. His net worth is USD 177 billion, up USD 64 billion from a year ago as a result of surging Amazon shares, Forbes said. On the second spot is SpaceX founder Elon Musk, who was the biggest gainer in dollar terms. Musk's fortune ballooned to USD 151 billion, a whopping USD 126.4 billion more than a year ago, when he had ranked 31 and was worth USD 24.6 billion, it said. The main reason: a 705 per cent climb in Tesla shares, Forbes said. Ambani, the richest person in India and also the wealthiest in Asia, is ranked 10 on the global billionaires' list. He reclaimed his spot as Asia's richest person with a net worth of USD 84.5 billion. Ambani has become the richest person in Asia, ranked Number 10 and worth an estimated USD 84.5 billion. He nudged out Jack Ma of China, Asia's richest person a year ago, whose rank dropped to 26 (from 17 last year) despite a nearly USD 10 billion jump in his fortune to USD 48.4 billion, Forbes said. Adani Group Chairman Gautam Adani, the second richest person in India, is ranked 24th on the global list of billionaires with a net worth of USD 50.5 billion. Chairman of the Poonawalla Group and founder of the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, Cyrus Poonawalla is ranked 169th on the Forbes list of the world's billionaires with a net worth of USD 12.7 billion. Poonawalla ranks seven on the list of Indian billionaires. Founder of HCL Technologies Shiv Nadar, the third richest person in India, is ranked 71st globally and has a net worth of USD 23.5 billion. The three richest Indians alone have added just over USD 100 billion between them, Forbes said. At 724, the US has more billionaires than any other country in the world (up from 614 last year). China is closing the gap with 698 billionaires, up from 456 last year. As a result of the gains in China, Beijing is home to more billionaires than anywhere in the world, overtaking New York City, Forbes said. India has the third highest number of billionaires, with 140, followed by Germany with 136 and Russia with 117. Forbes said the 1,149 billionaires from Asia-Pacific countries together are worth USD 4.7 trillion, while the US billionaires are worth a total USD 4.4 trillion. India's top 10 billionaires include DMart founder Radhakishan Damani, Kotak Mahindra Bank CEO Uday Kotak, Executive Chairman of ArcelorMittal Lakshmi Mittal, Chairman of the Aditya Birla Group Kumar Mangalam Birla, founder of Sun Pharmaceuticals Dilip Shanghvi and Founder and Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Sunil Mittal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Economic recovery uncertain due to recent surge in Covid cases, says RBI governor||Concerned over fresh Covid-19 wave and elevated food inflation, Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance, implying rate cut in the future if the need arises to support the economy. The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has been left unchanged at 4 per cent, Governor Shaktikanta Das said said while announcing the decisions taken by the central bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). The RBI Governor further said that the recent surge in Covid-19 infections has created uncertainty over economic growth recovery, adding that the focus must be on containing spread of virus and economic recovery. "It also unanimously decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he said. Consequently, the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate and the bank rate remain unchanged at 4.25 per cent. The reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. This is the first bi-monthly meeting of MPC in the current financial year and after the government's recent mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent for another five years. The central bank has retained growth projection of 10.5 per cent for the current financial year as was estimated in its February bi-monthly policy. MPC saw inflation edging up to 5.2 per cent in the first half of the new fiscal from 5 per cent in the January-March period and moderate to 4.4 per cent in Q3 of FY22. The governor said MPC unanimously voted for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance to support growth. This is the fifth time in a row that MPC has decided to keep the policy rate unchanged. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020 in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The central bank had slashed the repo rate, the rate at which banks borrow from the RBI, by 115 basis points between March and May 2020 to support growth. Retail inflation rose to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based retail inflation stood at 4.06 per cent in January. At the same time, a fresh wave of COVID-19 has resulted in over 90,000 cases per day and the situation has led to localised lock-down impacting economic activities. To provide clarity over its bond buying programme through Open Market Operations (OMO), Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore target for the first quarter under the new instrument called G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0. The first purchase of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15, 2021. He assured that RBI is committed to ensuring ample system liquidity in consonance with the accommodative stance of MPC. "When I say ample liquidity, I mean a level of liquidity that would keep the system in surplus even after meeting the requirements of all financial market segments and the productive sectors of the economy," he said. The Reserve Bank will of course continue to do whatever it takes to preserve financial stability and to insulate domestic financial markets from global spillovers and the consequent volatility, Das added. To provide additional liquidity to states, RBI has decided to accept the recommendations of an Advisory Committee constituted by it to review the Ways and Means Advance (WMA) limits for State Governments/UTs and other related issues. Accordingly, it has been decided to enhance the aggregate WMA limit of states and UTs to Rs 47,010 crore, an increase of about 46 per cent from the current limit of Rs 32,225 crore which was fixed in February 2016. "Further, it has also been decided to continue the enhanced interim WMA limit of Rs 51,560 crore granted by RBI due to the pandemic for a further period of six months i.e. up to September 30, 2021," he said. Das further said that to nurture the still nascent growth impulses, it is felt necessary to support continued flow of credit to the real economy. Accordingly, liquidity support of Rs 50,000 crore for fresh lending during 2021-22 will be provided to All India Financial Institutions (AIFIs). He announced that Rs 25,000 crore will be provided to NABARD, Rs 10,000 crore to NHB and Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI. It is to be mentioned here that special refinance facilities of Rs 75,000 crore were provided to AIFIs during April-August 2020. The central bank also announced relaxation in the period of parking of External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) proceeds in term deposits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and SBI ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE index was trading 199.01 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 49,400.40, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.90 points or 0.47 per cent to 14,752.40. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement, Dr Reddy's, IndusInd Bank and ONGC. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Kotak Bank and HDFC twins were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 42.07 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 49,201.39, and Nifty advanced 45.70 points or 0.31 per cent to 14,683.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,092.75 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to traders, domestic investors are awaiting the outcome of the RBI's policy meet later in the day. "These days there is a combination of good and bad news exerting push and pull effects on markets, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The steady decline in US 10-year bond yield to 1.66 per cent from above 1.75 per cent and dollar index to 92.3 from above 93 are clear positives. And now the IMF has projected GDP growth of 12.5 per cent for FY22 for India. FDI is rising smartly, he noted. But these positives are being countered by the big negative -- rising COVID-19 cases in the country, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended in the red in overnight trade. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.33 per cent higher at USD 62.95 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Govt plans to fast-track privatisation of firms in the non-strategic sector||The government plans to fast-track privatisation of firms in the non-strategic sector by easing the approval process and in the initial phase plans to push for sale of firms in sectors such as  tourism, textiles, civil aviation, shipping and heavy industries. The Centre plans to reduce the number of approvals needed to pass a divestment proposal. It also plans to allow approvals by sector rather than for each specific company, officials said. The policy think tank Niti Aayog and the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) are considering some proposals which could cut the time required to vet a proposal to merely a few months. The approval from the Core Group of Secretaries on Divestment (CGD) of privatisation of entities in non-strategic sectors may not be required at all. At present, the Niti Aayog selects candidates for divestment, which then goes to the CGD, which passes its suggestions and concerns and forwards to the Alternative Mechanism (AM). The AM consists of the finance minister, the minister for administrative reforms, and the minister for roads, transport and highways. It is after their approval that the proposal from Dipam goes forward to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA). The CCEA is expected to grant in-principle approval for divestment. The government’s ambitious drive to privatise PSUs as announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Budget 2021 would largely depend on fast tracking the whole process. The shortening of the procedural issue would clear the way for the Centre to go ahead with its Rs 1.75 lakh crore disinvestment target for the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Hindustan Zinc CFO Swayam Saurabh released from services||Vedanta Group firm Hindustan Zinc on Tuesday said its chief financial officer (CFO) Swayam Saurabh has been released from the services of the firm, just a month-and-half after the resignation of G.R. Arun Kumar as  CFO of Vedanta Ltd. Saurabh has been released from the close of working hours on Monday, Hindustan Zinc said in a filing on the  Bombay Stock Exchange. “Swayam Saurabh chief financial officer of the company stood released from the services of the company from the close of working hours on April 5, 2021,” the filing said. The company had earlier announced the resignation of Saurabh. Hindustan Zinc's fully integrated zinc operations  hold 78 per cent share in India’s primary zinc industry. The company says it is the sixth largest silver producer globally. It is a subsidiary of Vedanta Ltd which owns a 64.9 per cent stake, while the Centre retains a 29.5 per cent stake. Another Vedanta group company, Cairn Oil and Gas, is facing a huge claim from the government of India for the share of the government's profits from the Rajasthan oil and gas block whose licence was expanded beyond the initial period. The claims could run to millions of dollars, sources said. The Delhi high court has upheld the government policy of higher share of profit if an oilfield gets and extension. Vedanta in October failed in its delisting process as it received only 125.47 crore shares much less than the required amount. In another blow, the Supreme Court has rejected Vedanta’s plea to inspect and operate the closed Sterlite plant at Tuticorin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Separation of the post of  chairman and managing director to improve corporate governance: SEBI chairman||The separation of the post of the chairman and managing director is not meant to weaken the position of promoters but to improve corporate governance, Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, said on Tuesday. Sebi’s new framework would also help to reduce excessive concentration of authority in a single individual, he said. Besides, the separation of roles would provide a better and more balanced governance structure. Tyagi was speaking at virtual event organised by industry chamber CII on corporate governance. Around 53 per cent of the top 50 listed companies have separated their top positions of chairman and managing director. The companies have one more year to comply with the norms. Tyagi also stressed on the need to make adequate disclosure to all stakeholders by the listed companies during the Covid-19 situation. The entities need to disclose the financial impact of the pandemic and should not resort to selective disclosure. He spoke of a fine balance between the roles and responsibilities of controlling shareholders and minority shareholders, so that the latter do not misuse the power given to them for protection of their rights. He said the regulator has failed to ensure the independent directors operate without the influence of promoters and protect the interest of small shareholders, which is at the core of corporate governance. “I must admit that notwithstanding various efforts made in the past, we are yet to get ideal solutions to issues such as ‘ensuring independence of independent directors’, ‘selecting the best suited persons as independent directors’, ‘making their role more effective and meaningful’, etc,” he said. It’s the regulator’s endeavour to bring in greater balance, transparency and quality in the selection of independent directors and functioning of corporate boards. He spoke of a fine balance between the roles and responsibilities of controlling shareholders and minority shareholders, so that the latter do not misuse the power given to them for protection of their rights. CII president Uday Kotak said capital markets are the engine for India’s growth, and policymakers across the spectrum need to keep in mind that this needs to be nurtured and sustained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Government approves appointment of Tarun Bajaj as new revenue secretary||In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Union government has approved the appointment of Tarun Bajaj as the new revenue secretary under the ministry of finance. Bajaj was serving as secretary to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) since April 30, 2020. He took additional charge as secretary, department of revenue, after the superannuation of Ajay Bhushan Pandey. Pandey, who is a 1984 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Maharashtra cadre, retired on February 28. He was given the charge of revenue secretary in the finance ministry in November 2018. Prior to taking over as economic affairs secretary, Bajaj served as additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. Bajaj, a 1988 batch Haryana-cadre IAS officer, worked as joint secretary and director in department of financial services. As a joint secretary in department of financial services for four years, he was looking after the insurance division. The appointment committee of the cabinet has also approved the appointment of Ajay Seth, a 1987 batch Karnataka-cadre IAS officer, as the new secretary for DEA. Along with this, there were also other changes in the top bureaucracy notified by the ministry of personnel. Seth’s appointment as economic affairs secretary raises questions as to who will be designated as the finance secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Bombay High Court permits ByteDance to operate its Indian bank accounts||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday permitted Chinese company ByteDance to operate its Indian bank accounts, that had been frozen by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) authorities over alleged tax evasion, after depositing a sum of Rs 78.91 crore in a state-run bank. A bench of Justices S.P. Deshmukh and Abhay Ahuja directed ByteDance to deposit Rs 78.91 crore in any nationalised bank towards the demand raised by the GST authorities and said the company could operate its other Indian bank accounts and utilise the remaining funds. The indirect taxes department has accused ByteDance of evading taxes and not paying its GST dues in full, a charge denied by the Chinese firm, which owns the popular video app TikTok that was banned by the Indian government last year. ByteDance approached the high court last month denying all tax evasion allegations and seeking reliefs, including challenging the provisional attachment order for freezing of its bank accounts in India. Senior advocates Rafiq Dada and Vikram Nankani, who appeared for ByteDance, argued that since all the money in the accounts had been frozen, the company had been unable to pay its Indian staff salaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Axis Bank and subsidiaries become co-promoters of Max Life Insurance Company Limited ||Axis Bank on Tuesday said that the private sector lender along with its two subsidiaries — Axis Capital Limited and Axis Securities Limited — has become co-promoters of Max Life Insurance Company Limited after completion of acquisition of 12.99 per cent stake collectively into the insurance company. “The board of Max Life recorded the closure of the deal today. The transaction was completed after the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India gave its formal approval in February this year,” Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. The Competition Commission of India gave its approval in January. “The Axis entities have a right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent in Max Life in one or more tranches, subject to regulatory approvals, With the conclusion of this transaction, Max Life’s board will be strengthened further, with co-option of three nominee directors of Axis entities on its board,” the filing said. Max Life’s holding company Max Financial Services Limited and Axis Bank had first announced their intent to bring the latter as a strategic partner in the life insurance company in February 2020. Commenting on the development, Amitabh Chaudhry, MD and CEO of Axis Bank said that the lender has been a long term partner to Max Life and have contributed to the deepening of insurance penetration in India over the last decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business|| IMF projects an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, stronger than that of China, the only major economy to have a positive growth rate last year during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Washington-based global financial institution, in its annual World Economic Outlook ahead of the annual Spring meeting with the World Bank, said the Indian economy is expected to grow by 6.9 per cent in 2022. Notably in 2020, India’s economy contracted by a record 8 per cent, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said as it projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for the country in 2021. China, on the other hand, which was the only major economy to have a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020, is expected to grow by 8.6 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Chief Economist at IMF Gita Gopinath said: “We are now projecting a stronger recovery in 2021 and 2022 for the global economy compared to our previous forecast, with growth projected to be 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.4 per cent in 2022”. In 2020, the global economy contracted by 3.3 per cent. “Nonetheless, the outlook presents daunting challenges related to divergences in the speed of recovery both across and within countries and the potential for persistent economic damage from the crisis,” she said in her foreword to the report. According to the report, after an estimated contraction of 3.3 per cent in 2020, the global economy is projected to grow at 6 per cent in 2021, moderating to 4.4 per cent in 2022. The contraction for 2020 is 1.1 percentage points smaller than projected in the October 2020 World Economic Outlook (WEO), reflecting the higher-than-expected growth outturns in the second half of the year for most regions after lockdowns were eased and as economies adapted to new ways of working. The projections for 2021 and 2022 are 0.8 percentage point and 0.2 percentage point stronger than in the October 2020 WEO, reflecting additional fiscal support in a few large economies and the anticipated vaccine-powered recovery in the second half of the year, the report said. Global growth is expected to moderate to 3.3 per cent over the medium term, reflecting projected damage to supply potential and forces that predate the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Coal stocks at pitheads of Coal India touch 100 million tonnes ||Coal stocks at the pitheads of Coal India have touched 100 million tonnes (mt) amid sluggish lifting by the power sector. Power plants procured 444.5mt in 2020-21 against the projected demand of 526mt. Coal India produced 596.2 mt in 2020-21 against 602.1mt a year ago. Officials of the government-owned miner said a higher production would only have added to the stockpile. The public sector miner has a plan to liquidate the stock in the ongoing fiscal. Coal India is banking on a revival in the demand from power companies. It is also expecting higher sales in the auctions and a greater substitution of imported coal. In the last fiscal, the offtake at 573.8mt was only 1.3 per cent lower than in 2019-20., despite lower  power sector demand. This was made possible by an all-time high in e-auction sales at 124mt against  113.6 mt in 2016-17. Coal India also booked 90 mt of sales from buyers who previously imported the fuel. Of this,  around 48mt was from non-power consumers and 42mt was from the power sector. Mine surrender The Modi government is looking to allow both private and government firms to surrender non-operational coal mines without forfeiting bank guarantees. The coal ministry has floated a cabinet note on issues related to non-operational coal mines and has sought views from the related ministries, a television channel reported. The proposal seeks to allow private companies to surrender their mines under genuine reason on case to case basis without forfeiting the guarantee. As of now, companies are allowed to exit a mine without forfeiting bank guarantees under the regional or partial exploration stage but not after fully exploring the mine. With inputs from Delhi bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
07-04-2021||Business||Frontline steel stocks touch fresh 52-weeks high ||Frontline steel stocks touched fresh 52-weeks high on Tuesday on the back of strong international prices and buoyant export opportunities, overshadowing the fear of demand moderation in the domestic market in the wake of the renewed outbreak of Covid-19. Scrips of Tata Steel, Steel Authority of India (SAIL), JSW Steel and Jindal Steel & Power (JSPL)  rallied to their respective highs before cooling off at the end as investors re-rated the sector expecting a strong show in the coming quarters. Producers have pushed benchmark hot rolled coil prices in April up as much as Rs 4,000-Rs 4,500 per tonne to Rs 57,600 per tonne, supported by international dynamics especially in China, the world’s largest producer. Chinese steel output has come down month-on-month in February, the World Steel Association noted, and the production may remain muted in the rest of the year, supporting a high steel price. Back in India, consumption in 2020-21 will be lower than the previous year even though the decline will not be as much as feared initially. Rating agency Icra  said the contraction in domestic consumption has been 9.9 per cent in the first 11 months of 2020-21 compared with  a 19.6 per cent drop witnessed in the first eight  months of 2020-21 on the back of a sharp pullback in demand during December 2020 and January 2021. Icra also apprehended demand moderation because of  localised lockdowns announced by the state governments. Domestic prices could remain high as the landed price of import would still be  higher by 10 per cent. High prices coupled with relatively benign prices of the raw material would translate into strong margins, allowing companies to deleverage the balance sheet.  S&P Global upgraded Tata Steel to “BB-” from “B+” taking into account strong cash flow in next two years. “In our base case, we expect Tata Steel’s adjusted debt to decline about 30 per cent by March 2023 from the March 2020 level of about Rs 1.1 lakh crore, leading its credit metrics to steadily improve,” S&P Global noted. The company also came out with production numbers whereas Tata Steel India achieved the highest ever annual delivery volume of 17.30 million tonnes in 2020-21, despite the Covid-19 pandemic induced disruption in the first half. JSPL and SAIL, too, recorded highest ever sales in the last fiscal, partly aided by strong export.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
07-04-2021||Business||Reliance Jio to acquire a portion of Bharti Airtel's spectrum in the 800 MHz band||Reliance Jio has signed an agreement with Bharti Airtel to acquire a portion of its spectrum in the 800 MHz band for Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Mumbai circles at an aggregate value of Rs 1,497 crore — marking the first such deal between the two telecom giants. With this spectrum trading agreement, Airtel will receive a consideration of Rs 1,037.6 crore from Jio for the proposed transfer. In addition, Jio will assume future liabilities of Rs 459 crore relating to the spectrum, Bharti Airtel said in a separate statement. Given the enhanced spectrum footprint, especially contiguous spectrum, and superior infrastructure deployed, Jio said it has further increased its network capacity. With this trading of right to use spectrum, Jio will have 2X15 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band in the Mumbai circle and 2X10 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band in Andhra Pradesh and Delhi circles, thereby further consolidating its spectrum footprint in these locations. Reliance Jio has acquired the ‘Right to Use’ of 800 MHz spectrum in Andhra Pradesh (3.75 MHz), Delhi (1.25 MHz) and Mumbai (2.50 MHz) — in all adding up to 7.50 MHz. Airwaves come in different bands which support different propagation characteristics for the transmission of voice and data. For instance, lower bands like 800 MHz and 900 MHz support good indoor coverage, while higher bands like 2300 MHz have a good carrying capacity. The airwaves are also sold in quantities measured as MHz. The trading agreement is in accordance with the spectrum trading guidelines issued by the department of telecommunications and is subject to the requisite regulatory and statutory approvals. Commenting on the development, Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO (India and South Asia), Bharti Airtel, said: “The sale of the 800 MHz blocks in these three circles has enabled us to unlock value from the spectrum that was unutilised. This is aligned to our overall network strategy”. The sold spectrum had come to Airtel following the Tata Teleservices merger, sources said. According to the latest data by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, the mobile subscriber base of Reliance Jio stood at 410.7 million in January 2021, as the operator added 1.9 million users in the month. Airtel, India’s second-largest telecom player, had 344.6 million subscribers as of January 2021, having gained 5.8 million users during the month. With the subscriber base of the Indian telecom market swelling and data usage touching new highs, the outcome of spectrum auctions held recently had surpassed original estimates. Last month, spectrum auctions had raked-in winning bids of over Rs 77,800 crore for 855.6 MHz of spectrum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
07-04-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan hits out at Maharashtra for vaccine shortage claims||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra and some other states, alleging them of trying to cover their "failures" and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough of eligible beneficiaries. He further said statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about the shortage of vaccines were "nothing but an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government's repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic". Asserting that allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless, Vardhan said Maharashtra's "testing is not up to the mark and their contact tracing leaves a lot to be desired". In a strong statement, he said, "It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandates for the sake of their personal Vasuli. "Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels." About Chhattisgarh, he said regular comments have been made by leaders from the state "that are intended to spread misinformation and panic on vaccination". "I would like to humbly state that it would be better if the state government focuses its energies on ramping up their health infrastructure rather than on petty politicking," Vardhan said while flagging "disproportionately higher number of deaths in the last 2-3 weeks" in the state. He also said the state's testing remains heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests which is not a wise strategy. He further said many other states also need to bring their healthcare systems up to the mark. "For example, the quality of testing needs to improve in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat. In Punjab, the high Case Fatality Rate needs to be improved by early identification of those needing hospitalisation," he said. Vardhan said when states ask to open up vaccine supplies to everyone over 18, we must presume that they have done saturation coverage of healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens. "But the facts are altogether different," he said while pointing out that Maharashtra has vaccinated just only 86 per cent of health workers with the first dose, while the equivalent numbers for Delhi and Punjab are 72 per cent and 64 per cent. On the other hand, 10 Indian states/UTs have done more than 90 per cent, he added. The minister further said Maharashtra has vaccinated just 41 per cent of healthcare workers with the second dose, while the same for Delhi and Punjab are 41 per cent and 27 per cent, though there are 12 Indian states/UTs that have done more than 60 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Government to allow Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces from Sunday||The government will allow Covid-19 vaccination at public and private workplaces having about 100 eligible beneficiaries from April 11 across states and Union territories. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the chief secretaries said a substantial proportion of the population aged 45 years and above is in the organised sector of the economy and is involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private) or manufacturing and services. "In order to increase the access of vaccine to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at work places (both public & private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these work places with an existing Covid vaccination centre," Bhushan said in the letter. He said the states can initiate due consultations with private/public sector employers and management to prepare for launch of workplace vaccination. "Such work place vaccination centres may be launched across states/Union territories from April 11, 2021," he said. The Centre has asked states and Union Territories to make adequate preparations and issued guidelines in this regard. According to the guidelines, only employees aged 45 years or more will be eligible for vaccination at work place and no outsiders including eligible family members will be allowed for vaccination. One of the senior staff of the organisation will be assigned to work as nodal officer to coordinate with district health authorities/ private Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) and support vaccination activities. The beneficiaries will be required to register in the Co-WIN portal prior to vaccination and CVC nodal officers will ensure registration of all targeted beneficiaries and facility of on-the-spot registration will also be available but only to employees of the workplace, the guidelines said. For optimal utilisation of resources, vaccination sessions will be planned at workplace CVC once at least 50 beneficiaries get registered for vaccination. "The schedule of vaccination sessions can be made up to 15 days in advance and intimated to the workplaces so that maximum attendance is ensured on the day of vaccination. In most of the workplaces vaccination schedules may, however, be completed in less than 15 days," the Centre told states and union territories in the guidelines. The District Task Force chaired by district magistrate and Urban Task Force chaired by municipal commissioner will identify such government and private workplaces after due deliberations with relevant employers. Every CVC in a government workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the government medical facility while every CVC in a private workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the private medical facility. The designated government and private CVC to whom the workplace CVC has been tagged will be responsible for deployment of the vaccination team at workplace CVCs. All government and private CVCs are already linked to some cold chain points for receiving vaccines. "These CVCs will continue to use the same mechanism to receive the vaccine needed for vaccination at tagged workplace CVC," the guidelines said. The healthcare workers of this health infrastructure of the workplace CVCs (such as doctors, nurses and other staff) may be deployed for the Covid-19 vaccination activities at workplaces as vaccination team members, it said. The workplace CVCs staff engaged in Covid-19 vaccination activities will follow the same SOPs for vaccination and reporting including management and reporting of adverse events following immunisation. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday batted for Covid-19 vaccine for all, saying every Indian "deserves the chance to a safe life". The health ministry on Tuesday said the vaccine needs to be given to those who need it and not those who want it. The Covid-19 vaccine is currently available to all Indians above the age of 45 years. "It's ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life," Gandhi said on Twitter, using the hashtag "#CovidVaccine". Gandhi also lauded the health warriors on World Health Day and shared a picture of his with them on Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Bengal polls: Amit Shah holds road show in Singur||Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a colourful road show here on Wednesday, once a hot spot of the anti-land acquisition movement, and promised rapid industrialisation of the area if BJP is voted to power. The symbolism of the home minister holding a road show in Singur, three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a rally there and alleged the "obstructionist mindset" of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee deprived West Bengal of industries and jobs, was clear--the BJP wants to corner her over the state's dwindling industrial base and alleged job loss. Lustily cheered by crowds, Shah stood atop a decorated vehicle with BJP candidate for the Singur seat Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who recently joined the saffron party after leaving the Trinamool Congress, and smilingly waved at people standing by the roadside and on terraces and balconies. Speaking to reporters during the show, Shah said Singur, which has been shunned by industry since the 2006 agitation, will be developed by the next BJP government in the state. "We will develop the area by setting up industries and a Rs 500 crore intervention fund has been announced for potatoes, for which the area is known, in our Sankalp Patra (manifesto)," he said. Shah said, after winning the elections, the BJP government will ensure that small, medium and large industries are set up in Singur, situated beside the national highway connecting Kolkata and New Delhi. "We will pursue politics of development, dialogue and cooperation, instead of confrontation," he said. He said he welcomed TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for invoking Hindu Gods and Goddesses, and for reciting Chandi Path (hymns to Goddess Durga) at public meetings, but quipped it was "too late for her". "The BJP will win Bengal elections with more than 200 seats in the kitty," he said. West Bengal has 294 assembly seats. Banerjee, often accused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of minority appeasement, has been regularly chanting hymns and asserting her Hindu identity to keep the majority community in good humour. The road show meandered through the roads of Singur town for nearly an hour from Dulepara more to Singur police station, as colourful posters, BJP flags and green and saffron balloons dotted route. Chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' and slogans demanding industrialisation and jobs pervaded the air as the procession crawled through streets. Donning a saffron coloured turban, the 89-year-old Bhattacharya, a four-time TMC MLA from Singur before he left the party on being denied a ticket, waved at the crowd standing alongside Shah. Bhattacharya's induction and nomination had caused a lot of resentment among BJP old timers in Singur. Shah is scheduled to hold three more road shows in the state, including one in Kolkata, on Wednesday. Referring to the Singur movement of 2006-08 that forced Tata Motors to move out its proposed small car Nano's mother production unit from there, Modi had told an election meeting that the TMC used the place for political purpose and then left the people to fend for themselves. Singur, a small town in Hooghly district, has an old connection between Banerjee and Modi. The scene of an aggressive movement led by Banerjee against forcible land acquisition by the then Left Front government for the 'Nano' project, Singur, along with Nandigram, had catapulted the street fighter TMC leader to power in West Bengal in 2011. The sustained, and often violent, protests by the local farming community led by Banerjee forced the Tatas to move out of Singur. A cryptic 'Suswagatam' SMS from Modi, then the Gujarat chief minister, to Ratan Tata, the group chairman, is said to have clinched the deal in Gujarat's favour and led to the relocation of the project to Sanand near Ahmedabad. Many considered it as West Bengal's loss and Gujarat's gain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Punjab extends night curfew to entire state, bans political gatherings||With Punjab witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced extension of night curfew to the entire state and ordered a ban on political gatherings. Singh said those violating the ban on political gatherings, including leaders, will be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Diseases Act. The chief minister said night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, which was till now imposed in 12 districts, will be extended to all 22 districts of the state. As part of the fresh curbs, the number of people who can attend funerals and weddings has been reduced to 50 people indoors and 100 for outdoors. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for all government employees while in office, an official statement said, while detailing the fresh set of restrictions imposed as the number of Covid-19 cases continued to remain high in the state. These restrictions, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, which include closure of schools and educational institutions, shall remain effective till April 30. However, there was some respite for shop owners in malls, as the chief minister allowed entry of 10 people per shop at any given time, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in the entire mall at one time. This would imply that 200 people will be allowed in a mall with 20 shops at any given time, said the statement. Punjab had on Tuesday reported 62 more fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 7,216 while the state had witnessed 2,924 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 2,57,057. The chief minister, in his weekly review of the Covid-19 situation, expressed concern at the high positivity and mortality rates in the state. He said it was a matter of concern that over 85 percent of cases in Punjab are of the UK strain, which is more contagious and virulent. He said he had no option but to go in for stricter measures to further control the ongoing surge, even though the number of positive cases had somewhat stabilised in the last few days due to curbs imposed earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines in Maharashtra to only last for three days, says minister||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state has 14 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine which would last only three days, and many inoculation centres were being closed due to the shortage of the vaccine. Talking to reporters in Mumbai, Tope said people coming to such centres for taking jabs were being sent back as there was no supply of vaccine doses. "Fourteen lakh doses are available now which would last three days. We need 40 lakh vaccine doses every week. We can then administer six lakh doses every day in a week. The doses we are getting are not enough," he said. Tope said the state government was earlier vaccinating four lakh people in a day. "We accepted the challenge from the Centre to expedite the vaccination drive to six lakh per day. Now, we were vaccinating nearly 5 lakh people in a day," he said. The minister urged the Centre to give priority to Maharashtra, since the coronavirus cases were more in the state and the overall death toll was over 50,000. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 55,469 fresh cases, while 297 deaths pushed the toll to 56,330, the state health department said. "Most of those infected now are in the age group of 25 to 40 years," Tope said. There is an urgent need to control the viral infection by increasing the immunity level of people and creating antibodies, Tope said. He also urged the National Centre for Disease Control to inform the states if the present infection spread is because of a new mutant strain of the virus. "If that is the case, please tell us what is the course of medication," he said. Earlier in the day, state principal secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas told PTI that several districts in Maharashtra will run out of the Covid-19 vaccine stock "today or tomorrow" and the Centre has been informed about it. Maharashtra can easily administer five lakh vaccine doses in a day if there is a clarity on schedule and availability, the official said. Tope said about 1,200 metric tonne oxygen is being manufactured in the state every day and the daily consumption is 700 metric tonne, of which 80 per cent is for medical use. The minister said he has urged the Centre to direct neighbouring states to facilitate oxygen supply to Maharashtra. Tope also asked all private doctors not to prescribe Remdesivir injections irrationally to hike the bills of Covid-19 patients, and that they should also follow the central government's guidelines on the use of the medicine. He said Maharashtra has followed the '3T' (testing, tracing and treatment) principles strictly and taken all steps to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour by imposing prohibitory orders and night curfew to stop crowding. Nearly 82 lakh people have been vaccinated so far in Maharashtra since the roll-out of the inoculation drive. An official statement on Tuesday said Maharashtra had received 1.06 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, out of which 88 lakh doses have been used while the wastage stood at three per cent. It said the state government will vigorously pursue its demand for more stock of vaccine doses, considering the rapid rise in the Covid-19 cases and expansion of the vaccination drive. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow people above 25 years to receive Covid-19 shots, which he said will protect the young people from the rapid spread of the viral infection at a time when they are stepping outside their homes to earn a livelihood. In a letter to the PM, Thackeray also demanded that Maharashtra be provided 1.5 crore additional doses of vaccines, which will enable the state government to complete within three weeks the vaccination of beneficiaries above 45 years of age in six districts, including Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Ambani security scare: Param Bir Singh appears before NIA||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh appeared before the NIA here on Wednesday to record his statement in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, an official said. Singh reached the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) office in south Mumbai in a car around 9.30 am, he said. Singh, who is currently director general of the Home Guards, was removed from the Mumbai police chief's post last month, following the recovery of the vehicle with explosives near Ambani's house on February 25 and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Manuskh Hiran. According to sources, Singh was summoned by the NIA to record his statement in the case. The NIA last month arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze for his alleged role in planting the vehicle with explosives near Ambani's house in south Mumbai. It had also arrested suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in connection with the murder of Mansukh Hiran, whose body was found in the Mumbra creek in neighbouring Thane on March 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Wearing mask compulsory even if driver is alone in car, rules Delhi HC||Wearing a mask while driving alone in a private vehicle is compulsory as it is a public place in the context of Covid-19, the Delhi High Court held on Wednesday and described face covering as a 'suraksha kavach' or protective shield against the spread of the infection. Justice Prathiba M Singh refused to interfere with the Delhi government's decision to impose challans for not wearing a mask while driving a private car alone, saying a vehicle even if occupied by one person would constitute a public place. "There are several possibilities in which while sitting alone in the car one could be exposed to the outside world. Thus, it cannot be said that merely because the person is travelling alone in a car, the car would not be a public place. "Wearing of a mask therein would be compulsory in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic," the court said. Masks are necessary irrespective of whether a person is vaccinated or not, it added. Justice Singh's ruling and observations came while dismissing four petitions by lawyers who challenged the imposition of 'challans' for not wearing a mask while driving alone in a private vehicle. "The wearing of a mask is like a 'suraksha kavach' for preventing the spread of Covid-19," the court said, noting that a mask protects the person wearing it and also those exposed to him or her. The wearing of a face mask was "one measure which saved millions of lives" during the pandemic, it pointed out. The court further noted in its verdict that upon the outbreak of the pandemic, globally as well as nationally, scientists, researchers, international organizations and governments emphasised the importance of wearing facial masks to control the spread of the disease. "In the absence of a complete definitive cure, the world continues to wrestle with the pandemic. The challenge of the pandemic was enormous at the outbreak of the same and even with the introduction of a few vaccines, the emphasis continues to be laid on wearing face masks. The wearing of masks is necessary irrespective of whether a person is vaccinated or not," it said. The lawyers, in their pleas, had contended that the District Magistrates who were vested with the powers to impose fines could not have sub-delegated the powers to others. Disagreeing with the contention, Justice Singh said that the definition of 'authorised persons' being inclusive and expansive in nature, District Magistrates were also vested with powers to further authorise any officers to issue challans. "The list of officers, who were authorised is broad and in the opinion of this court it has to be interpreted expansively and not restrictively....The challans have been issued by duly authorised officers. The prayer for quashing of the challans is thus not sustainable," the court said. It further said that being lawyers and advocates, the petitioners "ought to recognise and assist in the implementation of the measures for curtailing the spread of the pandemic, instead of questioning the legality of the same". Compliance of the measures by lawyers would encourage the general public to also comply with the same. During the proceedings, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, represented by advocate Farman Ali Magray, had told the court that it has not issued any direction asking people to wear masks in a car when they are alone. The ministry said health is a state subject and the Delhi government has to take a decision on it. The Delhi government had told the court that wearing masks while driving an official or personal vehicle was made compulsory through an office order in April last year and it remained in force. It also said a private vehicle was held to be a public place by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||India reports highest daily spike with over 1.15 lakh fresh Covid cases||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with over 1.15 lakh new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. A total of 1,15,736 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,66,177 with 630 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 28th day in row, the active cases have increased to 8,43,473 comprising 6.59 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.11 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,92,135, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,14, 39,598 samples have been tested up to April 6 with 12,08, 339 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 630 new fatalities include 297 from Maharashtra, 61 from Punjab, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 39 from Karnataka, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 17 each from Delhi and Gujarat, 15 from Tamil Nadu, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Rajasthan. A total of 1,66,177 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 56,330 from Maharashtra, 12,804 from Tamil Nadu, 12,696 from Karnataka, 11,113 from Delhi, 10,355 from West Bengal, 8,924 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,251 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,216 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Superstar Vijay cycles to cast his vote||Tamil superstar Vijay has thrown his countless fans into delirium through his grand entrances on screen. On election day in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, he threw political parties into a tizzy by riding a bicycle to the polling booth. Was he sending a political message against the AIADMK-BJP combine over the steep fuel price hike? No, he was not, insisted the PRO of Vijay who has so far let only his characters do the political talking. But the political attention stayed focused on Thalapathy (commander or chief), as the hugely popular 46-year-old-actor is known. Vijay’s choice of transport appeared significant since some of his movie dialogues — on issues such as temple-building or the GST — had angered state BJP leaders enough to dog-whistle about his Christian faith although the actor has so far not shown any overt political ambitions or publicly backed any party. To many, the actor’s ride was proof that the recent income-tax raids on him — ahead of the release of his latest film Master, whose shooting had witnessed BJP protests — had not dampened his spirit. While Vijay’s silent gesture lacked the apocalyptic ring of superstar Rajinikanth’s assault on the AIADMK ahead of the 1996 Assembly polls, when he said “even God cannot save Tamil Nadu if Jayalalithaa returns to power”, his millions of fans were thrilled. Social media was agog. As is the wont during elections in Tamil Nadu, which braved scorching heat and the fears of a Covid resurgence to vote to elect a 234-member Assembly on Tuesday, an expectant posse of fans had gathered outside Vijay’s Chennai home from morning. A collective gasp went up as Vijay pedalled out on a high-end bicycle, sporting a pair of jeans, a light blue shirt and a mask. He zoomed through a narrow stretch of road leading to the booth, located in a south Chennai suburb that is part of the Sholinganallur constituency. Hundreds of his fans, their astonishment turned to exhilaration at what many described as their hero’s “inspirational act”, followed him in motorbikes and scooters. “It’s simplicity that makes him powerful,” a Vijay fan posted on Twitter where the actor has 30 lakh followers. What appeared to lend his act a further political tinge was that the two-wheeler was in black and red, the colours of the Opposition DMK flag. DMK politicians such as Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran were quick to take to cyberspace and claim the bicycle ride was Vijay’s protest against the high petrol and diesel prices. “Will the central government wake up at least now?” a tweeter asked. “#Thalapathy makes a strong statement. Never afraid to take a dig at the rulers (AIADMK) and (ally) BJP. Like it or not, he is bold,” Vijay fan Dev Shak tweeted. As the “political significance” of Vijay’s bicycle ride began to dominate social media and television, his PRO issued a statement clarifying the actor had cycled to the booth as it was “very close to his house”. The road too was quite narrow and Vijay driving out in his car would have inconvenienced the other voters travelling to the booth, the PRO added. Vijay has generally played down any perception of being politically ambitious despite widespread talk about him as the next big political entrant from Tamil filmdom. Vijay has, however, never shied away from speaking his mind on political controversies, having adopted pro-Tamil stands when the state was forcibly brought under the ambit of the all-India medical entrance exam, the NEET, or when its traditional game of Jallikattu was banned. On Tuesday, as Vijay stepped out of the booth after voting and held up his left index finger with the ink mark, he was mobbed amid cries of “Thalapathy the brave”. Eventually, the actor had to leave his bicycle behind and hop onto the pillion of a fan’s scooter for a ride home. Celebrated actor and Makkal Neethi Maiyam founder-president Kamal Haasan has alleged he has information that the BJP is “intensely involved” in bribing voters in his constituency of Coimbatore South. “BJP men issued tokens to lure voters,” he told reporters, adding that these were to be later exchanged for cash or gifts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Odisha Covid protocol drive||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday directed director general of police (DGP) to launch a 10-day drive to strictly enforce Covid protocols in the state and asked the collectors to involve the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) members and Mission Shakti groups to create awareness and enforcement of Covid guidelines. Naveen issued the direction following a meeting with senior officials in the evening on how to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “This new wave of Covid virus seems to be more infectious and might create a devastating situation, if we don’t take it seriously. We will go strict in enforcement of covid norms at the institutional and individual level,” said Naveen. He also asked the chief secretary and other senior officials to visit western Odisha with high incidences of Covid positive cases and make on the ground assessment. Odisha is worried as the virus spread mainly concentrated in the districts adjoining the Chhattisgarh border. “There should be no complaints about non-responsiveness of ambulances or lack of beds in the hospital,” Naveen said. In view of the surge in Covid cases Puri administration has decided to restrict the entry of visitors to the pilgrim town. It has asked the Puri Hotel Owners’ Association to impose restrictions on people visiting the town from states such as Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra where the incidence of Covid-19 is high. “We have been asked by the administration to allow visitors from these five states to check-in only after they produce RT-PCR negative reports. The reports must not be older than 72 hours.  The tourists without updates RT-PCR negative reports will not be allowed to enter stay in the hotels,” said Puri Hotel Owners Association president, Ramakrushna Das Mohapatra Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has sealed an engineering college and an apartment for violation of Covid guidelines. As many as 588 new corona positive cases were reported from different parts of the state on Tuesday with Khurda district leading the table.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Bihar to reactivate quarantine centres||In a 2020 redux, Bihar is going to reactivate quarantine centres to accommodate people, especially migrant labourers who have started returning from states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and others parts of the country, owing to the second wave of the corona pandemic as well as the return of the spectre of lockdowns. The Central Railway has already announced that it would run special trains from Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra to Patna, Danapur and Darbhanga in Bihar and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra is currently the hardest hit state from Covid-19 and the government there has enforced night curfews on weekdays and lockdowns on weekends. “Coronavirus infections are rapidly spreading in other states. The people of Bihar are expected to return from there. We must keep quarantine centres ready at block levels,” Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday. Nitish chaired a high-level meeting with his senior officials, district magistrates and superintendents of police to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Bihar is also witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases. The number of active cases has shot up to around 5,000 from 224 a month ago. Quarantine centres in cities like Patna have already been activated. The chief minister also instructed the officials to ensure Covid-19 tests for all frontline and healthcare workers along with their family members. He also called for increasing the number of daily tests being conducted across the state. Special plans will be made after analysing the spread of coronavirus infections, its reasons and the experiences gained so far. “The population of Bihar is huge. The disaster management department should be alert in the light of the challenges that may come in future. People should stay cautious at religious and crowded places,” Nitish said. He also appealed to the people to follow Covid-19 guidelines, wear masks, maintain social distancing and keep washing their hands frequently with soap. Bihar has already issued orders to curb gatherings at functions and closed down all educational institutions till April 11 in the wake of rising coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, 18 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at the IIT Patna campus, following their return after the Holi vacation. The students have been isolated at their hostel and the areas around it have been sanitised. Academic activities on the campus have been suspended for a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Covid: Govt health officials say all above 18 can't be vaccinated now ||India’s current vaccination campaign open to people 45 years or older seeks to minimise deaths and protect the most vulnerable, health officials asserted on Tuesday, rejecting arguments from sections of doctors and health experts that vaccines be offered now to all adults. The officials who had helped shape the country’s vaccination strategy said the campaign is in line with public health requirements, global practices and World Health Organisation guidelines and cannot for now be opened to all above 18 years. “The objective cannot be to provide the vaccination to whoever desires it, the objective should be to provide the vaccination to whoever needs it most,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, responding to a growing chorus for vaccines-on-demand for all adults. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of doctors, had on Monday cited the resurgence of the epidemic and urged the Centre to permit all citizens above 18 years of age to receive Covid-19 vaccines, as one measure to mitigate the surge. Several public health experts, including Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, have also argued that India should accelerate its vaccination campaign and open it up as early as possible to all adults. But the health officials said other countries, including Australia, France, Sweden, the UK and the US, have adopted similar policies of starting their vaccination campaign with priority population groups just as India has done. In France, for instance, vaccines in mid-April are available only to all people above 60 years, people above-50 at special risk, and to teachers who want it. In the UK, the February to April campaign was open only to all those between 60 and 69 years, those between 16 and 64 years with underlying health conditions and unpaid carers for elderly and disabled, and those between 50 and 59 years. The US also started its campaign with frontline essential workers, people aged 75 years or older and people between 75 and 74 years. The US, however, plans to have all its adults vaccinated before the middle of this year. “The basic aim is to reduce deaths through vaccination. The other aim is to protect your healthcare systems,” Bhushan said. “These are the two objectives — whether in India, America, the UK or any other country. No country has gone ahead and opened vaccination to all above 18 years of age.” India has in the 80 days since the start of the campaign administered nearly 80 million doses, marking what officials have described as the fastest vaccination campaign in the world. Over five million healthcare workers, four million frontline workers and nearly 1.2 million people above 45 years in India have received both doses of the vaccines. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines, said suggestions to open up the vaccination campaign immediately to all adults “trivialises” the narrative. The campaign’s current strategy, Paul said, is intended to reduce deaths and the burden of severe disease. Infection patterns from across the world have shown that older people are at the greatest risk of severe Covid-19 and deaths from the infection. “We respect these suggestions but seek that we embrace the current strategy, counter hesitancy and encourage more (eligible) people to come for their vaccinations,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||India||Sabarimala dominates poll-day talk for Congress and BJP||Congress and BJP leaders tried to keep alive the Sabarimala controversy as Kerala voted on Tuesday, condemning the Left government for helping women of childbearing age enter the shrine after the Supreme Court lifted the traditional bar on them in September 2018. Speaking to reporters outside the booths after voting, senior Opposition politicians continued to have their say on the matter, compelling the Left leaders too to react and defend their government. G. Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the influential social organisation, the Nair Service Society, told reporters in Kottayam that people wanted a change. “I feel the believers have been protesting for quite a while. They are still doing the same,” he said, effectively discarding his organisation’s tradition of equidistance from all parties. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who voted in the Dharmadam constituency, reacted to Nair’s statement saying: “Swami Ayyappan and all the gods are with this government.” State CPI general secretary Kanam Rajendran said: “His (Nair’s) statement makes it clear he has politics on his mind. The LDF (Left Democratic Front) manifesto says it will protect all faiths.” Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala said the Left government would have to “face the wrath of Swami Ayyappan”. Even Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who rarely comments on the sensitive subject, said the Left government had done “too little too late” when it came to repairing the damage. “This wouldn’t have happened if they had thought about Ayyappan when they sent people wearing helmets and flak jackets to the temple,” he told reporters after voting. The allusion was to the state government providing police escorts to women of childbearing age who wanted to enter the hill shrine in the winter of 2018-19. Widespread outrage at the government move had helped the Congress-led UDF sweep 19 of Kerala’s 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election. However, the issue seemed not to exert the expected leverage in the December 2020 local body polls, which went the Left’s way. But the controversy was rejuvenated when state devaswom (temple affairs) minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed “regrets” at the developments that followed the 2018 apex court verdict. This was construed as an admission that the government’s move to implement the judgment was a mistake. However, the CPM quickly clarified that its government had done nothing wrong. At the same time, Vijayan appeared to hold out an olive branch saying that once the apex court ruled on the pending review petitions, his government would consult all stakeholders before deciding what to do. State BJP president K. Surendran on Tuesday described Vijayan as the “biggest asura (demon)” for allowing women of childbearing age to enter the temple. “This is the kind of thing asuras do. The chief minister is the biggest asura. He is now making this somersault realising that the voters would remember the heinous encroachments,” he said. Surendran is contesting from Konni as well as Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district in the state’s extreme north.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||India||India-Russia  military talks under threat of US sanctions||India and Russia on Tuesday committed themselves to deepening military cooperation, undeterred by the threat of US sanctions. Although India’s decision to acquire five Almaz-Antel S-400 Triumf self-propelled surface-to-air missile systems was not specifically discussed during the bilateral deliberations between Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, both confirmed that the military cooperation would continue. Asked if the two sides had discussed US pressure on India to not buy the S-400s, Lavrov said: “We didn’t discuss the statements from the US. Instead, we confirmed deepening military cooperation. We also discussed the prospect of additional manufacturing of Russian military equipment in India within the concept of ‘Make in India’.” Lavrov, who has been foreign minister since 2004, added for good measure that he did not see any fluctuations or changes on the Indian side in military cooperation. Jaishankar seconded what Lavrov said. Last December, the Donald Trump administration had imposed sanctions on Turkey for purchasing the S-400 defence system. During his visit to India last month, two months into the Joe Biden administration, US defence secretary Lloyd Austin had said he had discussed New Delhi’s plans to purchase the Russian air defence system, pointing out that Washington had asked all its partners to stay away from Russian equipment to avoid sanctions under the CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act). From Delhi, Lavrov headed for Islamabad on his second visit to Pakistan since 2012 amid growing ties between Russia and that country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||India||Chattisgarh: Abducted CRPF soldier’s wife urges PM Modi for his release||The family of a CRPF soldier feared to have been abducted by Maoists after Saturday’s ambush that killed 22 troops in Chhattisgarh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rescue the jawan like Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was brought back from Pakistan. The alleged abduction of Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, a commando from the CoBRA battalion of the CRPF and a resident of Jammu, has plunged the family in grief and they are making frantic calls to the local CRPF headquarters for his release. “If he is safe, get him back, no matter how or wherefrom. I appeal to Modiji to get him back the way Abhinandan was brought back from Pakistan. Get him also,” Manhas’s wife Meenu told reporters in Jammu on Monday evening. The family also released a video where Shragvi, the five-year-old daughter of Manhas, 35, urges the Maoists to release her father. “Please release my father,” the girl pleads before she breaks down. Her relatives are seen wiping her tears. Varthaman, an IAF fighter pilot, had been taken captive by Pakistan after his plane crashed during the Balakot strike but was later released. Meenu said she had last spoken to her husband at 9.30pm on Friday. She said Manhas had told her that he was leaving for an operation. “He had told me he would return the next day,” she said. Meenu said her husband  had served the country for 10 years and participated in several counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir. “Now it is the government’s turn to fight for its jawan and get him back from the captivity of the Maoists,” she said. Manhas was recruited to the CRPF in 2011. A purported statement by Maoists on Tuesday said they had abducted a jawan during the gun battle with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district and asked for mediators to be nominated for his release, reports PTI. The statement is being looked into, a CRPF commander said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||India||Rafale: Supplied 50 replicas to the aircraft maker, says Defsys||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, the company named in a French media report as the recipient of 1 million euros from Dassault Aviation, said in a statement on Tuesday that it had supplied 50 replicas of the Rafale fighter to the aircraft maker. “This is in response to wholly unsubstantiated, baseless and misleading claims appearing in certain sections of the media, insinuating that Defsys never supplied 50 replica models of Rafale aircraft,” Defsys said. “Delivery challans, E-way bills and GST returns related to such delivery have been duly filed with the relevant authorities.” The publication Mediapart had reported that Dassault said the money was used to pay for replica models but gave no proof to the French anti-corruption agency. “Dassault group was unable to provide the AFA (Agence Française Anticorruption) with a single document showing that these models existed and were delivered, and not even a photograph. The inspectors thus suspected that this was a bogus purchase designed to hide hidden financial transactions,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||India||Justice NV Ramana appointed as the 48th Chief Justice of India||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday formally issued a warrant appointing Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, who had ruled against the Narendra Modi government over the Internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir, as the 48th Chief Justice of India from April 24. Justice Ramana will take over after current CJI Sharad Arvind Bobde retires on April 23, and will continue in the top post till August 26, 2022. Below are some of the key judgments that Justice Ramana, a former journalist, has authored since his elevation to the apex court in February 2014. ⚫ In Anuradha Bhasin v Union of India (2020), the judgment ensured the eventual return of Internet connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir —where it had been curbed since August 2019 — by linking it to the fundamental right of free speech. The bench also laid down certain parameters on curfews, holding that “Section 144 CrPC (which bans assemblies of more than five people) cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights”. ⚫ In Foundation for Media Professionals v State (Union Territory of J&K), 2020, the judgment struck a balance between the fundamental rights and the concerns of State security and appointed a committee to ensure that any restrictions, if required, are narrowly tailored and not permanent in nature. It reiterated the Bhasin verdict’s push for the return of Internet to Kashmir. ⚫  As part of a five-judge bench in Supreme Court of India v Subash Chandra Agarwal, Justice Ramana held: “The right to information and right to privacy are at an equal footing. There is no requirement to take an a priori view that one right trumps other.” The judgment boosted the case of RTI activists. ⚫ In Swaraj Abhiyan v Union of India, Justice Ramana stressed the need for cooperative federalism in the implementation of the National Food Security Act. He issued subsequent directions to ensure the right to food for all. ⚫ In Kirti v Oriental Insurance this year, Justice Ramana’s opinion was key to recognising homemakers’ contribution to the family and giving them an equal status with the earning members. Women’s organisations hailed the judgment. ⚫ In M/s Fortune Infrastructure (now M/s Hicon Infrastructure) & Anr v Trevor D’Lima & Ors, Justice Ramana held that a consumer must be given delivery of their flat within a reasonable time even in the absence of a specified contractual clause. He held a consumer was entitled to a refund and compensation if the developer failed to deliver. ⚫ In Accused X v State of Maharashtra, Justice Ramana saved an accused with acute mental illness from the gallows by ruling that the courts must consider the mental condition of accused after conviction. “The right to dignity of an accused does not dry out with the judges’ ink, rather, it subsists well beyond the prison gates and operates until his last breath,” he wrote. ⚫ In Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay v Union of India, a bench that included Justice Ramana passed numerous directives to speed up criminal investigations and trials involving lawmakers. ⚫ In Shiv Sena v Union of India (2019), Justice Ramana highlighted the importance of the floor test to curtail the so-called practice of horse trading, and directed an immediate trust vote in Maharashtra. ⚫ In Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil v Karnataka Legislative Assembly (2019), Justice Ramana observed that for political functionaries, “merely taking the oath to protect and uphold the Constitution may not be sufficient, rather imbibing the constitutional values in everyday functioning is required and expected by the glorious document that is our Constitution”. This was seen as a decisive statement on the Tenth Schedule, which was riddled with confusion and contradictory opinions. ⚫ In PUDA v Vidya Chetal, the court held that even services rendered by statutory authorities can be brought under the ambit of the Consumer Protection Act, and adjudicated upon by consumer forums. ⚫ In Mansukhbhai Kanjibhai Shah v the State of Gujarat, the court held that officials of a deemed university too performed public duties and therefore came under the ambit of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The judgment helped make higher education more transparent in India. ⚫ In M/s Alcon Electronics v Celem SA, Justice Ramana paved the way for foreign decrees being executed in India. The business community hailed the judgment as crucial for international trade and commerce. ⚫ In Vidya Drolia v Durga Trading Corporation, his opinion has been cited as decreasing the burden on the courts by making arbitration more efficient in India. ⚫ In Sebi v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, relating to insider trading, Justice Ramana examined practices such as hedging to rule that stockbrokers’ use of price-sensitive confidential information to pre-emptively buy or sell shares was illegal. Sebi amended the law in line with his suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Shah predicts massive victory for BJP||Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a series of colourful road shows in three districts of south Bengal on Wednesday, promising rapid industrialisation if BJP is voted to power and predicted a massive victory for his party. Shah claimed the BJP will win between 63 to 68 seats out of 91 constituencies for which elections have been held in the first three phases of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections. Asserting that Mamata Banerjees departure is assured, he said at Mallick Fatak in Howrah, "She is such a big leader, so her departure should also be with a big margin." The home minister also promised to wipe out hooliganism and political violence if his party came to power. The first of the road shows of the day was at Singur, once the hotspot of the anti-land acquisition movement, where he moved from Dulepara till near Singur police station. He was campaigning for Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the outgoing Singur MLA and a Trinamul turncoat. The symbolism of the home minister holding a road show in Singur, three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a rally there and alleged the "obstructionist mindset" of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee deprived West Bengal of industries and jobs, was clear--the BJP wants to corner her over the states dwindling industrial base and lack of jobs. He then joined a road show at Domjur, campaigning for another Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee. The rally started at Jagadishpur Market and ended at Kona crossing. Shah then went to Howrah Central (in the picture) and campaigned for Sanjay Singh. Bally’s BJP candidate and Trinamul turncoat Baishali Dalmiya was present at this road show. In between, Shah had lunch at the residence of Shishir Sana, a van puller at Domjur. The last road show attended by Shah was at Behala East in Calcutta Speaking to reporters during the show, Shah said Singur, which has been shunned by industry since the 2006 agitation, will be developed by the next BJP government in the state. "We will develop the area by setting up industries and a Rs 500 crore intervention fund has been announced for potatoes, for which the area is known, in our Sankalp Patra (manifesto)," he said. Shah said, after winning the elections, the BJP government will ensure that small, medium and large industries are set up in Singur, situated beside the national highway connecting Calcutta and New Delhi. "We will pursue politics of development, dialogue and cooperation, instead of confrontation," he said. "Bharatiya Janata Party estimates that it will surely win 63 to 68 seats in the first three phases of elections and gain a huge lead over the TMC, Left and the Congress," he said. He said he welcomed TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee invocation of Hindu Gods and Goddesses, and recitation of Chandi Path (hymns to Goddess Durga) at public meetings, but quipped it was "too late for her". Banerjee, often accused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of minority appeasement, has been regularly chanting hymns and asserting her Hindu identity to keep the majority community in good humour. The road show meandered through the roads of Singur town for nearly an hour from Dulepara More to Singur police station, as colourful posters, BJP flags and green and saffron balloons dotted the route. Chants of Jai Shri Ram and slogans demanding industrialisation and jobs pervaded the air as the procession crawled through streets. Referring to the Singur movement of 2006-08 that forced Tata Motors to move out its proposed small car Nanos mother production unit from the area, Modi had told an election meeting that the TMC used the place for political purpose and then left the people to fend for themselves. Singur, a small town in Hooghly district, has an old connection between Banerjee and Modi. The scene of an aggressive movement led by Banerjee against forcible land acquisition by the then Left Front government for the Nano project, Singur, along with Nandigram, had catapulted the street fighter TMC leader to power in West Bengal in 2011. The sustained, and often violent, protests by the local farming community led by Banerjee forced the Tatas to move out of Singur. A cryptic Suswagatam SMS from Modi, then the Gujarat chief minister, to Ratan Tata, the group chairman, is said to have clinched the deal in Gujarats favour and led to the relocation of the project to Sanand near Ahmedabad. Many considered it as West Bengals loss and Gujarats gain. Shah also held rallies at Domjur, Howrah Madhya and Behala East constituencies, all of which will go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10, with party candidates in tow. Addressing the crowd at Mallick Fatak in central Howrah, Shah said that a BJP government in the state will make its border security strong enough to ensure that no one can cross over into it illegally. "Under Modijis leadership, we have to reform the education system, strengthen infrastructure, provide work to the unemployed and promote industry," he said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||EC issues notice to Mamata over 'appeal' to Muslims during rally||The Election Commission issued a notice to Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for allegedly making an appeal to voters along communal lines during campaigning in Hooghly. She has been asked to respond to the notice within the next 48 hours. The notice said the poll panel had received a complaint from a BJP delegation alleging that on April 3, Mamata appealed to the Muslim voters not to let their votes be split among different political parties during the election rally at Tarakeshwar in Hooghly. The EC said it found her speech violating the provisions of the Representation of the People Act and the model code. The poll panel referred to the following speech of Mamata, as quoted by NDTV. “... I am requesting my minority brothers and sisters with folded hands... don't divide the minority votes after listening to the devil... who had taken money from the BJP... He passes many communal statements and initiates clashes between Hindus and Muslims... comrades of the CPI(M) and BJP are roaming around with money given by BJP to divide the minority votes”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday mocked the TMC supremo, saying her appeal indicated that the minority community had started drifting away from the Bengal chief minister. “Didi is publicly asking Muslims to support her and urging them not to divide their votes….. Such remarks indicate that even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections,” Modi told a poll rally at Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar. Modi’s claim assumes significance in the backdrop of Bengal’s demography with over 28 per cent Muslim voters who have been overtly behind the Trinamul Congress since the change of guard in Bengal. In a separate incident on Monday, the EC had Mamata’s claims of the presence of outsiders in booth 7 of the Boyal Maktab Primary School in Nandigram and intimidation of voters by central force jawans during the poll process on April 1. The poll panel termed the allegations “factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee alleges he was sidelined by TMC for resisting cut-money culture||Former minister Rajib Banerjee, considered to be one of BJP's prized scalps in its quest to assume power in Bengal, alleged that he was relegated in the TMC for opposing "cut money culture" and had to face "step-motherly" treatment throughout his second term, which ultimately prompted him to sever ties with the ruling party. Banerjee also mocked the Trinamul Congress government for promoting the state's numero uno position in implementation of the MGNREGA, contending that the distinction is testimony of the lack of jobs for the youth of Bengal. The former forest minister, once a key figure in the Trinamul Congress, said he had considered retiring from active politics, but took up the challenge to contest in the Assembly elections with the hope that the BJP will usher in a new era of development in the state. Banerjee, 51, who switched over to the saffron camp in January, is vying for a third term from the Domjur constituency, where he has won twice as a TMC candidate since 2011. Referring to his "bitter experiences" in the Backward Classes Welfare Department, Banerjee said he had once received a complaint of irregularity in distribution of cycles among students under the 'Sabuj Sathi' project, and flagged it to the chief minister's office. "The result of pointing this out was I was removed from the department, as I tried to put an end to the cut money culture," the former Backward Classes Welfare Department Minister told PTI in an interview on the sidelines of hectic campaigning. Accusing the TMC dispensation of not clearing files for development projects for his constituency, Banerjee claimed that he was shunted out of every ministry that he headed whenever he tried to come in the way of vested interests of a section of senior officials and party members. "I had worked hard to get the nod for drinking water projects in Domjur, but then, a Rs 33-crore proposal for free water connection to households was not approved. The local TMC administration is now demanding money from people to go ahead with it. I wanted to execute the project without charging a penny," he said. Attacking the TMC government over its "failure" to create job opportunities, Banerjee sought to punch a hole in the ruling party's poll plank of securing the top spot for implementation of the 100-day rural job scheme, declaring it as "a reflection of Bengal, a failed state". "There are over 5.5 lakh vacancies in state government departments, and no efforts were made to recruit people for the posts. Instead, the TMC dispensation hired a few thousand contractual workers. "People do not have jobs, and that is why they sought work under the MGNREGA scheme. Youths are leaving the state," Banerjee, who holds an MBA degree, said. Asked about allegations that he enjoyed all the power and perks of his position before ditching the TMC prior to the elections, the former Irrigation Minister said people of the constituency are well aware of his development work in the area. "Let the TMC leaders say whatever they want. People will decide on April 10 (the day of polling in Domjur)... I know they will not disappoint me, said Banerjee, who is believed to have considerable influence in several seats of Howrah district. The TMC turncoat, however, maintained that he had immense respect for TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and had to desert the party with a heavy heart as he was cornered. "Unfortunately, I was not allowed to work independently in the second term and sidelined in the party. I had to face personal attacks for airing grievances against a section of top leaders. "I was also meted out a step-motherly treatment ever since winning from the constituency with more than one lakh votes for a second term in 2016," he claimed. Banerjee also took a swipe at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will happen) poll slogan, insisting that such a discourse by the ruling party shows it has become politically bankrupt. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||CRPF harassing voters in Bengal at Shah's behest, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the CRPF personnel are harassing voters in the state at the behest of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Addressing a rally here in Cooch Behar district, she accused personnel of the central force of molesting women and beating people during the ongoing assembly elections. "They are obstructing electors to cast their votes. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has instructed them to do so," Banerjee alleged. She claimed at least 10 people have been killed in the state during the ongoing polls. "The Election Commission is running the administration. Please see that nobody is killed during the polling process. I request you to monitor CRPF personnel who are on duty now in the state. They should not be allowed to harass women. There are cases of girls being molested by the central force employees," she said. Five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, while clashes between rival political groups erupted during the third phase of polling in the state on Tuesday. Television grabs showed TMC nominee in Arambagh Sujata Mondal being chased in an open field by people wielding sticks and iron rods and then hitting her on the head with sticks. Her security officer was also injured. Other candidates who were allegedly attacked or heckled during the day were Papiya Adhikary and Swapan Dasgupta of the BJP and Dr Nirmal Maji and Najmul Karim of the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Trinamul banks on women voters ||A group of eight women came out of the Khordda-Kanpur Primary School, a polling booth in Hooghly’s Goghat constituency, around 2.30pm on Tuesday after casting their votes and had a brief conversation with a man standing around 150 meters away from the booth. Syed Ashik Hossain, 30, a local Trinamul leader, seemed happy following the conversation and bid them a bye with a smiling face and the women left for their homes. “Have all women voters already turned up?” Hossain then asked Trinamul colleague Bappadittya Roy. Bappadittya, who was manning the party’s camp office, pored over a list in front of him to count while murmuring that the length of the women’s queue outside the booth was longer than the men’s since morning. “I saw 25-odd women in the queue still waiting... After that, 100-odd left. I think the trend is okay,” Hossain said after Bappadittya handed him over a list that had a status report on women voting at the booth. The duo then told this correspondent how they had adopted a strategy to ensure that all women voters in the booth cast their votes before 3pm. With their mission almost accomplished before the deadline, they seemed relieved as they took a tea break. Archana Dhara, one of the eight women who were seen talking to Hossain, said she scurried to reach the booth as she had plans to be there by 12.30pm, but domestic chores got her delayed. “I don't know about politics... I know there are a lot of problems with local leaders of Trinamul. But I can’t stop supporting Didi,” said Dhara, in her mid-twenties, while adding her family had been beneficiaries of Kanyashree and Rupashree projects. According to her, while Rupashree helped her father organise her marriage with the Rs 25,000 grant, her sister’s plan of studying beyond Class XII was aided by Kanyashree, which gave her Rs 1,000 annually and Rs 25,000 after she turned 18. The booth where Dhara cast her votes has 1,255 voters, including 615 women.When the voting ended, 1107 votes were cast, out of which 540 were women, which means 48.7 per cent of the total votes were cast by women. “This percentage is relatively high,” said a poll official. The queue of women was longer than male voters at many booths in districts like Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas, where 31 constituencies went to the polls on Tuesday. At 9.30am, a booth in Suboypur of Arambagh had around 45 women while there were nine men in the queue. Although the gender-wise break-up of voters was not available, Trinamul leaders claimed women had came out to vote in droves and the percentage was as high as over 48 per cent, which gave them a reason to be happy. Halima Molla, who had to queue up for around 40 minutes under the scorching sun at her booth at Lalpur Primary School in Raidighi, said she was there to vote for Mamata. “As a woman, I think every woman would like to have a daughter like Mamata... She is so helpful, but also courageous,” said Halima.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Muslims moving away from Didi, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that Mamata Banerjee’s appeal to Muslims not to divide their votes indicated that the minority community had started drifting away from the Bengal chief minister. “Didi is publicly asking Muslims to support her and urging them not to divide their votes….. Such remarks indicate that even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections,” Modi told a poll rally at Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar. Modi’s claim assumes significance in the backdrop of Bengal’s demography with over 28 per cent Muslim voters who have been overtly behind the Trinamul Congress since the change of guard in Bengal. Till now, Modi’s attack on Mamata revolved around her alleged appeasement of Muslims. On Monday, he came up with a different narrative and went on to further the BJP’s polarisation agenda. “If we had appealed to all Hindus (of Bengal) to join hands and vote for the BJP, we would have been served with notices by the Election Commission. Even the Prime Minister, the president of our party and candidate (of the Assembly constituency concerned) would have received the notices. We don’t know whether Didi has received the notice,” Modi said. A political observer said the jibe was part of Modi’s strategy to baffle the Trinamul campaign strategists and confuse the Muslim community. “In north Bengal, the BJP is working on a strategy to divide Muslim votes in districts like Malda and North Dinajpur with a game plan to deny Trinamul the edge it enjoys among the Muslims,” said an observer. A number of Rajbanshi Muslims, who are supporters of one of the factions of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, were seen at the PM’s meeting. “Around 35 lakh Rajbanshi Muslims live in north Bengal. One of the factions of the GCPA headed by Ananta Roy ‘Maharaj’ is with the BJP,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. The Rajbanshi Muslims, commonly known as “nasya sheikhs”, are also under Trinamul’s radar. Just ahead of the elections, the state government has announced the constitution of a development board for the community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s mother dies after assault||Madhavi Adak, the mother of BJP worker Piru Adak, died early on Tuesday after goons allegedly belonging to the Trinamul Congress had beat her up at Goghat late on Monday night. The BJP has alleged that Madhavi was assaulted when she had come out to save Piru from the hands of the goons. Piru, who had joined the BJP after quitting Trinamul following the 2018 panchayat polls, was sitting with fellow party workers near his residence in Khushiganj. A little after 10pm on Monday, a gang of about 50 goons arrived on 25 motorbikes. Local residents said the goons were armed with sticks, iron rods and pistols. “The goons were Trinamul supporters and they attacked Piru and other BJP workers who were sitting together after putting up BJP flags and banners. The goons started to chase away our boys. While others fled, Piru couldn’t,” said an eyewitness. Goghat voted on Tuesday. Hearing the commotion, Madhavi arrived on the scene and tried to save her son. While the goons couldn’t get hold of Piru, they attacked his mother instead. The BJP alleged that Madhavi was beaten with blunt objects like iron rods and the butt of a pistol. Piru said while they had requested the police to help his mother, they refused. Goghat’s BJP candidate Biswanath Karak said the party had lodged a police complaint. BJP workers staged a demonstration alleging police inaction. Trinamul, however, denied any connection with the incident. “This might just be a case of normal death. We believe they are trying to politicise the issue on poll day,” said Majumdar, rejecting charges of his involvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Modi’s indirect nod for Mamata schemes ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said benefits to common people would continue ever after the Mamata Banerjee government ceased to exist in Bengal after May 2. The promise was willy-nilly an endorsement that the social welfare schemes introduced by the Trinamul government in the past 10 years had a positive impact on the lives of people. “Didi has been saying if she does not come to power, all social benefits that people receive in Bengal will stop. Do you believe this? It is a lie and a futile attempt to hoodwink people,” Modi said while addressing a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar town. “None of these schemes will be discontinued. People will get monthly allowances and other benefits related to health, education and social security…. Only the amount of assistance will increase. But yes, cut money, extortion and corruption will not be there anymore,” the Prime Minister added. With the BJP desperate to secure power in Bengal, the party has time and again harped on the array of social security schemes which it intends to launch for the residents of the state. The BJP had also mentioned those schemes in its “Sankalpa Patra” or the manifesto that was released in Calcutta by Union home minister Amit Shah. Whether it is through their speeches or their manifesto, leaders of the saffron brigade have so far tried to prove that they would give Bengal a better deal that the Mamata regime had denied the citizenry. Also, time and again, they have accused the Mamata Banerjee government of corruption in the implementation of these schemes. Political observers pointed out the Prime Minister’s promise that the schemes would continue meant that the social security schemes introduced by the Trinamul government would continue even if the BJP was voted to power. “This proves the PM and his party cannot undermine those schemes and their effects on a major section of the state’s population. He has virtually admitted that people are getting the benefits of these schemes and hence articulated that the scale of financial benefits would increase if the BJP comes to power,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cash coupon blows up on BJP ||Either chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already transformed Bengal into “Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal)” or campaigner Narendra Modi’s magic wand has done so in the past few weeks. Otherwise, how can villagers at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas “donate” Rs 1,000 to the BJP against a coupon that mentions the amount and carries a picture of the Prime Minister? The BJP claims the coupon is actually a receipt for donations to organise a meeting in Joynagar, also in South 24-Parganas. But the Trinamul Congress and the CPM are accusing the BJP of “buying” support by distributing coupons of Rs 1,000 each among voters. Raidighi voted on Tuesday in the third phase of polling in Bengal. Supporters of both Trinamul and the CPM said the local BJP leadership had promised them such a payment for attending Prime Minister Modi’s April 1 rally in Joynagar and for voting in favour of his party. The villagers said the coupons were given to them as part of an offer of an “assured gift” for attending the meeting and also for voting in favour of the BJP. BJP leader and the party’s Raidhighi candidate, Shantanu Bapuli — a Trinamul turncoat — denied the allegation and gave multiple explanations. The gist: the coupon is a receipt for donations towards a rally organised for the Prime Minister, not an IOU that can be cashed in exchange for rally attendance and a vote; it was meant for traders and the salaried but the party is now trying to find out how it ended up with poor villagers…. Late at night, Bapuli called this correspondent and said the coupons were also used to make payments to transporters ferrying people to the BJP’s rallies. “If a vehicle is hired for Rs 2,000, the transporter is given two coupons of Rs 1,000 each. After the rally, they come to us to collect the cash by handing over the coupons.” Which confirms that the coupon can be cashed — a shift from Bapuli’s earlier explanation and a corroboration of one element of the version by the villagers who said they had been asked to attend the rally, vote for the BJP and collect the cash by producing the coupon. The coupons drew wider attention during a visit to the area by veteran CPM leader and candidate Kanti Ganguly. The party’s supporters showed him the coupons, allegedly circulated by BJP workers in the area. Trinamul supporters too claimed to have received similar coupons from the BJP. Printed by the BJP’s Mathurapur organising district committee, the coupons clearly mention the sum of Rs 1,000 but not the word “donation”. While donations for political events are not uncommon, individual contributions of Rs 1,000 are unheard of, not just in rural India but even in urban centres. On the campaign trail in the state, Modi has been promising to turn Bengal into Sonar Bangla. Bapuli, the BJP leader in Raidhighi, said: “The coupons were exclusively meant for donations to organise the Joynagar meeting…. It appears that the CPM and Trinamul have joined hands in fear of defeat and are acting desperately to malign our party. The BJP has no need to buy votes in Bengal.” Asked whether villagers can afford to donate Rs 1,000 in a state whose government’s performance has been roundly criticised by the BJP leadership, Bapuli said the coupons were meant for traders and the salaried. But even for the highly emotive issue of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, the donations had been classified into denominations of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 — not a blanket Rs 1,000 as the BJP had purportedly done for the Joynagar event. Told the coupons had been found with several farmers, Bapuli said: “We need to find out how the poor villagers got hold of the coupons. The coupons were intended to collect donations from traders and salaried sympathisers of the party.” CPM leader Ganguly, a minister in the erstwhile Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee cabinet, said: “This immensely unfair practice of the BJP is widely known. But the people here have rejected their offer of money.” Hazrat Laskar, a CPM supporter from the area, said: “A BJP leader distributed these coupons in the last week of March. He told many villagers like me to attend Modi’s meeting. Some people found the offer attractive enough to attend the meeting. However, there are many like me who received the coupons but eventually did not attend.” Laskar added: “The BJP leader also requested us to vote for the party, and said that the assured gift of Rs 1,000 in cash would be paid only after voting was over. I decided not to compromise my political ethics.” Trinamul supporter Mostakim Khan echoed Laskar, his political opponent, but accused the CPM of having helped the BJP. “There is nothing unusual any more in the BJP distributing cash to woo voters, more so since that party has no support base in this district,” said Khan, referring to South 24-Parganas. “On countless occasions, Mamata Banerjee has spoken about this in public and alerted us. The BJP leaders in the area distributed the coupons even among our supporters, asking them to attend the meeting and to vote for them. But we are certain that most of them did not attend the meeting and hopefully have not voted for the party, either,” he added. Khan could not resist blaming the CPM. “I think the local CPM and ISF supporters helped the BJP to circulate the coupons since the BJP leaders hardly have any access to the area. So without their support, the BJP could not have distributed these coupons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Taunts fail to eject Didi’s ‘sisters’ from booths ||Champa Manna, 40, a homemaker of Daporchak village in the Purshura Assembly constituency, stepped into the polling booth and presented her documents with the presiding officer to prove her credentials as the polling agent of the Trinamul Congress. Manna stayed inside the booth for six hours after her husband Pintu, a Trinamul worker, had allegedly been disallowed from entering the premises as the polling agent. She did not let the booth remain un-represented by Trinamul till another woman Chhaya Mali, a local gram panchayat member, came as her substitute. “After BJP workers did not allow my husband, I went there as a polling agent and did not bow down before the threats,” said Champa. Priyanka Das, 24, was deputed as a Trinamul polling agent at one of the booths at Parul Basic High School in Arambagh for the first time. She was allegedly harassed by a group of BJP workers outside the booth but did not leave till the voting got over. “I faced taunts every time I stepped out to breathe some fresh air. The BJP workers taunted me as I became the polling agent of my party despite being a woman. But they failed to oust me from the booth,” said Priyanka. Priyanka and Champa are among over 30 women who became the polling agents of Trinamul for the first time in their life. Apart from the women, Trinamul leaders said they had tried their best to re-deploy polling agents at most of the booths from where the BJP had tried to oust their men. A polling agent at a booth is vital for a party as the person looks after the entire process with the right to object if any malpractice is reported. The absence of a polling agent gives an advantage to rivals. Trinamul had failed to depute agents at booths in the second phase of the elections, including in Nandigram where chief minister Mamata Banerjee took on her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari who was fielded by the BJP. Trinamul insiders said the party had faced such a crisis with the polling agents for the first time since they had come to the power in 2011. After the second phase of the voting, senior Trinamul leaders, along with the I-PAC team led by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, held several meetings to depute polling agents courageous enough to sit at problematic booths. The decision was to depute women as polling agents. Eight constituencies in Hooghly went to the polls on Tuesday and the Trinamul insiders said the party faced a problem with election agents at 100-odd booths when the voting started at 7am. “We did not have any booth without a polling agent this time. We redeployed polling agents on around 100 polling premises despite threats from the BJP’s hooligans. According to the advice of chief minister, our workers assigned women as polling agents in at least 20 booths,” said Dilip Yadav, Trinamul’s Hooghly president and the party candidate in the Pursurah Assembly seat. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had flayed Trinamul leaders in the districts on the issue of polling agents and directed them to depute women. “I am not ready to listen to excuses like BJP’s threats or BJP’s attacks for not (someone from Trinamul) being present at the booth on the day of polling. I request those who are not brave, please don’t go to the booth. I am asking you (leaders) to depute women as polling agents at a booth. Assign my Kanyashree sisters, my students as polling agents,” Mamata said at a rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “In case the brave hearts are not available, find a woman who can argue and who has the strength and place them as polling agents. Depute the women at booths and I will see who comes to threaten (them),” Mamata said. The Trinamul insiders said despite several efforts, the party could not post polling agents in at least 30 booths in the district. There are many polling stations, mostly in minority areas, where the BJP also failed to deploy polling agents. Gopal Roy, a Trinamul youth leader in Pursurah, said Champa Manna was deputed for the first time as an agent and fought till the poll was over, along with another woman polling agent. “The BJP tried to drive out our agents from booths but party workers deputed women and persons with strong mindset at the booths,” said Roy. Champa said she was new but she learnt the job of a polling agent from her husband. “I was new but I had some idea as my husband has been associated with the party for long. I went to the booth and tried my best.” Sources said the BJP had driven away two polling agents, Panmani Hembram and Rasulal Hembram, from two booths in Goghat. But they were redeployed by Trinamul MLA and candidate Manas Majumdar within half an hour. “I went there as soon as I heard our agents were driven out. I redeployed them at the booth,” said Majumdar. Sources said all candidates had conducted a meeting on Monday with their polling agents and asked them not to leave the booths and report if they faced any problem anywhere. “We had prepared a list of polling agents with their numbers. We kept another set ready for most of the booths. There was a dedicated team to see whether polling agents are driven out of any booth,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC candidates attacked in the third phase of elections||Six candidates, including four from the ruling Trinamul Congress, were roughed up by rival party activists as Bengal voted in the third phase of the Assembly elections on Tuesday, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to accuse the Election Commission of inertia. Although violence during elections is not uncommon, rarely have so many poll candidates been attacked simultaneously, raising the spectre of more unrest in the remaining five phases of the elections that have witnessed unprecedented pent-up tensions. Most of the attacks took place when the candidates arrived to protest alleged instances of electoral malpractice. Speaking in the afternoon at a campaign rally in Alipurduar, Mamata said she had received over 100 reports of assault and violence on her party’s candidates and workers from across Bengal. She accused the Election Commission, yet again, of inertia despite formal complaints. “They inflicted a serious injury on our SC (Scheduled Caste) candidate Sujata (Mondal Khan)… while she was visiting a booth. They also thrashed a candidate in Khanakul…. In Canning East, security forces prevented our candidate Saokat (Molla) from entering a booth,” the chief minister said. “There have been numerous such instances today of attacks that did not spare the candidates. We have lodged repeated complaints with the Election Commission but to no avail,” Mamata said. Trinamul’s Arambagh candidate, Sujata, estranged wife of the BJP state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, was chased out of the Arandi South Primary School polling station in the constituency by a stick-wielding mob. She and her personal security officer were allegedly hit on the head with sticks. Around 11am, Sujata had arrived at the school to examine complaints of booth-capturing by the BJP. As soon as she tried to enter, she faced resistance from local BJP supporters. She allegedly twisted the arm of a BJP supporter during an argument. The woman suffered a fracture, the BJP alleged. Enraged BJP supporters attacked Sujata, who later denied having attacked anybody and alleged she had been assaulted without provocation. A witness said: “The aggression with which she (Sujata) started abusing and assaulting the local people, it enraged them. They chased her with sticks…. She tried to flee in her car but local people blocked the road. She had to run for her life with her security personnel through a field.” The witness added: “They fell a couple of times. The security personnel too tried to stop the people from advancing by brandishing their service firearms. But the mob of over 200 did not care. The candidate and at least one security person got hit on the head with bamboo sticks…. They kept running for about 1.5 km.” Sujata, who had switched to Trinamul from the BJP ahead of the polls, later alleged an attempt on her life, accusing her former party of planning it. “They (the BJP) think that by resorting to violence they will secure victory in seats such as Arambagh. They are badly mistaken. Candidates like me have been fielded. We do not fear even death,” she said. Arambagh sub-divisional police officer Abhishek Mondal said five people had been arrested. The problems did not end there for Sujata. Around 4.30pm, while she was touring the Dihi Bagnan area, a mob allegedly hurled stones and bricks at her car, demanding she leave. The windshield was smashed. BJP Arambagh chief Biman Ghosh, also the party’s Pursurah candidate, accused Sujata of terrorising innocent villagers, assaulting a woman and throwing out cooked food from a house, thus triggering a “spontaneous outburst”. “People intensely dislike her here, anyway. She is an outsider and is extremely aggressive…. Whatever happened, she brought it on herself,” Ghosh said. Trinamul’s Khanakul (Hooghly) candidate Najibul Karim ran into protests when he arrived at Gaurangachowk to probe allegations that his party’s election agents had been driven out by the BJP. After reinstating the polling agents and encouraging Trinamul voters to return to the queues, Karim was about to leave when a group of alleged BJP workers armed with sticks thrashed him and his personal security officer. Both suffered multiple injuries. “As the candidate himself was beaten up and taken away for hospitalisation, the Trinamul polling agents once again ran away in fear…. Soon, many Trinamul-supporting voters went home without casting their votes,” a local resident said. Mondal, the sub-divisional police officer, said three arrests had been made. In neighbouring Howrah’s Uluberia North constituency, Trinamul candidate Nirmal Majhi, a minister of state, had arrived at a booth in Muktir Chowk following allegations of BJP-backed malpractice when he faced demonstrations by the Opposition party’s activists who refused to let him enter. Police sources said that when Majhi refused to relent, the BJP group allegedly started hurling bricks at him. His security personnel immediately gave him a helmet, but a policeman in his security detail got hit in the head. He needed several stitches. This newspaper could not contact Majhi as his mobile phone was switched off. In the neighbouring constituency of Uluberia South, BJP candidate Papiya Adhikari had been touring the constituency when she found out that a party worker had been attacked and admitted to Uluberia State General Hospital. Adhikari said that when she tried to visit him around 12.30pm, local Trinamul leader Akbar Sheikh and his supporters blocked her way before assaulting her physically and verbally. The local Trinamul leadership said the BJP had created “some tension” and people had reacted “spontaneously”. Some distance away at Falta, South 24-Parganas, BJP candidate Bidhan Parui faced demonstrations by Trinamul activists at the Bellsinha High School polling station around 11.30am. They allegedly slapped him and threw bricks at him. “That was not the only place. I was similarly heckled or assaulted in other booths too. I told the police but nothing happened. I have complained to the Election Commission,” Parui said. In Canning East, Trinamul candidate Saokat Molla accused central forces personnel and ISF supporters of heckling and assaulting him. He demonstrated for an hour from 11am on Bulergarh Road. “I was simply trying to draw the administration’s attention to the stocking of bombs by the ISF in the area…. The central forces, their jawans, roughed me up instead of acting on my complaint…. ISF supporters slapped me. I demonstrated till the poll panel sent a team and took formal note of my complaint,” Saokat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court 7-day breather for coal-theft accused||The Supreme Court on Tuesday extended the shield against arrest for Anup Majhi a.k.a. Lala, the alleged mastermind in the multi-crore coal pilferage case in Bengal, by seven days till April 13. Majhi will have to cooperate with the CBI, which is probing into the case with the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The apex court, however, issued this order on a day Bengal completed the third phase of polling and started gearing up for the fourth. The extension of Majhi’s shield against his arrest came as a damper of sorts for the CBI which has been gearing up for some time to appeal before the apex court for removing the ban on his arrest. The central investigating agency has been questioning Majhi for several days in a row now. On Monday, a section of senior officers were of the opinion that the man behind the multi-crore case was not divulging any details and hence his custodial interrogation was necessary. The Supreme Court turned down the plea on Tuesday while extending its shield on Majhi’s arrest. “We will again appeal for Anup Majhi’s custody after the completion of the seven-day period,” said a senior CBI officer in Calcutta. Majhi’s breather came within 24-hours of the ED attaching his immovable assets worth Rs 165.86 crore on Monday. The assets included land parcels, factory premises, plant and machinery and other properties of two companies — the Ispat Damodar Private Limited and Sonic Thermal Private Limited. Senior ED officers claimed Majhi created several shell companies to park huge sums allegedly generated from illegal coal mining. The idea was to prove that this amount was no way related to the proceeds of crime, they said. Several senior Trinamul leaders alleged the probe against Majhi by central agencies when polls are underway in Bengal is the part of a grand design by the BJP-led Centre. “Our leaders are being summoned in the Saradha (deposit-mobilising scam) case now. The number of seizures and arrests in different cases have suddenly gone up. All this is a part of a grand design aimed at maligning Trinamul before the next phase of polls,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s body in Birbhum pond triggers clash||The body of a BJP worker was found in a pond at Fakirbera village in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on Tuesday morning, the incident triggerring violence against the police and a daylong roadblock by around 200 BJP workers. Sub-inspector Dipak Roy was injured in the clash between the police and BJP supporters. The body of Pratihar Dom, 38, floating in a pond, was seen by passers-by around 8am, following which police were called up. Sources said Dom’s body had visible strangulation marks and blunt injury impressions on the back of his head. “The police responded quickly, but villagers got angry when cops tried to take away the body without due diligence and people saw in it an attempt to hush up  an incident that clearly looked like murder,” said a resident. He added BJP supporters felt the police were acting as “Trinamul agents” at a politically sensitive time amid state elections. Eyewitnesses said the police and ambulance sped away with Dom’s body but were stopped by angry protesters less than 4km away. The mob of BJP supporters then proceeded to smash the ambulance. “Dom was murdered for being an active BJP worker in the area. To make matters worse, the police were trying their best to deprive us of justice and were using force against us when all we are asking for is justice,” said a protester on Tuesday afternoon. Police teams from Dubrajpur rushed to the site where the ambulance had been attacked and fired tear gas shells to disperse the mob. “This angered us further,” said a protester, explaining the circumstances that led to the attack on police sub-inspector Dipak Roy, who was injured in the clash between BJP supporters and cops. BJP supporters then blocked a nearby road with Dom’s body and refused to lift the blockade despite police intervention. “We won’t budge till the perpetrators of the murder are brought to justice,” a protester said in the afternoon. BJP district president Dhruba Saha joined the agitation around 5pm and concurred the police were “siding” with Trinamul. “They are trying to turn this situation around by accusing us of being violent,” he said. Police sources said two separate cases had started on Tuesday, one in connection with the alleged murder and one in connection with the sub inspector’s assault. One person was reportedly arrested later in the day in connection with the former. The roadblock finally lifted around 7pm. District president of the Trinamul, Anubrata Mondal, said he was “unsure” of the circumstances behind the alleged murder. “Police are investigating, it is their job. But Trinamul has no links to this. Unfortunately, the BJP are proving their penchant for playing politics whenever there is a dead body,” he added. SP Meeraj Khalid in the evening said they were probing both cases and one person had been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Voters face threats outside booths ||The third phase of the Bengal elections was held on Tuesday with 31 Assembly constituencies in three districts going to the polls. The polling was marked by sporadic incidents of violence and The Telegraph throws light on a few of those  Where: Hyalan in Bagnan Assembly constituency in Howrah When: 10pm on Monday What: Jogibar Bag, Trinamul’s president for Bagnan’s booth 233, was allegedly attacked with sharp objects by BJP goons. Officialspeak: “Two persons have already been arrested. A report has been sought from the district administration,” an EC official said.  Where: Booth  123, Bishnupur seat in South 24-Parganas When: Tuesday morning What: A video shows a Trinamul worker stopping a woman from going to cast her vote. The woman went ahead and polled her vote in spite of the hindrance. Officialspeak: “A report has been sought from the district administration and the man seen in the video has been arrested,” an EC official said.  Where: Parul Ramkrishna Sarada High School, Arambagh Assembly in Hooghly When: Around 5pm on Tuesday What: The vehicle of Arambagh’s BJP candidate Madhusudhan Bag’s polling agent was vandalised. A BJP worker travelling with the polling agent was also injured. The BJP supporter alleged Trinamul goons tried to attack him with a sword which cut his palm. Officialspeak: “We’ve received a complaint. We are looking into the matter,” an EC official said.  Where: Parulia gram panchayat under Haridevpur block of Diamond Harbour Assembly seat in South 24- Parganas When: 11am on Tuesday. What: Around 100 residents of Parulia in Diamond Harbour were allegedly threatened at gunpoint by suspected Trinamul supporters when they went to polling station 185 to cast their votes returning to the area after a gap of about four years. The villagers alleged that they could not cast their votes in 2018 and 2019 (panchayat and Lok Sabha polls). This time also, they didn’t. Officialspeak: An EC official said: “A team of EC led by SDO Diamond Harbour and central force later escorted the villagers to the polling station in the evening when they were able to cast their votes.”  Where: Purba Rupnagar under Kultali Assembly seat in South 24-Parganas When: 11.30am on Tuesday What: Clash between Trinamul and BJP workers. While the saffron camp alleged that they were beaten up without any reason, Trinamul supporters said that these men were outsiders and were trying to influence voters. The BJP activists accepted that they weren’t local residents and have come there to distribute surgical masks. One Trinamul and four BJP supporters were injured. Officialspeak: “We had received a complaint and two men each from either political parties were detained,” a police official said.  Where: Booths 59 and 60 in Mandaran area under Goghat Assembly in Hooghly. When: Around 10.30am on Tuesday What: Local Trinamul workers and voters alleged that the CRPF was trying to intimidate and influence women voters to cast to vote for BJP. Officialspeak: “A complaint has been received and the matter is being looked into,” an EC official said.  Where: Booth No. 181 of Jangipara Assembly in Hooghly. When: 8.30am What: Trinamul workers alleged that a group of ISF supporters attacked one of the former’s polling agent, beat him up and threatened him to not perform his duty. Official speak: “We have received a complaint and looking into it,” an EC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Phase 3 voting more violent, says EC||Deaths, attacks on candidates and complaints of electoral malpractices on Tuesday marked the third phase of the Bengal polls in which 31 Assembly segments spread across three districts voted. In the third phase too, polling percentage remained on the higher side. A total of 77.68 per cent polling was recorded in the 31 seats spread across Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas till 5pm. In Hooghly, the polling percentage was 79.36 per cent, while Howrah recorded 77.93 per cent. The polling percentage in South 24-Parganas was relatively low as it recorded 76.68 per cent. “Polling would be held till 6.30pm. So, the final polling percentage would definitely go up and in all likelihood, it would cross 80 per cent mark in all three districts,” said a source in the evening. The day began with the news of the death of the mother of a BJP worker in Hooghly’s Goghat, prompting the saffron ecosystem to accuse Trinamul of killing the elderly woman. Then, came the news of another death in Goghat. A former Trinamul booth president, Sunil Roy, 72, died while he was on his way to cast his vote at Hatpukur. A Trinamul booth president in Howrah’s Bagnan was stabbed allegedly by miscreants backed by the BJP soon after the voting had started. He was rushed to Uluberia Sub Divisional Hospital where he was battling for his life. “The scale of violence was higher in this phase... More than 150 complaints were lodged with the Election Commission throughout the day,” said a source in the poll panel. Like in the last two phases, chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP of “blatant misuse” of the central forces, besides questioning the neutrality of the poll panel. The most talked about incident of the day was repeated attacks on Trinamul’s Sujata Khan, a candidate of Hooghly’s Arambagh, who had a major showdown with BJP workers when she was visiting booths in her Assembly segment. She was allegedly attacked again later in the day. The BJP candidate from Uluberia (South) in Howrah, Papia Adhikari, Trinamul candidate from Khanakul Assembly segment in Hooghly, Bidhan Parui, the BJP candidate from Falta in South 24-Parganas and Moidul Islam, an ISF candidate from Magrahat (West) in South 24-Parganas also faced assaults. “I can’t remember an election in which so many candidates had to face assaults,” said a senior police officer not connected with the poll process. Complaints of electoral malpractices also came up. In some areas like Bagnan and Uluberia in Howrah, the BJP alleged Trinamul was intimidating voters and they were being prevented from reaching the booths. In some areas like Magrahat (West), Trinamul alleged the BJP was hurling crude bombs to prevent voters from reaching the booths. Trinamul leaders also alleged central forces were trying to influence voters in favour of the BJP. EC sources said in all these cases, the quick response teams had acted swiftly and helped the voters cast their votes. Officials in the EC said each and every complaint was attended to and no complaint regarding jawans interfering in the poll process was established.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Campaign in north picks up with rallies||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee played the regional card in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts, which together have 14 Assembly seats, on Tuesday. Elections will be held in both the districts on April 10. Mamata, in three rallies in Kalchini (Alipurduar) and Mathabhanga and Mekhliganj (Cooch Behar), tried to prove the saffron brigade makes “hollow promises” and is using central government machinery during polls. In Mathabhanga, a seat with a concentration of Rajbanshis, Mamata wielded large printouts of an RTI reply to prove the Narendra Modi government did not plan to form a Narayani regiment (after the royal troops of erstwhile Cooch Behar royalty) in the central armed police forces. Her move came shortly after Union home minister Amit Shah in Cooch Behar on April 2 asserted they decided to raise a such a regiment. Last year, Udayranjan Roy Prodhani, an assistant professor of Dhubri Law College in Assam and a resident of Gauripur, had written to the Centre asking whether it had any plans to raise such a regiment. “The central government, in its reply, said it does not have any such plans. It proves the BJP has made an empty promise to people of Cooch Behar unlike us...,” said Mamata. She made Bangshibadan Burman, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA) who is her ally — the other lobby of the association is with the BJP — and Girindra Nath Burman, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga seat, to stand with the printouts on stage. Her party leaders also got an “apolitical” youth on stage, who read out the query and reply. Mamata also brought up the Centre’s controversial citizenship matrix. “The BJP wants to implement NRC here…. we will never let them do it. All of us have seen how people have suffered in Assam. All of those who reside here are Indian residents,” she said. An observer said many families in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar had family and friends in Assam who have not made it to the NRC. Mamata accused the Narendra Modi government of misusing its power. “They are asking the central forces to persuade people to vote BJP..... such tactics will not work in Bengal,” she said. Back in 2016 Assembly elections, Trinamul had managed win in 12 of 14 seats. However, in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP won both Alipurduar and Cooch Behar parliamentary seats and managed to secure a lead in 12 Assembly segments. Later in the afternoon, Mamata joined in a road show in Cooch Behar. After returning from Mekhliganj, she moved through a stretch of the town, covering around 1.5km in her wheelchair. Hundreds of party workers and some prominent leaders joined her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Anit Thapa to hold rally at Mirik||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Anit Thapa has decided to hold a rally in Mirik on Sunday in what is being construed as an attempt to take the fight to Trinamul Darjeeling hill president L.B. Rai’s home turf. The district committee of Trinamul in Kalimpong and Darjeeling (hills) have decided to support Thapa’s rival faction in the Morcha led by Bimal Gurung in the Bengal Assembly polls. “We will organise a rally under the theme ‘Change for Mirik’ on April 11. I will be present and request all residents to come forward to bring about a change for a better Mirik,” said Thapa. Rai is the chairperson of the Trinamul-controlled Mirik municipality. Trinamul has allocated the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to hill “friends”. Both the factions of the Morcha, headed by Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa duo and Bimal Gurung, are allies of Trinamul but are contesting against each other. Thapa has been holding meetings across the hills but his decision to specifically announce a rally at Mirik and the manner in which the party’s social media team is spreading the message is a clear indication that he wants to take the fight to Rai’s stronghold. Mirik falls under the Kurseong Assembly constituency. Thapa also hails from Kurseong and a loss in his home constituency would be a major loss of face for him. Trinamul hill leaders’ decision to support Gurung has surprised Thapa who has been stating that irrespective of the grassroots decision, his faction’s relation with the Trinamul high command is still strong. “Thapa, however, seems aware that despite his good relation with the Trianmul high command, it will matter little if his faction’s candidate does not win the election. The fight in Kurseong has just intensified,” said an observer. Many believe that is why Thapa has coined a new slogan for the Mirik rally. Till date, Thapa’s party had been fighting the elections on the slogan “hamro ghar,afnai bhar” (build you house on your own strength) to focus on the need to strengthen regional parties. The Trinamul leadership has cited Binay Tamang’s refusal to campaign with Trinamul in the hills, the need to sustain Mamata Banerjee’s party and Gurung’s “honesty and sincerity” to campaign for Trinamul candidates in the plains, along with directives from the I-PAC team, as the reasons for supporting the Gurung faction of the Morcha. However, some old timers in hill Trinamul have rebelled against the decision to support Gurung. On Tuesday, a section of leaders in the youth wing of Trinamul in Kurseong also announced support for Thapa and not Gurung. Senior state leaders of Trinamul haven’t, however, issued any statement on this issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge in north Bengal Assempbly poll season||Officials of the health department have expressed concern over the steady rise in Covid-19 cases across north Bengal in recent weeks. As voting for Assembly elections in the region will start from April 10, health officials are appealing to all political parties to maintain strict Covid protocol in political events and pointing out that their requests are going unheard. “Most political leaders are least bothered about wearing masks while sharing the dais. Also, most people attending the public meetings are equally irresponsible. They are ignoring safety guidelines of the state health department to help prevent infection,” Susanta Roy, the state-appointed officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in north Bengal, told newspersons in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Sources in the state health department said detailed reports of the number of Covid-19 cases, which have been reported from March 23 to April 4, have been collected from all the districts of north Bengal that spanned. The highest number of cases, 175, has been reported from Malda, followed by 174 from Darjeeling. Also, 101 cases have been reported in North Dinajpur district. “The number of cases is comparatively lower in other districts but it is evident that cases are on the rise,” said an official. OSD Roy appeared perturbed. “After the Covid cases declined, we had released the private health establishments that we had taken over for Covid patients. As of now, 706 beds are available for Covid patients at government hospitals of north Bengal. The data we have received has put us on alert as public meetings, rallies and other activities will continue throughout this month. If Covid cases go up, it will be tough to provide hospital accommodation to patients,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Three aftershocks follow Monday’s earthquake||Residents of north Bengal, neighbouring Sikkim and Bhutan experienced at least three mild earthquakes or aftershocks throughout Tuesday after an earthquake measuring 5.4 on the Richter scale struck the Sikkim-Bhutan border at 8.49pm on Monday. On Tuesday, the mild tremors, bearing magnitudes of 4.1, 3.7 and 3.9 in the Richter Scale, were felt in north Bengal, Sikkim and Bhutan on Tuesday morning. According to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), these aftershocks came in less than 12 hours after Monday’s quake that had driven people out into the streets. The milder ones, sources said, occurred on Tuesday at 7.07am, 62km east of Siliguri, at 10.44am on Jalpaiguri town outskirts, and 2.31pm in Bhutan. Although no reports of any damage or losses have been found yet, people in all these places came out of their homes in panic, said sources. Administrative sources said Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had called up chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is currently touring north Bengal for her political campaigns, to inquire after her well-being after the quakes near Siliguri and Jalpaiguri took place. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in Cooch Behar to attend a public meeting, also took a stock of the situation, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: New entities in fray in Malda district||The political scenario in Malda, a district with over 50 per cent minority population, is taking an interesting turn this Assembly elections with new political forces and dissidents filing nominations, much to the concern of established political parties. Altogether, there are 12 Assembly constituencies the district among which votes of the minority community decides the results in around seven. On Tuesday, the BJP was the first to suffer a jolt as its dissident leaders, backed by the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, submitted their nominations in Manikchak, Habibpur, Englishbazar, Chanchal and Harischandrapur seats. “The BJP is deviating from its policies and backing former Trinamul leaders. That’s why we are contesting against official BJP candidates as Jana Sangh-backed Independents,” said Aditya Prakash Dasgupta, contesting from Englishbazar. Others include Anil Mandal, a dissident from Manikchak against BJP’s Gour Chandra Mandal, a very recent Trinamul turncoat. “This is a sheer attempt to mislead people with indirect help of Trinamul. But we are not worried as these dissidents will return empty-handed,” said Malda BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal. Sanjit Mishra, district president of Jana Sangh, however, denied the charges of Trinamul help. “We are fighting for our principles,” he said. The Congress, fighting the polls under the Sanjukta Morcha umbrella, also suffered a blow as Mohammad Ali Kazimullah filed his nomination as a candidate of the Indian Secular Front (ISF) for the Mothabari seat. The ISF is an ally under the Sanjukta Morcha. The Congress had fielded Dulal Sheikh in the seat. “We had asked for couple of seats from Malda from Congress. The party turned down our proposal and thus we have decided to contest in some seats,” said the ISF candidate. ISF leaders in Malda said they would also contest from Sujapur, a minority dominated stronghold of the Congress. Later in the day, the AIMIM, headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, fielded a candidate in Malatipur, another Assembly constituency of Malda. Candidate Motibur Rahaman said they would contest against all the other political parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||North East||Bigger turnout in Assam final phase elections||The third and final phase of Assembly polls in 40 constituencies of Assam on Tuesday registered a turnout more than the first two phases. The third phase is very crucial to the prospects of the Opposition Congress-led mahajot (grand alliance) just as the first phase was to the ruling BJP-led alliance. The turnout in the final phase was 82.28 per cent till 7pm while it was 79.97 per cent and 80.96 per cent in the first and second phases respectively. There were altogether 79,19,641 voters and 337 candidates in the third phase covering 12 lower Assam districts, most polarised along religious lines. Altogether 47 out of the 126 Assembly constituencies in the state went to polls in the first phase on March 27 and 39 in the second phase on April 1. The final phase is very crucial for the mahajot because it is this region that gives the Congress-led Opposition alliance a “comparative” advantage over the ruling NDA, attributed mainly to the AIUDF and the Bodoland People’s Front joining it and emerging as key players. “In the last Assembly elections in 2016, the NDA could just secure 15 out of the 40 seats from this region. Thus by forging an alliance with the AIUDF and the BPF, the mahajot has really withheld the possibility of a split in votes. Considering the fact that these constituencies are dominated by Muslims of Bengali-speaking origin, the mahajot would have a slight advantage over the NDA,” political observer Vikas Tripathi told The Telegraph. However, a major challenge before the grand alliance is to see that the BPF is able to “attract” a sizeable section of the Bodo and non-Bodo voters apart from “consolidating” the Muslim votes which has shifted to the party during the last Bodoland Territorial Region elections held in December, Tripathi said. In fact, the 12 seats in the BTR could emerge as the “swing factor” for either the ruling or Opposition alliance. Elections to four of these 12 seats were held in the second phase. The BPF, which was with the ruling BJP in the last elections, joined the Congress-led 10-party alliance just before the polls. Prominent among the candidates whose fates were sealed on Tuesday included ministers Himanta Biswa Sarma, Chandra Mohan Patowary, Siddhartha Bhattacharya, Phanibhushan Choudhury, Chandan Brahma and Pramila Rani Brahma. Polling was by and large peaceful even though skirmishes were reported from a few constituencies. Altogether 320 companies of security personnel were deployed in the third phase to ensure safe, smooth and fair polls, besides nine police observers and 986 micro-observers. Altogether 11,401 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used in the third phase. While there were assured minimum facilities such as drinking water, waiting shed, toilet, adequate arrangement for lighting, wheelchairs for electors with disabilities in all the polling stations, besides arrangements like transport facility for elderly people, assistance from volunteers to persons with disabilities and senior citizens, a good number of voters, especially in the sar (sandbar) areas, were seen crossing rivers/rivulets  to reach the polling stations. Saleha Khatun, 45, a voter of Jania Assembly constituency in Barpeta district, said: “We are happy with the facilities at the polling station. However, the authorities also need to look into how we reached the polling station — by crossing the Beki river on foot and cycle.” The river dries up during winter but there is still water in the middle which needs to be negotiated to reach one’s destination. This is a regular affair for many living in the sars. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, each and every polling station was sanitised on Monday. Thermal scanning, hand sanitisers, face masks were also made available at the booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
07-04-2021||North East||Assam writer held for Facebook post on jawans||Sikha Sarma, a Guwahati-based writer and vocal critic of the state government, was arrested on Tuesday over a Facebook post that was accused in an FIR of “causing disrespect to martyrs”. Advocates Umi Deka Baruah and Kangkana Goswami had on Monday lodged the FIR with Dispur police against the “distasteful” Facebook post, which seemed to allude to Saturday’s Maoist massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh. The FIR says the post “maligned and disregarded the sacrifice of our martyrs by urging the media not to generate public sentiments in their favour and not to treat them as swahids as they are drawing salary for the services they are providing to the nation”. Monday’s three-line post by Sarma in Assamese had said: “A salaried person dying in harness is not a martyr. If that is the case then an electrician dying of electrocution is also a martyr. Don’t make the people emotional, media.” The police said that Sarma, who is in her 40s, was picked up in the afternoon and arrested around 7pm. She has been booked under penal code sections dealing with sedition, using obscene words, defamation and intimidation, and Section 45 of the Information Technology Act, an officer said. Sarma, known for speaking her mind during TV debates, could not be contacted. “Proper discussions and deliberations have to be conducted to actually determine what I meant by that statement,” she had told the web portal InsideNE before she was picked up. “To figure it out, one must first ask, what is the true meaning of the word ‘martyr’?” The two-page FIR says her “distasteful remarks not only reduce the unparalleled sacrifice of our jawans to a mere ‘moneymaking discourse’, but is also a verbal assault on the spirit and sanctity of service to the nation”. It says the “defamatory” comment has “encountered” public outrage on social media at a time the nation is in “mourning over (the) martyrdom of 22 jawans”. The dead jawans include two from Assam, the FIR stresses, while seeking “stern” action against Sarma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
07-04-2021||Opinion||ON IT AGAIN: UGC offers 40 per cent of their courses online||Institutions in India seem to be acquiring new responsibilities. The University Grants Commission, the regulator of academic standards and other matters relating to higher education, is acquiring the mantle of director. Its directive to all higher education institutions to offer 40 per cent of their courses online on a government-mandated platform and not refuse any student mobility for credits thus acquired, however, comes in the guise of a regulation. Twenty per cent of online courses were permitted earlier; the leap in proportion and the pressure to comply manifest the Centre’s desire to make education online. Saying that blended education benefits students more glosses over the grave problems that students and teachers face when in-person classes are not possible. The government is not unaware of the problems students experienced during the pandemic, such as unstable internet connections and regular access to computers and smartphones. Numerous students have been losing out. Strangely enough, the UGC feels that these issues can be ignored. What is puzzling is the regulator’s loss of interest in academic standards. Forcing every institution to break up their courses into online and offline components, with the students allowed to choose the online component from other universities, which, in turn, would be free to arrange the topic in their own way, would destroy coherence. Each institution, meanwhile, would be compelled to match 60 per cent of its course to complement what has been taught online. This regulation rides roughshod over the integrity of the courses as well as the autonomy of educational institutions. There can be no common denominator of division — a physics course cannot be broken up like a course in literature, say, or archaeology. Who will decide on the offline and online components? The UGC obviously does not lay much store by the teachers’ belief that meaningful learning happens in in-person classes; online classes can support, not replace, the communication that takes place in a classroom. So it has directed educational institutions to upgrade their digital infrastructure in readiness for online courses. The matter of economics here is a bit obscure. What is certain, however, is that posts, both sanctioned and ad hoc, will shrink and disappear with online courses. The economics is crystal clear in this case. Is saving money by reducing teachers more important than academic standards and autonomy?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Start young: appeal to lower vaccination age||Sir — The appeal sent by the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, to the Central government to lower the age of Covid-19 vaccination for Indians to 25 should be paid heed to by the prime minister. Young, working people being vaccinated could hold the key to slowing down the transmission of the disease. The second coronavirus wave has already necessitated night curfews in Delhi and Maharashtra, with weekend lockdowns also being imposed in the latter. Breaking the chain of transmission, however, might be difficult unless young people, who are the most mobile, get their shots. Siddharth Mishra,New Delhi Downward slide Sir — India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021 and has become the third worst performer in South Asia, ahead only of Pakistan and Afghanistan in the region (“Beti bachao”, April 6). The report’s criteria for assessment cover four areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. A major part of India’s decline has occurred on the political empowerment index. There is a significant drop in the share of women among ministers — it fell from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021. The share of women in Parliament remains stagnant at 14.4 per cent. As for the participation of and opportunities for women in the economy, the present state is pitiful. There has been a fall in women’s participation in the labour force. The share of women in professional and technical roles has also declined. The share of women in senior and managerial positions continues to be low. Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of that of men. This places India among the bottom 10 globally on this parameter. Women face discrimination in health and survival as well. India ranks among the five worst-performing countries in this regard. Wide gaps in sex ratio at birth are caused by high incidence of gender-biased sex-selective practices. With respect to educational attainment, one-thirds of women in India are illiterate — that is, 34.2 per cent, compared to 17.6 per cent of men. In addition, violence against women has risen over the years. Providing scope for girls and women to fulfil their aspirations requires a framework that promotes gender equality at the heart of every policy and programme. It needs to address the complex interplay of factors that operate at different levels. Women’s economic independence must be encouraged. They must be helped to learn about sexual and reproductive health and rights. Life skills education must be provided to women to equip them with knowledge, skills and an understanding of their rights. One must also focus on the prevention of violence by strengthening the response system. These, along with other micro approaches, hold the promise of a bright future for women. Empowering women will not merely benefit them as individuals but also be good for the entire community. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — Women’s participation in India’s progress remains minuscule in spite of the fact that women outperform men in certain realms. Going by the Global Gender Gap Report 2021, Indian women have been lagging behind those in other countries — Sri Lanka , Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, for instance — on several fronts. Much of the decline can be attributed to the paucity of women in managerial and political positions, the burden of domestic chores, physical violence, forced marriages, unequal access to healthcare and discrimination at the workplace, among other reasons. It is no wonder, then, that Indian women continue to remain at the bottom. Even their income is estimated to be about one-fifth of that of their male counterparts. Factors such as domestic pressure and an inadequate support structure contribute to their low level of employment. India’s Constitution supports the idea of equal pay for equal work for both sexes in Article 39(d) as part of the Directive Principles of State Policy. Unfortunately, successive governments have done little to implement it, in spite of making tall claims during election campaigns. The women’s reservation bill is yet to see the light of day. Gender gap will continue to exist unless the gap between policy and its implementation is bridged. Countries like Iceland, Norway and Sweden comprise the world’s most gender-equal nations because they have managed to build and implement a strong social security network. There is a dire need to provide an enabling environment for women to be employed, besides ensuring better and safer transport and social security if India is to attain a pre-eminent position amongst developing nations. A country cannot truly progress if its women continue to be excluded from this process. If equality is to be achieved, pre-poll rhetoric must be supplanted by concrete steps in the direction of women’s empowerment. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Douse the flames Sir — The frequency of forest fires in India is a matter of great concern — around 36 per cent of India’s forest cover is prone to wildfires. Yet, little attention is being paid to this issue. This week, Uttarakhand witnessed 45 wildfires within 24 hours; the state has asked the Centre for help. The government must provide assistance at once — both in terms of manpower and money — in order to protect the environment and avoid threats to human and animal lives. The firefighters risking their lives to fight the flames must be lauded. Rupsa Barik,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Get ready: Covid second wave||It appears that Covid-19’s second wave in India may be even stronger than the first. The existing data point to its troubling potency. India has witnessed a massive surge in the number of daily infections with eight states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi — bearing the brunt of the caseload. Bengal, which is witnessing public gatherings on account of an inexplicably long election during a pandemic, has no reasons to be complacent either. There were around 2,000 new cases in the state on Monday; the numbers could be higher given the poor rate of testing in such districts as Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore. The deployment of staff for election duty has made it difficult for some of the districts to meet their daily testing targets. The tidings are equally grim at the national level. During the first wave of the pandemic, it had taken 61 days for the caseload to rise from 25,000 to 92,000. The corresponding time is merely 22 days this time around. Coronavirus’s second coming can be attributed to a number of factors; institutional failures and public apathy are among them. A sense of complacency seems to have engulfed India — a modelling endeavour supported by the science and technology ministry had predicted the end of the pandemic by February this year — even as large parts of the world battled fresh assaults by the virus. This smugness may have been instrumental in laxities creeping into testing and surveillance mechanisms. Public indifference — the result of fatigue, bravado and sheer stupidity — towards the need to maintain safety protocols has also been a contributing factor. The government is at fault too, permitting large religious, social and political gatherings with little concern for the risks posed by these events. To prevent India from going under this wave, the following measures should be implemented on a war-footing. Surveillance, testing and tracing mechanisms must be revived: the thrust must be on decentralizing the monitoring apparatus. The vaccination programme — India can now fight the pandemic with medicine — must be widened to cover as many vulnerable constituencies as possible. Dispelling doubts about the vaccines and bringing vaccination to the door of households must be prioritized. The healthcare apparatus, especially in the nation’s hinterlands, must be prepared to cope with the rush of patients. Hopefully, India will survive the second wave with minimal medical casualties and vilification of minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Tumpa and the bhadralok||“Tumpa” is a popular Bengali song, which was released in October 2020. This ‘dance number’ is the life of every household party and public festival in West Bengal. There is something remarkable about “Tumpa” that transcends its popularity as a ‘dance number’. “Tumpa” perhaps signals an epic moment in the cultural history of Bengal with the upper echelons of the bhadralok seemingly ready — finally — to shed their self-projected cultural elitism and fully embrace popular, ‘glocalized’ Bengali cultural forms. It is significant because it pushes us towards some serious critical thinking about the remaking of bhadralok culture and, in turn, the remaking of the bhadralok itself. It is interesting to note that the very idea of the bhadralok today is predominantly synonymous with that of an ‘artefact of the past’, a kind of a fossilized relic to be uncovered from the colonial archives. While the term referred primarily to the upper-caste, landowning class of Bengali Hindus in colonial India, the composition and the imagination of the bhadralok have undergone significant changes over the years. In 2004, Parimal Ghosh wrote an article in the Economic and Political Weekly titled “Where have all the ‘Bhadraloks’ gone?” — an insightful analysis of the changing profile and belief systems of the bhadralok in the post-Independence period that also had a subtle undertone of bemoaning the demise of the classical bhadralok. The post-Independence phase of the 1970s had produced the quintessential image of the jhola-carrying, radical, leftist bhadralok, articulate in political discourses, a lover of football as well as a connoisseur of ‘world art cinema’. This figure is peculiar: he speaks of Marxism and the emancipation of the working class but has a keen interest in keeping alive a strong division between ‘high’ and ‘low’; he professes secularism but has difficulty in pronouncing a Muslim name; he grieves the death of Maradona but continuously advises his son to focus on porashuno rather than on football. With the demise of Left politics in Bengal and the onset of ‘liberalization’, the bhadralok seems to be undergoing a complex process of metamorphosis that is difficult to capture in broad strokes. “Tumpa”, in terms of content and genre, represents an apparent ‘subalternization’ of the Bengali cultural world. The lyrics, diction, pronunciation, attire and body language of the lead actors and the singer represent a cultural world that is in absolute contrast to that of the imagined ideal of the refined bhadralok. The markers of this subaltern world are carefully chosen: poach-mamlet is a dinner-date delicacy; Digha is a potential honeymoon destination; nose-rubbing an expression of romantic love. This class identity is inscribed by the aspirations unleashed by a globalizing economy that is also constrained by the local limits of its realization. If one examines the lyrics of the song, it would resemble a parody of this subaltern world. It is a carefully and intelligently crafted composition packaged in a genre that has a popular appeal. Humour, a dominant element in the song, strives to make it inoffensive, rendering ‘harmless’ the objectification of ‘Tumpa’. It is this humour that creates a legitimate space to poke fun at the subaltern world. The bhadralok has always been perceived as a status symbol. It will continue to survive on such a sense of distinction. The neat difference between high and low culture may get muddled over time, but subtle distinctions may replace it while safeguarding the cultural and moral hegemony of the bhadralok. Even though some argue that we have arrived at a post-class society in which ‘class’ distinction in the traditional sense of the term seems to matter less, human society thrives on distinctions based on Othering and judgment. The term, bhadralok, may have become unfashionable, but bemoaning its death is perhaps premature because it will continue to thrive and exercise hegemony by reinventing newer ways of forging status distinction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||The air’s changing||One afternoon three or so years ago, I stepped out of our Calcutta offices for a smoke and a shot of bhaanr (earthen cup) coffee. Within earshot from where I stood is a small shrine to Hanuman that hugs the corpulent trunk of a banyan. The neighbourhood is a busy wholesale warren, scores pay obeisance to the deity as they pass by. That afternoon, a quite unusual devotee had arrived below the banyan. He wore a saffron shirt and a tilak emblazoned across his temple. There was a swagger to his manner. He hadn’t arrived to pray, he was hectoring the mahant of the shrine, a quiet, wizened man always turned out in dhoti and kurta. He sat there, in his implacable little space, hearing out what sounded more and more like a burst of bluster. Paraphrased, this is what the mahant was being told: the colour of the shrine is all wrong, it needs to be saffron, not white; it needs ornate lighting and it needs a loudspeaker which can drown out the azaan call that routinely rings out from a nearby mosque; it needs activity, bhajan and kirtan, some action. This was no way to run the affairs of a temple, help was required to assert its presence and help was at hand; “Panditji, kaho to log bhijwaaben? (Should I send men, Panditji?)” At this point, the elder could take it no more. He shed his calm and barked back: “Yeh Bangaal hai, aur yeh pracheen mandir aisehi rahega jaise rahaa hai, yahan tumahara hukmarani nahin chalega! Prasad lo aur badho aage!” (This is Bengal, and this is an old temple, it will run as it has run in the past. Your diktat will not work here, receive your prasad and carry on!) The visitor, most likely a sangh apparatchik out to push his authority, hovered a moment on the dare, then turned and picked his way. Three weeks ago, I was in central Calcutta again, in the vicinity of the Hanuman shrine, in a similarly busy lane opening on Dharmatala. I saw a febrile chant stampede across the streets: ‘Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram!’ There was nothing like a prayer to the intonation of it; it was the bellicose outcry of assertion and arrival. It reminded me instantly of that afternoon three years ago, and it made me wonder if the mahant under the banyan would still be able to bark back in the face of the new refrain strutting the streets: “Yeh Bangaal hai!” If at all iterated, his riposte would sooner be drowned than heard in today’s Bengal. Bengal is changing, or it already has; it isn’t the Bangaal the old mahant was invoking. We shouldn’t have to wait for the outcome of the assembly elections to acknowledge or understand that change. If Dharmatala is ready to echo the sectarian rabble-rousing of the northern heartland, something has changed, and it is not a fleeting change that will arrive and depart with election season. There is an unspoken, but probably well and widely understood, code to the ‘asol poribartan’ being promised — ‘real change’. It’s akin to the promise of ‘achchhe din’ whose distillation we all now know is unalloyed bigotry. Bengal is in the throes of it. It is a change that will leave much more than merely the banyan tree mahant censored. I hope Bengal understands the meaning of it; I fear that it may not. I fear, even more deeply and despairingly, that it actually does. That a securely buried demon seed from the past has been watered, and coaxed to sprout. And that such sprouting has become, tragically, a vociferously celebrated thing. Do more Partitions await Bengal? Or, to put it more bluntly, are Bengalis happy to build welcome arches to another one? And if so, where do they intend to sow the walls? And how many? I am not a Bengali, and I must seek pardon for affecting familiarity. I belong to a benighted neighbourhood called Bihar. Biharis have bestowed upon themselves the extreme poverty of pride, we are perhaps to Bengal what Sudama was to Krishna. But one of the things I did for the longest time take pride in was that Biharis were not sectarian about the daily conduct of their lives. There were flaming hiccups of infamy, of course — Bihar Sharif, Nawada, Bhagalpur. It cannot be said faith does not turn Biharis to bigotry; it often does, but the bouts came, most often, with a post-script of shame and apology. I come from a north Bihar village called Singhwara, which is twin to Paigambarpur. My grandfather’s most fulfilled afternoons were the afternoons on which he and Bachcha Mian from Paigambarpur would share a sip of tea and savories. Our rides home from the nearest railhead would always be on Wajib Mian’s open Willys. Singhwara households, even to this day, fetch their mutton from Daroga Mian and Ghafoor and Saddam, who have succeeded their father in the trade. But none of that is to suggest that cracks haven’t opened on either side of which we whisper unspeakable things and bear dark mistrusts. There were always walls, but there existed conversation across them. They shuddered when bricks began to be prised away for a project of ‘nationalist sentiment’. A few years down the line, all came asunder, but because it was patently a thing of sectarian pathology and hatred, it was no thing of pride. When I arrived in Calcutta to work more than a quarter of a century ago, I discovered my world, shattered and shaken by what had befallen Bhagalpur in 1989, suddenly rejuvenated. The Calcutta street was the reconjuring of home. I discovered a city willing to embrace beyond distinction of class, creed, and tongue. Perhaps I was wrong even then, perhaps what I perceived was a delusional invention of desire. But it was real and tactile too, make no mistake. The lordly rested in their mansions, north and south of Park Street, but the lungi-clad daily wager looked no less lordly snoozing away a sweltering afternoon on the back of his cart, or bathing with abandon on the many hydrants that gurgle along the city’s streets. They earned a half a penny worth but they were afforded to believe themselves no less worthy. I hope I don’t sound like I am patronizing poverty; I merely wish to say pelf isn’t a precondition to pride, and Calcutta breathed that almost surreal egalitarianism. Perhaps it still does, but it is no longer possible to be sure. Can it be said for certain that the impulse convulsing across Bengal is an impulse that answers to humanity? Is it an impulse that sings the song Bengal’s great sons have bequeathed mankind? Is it not an impulse amplifying the chasm between shei samay and ei samay? Can anybody be certain that in the run-up to these elections the humanity that was Calcutta has remained a living thing, or not come under assault? I wonder, and I have spoken from the heart; I am told that requires, in New India, an apology. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro closes vaccination Centres due to shortage||Bokaro: The district health department has declared that the stock of Covid-19 vaccines has come to an end and they have suspended the vaccination drive for a few  days until fresh stock arrives. More than two dozen Covid-19 vaccination centres remained closed on Wednesday due to shortage of vaccines. The ANM Vaccination Centre situated at Camp 2 near Sadar Hospital, which has inoculated the highest number of senior citizens and other beneficiaries, in the evening hung a notice saying the centre will remain closed due to shortage of vaccine. In many other caccination centres, residents returned home after centre declared the shortage. Residents staged a demonstration at Vaccination Centre in Chas Block criticising the government for the shortage of vaccine. Of the 64 Vaccination centres operational across the district, only 39 remained functional with their limited stock. Civil surgeon, Dr A. K. Pathak said, “we have to halt the vaccination drive on Thursday due to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. The state headquarter had sent 1500 doses of vaccine on Tuesday, which all got consumed on Wednesday.” “We have requested from state headquarter for the vaccine, and the vaccination drive will only continue after more stock will be received. Till yet since the start of Vaccination drive, we have received 1.17 lakhs of vaccine including Covaxin and Covishield. Successfully continuing the drive more than 1.7 lakh people were inoculated in the district. Remaining thousands of vaccines were sent to neighbouring districts as per state government instructions,” he said. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: A 32-year-old woman was trampled to death by a herd of elephants in Kurakuria forest area near Bajto village of Giridih on Wednesday morning. The jungle, where the incident occurred is an elephant corridor. The incident occurred when the deceased, Lalita Devi has gone to jungle to collect Mahua, said a forest officer. Lalita Devi’s body has been sent for post mortem. The kin of the deceased has been assured a compensation by the forest department. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: The district administration will be carrying out an ‘Up’ mask campaign from Thursday as per which the Covid norm violators will be caught  by members of a special flying squad and taken to a sensitisation camp. The camp, developed at Jharkhand Armed Police Camp at Govindpur, will be showcasing a film apprising the Covid norm violators about the significance of Covid rules. The violators will be required to pay a fine also sign a bond. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "Three flying squads consisting of eight women policemen and one officer and four lady police constables and one lady police officer have been constituted who would be visiting in their respective buses in their allotted route and catch the rule violators to be taken to the sensitisation camp." (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Parents in coal town welcome school shutdown amid rising cases||Parents of students at government and private schools of coal town have welcomed the state government’s decision to close down schools and colleges in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Students appearing for their board exams will be allowed to visit their respective examination centres and appear for the exams as per the schedule set by the various boards. Other students will attend classes online and through digital mediums, a notification released by the Home Prison and Disaster Management Department stated on Tuesday. Ashwini Singh , a Dhaiya based chemist, told The Telegraph Online: “I was very concerned over the safety of my son, a student of class X at J.K. Sinha Memorial International School and praying to god for the government restrictions in view of the increasing cases of Covid.” “I felt quite relaxed after the arrival of the latest diktat of the  government as there is no logic of risking the life of the children,” said Singh. Biswajit Bhattacharjee, a Dhanbad based lawyer whose daughter is in Class  VIII said, “me and my wife were having sleepless night ever since we came to know about the offline classes beginning in our daughter’s school since Monday (April 5) and didn’t  send our daughter to the school but eventually the government re-imposed the restrictions.” Khusi Kumari, a student of Class IX of BSS Balwadi High School said, “We reached the school this morning  at around 6.30 am  but after an hour we were informed by the school authorities about the  latest government order and we returned back to home.” “Though, offline classes are slightly better than the online classes but safety is equally important so we are happy with the government decision in  this regard,” said Kumari. Office bearers of parents association, Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch, also welcomed  the government decision. Madhurendra Singh, president of Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch said, “We have been demanding closure of schools ever since their reopening as there was no logic  of opening the schools at a time when the pandemic situation is turning grimmer day by day” “We welcome the government decision and at same times request the government to take cognizance of the demand of the annual charges by the management of different private schools despite the fact offline classes were not  held during the last session,” said Singh. Anajali Gupta, principal of BSS Balwadi high school,Dhanbad said, “We have closed the school for Class I to IX as per the government order but the class X students will have to come to the schools for their practical classes and some pending examinations etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad fitness industry asks govt to amend second shutdown order ||Gym owners and fitness trainers on Wednesday demanded the relaxation of the state’s decision to close all fitness centers due to rise in Covid cases. The protesters led by the president of gym owners association of Dhanbad, Gautam Tiwari, handed a memorandum to Dhanbad deputy commissioner apprising him about the financial difficulties being faced by them during the pandemic and thus demanded to amend the order regarding closure of gyms. They sought permission for operating gyms with 50% capacity in line with permission given to restaurants. Tiwari said, “we are the worst sufferer of pandemic and resultant restrictions as we were the last sector which has been given permission  to reopen but the government re-imposed the restriction first on us.” “The financial condition of the majority of gym owners has turned precarious as many who have purchased their equipment  by taking loans from banks or finance companies are failing to pay the EMIs and risking the loss of equipment,” said Tiwari. “A large number of others have not even been able to pay the rent for the last eight months,” he said. Sonali Roy, operator of a gymnasium for women  at Katras said, “we can’t understand the reason for step-motherly treatment to us while hotels, restaurants, markets etc are open.” “On one hand there are no restrictions in such places where elections are taking place and on the other hand all restrictions are being implemented on such people who are ready to follow the norms,” she said. “Closure besides affecting the operators like us also affects the livelihood of a large number of people associated with us like trainers, sweepers, peons, security guards etc,” said Roshan Gupta, a Jharia based fitness expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway conducts fire-safety awareness drive ||An extensive fire safety awareness drive has been launched at various railway stations under South Eastern Railway including Ranchi, Tatanagar , Jharsuguda and Chakradharpur. SER has taken initiatives to educate all the stakeholders - rail users and railway/non-railway employees working at stations and in trains about precautions to be taken against fire incidents like enforcing “No Smoking”, preventing "Carriage of Inflammable Materials” as per provisions of the Railway Act. As part of this awareness drive, a preparedness meeting chaired by Anupam Sharma, additional general manager, SER was held at the Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER last week. Railway sources said senior officers and other employees attended the meeting to discuss the measures and improve alertness in case of a fire accident. Major focus was given to no smoking in trains and station premises and against carriage of inflammable articles. SER also started conducting awareness campaigns among the employees and passengers with live demonstrations and distribution of leaflets. Mock fire-drills were organised at different places under SER’s jurisdictions to assess the preparedness of the employees. Along with social media campaigning, announcements are also being made through public address systems and mass media. Video and print advertisements on fire-safety themes are also published to spread awareness. SER has also initiated regular checks by RPF personnel in trains and at stations against smoking and carriage of inflammable and explosive materials. "Seminar on fire safety and joint mock drills with the fire service department would be carried out in regular intervals, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER. According to the CPRO, the awareness drive about fire-safety and precautionary measures will continue till April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi has more Covid patients than dedicated beds in private hospitals||The lack of availability of dedicated Covid beds in private hospitals is haunting Ranchi at a time when cases of infection have skyrocketed here in the past fortnight. While the government claims that many beds were lying vacant in hospitals, the owners of private hospitals beg to differ. The number of Covid patients undergoing treatment in most of the private healthcare facilities in the state capital was higher than the number of beds assigned for Covid cases, hospital owners said on Wednesday, warning that a further increase in the count of Covid beds may make segregation of Covid and non-Covid patients difficult and create chaos. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, where most VIPs and politicians undergo treatment, had all of its 50 Covid beds occupied.  It has  had to turn away patients. “We have 50 Covid beds and all of them are occupied. Around 13 Covid patients are on ventilator, while one is on ECMO in our hospital,” said Anil Kumar, the Assistant Vice President of Medica, Ranchi. Kumar added that the last time there were fewer non-Covid patients in the hospital, so the hospital authorities could manage more beds for Covid patients. However, this time around, the number of non-Covid patients was also high, thereby leaving limited scope for increasing Covid beds. Raj Hospital on MG Road was also dealing with a high demand for Covid beds. Yogesh Gambhir, the owner of the hospital, said that all Covid beds in the facility were occupied and there was limited scope of adding more Covid beds. “We have 45 dedicated Covid beds and we are treating 50 patients. Similarly, there are four ventilators for Covid patients in our hospital, and at least nine Covid patients are on ventilator here,” said Gambhir. Gambhir, who is also president of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), said that most hospitals have reached a point where adding more Covid beds might affect non-Covid patients. Almost all Covid beds, he said, were occupied. “Most private hospitals have as many Covid beds as they had during the last peak in 2020,” added Gambhir. As per latest figures released by the health department, there are 2115 dedicated Covid beds in Ranchi, including those in private hospitals. The number of active cases in the district, however, clearly outnumbers the Covid beds available. As per government data, there were 3,665 Covid patients in the district on Wednesday morning, and more than 2,500 of them were in home isolation. As per records with the state health department, there were 1,211 beds without oxygen, 556 with oxygen, 348 ICU beds and 166 beds with ventilators for Covid patients in Ranchi. While only 215 of the 1,211 non-oxygen support beds were occupied, at least 442 of the 556 beds with oxygen support were occupied. At least 205 patients were in ICU, while 45 were on ventilators, highlights data with the health department. Even though most Covid patients in the district were either asymptomatic or suffered from minor symptoms, many patients may not be able to meet the requirements for home isolation despite being asymptomatic, health officials said. As per the set protocol, patients are allowed to stay in home isolation only if they have a separate room, separate toilet, utensils and cooperative family members who are aware of the disease and how it spreads. The government has also launched a 104 helpline number for counselling Covid patients in home isolation and providing them medical assistance in case of an emergency, health officials said. The health department has also appointed a deputy director rank official as the nodal officer for home isolated Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals still have vaccine stocks in steel city||The East Singhbhum district health authority, battling a shortfall in vaccine doses, has sent an SOS to Ranchi seeking directives to retrieve unused vaccines stocks from private hospitals so that these can be administered at public health centres, the district civil surgeon indiccated on Wednesday. In Jamshedpur, where the civic authorities and police have launched a drive to impose strict Covid safety norms, there are 20 government-run vaccination facilities. As many as 11 of these are in the steel city. The district is waiting for a fresh supply of the Covishield vaccine and, as reported in The Telegraph Online, the state is expected to receive the next lot after two days. But the 27 private health facilities that are providing the vaccine at a price of Rs 250 per dose are yet to exhaust their stocks. District civil surgeon A.K. Lal said they were awating a directive from Ranchi on using the unused stocks of private clinics. "While stocks have run out at government-run centres, in most private health facilities, Covishield vaccine vials are lying unutilised. Tata Main Hospital still has 1,800 vials of Covishield. Similarly, Tata Motors Hospital has 1,940 vials of the vaccine. This is why we have written to the concerned authorities in Ranchi," he said. Lal said vaccination was carried out out at 3 of 20 government-run centres on Wednesday, but only those schedule for their second dose were served. Police and officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) hit the streets of the steel city on Wednesday to ensure strict adherance to Covid protocols. They are also spreading the word about the state government's latest orders as per which all government and private schools are to remain closed and all shops, restaurants, clubs and bars would have to down shutters by 8pm  from Thursday onwards. JNAC offiials, accompanied by magistrates and police, went around Sakchi and Bistupur markets on Wednesday. Armed with a public address system, they spoke about the new guidelines and asked people to follow them. The team, led by JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar, asked the eateries to serve only packed food, and instructed shop owners to allow a maximum of five persons inside their premises. "We will impose fines on shopkeepers from Thursday if they don't abide by the guidelines," said Kumar, adding that as per the state government's directive  night curfew would be imposed between 8pm and 6am . Covid claimed as many as three lives in East Singhbhum during the past two days. On Tuesday, the district recorded 191 new cases. District health officials said 60 new cases were recorded till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Selection trials to take place at Seraikela archery cradle ||Budding archers (boys and girls) from Jharkhand will be trying their luck at the two-day selection trials to be held at the government-run archery academy at Dugni (near Seraikela) on April 9 and 10. Preparations for the trials are complete and coaches are waiting for the arrival of aspirants, mostly from Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum. The opening day (April 9) would be for the girls and the following day will be reserved for boys. “We are expecting around 50 boys and girls for the trials. The aspirants would be in the 10 to 14 age group,” said B Sriniwas Rao, chief coach of the cradle. He said Covid protocols, including social distancing, would be strictly maintained, during the trials. Speaking on the phone from Dugni, he clarified that they would not be conducting shooting as such. “The aspirants would be given light weight traditional bows and arrows. We’ll basically  judge the draw style (of the bow string). We’ll also put them through some physical exercises,” Rao added. The chief coach said they would be going for raw talent and that was the reason for not putting the aspirants into the actual rigours of trials. According to Rao, a total of 21 candidates (10 boys and 11 girls) would be inducted into the cradle as cadets. “The tenure of the cadets would be for a period of five years,” he said and added there were at present 29 cadets (15 boys and 14 girls) at the residential academy. The academy in Dugni, which is functioning for over a decade, has produced a number of international archers, including Gora Ho. Golden Girl Deepika Kumari also trained here before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur in 2006. An impressive number of archers from the cradle have landed jobs, mostly in the armed forces. Rao, who is based in Jamshedpur, said they guide the cadets in finding employment. “We are happy that a good number of cadets of our academy have found jobs. The trend will continue,”  he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fans vote T.P. Rehenesh best player of the season for JFC ||A stellar show under the crossbar has led Jamshedpur FC goalkeeper Rehenesh TP win the Fans' Player of the Season 2020-21 award. The 28-year-old Kerala-born shot-stopper was one of the best performers, not just for the club, but also in Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21. Rehenesh pipped clubmate Nigerian defender Stefen Eze to grab the honour. Rehenesh won the award via an online poll conducted on Jamshedpur FC’s social media handles last week. Content with the accolade, Rehenesh shared a message directed to the fans. "Thank you so much for selecting me as your Fans’ Player of the Season. I am really glad my performance meant a lot to you. Sending lots of love and once again thank you for choosing me. Hopefully, we’ll come back with an even better performance in the next season.” The Jamshedpur custodian made a dominating presence in the goal for JFC and also competed in the race for the Golden Glove award alongside Arindam Bhattacharya (ATK Mohun Bagan) and Amrinder Singh (Mumbai City FC). With a miserly 89.11 minutes per goal conceded, Rehenesh closed the season on a strong note as he finished 3rd in the Golden Glove award race. Rehenesh also dominated the clean sheet table with 8 clean sheets in the 19 games he appeared in for Jamshedpur FC, and finished 3rd again in the ‘most clean sheets’ list this season. He registered some solid statistical figures in his first season at Jamshedpur FC too and established himself as a regular starter at the goal for the team. In the 1693 minutes that he was on the field, he faced a total of 176 shots out of which 73 were on target. Out of the 73 shots on target, Rehenesh successfully managed to keep out 54 of those shots with a stunning save percentage of 73.97%. With an average of 1 goal conceded per game, Rehenesh conceded 19 goals in as many games he played. Rehenesh made some notable and key saves during the season. His penalty save against NorthEast United was crucial in inflicting the Highlanders’ first defeat of the season. His saves against Mumbai City FC when Jamshedpur were a man down and against Bengaluru FC made for some of his exemplary performances during the season. Delighted with the outstanding performance showcased by Rehenesh in his first season at Jamshedpur FC, some Red Miners (JFC official fan club) too had some words and thoughts to share on the goalkeeper being crowned as the fans’ champion. “The season was young, the season was new, the season was filled with footballing action. While the team lacked consistency, Rehnesh was outstanding. Replacing the legend Subrata Paul in the team is not an easy task, but he made goalkeeping look so easy.. A true deserving achievement," said Rahul Mukherjee. “Congratulations, TP! He totally deserves this award! Being a goalkeeper myself, I can understand how crucial it is to win these kinds of awards for a goalkeeper in competition with the other outfield players. He was phenomenal throughout the season and did his job very well. We are delighted to have him with us at Jamshedpur FC. We can't wait to see him guarding the Red Miners' goal next season,” said Imran Sheikh. “When we signed him, many people were critical of his move to Jamshedpur FC. But with his solid performance, he proved all of them wrong and topped it up by winning the Fans’ Player of the Season award. What a remarkable achievement it is for him. We are proud of our Superman TP,” said Naman Sumit. After a phenomenal debut season for Jamshedpur FC, Rehenesh will be aiming to bring the same consistency and form to the upcoming season, and with his quick reflexes, dives and dominating presence at the back, he will surely be one of the most anticipated players in the Men of Steel squad to look for on the field, for the fans. Notably, Jamshedpur finished sixth in the cash-rich ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotel owners report losses amid second Covid wave||Hotel owners of Dhanbad are bearing the brunt of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with over 200 claiming less than 10 per cent occupancy. The hospitality business was completely derailed during the first seven months of the pandemic last year. The state government on Tuesday restricted the number of people at a marriage function to 200. Hoteliers are worried their plans to recover losses during the wedding season beginning April to July, will be adversely affected. Anutosh Bagchi, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel told The Telegraph Online: “After witnessing good flow of business during the last three months we were now expecting a better situation during the bumper marriage season beginning from April and also due to other factors like industries and offices operating at full pace.” “All our hopes have been dashed to the ground with the second wave causing sharp increase in Covid cases in several parts of the country leading to restricting the movement of people since April first week and our booking have gone down to less than 10% since April first week,”said Baghchi. “The latest restriction on the number of participants for less than 200 persons will also affect our business as higher number of guests means higher number of plates for food which is also provided by the restaurant of the hotel,” he said. Binay Singh, owner of Ramson Hotel, who is also general secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dhanbad said, “though, we have somehow survived the first phase of Covid but the second phase may be more tough and may prove an acid test for us due to reduced business and huge overhead expense.” “Though, we are ready to abide by all restrictions but we also need government support like relaxation of various kinds of taxes like Holding tax, user charges for garbage disposal, and also waiver of fixed electricity charges of the lockdown period of last year and other subsidies otherwise the latest phase of covid may prove a fatal blow for us,” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, project manager of Sales and Operation of Sonotel Hotel, Arka Ghosh said, “The Hotels having their own restaurants like us are suffering the double blow as the latest diktat of closure of all shops including restaurant before 8pm will drastically affect the restaurant business”  said Ghosh and added for closure at 8am the customers will have to sit for dinner before 7 pm which is  not a usual practice of any customer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
07-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BSL management launches sanitisation drive amid rise in Covid cases||Bokaro: The Bokaro Steel Plant management on Tuesday started a sanitisation drive in the township to control the spread of Covid-19. The total active cases recorded on Tuesday was 65. At present, the district has 249 active cases. The BSL management which has put its teams in town administration and water supply department to perform the sanitation work. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “effort is being laid to contain virus from spreading in BSL’s township and plant. Sanitisation work has been started in various areas of the township and plant premises to prevent from the increasing infection of Covid-19 pandemic. There are about 20 BSL executives and non-executives who are infected with the coronavirus.” Sanitisation was done in various areas of the Bokaro Steel Township including Sector-6 Market, Sector-5 Market, Sector-4G, Ram Mandir Market, Naya Moad and Administrative Building etc. Sanitiser was being sprayed by a van in the above areas. The sanitisation work will be done daily in different areas of the township, said Dhan. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A state-of-the-art tuberculosis ward will be constructed at the Chatra Sadar hospital, funded by a Calcutta based company. Deputy commissioner, Divaynshu Kumar Jha, took the initiative in negotiating the deal. The number of tuberculosis patients are on the rise and lack proper facilities for their treatment. Jha said, “it will take a year in construction of this wing. But once completed, it will be a big facility for tuberculosis patient who will get the required treatment here in best possible way.” (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chatra police on Tuesday arrested four interstate smugglers with 435gm of opium. Subdivisional police officer of Simaria, Ashok Priyadarshi, said the gang of four came here to purchase opium when they received a tip-off resulting in their arrest. The recovered opium costs Rs.7.5lakh. “We are taking action against other members of this gang,” said Ashok. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
