08-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP drives chartered flight traffic ||This election, the city airport has handled the highest number of chartered planes and helicopters compared with any other elections in Bengal and nine out of 10 of those were hired by the BJP, officials at the airport said. In March, the airport had handled 140 chartered planes and helicopters, said officials. Around 30 per cent of them were helicopters and the rest were aircraft with five to 15 seats. The choppers used were mostly five-seater. “Most of the chartered planes and helicopters were hired by political parties. Only a few were used for non-poll purposes like air ambulances,” said an official. At least two officials working for more than 25 years at the airport said they had never seen so many chartered planes and helicopters ferrying political leaders to and from Calcutta during any election. The state BJP has formed a six-member team to coordinate the operation of these planes and helicopters. Leaders of the party said this was the first time such a team has been formed because so many leaders from outside were coming to campaign in Bengal. “This March we handled 140 chartered planes and helicopters and 90 per cent of those were used by BJP leaders. The chartered planes were mostly used to fly leaders from Delhi to Calcutta and the helicopters were used to ferry them to districts,” said an official at the airport. Airport sources said the leaders who used chartered planes and choppers included Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP president J.P. Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Smriti Irani. Some local leaders, too, flew to districts on helicopters to campaign. Among leaders of other parties, Bengal Pradesh Congress president and leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, has flown on a chartered plane once to campaign for the ongoing elections, said airport sources. Among Trinamul Congress leaders, the sources said, only chief minister Mamata Banerjee has flown on hired helicopters to campaign. The BJP has set up a team of five people to coordinate with the hordes of leaders flying in and out of the state daily. This team, dubbed as the protocol department, is headed by Tushar Kanti Ghosh, a state unit secretary of the party. Though no one from the group wanted to speak to The Telegraph officially, a party source said this was the first time such a practice had been initiated. “Planes and helicopters are usually arranged from Delhi. Here the team coordinates with airport officials,” the source said. The BJP is not denying that it has been contributing the most to the rapid growth of air traffic in Bengal over the last month or so. “We are a national party and it is only natural that our leaders will come from other parts of the country to campaign for us,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson. “As far as expenditure is concerned, we are an organised party and for the benefit of the party such expenses are necessary. At least the individual assets of our leaders don’t multiply like leaders of other parties.” The chief minister and her party has labelled the BJP leaders coming from other states to campaign as outsiders. An agency in Delhi that gives small planes and helicopters on hire said a eight-seater plane flying from Delhi to Calcutta and back would cost around Rs 10 lakh, plus an 18 per cent tax. The cost of hiring a five-seater helicopter ranges between Rs 95,000 and Rs 1,10,000 per hour, plus an 18 per cent tax. In Calcutta, airport officials said, there is not much movement of chartered flights and helicopters. After the lockdown, the airport would handle a maximum of 60 such aircraft in a month. Before the lockdown, the number was much less, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bengal govt appeals to Centre for more vaccines ||The state government has appealed to the Union health ministry to send more Covid-19 vaccine doses to Bengal so a larger number of eligible people can be given the jab. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam has appealed to the Union ministry of health and family welfare to ramp up supply so that the ongoing vaccination drive can be intensified across urban centres where the population density and the risk of the infection are higher. “We have requested the Centre to send us more vaccine doses. We can vaccinate even more people if additional doses of vaccine reach us,” Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told The Telegraph. Senior health department officials said a little over two lakh people on an average were receiving the jab daily now. Given the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state wants to double this number, provided an adequate supply of vaccine doses are made available. “We have the resources to increase the number from the current two lakh to close to five lakh recipients daily,” a senior health department official said. Bengal received a consignment of around 12 lakh doses of Covishield about 10 days back. “Since booster doses have to be of the same vaccine as that of the first jab, we have to store half of whatever consignment arrives for future use. Unless there is a steady supply, the vaccination process can't be intensified,” the official said. “The number of cases is increasing and we need to offer vaccines to more and more people.” While pressing for additional supplies of vaccines, the state has said that Bengal has been witnessing a spike in Covid cases, officials said. The number could rise more sharply because of the ongoing Assembly elections as people continue to flock to political rallies and meetings in large numbers. Unless the vaccination drive is stepped up, things could get difficult in the months ahead, the state health department has told the Union health ministry. On Wednesday, Bengal registered 2,390 new Covid-19 cases. Exactly a month back, this figure was 188. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, 722 and 550 new infections, respectively, were detected. A month back, the two districts had registered 62 and 39 new cases. According to primary estimates, the state health department has observed that in the third phase of vaccination, nearly three crore people will have to be given the jab. This means around six crore doses, including the booster shot, would be needed. According to primary estimates, the state health department has observed that in the third phase of vaccination, nearly three crore people in Bengal will have to be given the jab. This means around six crore doses, including the booster shot, would be needed. Public health experts have called for stepping up the vaccination drive immediately with hospitals and health facilities arranging for off-site facilities so that young and working professionals can be covered. Abhijit Chowdhury, one of the experts, recently told The Telegraph that vaccination only at healthcare facilities would not be of much help as many young and working people may not have the time to visit such a facility. “The Centre should ensure adequate supply of vaccine doses. Otherwise, such exercises will have no effect,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Rs 12.5 lakh in currency seized near airport ||A man in his 30s was arrested on Jessore Road, near the airport, for allegedly carrying Rs 12.5 lakh without proper documents, police said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Kanti Ghosh was arrested at a check-post, in front of the Srijan Midland housing complex, which has been set up to keep tabs on vehicles entering and leaving the Madhyamgram and airport areas. An official of the Election Commission of India said they were keeping an eye on the flow of large sums of cash to political parties to ensure free and fair elections. The official said they had cautioned people on their website to carry valid documents if they carry more than Rs 50,000. “Unexplained cash above Rs 50,000 will be seized. It will be released only after it is established that the money has nothing to do with the elections. If the seized amount from any individual is above Rs 10 lakh, the case will be forwarded to the income tax department. A person needs to prove that he has withdrawn the money from his legitimate bank account through passbook entries,” the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had stopped the vehicle that Ghosh, a resident of Naugatak in North 24-Parganas, was travelling in. Policemen and central forces personnel searched the vehicle and came across a large black bag under a seat. “We opened the bag and found it stuffed with Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes,” said the officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Ghosh allegedly failed to give any satisfactory reply when cops and poll panel officials asked him why he was carrying so much money. He also allegedly failed to provide documents to prove that he had withdrawn the money from the bank. Another officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said as the seized amount was more than Rs 10 lakh, they immediately alerted the office of the deputy director of income tax (investigation), Unit 1. A team of IT officials reached the spot and questioned Ghosh. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Ghosh had been frequently changing his statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Isolation unit nudge to Calcutta Municipal Corporation||The civic authorities in Calcutta should be ready with facilities where Covid-19 patients and their contacts who cannot isolate themselves at home can stay, officials quoted chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as saying at a meeting with government officials on Wednesday. The need to once again build such facilities has become unavoidable following an alarming rise in the number of Covid cases over the past few weeks. The city on Tuesday recorded 722 new Covid-19 cases, up from 582 on Monday. On March 1, the city had recorded only 70 new cases. Calcutta had the highest number of active Covid cases — 4,793 — in the state on Wednesday. Active cases are people who are yet to recover from Covid or are yet to complete their mandatory isolation period. “The chief secretary told us to be ready with quarantine and isolation facilities so that people who do not have additional rooms in their homes can be shifted there. His message was that we should build all necessary infrastructure in these facilities so they can be opened any time soon,” said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). The CMC official said the chief secretary chairing the meeting in the middle of the election season shows how serious the Covid situation had become. A CMC doctor said Covid patients with mild or no symptoms and advised home isolation must keep themselves confined in a room and cease all contacts with other family members. Those who have come in close contact with the infected person must also isolate themselves and get themselves tested if they develop any symptoms of Covid. There are a lot of people, such as those living in slums, who do not have enough rooms at home where they can isolate themselves. If they get infected and are allowed to stay at home, they could end up passing on the virus to other family members. “We have identified a building, owned by a media company near Science City, to set up an isolation centre. We will also open a facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur, but the stadium is being currently used for election work. It will be handed over to us on April 12,” said a CMC official. Another CMC official said 722 new cases were reported in a single day at the peak of the first wave of infections last year. “I shudder to think what the case count will be when the second wave reaches its peak,” the official said. “Most people are moving around without masks. They are attending election meetings and roadshows without wearing masks and following the distancing protocol. The numbers will only keep rising if the situation is not controlled immediately,” the official said. The CMC official said the chief secretary had also asked them to step up awareness campaigns on Covid-appropriate behaviour. The civic body is also trying to expand its vaccination net. The CMC vaccinated nearly 11,500 people from its 80 clinics on Tuesday. It has planned to start vaccination from 20 more clinics from the middle of April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||State government asks private hospitals to add ICU beds for positive patients||The state government has asked private hospitals to increase the number of critical care beds for Covid patients. Several hospitals said they were willing to increase the ICU bed count in Covid wards but it would be difficult to do so if the number of non-Covid patients remained the same. On Tuesday, a senior state health department official posted a message on a WhatsApp group of private hospitals asking them to add ICU beds. “We have asked the private hospitals to increase the number of Covid ICU beds so we are prepared for any situation. They have been asked to ramp up general beds but ICU beds should be increased in more numbers,” Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal's director of health services, said on Wednesday. According to him, there are around 8,500 general beds and 2,000 ICU beds in government and private hospitals in Calcutta for Covid patients. Some of the hospitals said they were ready to increase the number of Covid beds. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 40 Covid beds, of which 16 are critical care ones. “We had planned non-Covid beds on the same floor so we can easily convert them to Covid beds. As an immediate measure, we will ramp up our Covid beds to 60, including 29 critical care beds,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. The hospital, he said, will buy more non-invasive ventilators and high-flow nasal oxygen equipment. Belle Vue Clinic has 20 ICU beds for Covid patients and all were occupied on Wednesday evening, officials said. “At the peak of the Covid pandemic last year, we had 34 ICU beds for Covid patients. We are planning to increase the number of ICU beds to that level soon. Non-Covid patients in need of critical care will be kept in another ICU where we have eight beds,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. An official of a private hospital said the challenge was to strike a balance between Covid and non-Covid ICU beds. Officials of some hospitals said they are expecting the number of non-Covid patients to go down as Covid cases surge again. At three units of AMRI Hospitals, relatives of seven patients cancelled planned surgeries on Wednesday. “We are expecting the non-Covid patient footfall to reduce as Covid patients get admitted in large numbers. But even then we cannot drastically reduce non-Covid beds and convert them into Covid beds. We have to do it gradually," said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. Three units of the hospital have around 250 ICU beds, of which 50 are reserved for Covid patients. At Peerless Hospital, officials said five out of seven Covid ICU beds were occupied. “We will increase the count if we cannot accommodate patients,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Vaccination drive at office premises to begin from Sunday||A workplace with at least 100 employees willing to get vaccinated and three rooms to spare will be able to organise a Covid vaccination camp on its premises from Sunday, a guideline issued by the Centre on Wednesday said. Taking the vaccination drive to offices was being discussed since everyone above 45 was made eligible for the Covid shot on April 1. Vaccination on office premises will help cover a large number of people between 45 and 59. A letter from the Union health ministry to the state government on Wednesday mentioned that “Workplace vaccination centres may be launched across states/UTs (Union Territories) from 11th April 2021”. “Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at workplaces which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries…. Organising vaccination at workplace will not only be convenient to the staff at workplaces but also help to avoid travel and hence reducing the risk of exposure to Covid-19 virus,” the guideline says. An office willing to organise a vaccination camp on its premises must have three rooms to spare. “In the first room recipients will wait for their turn and their papers will be verified. The next room is the vaccination room. In the third room — observation room — all recipients have to wait for 30 minutes post-vaccination,” said an official managing vaccination programmes in Calcutta. The guidelines mention that the “rooms should be part of the permanent structure of the workplace or proper and stable structures like hangars should be erected. Temporary shamiyana/tent like structures should not be used.” A “basic life-support ambulance” should be present on the office premises when vaccination will be under way. If a workplace has a clinic or hospital of its own, the doctors, nurses and other staff there can be trained to form the vaccination team, which will comprise five members. One of the members of the vaccination team should be a doctor. The official in charge of the Covid vaccination centre will be responsible to train the doctor, nurses and other staff from the company’s hospital or clinic in vaccination. The guidelines issued on Wednesday, and available on the ministry of health and family welfare’s website, also mention that the workplace should assign “one of their senior staff” to work as nodal officer, who will coordinate with the Covid vaccination centre that will vaccinate the company’s employees. The person will also be responsible for “registration of beneficiaries”, and “availability of physical and IT infrastructure”. According to the guideline, a private Covid vaccination centre (CVC) will hold vaccination sessions at a private company. For government offices, government CVCs will be responsible for the task. “District health authorities will normally deploy the vaccination team at government workplaces. Private CVC will deploy vaccination team at private workplaces,” the guideline adds. A session can be organised only when there are at least 50 people registered to take doses in that session, the guideline states. Following the Centre’s nod to hold vaccination on office premises, some private hospitals started discussions with private corporations. “We are having discussions with various corporate bodies and are expecting to get some confirmation in the next few days. We will begin with organising sessions at one or two offices in a day. Planning vaccination sessions in workplaces will be easier because we would know beforehand how many beneficiaries are listed in a workplace on any day,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east), Narayana Health, the owners of the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said they have had discussions with 12 private companies about vaccinating their staff on their premises. “We will send our officials to see if the premises have the adequate infrastructure to set up a vaccination centre there. We are having discussions with about 12 companies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||New app-based e-bikes launched in New Town||App-based e-bikes were launched in New Town on Wednesday to improve the last mile connectivity in a place where finding public transportation options in the afternoons and at night becomes a challenge. New Town already has an app-based cycle sharing system that has gained popularity in all the action areas. The new battery-powered bikes, of which 100 have landed in New Town, can be picked up by commuters from 20 docking stations, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. These are the same docking stations from where pedal-powered bikes are booked. The e-bikes are powered by a small electric motor and can run for up to 60km on a single charge. Spare batteries along with technicians will be stationed at each docking station. These technicians will change the batteries once a bike shows a   “low battery” sign on its display unit. Apart from being fitted with alloy wheels for extra stability and control and solid tyres that will require the least amount of maintenance in terms of filling up air, each bike has a small LED headlight to help riders negotiate the roads and lanes of New Town at night. The bikes also have a rear brake light and a basket in front where riders carry their bags and other things. On Wednesday, a docking station near the New Town Smart Street, a two-minute walk from the Kolkata Gate, was made operational for e-bikes by senior officials of Hidco that builds infrastructure in the township and representatives from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Some of the other docking stations from where commuters can hire these bikes are in front of the New Town bus stand, near the Reliance Fresh outlet, outside Axis Mall, near Novotel and off the Kolkata Gate. The NKDA has partnered with Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, to launch the e-bike service, which also operates the app-based cycle-sharing system in the township. The business model behind the bicycle-sharing app and the e-bike renting scheme, is based on the app-based bicycle sharing services operational in pedal-friendly cities like Paris, Copenhagen and Amsterdam. A user in New Town has to download the “Chartered Bike” mobile app on a smartphone. A one-time registration fee of Rs 100 is charged and it is redeemable, said a spokesperson for the company. To unlock an e-bike one needs to scan the QR code on the fender. In case someone wants to make a stop somewhere — for example to buy groceries, he or she has to click on the “parking” option on the app. At the end of the ride, the rider needs to choose the “end ride” option, after which the payment can be made through mobile wallets as well as the debit or credit cards. The bike has to be returned to any of the docking stations after the ride. As an introductory offer, the first half-an-hour of the ride will cost Rs 5. From there on a rider will be charged Rs 0.50 per minute. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said 300 more battery-powered cycles were on their way. “We want to have as many non-polluting modes of last mile connectivity transport options in New Town. These bikes will be available round-the-clock.They will help residents as well as office goers to reach their offices, markets or even homes if they live close to a docking station,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST decides to hold online exams due to rise in Covid-19 cases||IIEST, Shibpur, will not call its students back to the campus for supplementary tests and hold the exams online because of the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country and on the campus, an official of the institute said. Last month, the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST)’s senate, the highest academic body, had decided that BTech supplementary exams would be held on campus in May and the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students would be called to the campus from mid-April for hands-on laboratory training. The students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, in late March had sought a review of the decision to hold on-campus exams following a spike in Covid cases. The IIEST authorities felt the need to review their decision to call the students back and an emergency meeting of the institute’s senate was held on Wednesday. “We have put on hold the decision to recall the postgraduate students. The situation will be assessed in the first week of May and then we will take a call. The supplementary exams that were scheduled to be held from May 5 to May 10 on the campus will now be held online during the same schedule. Since the pandemic is raging, it would not be advisable to recall students now,” said IIEST deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya. On Tuesday, IIEST decided to close three departments till April 11 after some teachers attached to them tested positive for Covid-19. At Wednesday’s meeting, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti briefed the members of the senate about the situation on the campus and the stand of the students’ senate. “All of us agreed that it would not be proper to recall the students now. There has been a drastic change in the situation on the ground between March 17 — when the senate had met last — and now,” he said. Repeated calls to director Chakrabarti went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Many of the students are from worst-affected states, like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab, and were worried about travelling in the current situation, said Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate. “We are happy to know that the supplementary exams will be held online. The decision only goes to show the extent of the crisis,” Kumar, who attended Wednesday’s meeting, told The Telegraph. Half the seats at IIEST are reserved for students from outside Bengal. A member of the highest academic body said they apprehended travel restrictions being reinforced to contain the spread of the virus, which could disrupt the examinees’ return to the campus. Why had the authorities decided to hold on-campus BTech supplementary exams? “Supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November,” an IIEST official said. “We had decided to recall the outgoing masters’ students as the Centre in its Unlock-V directive last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring lab work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Call for train ‘cultural names’ by TMC||Trinamul Congress Bolpur has raised a demand for express trains that originate from the region to be returned to their “cultural” names in place of the “ordinary” location-based names most have received following resumption of services after the lockdown. Trinamul leaders and workers led a protest in front of Bolpur railway station in Birbhum district on Wednesday, claiming the BJP-ruled Centre had resumed services on an emergency basis but robbed the trains of their “cultural” names. “Why has something as iconic as the Santiniketan Express been renamed as the Bolpur-Howrah Special? This needs to be changed,” said a protester, claiming that the residents of Santiniketan were taking this personally ahead of the Assembly elections owing to their longstanding association with Bengal’s cultural development. “We are used to seeing the names of books, towns and eminent persons linked to our trains — not just the destinations. The railways are a part of Santiniketan’s culture and vice-versa,” said a protester. Party sources said Trinamul’s town president Shyam Sundar Konar wrote to the divisional railway manager of the Eastern Railway this week requesting him to run Santiniketan Express with its “actual name”. Trinamul leaders said they failed to understand the motive of the railways to change the names even though it plied at the same time and on the same route. A railway official, however, said the name was not an issue as it had been done everywhere. The trains will run in their original names once the pandemic is over, the official added. “Even Rajdhani Express is running as a special train and the decision is not only for Bengal, but for all express trains in the country,” said Ekalabya Chakraborty, the chief public relations officer of Eastern Railways. Railway officials failed to explain the reason to change the names of trains when they are running on the same route following the old pre-pandemic timetable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Jeweller shot dead in Cooch Behar||A jeweller was shot by unidentified men in Cooch Behar on Wednesday morning. Sources said Prashanta Saha, 28, a resident of Kalabagan in Ward 4 of the town, was busy in his shop when four men turned up and opened fire. The men had their faces covered. Police said a probe was on. “The bullets entered the jeweller’s head and chest. He collapsed at the spot. Residents rushed him to hospital where he was declared dead,” said a police officer. “We are trying to find the motive behind the murder. A search is on to arrest the assailants.” Some residents alleged that the police had acted in a lackadaisical manner. “The shop is very close to the police station. Yet, the police reached the spot after one-and-a-half hours. The elections are ahead and cops are patrolling the town. How can such an incident happen in broad daylight?” wondered a resident. In another incident, a Trinamul worker suffered a bullet injury in his shoulder as supporters of the ruling party and the BJP clashed in Jiranpur, a locality under Natabari Assembly seat of the district, on Tuesday night. Rabindranath Ghosh, north Bengal development minister who is contesting from the seat, said three party workers were injured in the attack. “One of them has suffered a bullet injury and is being treated at hospital. Before the polls, the  BJP is trying to unleash violence in the area,” Ghosh added. As the news spread, Trinamul workers held a demonstration in Jiranpur. Shops and other commercial establishments remained closed throughout the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Business||Sensex ends 84 pts higher after choppy trade||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 84 points higher after a volatile session on Thursday as concerns over rising coronavirus infections and resultant restrictions across the country kept investors on the edge.  The 30-share BSE index settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49,746.21. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,873.80.  UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and L&T.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Sun Pharma, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards.  Domestic equities, despite trading positively for most of the session, gave up a large portion of gains towards the end of the day as concerns of rising COVID-19 cases continued to weigh on investor sentiment, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Financials witnessed profit-booking and dragged the market. Barring financials, most of key sectoral indices traded in the green with metal index remaining an outperformer.  "Expectations of steady 4QFY21 earnings and weakening INR continued to attract investors' interest towards IT stocks," he noted.  While softening of bond yields and crude prices in recent period offered some comfort to markets, a sharp depreciation in rupee in the last couple of trading days could be a new worry for investors, which can also have an impact on FPI flows, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 62.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
08-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 343.32 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 50,005.08, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 102.90 points or 0.69 per cent to 14,921.95. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI and Infosys. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, ONGC, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49,661.76, and Nifty advanced 135.55 points or 0.92 per cent to 14,819.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 227.42 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be modestly good now. Market has once again defied concerns of rising COVID-19 cases in the country after favourable outcome from RBI's policy meeting and assurance of no nationwide lockdown by government," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, local level mobility restrictions due to continued surge in new coronavirus cases in various parts of the country are expected to keep markets volatile in the near term, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. US equities mostly ended with marginal gains after the release of minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting showed that members of the Federal Reserve were in no hurry to tighten monetary support amid pandemic, Modi said. "Despite improving economic outlook and labour market, Fed officials stated that it will take some time before any type of tapering of the monthly asset purchase programme and tightening in policy rates. This has certainly offered respite to global equities," he added. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.19 per cent lower at USD 63.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||ACs, solar cells to get Rs 10,500cr incentives||The government on Wednesday approved production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes worth over Rs 10,500 crore to boost domestic manufacturing capacity of solar PV modules and white goods such as air conditioners and LED lights. The PLI scheme for solar PV modules is aimed at adding 10,000 MW manufacturing capacity of integrated solar PV modules entailing direct investment of Rs 17,200 crore. The PLI scheme is likely to create direct employment of around 30,000 and indirect employment of 1.2 lakh, according to the government. An outlay of Rs 4,500 crore has been cleared by the cabinet for this proposal. Solar energy capacity addition depends largely upon imported solar PV cells and modules as the domestic manufacturing industry has limited operational capacities, it added. The move will reduce import dependence in a strategic sector such as electricity. Solar PV manufacturers will be selected through a transparent competitive bidding process. The PLI will be disbursed for five years. Manufacturers will be rewarded for higher efficiencies of solar PV modules and also for sourcing their material from the domestic market. Thus, the PLI amount will increase with increased module efficiency and increased local value addition. LED Lights The government has approved a budgetary outlay of Rs 6,238 crore for the PLI scheme for air conditioners and LED lights. “The scheme for white goods shall extend an incentive of 4 per cent to 6 per cent on incremental sales of goods manufactured in India for a period of five years to companies engaged in manufacturing of air conditioners and LED lights,” an official statement said. Bharti-Dixon tieup Bharti Enterprises and consumer durable manufacturer Dixon Technologies (India) have inked a pact to form a joint venture to avail the government’s production-linked incentive (PLI) on manufacturing of telecom and networking products. Dixon’s wholly-owned subsidiary Dixon Electro Appliances Pvt Ltd or any firm identified by the two parties will be the joint venture entity. The new firm will manufacture telecom and networking products such as modems, routers, set top boxes, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, among others, for the telecom sector, including Bharti Enterprises’ subsidiary and operator Bharti Airtel Ltd. “The said joint venture will file necessary applications with the ministry of communications or any other nodal agency to avail benefits under the PLI scheme of the government," said Dixon Technologies in the statement on Wednesday. As per Dixon, post execution of mutually acceptable agreements by the parties, the JV company will be 74 per cent owned by Dixon and 26 per cent by Bharti Enterprises. Commer Minister Piyush Goyal said the scheme would help in increasing value addition from 25 per cent to 75 per cent in the AC segment and 40-45 per cent in LED lights. About Rs 35 lakh crore worth of additional output is expected from 13 sectors, which avail PLI benefits in the next five years, he added. Selection of companies for the scheme will be done to incentivise manufacturing of components or sub-assemblies, which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient capacity. Mere assembly of finished goods will not be incentivised, the statement said. "Companies meeting the pre-qualification criteria for different target segments will be eligible to participate in the scheme. Incentives shall be open to companies making brownfield or greenfield Investments," it said, adding thresholds of cumulative incremental investment and sales of manufactured goods over the base year would have to be met for claiming incentives. The scheme, it said, is expected to be instrumental in achieving growth rates that are much higher than the existing ones for AC and LED industries, develop complete component eco-systems in India and create global champions manufacturing in India. They will have to meet the compulsory BIS (Bureau of Indian Standards) and BEE quality standards for sales in the domestic market and applicable standards for global markets. It is estimated that over five years, the scheme will lead to an incremental investment of Rs 7,920 crore, incremental production worth Rs 1,68,000 crore, exports worth Rs 64,400 crore, earn direct and indirect revenues of Rs 49,300 crore and create additional four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Anmol Ambani lashes out against new round of lockdowns||Anmol Ambani, the eldest son of Anil Ambani, has lashed out against a new round of lockdowns being imposed amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, saying such restrictions do not concern health but control and that they destroy the very backbone of society and the economy. The 29-year-old former executive director of Reliance Capital in a series of tweets lambasted the new semi-lockdown rules. “Professional ‘actors’ can continue shooting their films. Professional ‘cricketers’ can play their sport late into the night. Professional ‘politicians’ can continue their rallies. But YOUR business or work is not ESSENTIAL. Still don’t get it?” he said in a tweet. He had in the past too voiced opposition to such restrictions and retweeted videos and comments denouncing them. “What does essential even mean? EACH INDIVIDUAL’S WORK IS ESSENTIAL TO THEM,” he said tweeting with hashtag #scamdemic. Lockdowns, he said, are key in “continuing and enabling greatest wealth transfer in human history”. “The mistake is that the people think this is simply inefficient governance. It’s not. It’s a coordinated, thought out set of policies designed to enable a new world order to be brought in,” he said. For an economy that was seeking nascent recovery after the world’s strictest lockdown last year pummelled business, a resurgence of the pandemic is posing a serious threat. States have announced partial lockdowns in response to infections rising by record levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Sebi imposes penalty of Rs 25 crore on Mukesh Ambani and Anil Ambani||Market regulator Sebi on Wednesday imposed a total penalty of Rs 25 crore on Mukesh Ambani, Anil Ambani, other individuals and entities for non-compliance with takeover norms in a Reliance Industries case dating back to 2000. Others penalised by the watchdog include Nita Ambani, Tina Ambani, K.D. Ambani and other family members. Nita is the wife of Mukesh Ambani and Tina is Anil Ambani’s spouse. RIL’s promoters and Persons Acting in Concert (PAC) failed to disclose the acquisition of more than 5 per cent stake in the company way back in 2000, Sebi said in its 85-page order. In 2005, Mukesh and Anil had split the business empire built by their father Dhirubhai Ambani. According to the order, RIL’s promoters acquired 6.83 per cent stake in the company during 2000 through conversion of 3 crore warrants issued to them back in 1994. Sebi noted that 6.83 per cent shares that were acquired by RIL promoters together with PACs consequent to exercise of option on warrants attached with non-convertible secured redeemable debentures were in excess of ceiling of 5 per cent prescribed under the takeover regulations. Thus, the obligation to make a public announcement about acquiring the shares arose on January 7, 2000. This was the date on which the PACs were allotted RIL equity shares on exercise of warrants issued in January 1994, the order noted. However, Sebi found that the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring the shares. As the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring shares, it is alleged that they have violated the provisions of the takeover regulations. Mukesh Asia’s richest Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani has reclaimed his position as Asia’s richest person, dethroning Chinese business tycoon Jack Ma in Forbes magazine’s new list of global billionaires. Ma was the richest person in the region a year ago but has tumbled to the 26th spot in this year’s list even though his fortune swelled almost $10 billion to $48.4 billion. Ambani’s fortune grew to $ 89 billion. Jeff Bezos of Amazon has been ranked as the richest person for the fourth year running with a net worth of $177 billion, up $64 billion from a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Maximum balance of customers of PPI issuers doubled||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday used a carrot and stick approach towards prepaid payment instruments (PPI) issuers when it doubled the maximum balance that their customers can hold. However, it made interoperability mandatory for such entities. Interoperability means an user of a particular wallet can transfer funds to another user (of another operator) without any difficulty. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said PPIs were given the option to become interoperable in 2018 in cases where a full know your customer (KYC) validation is done. “Even after two years, migration towards full-KYC PPIs, and, therefore, interoperability, is not significant. It is, therefore, proposed to make interoperability mandatory for full-KYC PPIs,” Das said. He added that to incentivise the migration of PPIs to full-KYC, the limit of outstanding balance in such PPIs may be  raised from the current Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Das said the RBI has been stressing on interoperability to optimally utilise the payment instruments such as  cards and wallets. If a full KYC is done by a non-bank PPI, the RBI also permits cash withdrawal by their customers, subject to a limit. The RBI said PPIs can now also use facilities such as RTGS and NEFT. So far this was only applicable to banks and few specialised entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||RBI to bring out an index to gauge extent of financial inclusion||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday announced that it will bring out an index that will gauge the extent of financial inclusion in the country. “Financial inclusion has been a thrust area for the government, the RBI and other regulators. The RBI proposes to construct and publish a Financial Inclusion Index (FI Index) based on multiple parameters. This will be published in July every year for the financial year ending previous March,’’ RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. He did not disclose details of such an index. Over the past few years, the banking regulator has announced several measures to step up financial inclusion and reach the unbanked. Last year, the RBI had released the National Strategy for Financial Inclusion for India 2019-2024. The report was prepared by the central bank under the aegis of the Financial Inclusion Advisory Committee and was also based on the inputs and suggestions from the Centre and other financial sector regulators. It said that focus on last mile delivery has been one of the major thrust areas in various countries. The report added that as the typical rural customer would not be willing to forego his or her day’s wage to visit a financial service provider, it is important that distance and time taken to visit the service provider does not act as a deterrent. To achieve this, various countries have come up with policies to extend the receipt infrastructure including permitting formal financial institutions to engage services of agents and Business Correspondents (BCs). While the BCs have been able to reach out to the last mile customer, the issue of customer protection, providing suitable products, increasing financial awareness, having a proactive oversight over the activities of the agents and sustainability of the agent or the BC network are some of the areas which now require policy interventions, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India guiding for a firmer rupee||Is the Reserve Bank of India guiding for a firmer rupee this year? The short answer: probably. The central bank drew its baseline forecasts for growth and inflation in the Indian economy on the assumption that the exchange rate would be Rs 72.60 per US dollar. In its 102-page Monetary Policy Report — a twice-a-year document that accompanies the monetary policy statements in April and October —the RBI said: “The exchange rate is assumed at Rs 72.60 per dollar for 2021-22 in the baseline.” The nominal exchange rate has moved in a range of Rs 72-75 per US dollar since October 2020. The currency markets, however, have priced the dollar at Rs 74.55 at the end of trading on Wednesday. There is a caveat here: the RBI said in the report that the exchange rate path assumed is for the purpose of generating the baseline projections and does not indicate any “view” on the level of the exchange rate. The central bank’s squeamishness about “pegging” an exchange rate for the rupee is understandable and its official line is that it allows the market to decide where it should be. The RBI said it was “guided by the objective of containing excess volatility in the forex market and not by any specific level of and/or band around the exchange rate”. The report said the rupee had remained under depreciating pressure till mid-November 2020 due to Covid-related uncertainty, risk aversion and capital outflows. Subsequently, the rupee appreciated riding on the domestic recovery gaining traction, decline in the number of new infections, vaccine rollout, and the measures announced in the Budget 2021-22. However, it came under pressure once again in late February on elevated global financial market volatility following the spike in sovereign bond yields in the US and other advance economies. The report observed that heightened volatility in global financial markets, particularly a snapback in global sovereign bond yields — as seen in February — could lead to a broader risk aversion to emerging market economies’ assets and net capital outflows. “Should the rupee depreciate by 5 per cent from the baseline, inflation could move up by around 20 basis points while GDP growth could be higher by around 15 basis points,” the report said. The rise in GDP growth would be due to higher net exports. However, the report added that given India’s relatively better growth outlook and expectations of strong capital inflows, there could be rupee appreciation. It forecast that if the domestic currency appreciates by 5 per cent relative to the baseline, inflation and GDP growth could moderate by around 20 basis points and 15 basis points respectively, against the baseline. India imports over 80 per cent of its crude oil requirements and this has a direct impact on its balance of payments position. Crude, which had firmed up in early March, have softened due to apprehensions that demand will be affected on account of rising Covid-19 infections. Brent crossed $70 per barrel in early March. Prices corrected to $65 in the second half of the month. The monetary policy report for April assumes that the Indian basket will settle at $64.6 per barrel for 2021-22 in the baseline. Stocks rally The Sensex rallied 460 points on Wednesday. The 30-share BSE index jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49661.76. The Nifty advanced 135.55 points, or 0.92 per cent, to 14819.05, 58 per cent above the baseline for 2020-21 set out in the report last October. Currency specialists have been tossing a variety of exchange rate estimates for this year. Recently, Fitch Solutions revised its projection to an average 73.50 to the US dollar, which puts the rupee at a firmer level from its earlier forecast of 75.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Gilt buying plan to hammer yields||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday  cracked open its balance sheet to open a new battle front in its war against runaway bond yields after its monetary policy wonks decided to hold rates and continue with its accommodative stance for as long as it takes to ensure that India’s economic recovery is “well secured”. The decision to hold rates had been widely anticipated by the markets. But the big surprise was the move to implement the explicit asset acquisition strategy — mimicking the actions of central banks in advanced economies — that involves an upfront commitment to purchase government securities, called gilts, worth Rs 1 lakh crore from the secondary market in the first quarter (April-June). “We have decided to put in place what is termed as a secondary market G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0... The first purchase of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. “This is the first time that the RBI is committing its balance sheet to the conduct of monetary policy. This has never happened before. The move is designed to provide an explicit assurance to markets; this is a challenging instrument that comes with risks and things can go awry. But this is the risk that the RBI has taken,” deputy governor Michael Patra said in a post-policy interaction with reporters. The G-SAP 1.0 will run alongside other interventionist bond purchase programmes that the RBI operates under its liquidity adjustment facility (LAF), longer-term repo/reverse repo auctions, forex operations and open market operations (OMOs), including the so-called Operation Twist where the central bank buys long-dated securities and sell short-maturity instruments in an effort to smoothen the bond yield curve. Until now, the RBI’s bond purchases have been imbued with a spirit of ad hocism, largely dictated by developments in the money market. This is the first baby step towards a more formal bond buying programme, rather like the US Federal Reserve’s asset purchase programme under which it buys $80 billion of treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities worth $40 billion every month. The RBI’s asset purchase programme will be modest in comparison at roughly $4.5 billion a month at current exchange rates in the first quarter. It will, however, swell the size of the RBI’s balance sheet — which amounted to Rs 53.3 lakh crore in 2019-20 — with much depending on the intensity of the asset purchase programme in the subsequent quarters. The money market mavens have been urging the central bank to become a little more pro-active and transparent with its bond buying plans. “In an OMO situation, there is a lot of guessing about how much bonds will be pumped into the market. This  will provide a very explicit idea about how much bonds will come into the market,” Patra added but chose not to amplify on the risks that this may involve. The RBI’s announcement had an immediate impact on bond yields with the yield on the 10-year bond cooling to 6.08 per cent — a fall of 10 basis points from its intra-day high. The central bank has been concerned about rising bond yields and the impact that this might have on policy rate transmission. Banks have been tardy in bringing down lending rates in lock step with the repo rate reductions during the past year. Last year, the 10-year bond yield had softened to 5.89 per cent during the October-December quarter but then rebounded in February, sparking concerns on Mint Street. Last month, while reviewing the state of the economy in the RBI bulletin for March, deputy governor Patra had voiced concerns over the actions of bond vigilantes who have a vested interest in keep yields high. "The Reserve Bank is striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve, but it takes two to tango and forestall a tandav," he wrote while warning that the bond vigilantes could undermine the recovery, unsettle financial markets and trigger capital outflows from emerging markets like India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||RBI pledges to keep interest rates at record lows||The Reserve Bank of India announced after a meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee that it would keep its policy repo rate steady at 4 per cent for the fifth straight time. The statement's dovish tone eased market worries that quickening inflation could lead to any monetary tightening in the foreseeable future. The six-member committee “unanimously decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy,” Governor Shaktikanta Das said. In the face of the resurgence in Covid-19 infections, fiscal and monetary authorities “stand ready to act in a coordinated manner to limit its (the pandemic's) spillovers to the economy at large and contain its fallout on the ongoing recovery,” Das added. The central bank said it was retaining its 10.5 per cent growth prediction for the financial year ending in March 2022 as rural demand remained buoyant while urban demand has been gaining strength. But it cautioned that climbing Covid-19 cases have heightened uncertainty about the domestic growth outlook.  “Localised and regional lockdowns could dampen the recent improvement in demand conditions and delay the return of normalcy,” the RBI chief said. “Monetary policy will remain loose for a long while yet,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist at Capital Economics, said. The International Monetary Fund was even more bullish on India's prospects than the central bank. It forecast that the economy would expand by 12.5 per cent in this financial year after shrinking by 8 per cent during the previous 12 months. Such a growth performance would outstrip China that the IMF forecast would grow by 8.4 per cent. But the IMF attached a big caveat to its Infis outlook contained in its latest World Economic Outlook, prepared before the sudden infection leap. The IMF said the second Covid wave was a wild card and warned of “significant downside risks” if the health crisis worsens. The Covid upsurge “is quite concerning,” IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath told reporters. The country reported a record 115,736 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, a 13 per cent rise in just two months. Compounding pandemic worries, economic powerhouse Maharashtra, which accounts for nearly half of the new Covid cases, announced it had just three days of vaccination supplies left. Maharashtra has imposed a night curfew, issued work-from-home orders and declared a weekend lockdown to wrestle down infections. CARE Ratings Chief Economist Madan Sabnavis said the IMF’s 12.5 per cent economic growth projection for India in the current financial year appeared "very unlikely" to be achieved amid the regional lockdowns that could dampen both services and manufacturing activity. While Moody’s Analytics calls inflation “uncomfortably high,” the RBI is keeping its monetary policy “accommodative” to get the economy back on a high growth path. Consumer price index-based inflation is running at 5 per cent while core inflation, which strips out food, fuel and light, is 5.6 per cent. Any interest rate hike to brake on inflation would increase borrowing costs and slow economic growth. The central bank currently targets inflation of 4 per cent, allowing an upper and lower “tolerance band” of 2 per cent.  Das said the bank’s determined to keep inflation within the two-to-six per cent target range for the next five years, even though cost-of-living increases exceeded that range for most of last year, driven by food, fuel and commodity prices. Das said the bank expected inflation to be around 5.2 per cent for the current financial quarter to June. Inflation has suddenly reared its head as an economic risk factor in India after years of being relatively dormant. The central bank fuelled inflation worries Wednesday by formally announcing its plans for a massive government bond purchase program.  The bank plans to buy Rs 1 trillion worth of bonds in the secondary market in this financial quarter on top of its normal bond-buying operations. Analysts called the bond-buying spree a move toward “quantitative easing,” a term for expanding the supply of money in the economy in a bid to spur growth. The Indian currency slid by 1.6 per cent to Rs 74.57 against the US dollar on Wednesday, its biggest one-day drop in 18 months, after the bond announcement stoked fears that it would create a liquidity glut. Central banks around the world have been pumping in liquidity to shore up economies during the pandemic. Investors worry such stimulus measures could turn inflationary but Das said the bank's "endeavour will be to ensure congenial financial conditions for the recovery to gain traction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||India|| Oommen Chandy tests Covid-19 positive, to be hospitalised||Former Kerala chief minister, and Congress leader Oommen Chandy has tested positive for Cvid-19. He contested the April 6 assembly polls from Puthupallyin Kottayam, and has not been keeping well since the past two days, party sources informed. He is likely to be shifted to a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Kerala governor Ramesh Chennithal wished him a speed recovery on Twitter. Kerala reported 4,353 fresh Covid cases today, the highest in the past few days. Earlier, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19. He had taken his first dose of the Covid vaccine last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Dassault Aviation rejects fresh allegations of corruption in Rafale deal||French aerospace major Dassault Aviation on Thursday rejected fresh allegations of corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal with India, saying no violations were reported in the frame of the contract, days after French online journal 'Mediapart' alleged that the jet manufacturer had paid nearly one million Euros to an Indian middleman.  According to the French media, the report was based on an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency Agence Francaise Anticorruption (AFA).  Rejecting the allegations, a Dassault Aviation spokesperson said,"numerous controls are carried out by official organisations, including the French Anti-Corruption Agency. No violations were reported, notably in the frame of the contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales."  The spokesperson said Dassault Aviation, since the early 2000s, has "implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations".  The French media report said that Dassault claimed the money was paid for 50 replicas of Rafale jets and the order was given to an Indian defence company.  It also mentioned that the inspectors of the AFA were given no proof that these models were made. Following the allegations, the Indian company on Tuesday released a statement and tax invoices stating that the allegations were totally unfounded.  The Dassault official said the company reiterated that it acts in strict compliance with the OECD's (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) anti-bribery convention and national laws, in particular the Sapin 2 law.  Under the Sapin 2 law that came into force in 2017, French companies are required to implement a specific internal compliance programme to fight corruption.  "In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries," the official said.  The company also noted that the Rafale deal was based on a government-to-government framework.  "This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners," the spokesperson added.  The company has delivered 14 Rafale jets to the Indian Air Force so far.  The official said aircraft were delivered in respect of the schedule, despite the COVID-19 health crisis.  "Dassault Aviation and the Reliance Group established the Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) joint venture in 2017 and built a plant in Nagpur that has been producing numerous Falcon parts and pieces since 2018," the official said.  "Dassault Aviation and its partners are working with 60 companies in India and negotiations are underway to establish potential new cooperations," the official noted.  The NDA government had inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the UPA regime.  Prior to the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress raised several questions about the deal, including on rates of the aircraft, and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Covid: Modi stresses on micro containment zones in meeting with CMs||Noting that administration was appearing lax in many states amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged chief ministers to strengthen their efforts for the next 2-3 weeks to check the spread of the virus on a "war-footing". He also called for observing a vaccine festival between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries. “We have to stop vaccine wastage and prioritise the shots that we are giving out. Between April 11 to 14, we should organise a ‘tika utsav’ to inoculate maximum number of beneficiaries and ensure there is no wastage,” he said. In his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi asserted that the country had much more resources to deal with the virus than before and the focus should be on micro-containment zones. "There is a need to improve the governance system. I understand that because of the one-year battle, the system can experience tiredness and there can be laxity, but we must tighten it for 2-3 weeks and strengthen the governance," he said. Modi emphasised on 'Test, Track, Treat', Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid management to contain the pandemic. Along with public participation, our hard-working doctors and health-care staff have helped a lot in handling the situation and are still doing it, he said. "With administration appearing lax in many states, rise in cases has increased problems. To stop the spread of the virus, there is a need to work on a war-footing," he said. Modi set a target of conducting 70 per cent RT-PCR tests for the states and said that testing was the only way to curb the spread of the virus. “Containing human hosts is a way to contain the virus, we need to widen testing since more cases are asymptomatic now. Comments "Proactive testing is very important... Now more cases are asymptomatic. People feel that they have some mild pulmonary disease and then they infect the whole family,” he said, adding that the positivity rate should be kept below five per cent. Talking about the vaccine distribution scenario in the country, the prime minister said, “We need to prioritise (vaccine distribution) with what we have. We won't achieve anything by keeping vaccines in one state. It is not right to think in this way. We have to manage by thinking about the country.” The daily count of positive cases has reached a new record high of over 1.26 lakh, despite having dipped to about 20,000 a few weeks back. At a high-level meeting with senior officials, Prime Minister Modi had on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation and vaccination exercise in the country amid the "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths. Modi had said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic, according to an official statement that was released after the meeting. During the meeting, Modi also said night curfew has been an accepted experiment globally to contain the Covid-19 spread and called for popularising such restrictions, which have already been imposed in various parts of the country, as 'corona curfew' to spread awareness among people. He also dismissed the "intellectual debate" about coronavirus only having an effect in the night and said such a curfew helps in spreading awareness about the deadly virus with minimal impact on daily lives of people. Night curfew has been imposed by local administration in several places including Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Lucknow and other parts of the country amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. "Where ever night curfew is in place, there the phrase 'corona curfew' should be used so that awareness regarding coronavirus is maintained," Modi said during his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive. "Some people have this intellectual debate that 'does corona only come in the night'. In reality, the world over night curfew has been an accepted experiment because every person during the curfew time is reminded that I am living in Corona-era and lifestyle is not affected to a large extent," he said. The prime minister said, however, it would be better that the 'corona curfew' starts at 9 PM or 10 PM in the night and goes on till 5 AM or 6 AM in the morning so that other activities are not affected. "It should be popularised as 'corona curfew'. Corona curfew is helping make people aware (about the virus)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India|| Harsh Vardhan dismisses vaccine shortage cry of states as a ‘farce’||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday dismissed as "farce" the "hue and cry" by certain states about partisanship by the Centre and called it an attempt to hide their own incompetence, saying non-BJP ruled Maharashtra and Rajasthan figured among the top three states based on allocation of vaccines. As Covid-19 cases in India hit a record high, Vardhan said that 9.1 crore vaccine doses have been utilised, while 2.4 crore are in stock and 1.9 crore vaccines are in the pipeline, indicating there are sufficient doses available for all states. "Hue and cry by certain states about partisanship by the Union government is just a farce, an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are 2 of the top 3 states based on allocation of Covid-19 vaccine doses. "Both are non-BJP governed states," Vardhan said in a tweet. Releasing the figures, he said in another tweet, "Let's put an end to fear mongering now! #Covid19 vaccine doses: total administered: 9 cr+ In stock/nearing delivery to states: 4.3 cr+ Where does question of shortages arise? We're continuously monitoring and enhancing supply." In a strongly worded statement Vardhan on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra and some other states, accusing them of trying to cover their "failures" and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough of eligible beneficiaries. People above the age of 45 are currently eligible for vaccination. Vardhan also said the allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless and the states, including Maharashtra need to improve the implementation of their testing and containment strategies and vaccination drive. He said the "lackadaisical" attitude of the Maharashtra government has "singularly bogged down" the entire country's efforts to fight the virus. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday sought to know why the state was getting fewer number of Covid-19 vaccine doses as compared to some other states, including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, even as it is leading the vaccination drive and has the highest number of active cases in the country. Apart from Maharashtra, Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have also urged the Centre to supply more vaccines due to their shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19. Vijayan, who had taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine last month, confirmed his infection in a tweet. "I have been confirmed Covid+ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical college, Kozhikode," he tweeted. Vijayan, who is presently in Kannur, also requested all those who came in contact with him in recent days, to go into 'self-observation'. Sources from the Chief Minister's Office told PTI that he was asymptomatic. Chief Minister's daughter Veena Vijayan and son-in-law P A Mohammed Riyas had earlier tested positive. Vijayan, who was theCPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled extensively throughout the state during the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls. He had also participated in the road show at Dharmadam on the last day of the campaign. The state posted 4,353 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, the biggest spike in recent days in the state,as the total caseload rose to 11.48 lakh. As many as 2,205 people have been cured of the disease, taking the total recoveries to 11,10,283, a government press release said. The total number of those who tested positive to the virus mounted to 11,48,947. The active cases in the state have touched 33,621. In the last 24 hours ending 2 pm, 63,901 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate climbed to 6.81 per cent. So far, 1.35 crore samples have been sent for testing. The toll has mounted to 4,728 with 18 more recent deaths being confirmed due to the virus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Maoists let go of CoBRA commando abducted in Chhattisgarh ambush||CoBRA commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who was abducted by Naxals after the last week's fierce gun-battle in Bastar region of Chhattisgarh, was released on Thursday, police said.  Manhas, who belonged to the 210th battalion of Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), an elite unit of the CRPF, had gone missing after the gunfight on Saturday and later reported to be in the captivity of the Naxals.  The Naxals handed over the jawan, who hails from Jammu, to a group of facilitators in the forest along the Bijapur and Sukma border in the presence of a large number of villagers, police said.  "At around 4.30 pm, the abducted jawan returned to Tarrem Police Station safely along with the facilitators, who went inside the jungle to trace out his location," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said.  He is being admitted to Basaguda field hospital for medical examination and treatment, he said.  Some media persons accompanied the facilitators and recorded the video of his release. The visuals showed some armed Naxals, with faces covered, freeing the jawan tied with ropes.  The team of facilitators included Padma Shri awardee Dharampal Saini from Mata Rukhmani Ashram, Jagdalpur and Telam Boraiyya, senior leader of tribal community in Bijapur. Local journalists Ganesh Mishra and Mukesh Chandrakar also played an important role in his release, police said.  Manhas was part of a squad that had gone for an anti- Naxal operation in the jungles on the Bijapur and Sukma border on the night of April 2, hours before the deadly ambush.  The gunfight had broken out between the security forces and the ultras between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages, in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured.  On Tuesday, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) had issued a statement in Hindi saying its cadres had abducted Manhas from the site of the ambush and demanded that the Chhattisgarh government appoint mediators to ensure his safe release.  The Maoists, however, had not raised any formal demands for the release of the commando.  Out of the 22 martyred personnel, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight personnel, including seven CoBRA commandos and one jawan of its 'Bastariya' battalion, eight from the DRG and six from the Special Task Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh to continue, rules SC||In a setback to Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh, the Supreme Court Thursday dismissed their pleas challenging the Bombay High Court order directing a CBI probe into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Looking at the personas involved and nature of allegations and seriousness of allegations, it requires investigation by an independent agency. It is a matter of public confidence, a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and Hemant Gupta said. “We don't want to interfere with the orders of the high court directing a preliminary inquiry by the CBI,” the bench said. It is only a preliminary enquiry, nothing is wrong in it when serious allegations are made by a senior officer against a senior minister, the bench said when counsel for Deshmukh alleged that oral allegations were made without any substance and CBI probe was ordered without hearing him. The bench said that two persons involved in the case were the police commissioner and the home minister and they were working together till they fell apart. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Maharashtra, said that it was aggrieved by the CBI probe as the consent for it was withdrawn by the state earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||60-hour weekend lockdown to be imposed in all Madhya Pradesh cities||A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of Madhya Pradesh from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday to check the spread of the coronavirus infection, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday. Talking to reporters here after chairing a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in MP, Chouhan said his government aims to increase the number of beds for COVID-19 patients in the state to one lakh. "A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of the state from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday," Chouhan said. In the past three weeks, the state government imposed lockdowns in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior on Sundays and extended the curbs to some other cities last Sunday. Chouhan said various crisis management groups will hold meetings to review the situation in cities where there has been a spurt in COVID-19 cases and will decide the course of action to contain it. Besides increasing the number of beds for the viral infection patients, the state government has also decided to set up one COVID-19 care centre in each district, he said. There are total 52 districts in MP. Private hospitals are also being roped in to increase number of beds for COVID-19 patients, Chouhan said. On Wednesday, MP reported 4,043 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 3,18,014, while 13 fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,086, as per official data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Covid: 12 states showing upward trajectory of daily new cases||Ten states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a steep rise in the daily COVID-19 cases accounting for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections, the health ministry said on Thursday. The national weekly COVID-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new coronavirus infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,29,28,574, according to the ministry data updated on Thursday morning. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 59,907. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,310 while Karnataka reported 6,976 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 9,10,319 and now comprises 7.04 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 66,846 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. "Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 74.13 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 55.26 per cent of the total active cases of the country," the ministry said. Twelve states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,18,51,393 with 59,258 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 685 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 87.59 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (322). Punjab follows with 62 daily deaths, the ministry said. Twelve states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Assam, Ladakh, D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Amid a steep rise in cases, the Maharashtra government on Thursday said that 26 vaccination centres have been shut in Mumbai and the state was waiting for more doses from the Union government, NDTV reported. "Satara, Sangli, Panvel have stopped vaccinations," state health minister Rajesh Tope said. In Pune too, several centres were shut, tweeted ationalist Congress Party MP Supriya Sule. Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said to address the shortage of remdesivir, the Maharashtra government should procure the drug from states that are not witnessing a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and take action against black marketing of the injection. Speaking to reporters at Nagpur airport, Fadnavis said the state government should pay attention to the availability of remdesivir, as instances of black marketing had been reported last year. "The same is happening now as well. Not all states are witnessing a second wave. Hence, the government should procure remdesivir from states that are not in the second wave of the pandemic and companies that are producing the drug," he said. The BJP leader further said that the state government should stop playing politics over the COVID-19 vaccine. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will not attend the virtual meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation with CMs, sources in the state government said on Thursday. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay will be present in the meeting, they said. The TMC supremo will be busy campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections in the state, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, EC’s views on mask rule during poll campaigns||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking to ensure that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre and the EC and sought their response to the application by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC). The court listed the application for further hearing on April 30 along with Singh's main petition seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the Assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines issued by the poll panel in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for Singh, told the bench that the poll body should "create awareness through digital, print and electronic media for compulsory masking and social distancing during assembly elections". "When all the authorities are unanimous on mandatory masking, it defies logic as to why the rule should not be enforced in election campaigns," Gupta argued. The Central government's standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted notice on behalf of the Centre. Singh, in his application filed through advocate Gaurav Pathak, has sought a direction to the Centre to ensure strict compliance of its March 23 order, mandating imposition of appropriate fines, on persons not wearing face masks in public and workplaces, in states and UTs where elections are being held. The Assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry are being held in various phases. The polls started on March 27 and will conclude on April 29. Singh has contended that despite the orders and guidelines of the Centre and EC, "election campaigning is going on in full swing, without any regard to the Covid-19 regulations". He has claimed that there is an "indirect discrimination" against the general public as fines are collected from them for violating Covid-19 norms, but no action is taken against politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases ||India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases too went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again, Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday showed. The death toll due to the disease in the country increased to 1,66,862, with 685 new fatalities being reported in a day, according to the data updated at 8 am. Registering a steady increase for the 29th day in row, the count of active cases has gone up to 9,10,319, which is 7.04 per cent of the total infections, while the country's recovery rate has dropped to 91.67 per cent, it stated. The active COVID-19 caseload in the country was recorded at its lowest of 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,18,51,393, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.29 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,26,77,379 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the country so far, including 12,37,781 on Wednesday. The 685 new fatalities include 322 from Maharashtra, 62 from Punjab, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 40 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 from Karnataka, 22 from Gujarat, 20 from Delhi, 17 from Tamil Nadu, 16 from Kerala, 13 from Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Rajasthan and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. A total of 1,66,862 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country. This includes 56,652 fatalities from Maharashtra, 12,821 from Tamil Nadu, 12,731 from Karnataka, 11,133 from Delhi, 10,363 from West Bengal, 8,964 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,278 from Punjab and 7,262 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Modi takes second dose of Covid vaccine at AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS here, and asked those eligible for the shot to take it soon to defeat the virus. He had taken his first jab on March 1 at the hospital. "Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on CoWin.gov.in," he tweeted. The prime minister also posted a picture of his receiving the jab. Modi has taken Covaxin, India's homegrown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. Official sources said the two nurses who administered the vaccine to the prime minister on Thursday are P Niveda from Puducherry and Nisha Sharma from Punjab. Niveda was also involved in administering him the first shot on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Centre flies off handle on Covid vaccine as states seek more doses||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday erupted in anger at state governments that had asked for all adults to be inoculated amid a sharp surge in Covid cases and had flagged vaccine shortages. Hours after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that many inoculation centres in the state are being shut because of a shortage of vaccines and that the state now has 14 lakh doses which would only last three days, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at the state government. “The lackadaisical attitude of the Maharashtra government has singularly bogged down the entire country’s efforts to fight the virus,” the minister said. “Vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it. Allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless,” he added. The Centre turning on a state government in the middle of a pandemic whose second wave appears to be bigger than the first will do little to inspire confidence among the people. A Press Trust of India report had quoted Tope saying: “There are not enough doses at many vaccination centres and people coming there have to be sent back due to the shortage.” The minister also said that the state has 14 lakh vaccine doses while its vaccination plan requires 40 lakh doses per week. Maharashtra’s principal secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas told PTI on Wednesday that several districts would run out of their vaccine stocks “today or tomorrow” and the Centre has been informed about this. Bengal has also appealed to the Union health ministry to send more Covid-19 vaccine doses. Odisha has said it has had to close nearly half its immunisation sites because of a shortage of doses. Central officials have asserted in recent weeks that there is no shortage of vaccines for the campaign’s current phase that seeks to immunise all healthcare workers and frontline workers and people 45 years or older. Vardhan iterated that position on Wednesday and bristled at demands to vaccinate all adults, describing these as irresponsible statements that appear intended to divert attention from their own “poor vaccination efforts.” Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh need to improve their Covid-19 testing rates and Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan need to improve their quality of testing, the minister said. Punjab, he said, has to address its high case fatality rate by early identification of cases. “So long as the supply of vaccines remains limited, there is no option but to prioritise. This is also the established practice around the world and is well known to state governments,” Vardhan said. The primary aim of vaccination is to reduce mortality among the most vulnerable people, he said. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi, which are grappling with sharp rises in daily new Covid cases, had asked for vaccination to be allowed for all adults. Health experts who have been tracking the epidemic and the campaign said the discord between the Centre and some states is not surprising given the epidemic’s resurgence, inadequate public data on vaccine supplies, and lingering vaccine hesitancy. “Things changed — the vaccination strategy was designed months ago under the assumptions India’s epidemic was past its peak and was unlikely to grow to this size,” said Oommen John, a physician-researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Under current circumstances, I would argue for a vaccine strategy that takes into account the epidemic patterns in specific districts — where the infection is rampaging, it might be worthwhile to expand vaccines to all those who’re vulnerable — not just the most vulnerable,” John said. Vardhan said states seeking vaccination for all adults have not met their priority group targets yet. Maharashtra has so far vaccinated less than 50 per cent of healthcare and frontline workers with two doses of the vaccine required for protection, while Delhi and Punjab have vaccinated less than 30 per cent of their healthcare and frontline workers with two doses. Vaccine hesitancy is one of the reasons for the immunisation campaign’s slow pace across India, and some medical experts believe the Centre needs to share the blame for that. The Centre’s lack of transparency on adverse events following immunisation has likely contributed to the persistent hesitancy, a doctor said. Several countries have investigated the AstraZeneca vaccine — sold as Covishield in India — for possible links to blood clots. “Here, we see only episodic release of AEFI information by the health ministry,” the doctor said. A senior medical advisor to the national AEFI panel had told The Telegraph that details of each serious AEFI investigated in India would be made public. But the details still remain undisclosed. The other vaccine — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — was cleared even before its efficacy trial was complete, contributing to distrust. “People wouldn’t have forgotten how even some healthcare workers who are among the most vulnerable to the infection had hesitated on taking the vaccination,” said a senior physician who asked not to be named. Health officials have said the Serum Institute of India can produce about 70 million doses per month of Covishield, while Bharat Biotech can produce about 10 million doses per month of Covaxin, but neither the health ministry nor the companies have made public details of the government's procurement or distribution timelines. India had until Wednesday evening administered over 88 million doses of the vaccines, but only 11.5 million people have received both doses of the vaccines. The number of eligible beneficiaries under the current campaign phase is nearly 350 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||CJI-designate asks Centre, states to create a judicial infrastructure corporation||Chief Justice of India-designate N.V. Ramana has regretted that despite 74 years of Independence, the nation continues to suffer from poverty and lack of access to justice for the downtrodden with nearly 4 crore cases pending in courts. In an interview to The Telegraph, Justice Ramana, who will assume office as the 48th Chief Justice of India on April 24, asked the Centre and the states to create a judicial infrastructure corporation to tackle pendency. “We can assert true accessibility (justice to all) when the person with the maximum disadvantage can still knock on the doors of the court of justice,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Ramana said financial constraints must never come in the path of progress and there was a need for the Centre and the states to co-operate and create the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, as a one-time measure, to cater to the need for judicial infrastructure in the country. “Such a corporation would bring the uniformity and standardisation required to revolutionise judicial infrastructure,” he added. Justice Ramana said: “Ever since we declared ourselves to be an independent nation, we found ourselves caught between the twin problems of poverty and access to justice. The architects of modern India had debated this issue on several national and international platforms. “Sadly, even after 74 years of Independence, we are still discussing the same issue. One would have expected that in this fast-paced world, topics such as these would have become outdated, however, it has not. We are still a country with millions of people living without access to basic fundamental amenities of life, including access to justice. As long as we are a nation which continues to face such dual realities, such discussions must continue.” The CJI-designate noted that people in the country are witness to courts operating from dilapidated old structures and rented premises, without proper record rooms or staff. “There are premises without washrooms, waiting rooms, crèche services, or disabled-friendly infrastructure for litigants and lawyers. “Situations like this have an adverse impact on the qualitative dispensation of justice. Therefore, it is important to concentrate our efforts on modernisation of judiciary. However, such endeavours must be undertaken after a careful stakeholder analysis and must portray the needs of changing times. Considering the intricacies involved in the judicial process, I call upon scholars and experts to provide a sustainable and inclusive model for modernising the judicial infrastructure in India,” Justice Ramana said. According to Justice Ramana, strengthening judicial infrastructure is the most important tool to reduce pendency of cases and clear the backlog. However, the understanding of judicial infrastructure has to transcend beyond the issues of pendency, vacancy or the number of court rooms. It should involve modernisation, upgradation and creating a “barrier-free, citizen-friendly environment”, he said. According to the next CJI, there should be more emphasis on consolidating the free legal aid programmes for women and people from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “The idea of ‘access to justice’ is deeply embedded in the constitutional vision of justice. Legal aid is an important element in ensuring that access to justice is available to all persons, irrespective of their social or economic position. “The legislative framework of the legal aid system of India reflects that it has made several categories of persons such as women, children, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, persons in custody, persons suffering from mental illness or other disability, victim of disaster, industrial workmen and victim of human trafficking or beggars are eligible for legal aid irrespective of their income,” Justice Ramana said, assuring that this would be one his top priority areas as the country’s next CJI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Covid vaccine shortage, 400 Odisha sites shut||Shortage of Covid-19 vaccines has forced the Odisha government to close down nearly 400 vaccination centres across the state. Odisha has just 1.5 lakh doses of vaccine left at present which will last another two days only, according to sources. The vaccination campaign is under way currently at 700 sites after the closure of the 400 vaccination centres. “The Centre has given Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 80 countries under its vaccine diplomacy. We have no objections. But it should not ignore its own people. We raised the issue of acute shortage of vaccines in Odisha during the review meeting of the chief minister on the state’s preparedness to contain the surge of coronavirus cases. Our chief minister Naveen Patnaik will take up the issue of acute shortage of vaccines with the Prime Minister tomorrow (Thursday) when he talks to the chief ministers through videoconference,” a senior official told The Telegraph. Sources said the Odisha government has decided to take up the issue again with the Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) and demand immediate supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the state. “We had earlier raised the issue of short supply of vaccines to the state. It seems they are yet to wake up to our demand,” the official said. Health and family welfare director Bijay Panigrahi told reporters on Wednesday: “The state is unable to set its target for vaccinating people due to the shortage of vaccines. Whatever stock we have has been kept in cold storage. It will last for two days only. The vaccination drive is likely to be hit severely if we don’t receive more supply (of vaccines) at the right time.” Odisha recorded as many as 791 positive cases on Wednesday, the highest daily count in 2021 so far, with the tribal-dominated Sundergarh district leading the tally with 147. One patient succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Regret to inform the demise of 28-year old male Covid patient of Puri district who was also suffering from diabetes mellitus,” the health and family welfare department tweeted. The total number of Covid cases in the state has touched 338,415. The number of active cases now stands at 4,255. Following a direction from the chief minister to launch a drive, police across the state have started a massive awareness programme urging the people to wear masks. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed the banquet hall of Ram Mandir and an engineering college for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines. In view of the rise in coronavirus cases in the state, the Odisha government on Wednesday decided to suspend physical teaching of Classes IX and XI students at all schools including private and aided institutions, reports PTI. Classroom teaching will remain suspended from April 8 to 30, an order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Maoists send photo of captive CoBRA jawan to Chhattisgarh journalists||Maoists on Wednesday released a photo purportedly of the missing jawan of the CRPF’s elite CoBRA unit and said the commando was safe in captivity. The picture shows a man in battle fatigues sitting on a piece of blue tarpaulin in what appears to be a tent made from dried leaves and bamboo poles. It was sent by the Maoists to local journalists in Chhattisgarh over WhatsApp. The CRPF has officially not commented on the photo said to be of Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, missing since Saturday’s Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district. A CRPF official said the jawan’s colleagues had said the photo looked old and he seemed to have no injury either. The Maoists had on Tuesday signalled they were ready to negotiate the release of the jawan. In a statement signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, the banned Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday evening asked the government to decide on a mediator for the talks. In the two-page letter, the Maoists said over 2,000 policemen had entered the Chhattisgarh village to kill their cadres, following which there was a counter-response. The “police jawans” were not their enemies, the Maoists said, adding that they were against the “anti-people” policies of the Narendra Modi government. Twenty-four security personnel had died in Saturday’s encounter and over 31 had been injured, the statement said. It added that four Maoists had been killed. The Maoists also claimed to have seized 14 firearms and over 2,000 cartridges belonging to the security personnel. In Jammu, the hometown of Manhas, the jawan’s family and scores of other residents hit the streets, wielding the Tricolour and shouting slogans, to press for his release. “We felt compelled to come here (to protest). The government is doing nothing. For four days we have no clue where he is,” a woman who identified herself as Manhas’s mother and was among the protesters, told reporters in Jammu. Manhas’s wife Meenu said: “If Maoists are claiming they have abducted him, why is the government not coming on record to say they are securing his release? Why is the government not taking any action?” She added: “They (the Maoists) are asking for the appointment of a mediator and have said they will release him. They (the Centre) are not giving them the name of the mediator. How can they (the Maoists) release him?” Meenu told the BBC it was the government’s responsibility to bring Manhas back. “Are they (the government) not worried at all about their jawan? He is my husband or his mother’s son later, he is first their jawan, he is their responsibility. Had he been ill, it would have been our responsibility to take him to the doctor, get him treated. Now it is their responsibility. He is in the custody of Naxalites. We can’t get him freed. We have no way to contact the Naxalites. It is the government’s responsibility to take action at the earliest, to do something.” Manhas’s brother said: “We appeal to the government not to waste time. Already four days have been wasted. He is in our country. In India, not in some other country....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Congress takes government to task on Covid vaccines||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government was callous about the management of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, raising questions about its attitude, preparedness and strategy. Raising serious concerns about shortage of vaccines in many states, the Congress also criticised the execution strategy that could lead to catastrophic consequences. It said the government became so engrossed in credit hunting for finishing off the coronavirus that it failed to make correct assessment of the lurking threat which is now manifesting throughout the country and has made India a global hotspot. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “It’s ridiculous to debate needs & wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life.” He was commenting on  Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s assertion on Tuesday that vaccines would be given to the people who need it, not to those who want it. The Congress has been critical of the slow vaccination drive, arguing that covering around 70 per cent of population may take more than a decade at this pace. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “The IMA (Indian Medical Association) has called for universal vaccination. Several Chief Ministers have demanded universal vaccination. Yet the Central Government says there is no need for universal vaccination. The need of the hour is walk-in vaccination to all age groups without any pre-registration. “Because of its unscientific and stubborn stance, the Government has allowed the number of infections to gallop every day. A grave catastrophe awaits the country.” On the need-and-want debate, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “It was a very insensitive remark. Whenever the crisis is at its peak, suddenly the political leadership disappears and bureaucrats take charge. “Who decided that the bureaucrat needed the vaccine, but a delivery boy doesn’t need a vaccine? The bureaucrat is a powerful man or a woman, they have access to the vaccine, but, a food delivery boy doesn’t have access. Even frontline health workers can be deprived, who decides all this?” Pointing out deficiencies in planning and execution, Khera said: “Why are we hearing reports that vaccination centres are getting closed because of shortage of vaccines in many states? Why is the wastage as high as 6 per cent? In states like Telangana, wastage is 17 per cent and 9 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. We are slipping behind even developing countries; some countries have vaccinated over 50 per cent of the population. We have covered barely 5 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Covid surge casts a cloud on board exams ||Barely six months ago, Anu Rai had started taking the help of a private tutor to cover the syllabus before the Class XII board exams slated to start in the first week of May. The family, living in a slum at Madanpur Khadar in southeast Delhi, has only one mobile phone, therefore Anu and her two brothers could not attend online classes regularly. Her father, electrician Sushil Rai, was forced to shell out Rs 450 per month for Anu’s private tutor to see her through. Anu’s mother Renu Devi said the family had to borrow to pay the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exam registration fee of Rs 2,750 for Anu and her bother Aneet, who too studies in Class XII. They have another brother who is in Class IX. For the past one month, the family is worried that the examination could be cancelled because of the resurgence of Covid-19 and students could be awarded marks on the basis of pre-board exams and internal assessments held by schools. Last year, some exams had already been held before the lockdown and marks had been awarded on the basis of that. Anu and Aneet said they hoped to better their pre-board exam performance in the board exams. “The pre-board exams have just concluded. I have done fine. But I can certainly do better in the board exams. If marks are awarded on the basis of the pre-board exams, it won’t be good for us,” Anu said. The sharp increase in coronavirus cases across the country has cast a shadow on the conduct of the board exams. Parents of children in government schools are largely in favour of the conduct of board exams following Covid protocols. “Our income is meagre. But we have spent Rs 12,000 on the education of Anu and Aneet in the past six months. They have prepared well. If the exams are not held, it will be a financial and academic loss for us,” Renu said. The parents of the majority of private school students want the board exams to be cancelled and marks awarded on the basis of performance in the pre-board exams and internal assessments such as projects and assignments. The mother of a student in Gurgaon said health and safety were more important. “It’s not just about the students and teachers but also about their families and the elderly members at home. As it is, it has been a tough year mentally for kids to sit in front of the computer and learn. Wherever possible, like for Class X, internal assessments can be considered. For Class XII, since it is a critical year given the importance of marks and college admissions, online or offline exams can be considered,” she said. Academics said the 2020-21 academic year had been turbulent. Last year, the CBSE had to cancel a few papers and award marks by calculating the average of the best performance in subjects for which exams could be held. This year, students have had to largely rely on online education. Schools had begun allowing students to come to school for doubt clearance and practical classes since October and November 2020, but the pandemic’s resurgence has affected these sessions. Dipika Rao, the principal of DPS Palam Vihar in Gurgaon, spoke about difficulties in online exams and evaluation of answer papers. She also said that holding exams within the stipulated time could be challenging at times due to network issues and bandwidth. Also, it is difficult to upload lengthy answer papers within the stipulated time. “The board should address the concerns of poor students who do not have the resources to take exams online. A huge number of children will be disadvantaged in the online mode. Many exam formats are not fully accessible over mobile phones,” she said. Rao said students had been away from school for long and would be out of practice on writing three-hour exams. She also highlighted the financial difficulties faced by students in preparing for board exams because of salary cuts and job losses of parents and the loss of income in case of unorganised sector workers. Rao said international boards like the International Baccalaureate and Cambridge had last year not held board exams and awarded marks on the basis of internal assessments. This should be followed by the CBSE, she said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the boards should have been better prepared this year. “Unfortunately, we could not put in place formative (internal) assessments in a structured manner. The international boards managed it beautifully last year because they have a very scientific system of internal evaluation,” Ganguly said. He said the boards could have structured three-four formative assessments during this period and also a mix of summative (written exams) and formative tests in December or January where question papers could have been sent by the boards but the exams and evaluation could have been arranged at the school level. The final assessments could have been an average or mean of all such performances. “With the situation becoming extremely grim, conducting external exams in April-May seems to be not advisable and may not even be feasible. The only option left now is to shift the board exams to the first week of July and the new session for Class XI and the undergraduate courses can begin in September,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Haryana cops use water cannon on protesting farmers||Police used a water cannon on Wednesday to disperse a group of farmers, who allegedly tried to go past barricades when local MLA Gopal Kanda arrived to cast his vote for the municipal council chairman’s post here. The farmers, protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, gathered near the spot where the police had put up barricades and raised slogans against Kanda, the president of the Haryana Lokhit Party. Kanda had voted against a no-confidence motion brought against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in the state Assembly by the main Opposition Congress last month. Protesting farmers had blocked BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini’s car in Kurukshetra district’s Shahabad on Tuesday as he was about to leave a party worker’s home, the police had said. Four people were arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Alleged CPM workers hack Youth League activist to death ||A suspected political killing rocked Kerala on the polling day with alleged CPM workers hacking to death a Youth League activist in Kannur district close to midnight on Tuesday. Mansoor, 22, sustained fatal injuries when some men, suspected to be CPM workers, hurled country-made bombs into his home in Panoor under Kuthuparamba Assembly constituency and then hacked him. A member of Youth League, the youth arm of Congress ally Indian Union Muslim League, Mansoor died early on Wednesday at a hospital in Kozhikode. His elder brother Muhsin, a UDF booth agent, was injured in the attack and is recovering in a private hospital in Kozhikode. Muhsin told reporters from the hospital bed on Wednesday that the attackers had originally targeted him and his brother got caught in the ensuing melee when he rushed out on hearing the commotion. Police took CPM worker and Mansoor’s neighbour Shinos into custody and launched a manhunt for the others involved in the attack. Mansoor’s father Mustafa told reporters on Wednesday that the area was not known for political violence and pleaded ignorance about the reason behind the incident. “Like in every election, there would be some minor arguments between party workers. But no clashes happen in this area,” Mustafa said. The brothers used to work in a Bangalore retail shop and had come down to their native village to work in the election. Mustafa denied his son facing any threats from CPM cadres. “There were no threats. Everyone carried out political work in a friendly atmosphere (in this area),” he said, adding they had no issues with Shinos. While Mustafa clarified that he did not suspect anyone, he said it looked like a pre-planned murder. “It looked like a pre-planned murder as our neighbours have seen around 20-odd people hanging around in the vicinity,” he said. Kannur police commissioner R. Ilango said a special investigation team would be set up to investigate the case and efforts were on to arrest all the suspects. The IUML has in a complaint alleged the CPM’s involvement in the killing to rock the political landscape of Kannur. “The motive appears to be political. As the investigation is on, we cannot come to a conclusion right now,” Ilango told reporters after visiting the crime scene on Wednesday. However, he was not ready to call it a pre-planned attack. “We cannot come to such a conclusion in less than 24 hours after the incident,” he said, adding that a thorough probe was needed to bring out the facts. The Kuthuparamba Assembly constituency had witnessed a tough fight between K.P. Mohanan of the Loktantrik Janata Dal, an LDF constituent, and Pottankandy Abdullah of the IUML. National general secretary of IUML, P.K. Kunhalikutty, condemned the attack and sought the arrest of all the culprits. “This is yet another of the cruel political killings by the CPM,” he said. Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala said the CPM was “unleashing terror due to the fear of losing the election”. The CPM denied any role in the attack. “Our workers were not involved in this. We had already told everyone not to engage in any kind of violence,” said state CPM acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. A few other post-poll clashes were reported in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts in which the Congress accused CPM cadres of attacking its workers. CPM and BJP cadres were involved in a clash in Kasaragod district injuring a BJP Yuva Morcha leader, Sreejith, who was later hospitalised in Mangalore in neighbouring Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Oil reserve facility plan for Odisha||One of the largest strategic petroleum reserves of India will come up at Chandikhol in Odisha’s Jajpur district, about 70km from here, officials said. The facility will be built by the Union petroleum ministry in an area spread over 400 acres at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore. Union secretary for petroleum and natural gas Tarun Kapoor had visited the state and discussed the project with the Odisha government on Monday. The state government has assured to extend all kinds of support for the project. The Centre plans to invest Rs 92,556 crore in 10 big projects in the state in the coming days, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Anti-romeo squads will be formed in Bengal when BJP comes to power, says Yogi||Senior BJP leader Yogi Adityanath Thursday said that anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal if the party is voted to power in the state. Bengal is not a safe place for women under the present TMC government, Adityanath, also Uttar Pradesh chief minister, said addressing three poll rallies in Hooghly and Howrah. He said if BJP is voted to power it will put stress on women and education. "Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? ... Education and transport will be made free for girls in Bengal. Anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal to deal with those who loiter around girls schools," he said. Anti-Romeo squads were launched in Uttar Pradesh to ensure safety of women soon after Adityanath assumed power in 2017. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party, the TMC have often referred to the Hathras gangrape case to mock Adityanath government's policing for women and the law and order situation in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The top BJP leader criticised the Trinamool Congress government in Bengal and derided it for failing to bring in any positive change in the ten years that it has been in power. "Where is the paribartan (change) that Mamata Banerjee had promised ten years ago,” he asked. “When Trinamool Congress came to power in the state a decade ago it had promised to serve 'maa-maati-manush' (mother, motherland and people), which became its slogan. What happened to that slogan? I have come to ask Mamata Banerjee about it. Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? This soil had produced so many social reformers. What happened to the youth of the state who have become frustrated," he asked. Adityanath claimed that Mamata has no compassion for the youth, farmers and development. "But she has compassion for the TMC goons" . Referring to the Citizenship Amendment Act, he said it had been passed by Parliament and TMC had fanned violence against it in Bengal. In UP the government had recovered money from those who indulged in violence and damaged public property, he said. "Here in Bengal, TMC is all for appeasement for the sake of vote bank. Mamata Banerjee supports cow slaughter. In UP cow slaughter is not allowed. If anybody is found to be involved in it, the person goes to jail", Adityanath said. "TMC is not allowing central schemes to be implemented in Bengal. Violence, anarchy and corruption have ruined the state", he added. Expressing confidence that the BJP will come to power in Bengal, the saffron party leader said after the election results are declared on May 2 The TMC goons will be sent to jail. There will be an end to hooliganism and rule of law will prevail".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Take money from BJP when they offer but vote for TMC, Abhishek tells voters||Alleging that the BJP was distributing cash to purchase votes, TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday asked people to exercise their franchise in favour of his party, after having taken the money being offered by the saffron camp. Insisting that people should bargain for more, he urged voters to ask for Rs 5,000 if offered Rs 500. "Take money from lotus (BJP symbol) and vote for the twin flowers (TMC symbol). If they can cheat you, why won't you do the same," Abhishek asked at a public meeting at Kumargram in Alipurduar district Speaking at another rally at Cooch Behar's Tufanganj, he said that people have to decide whether they want leaders from outside or their "daughter Mamata Banerjee". Taking a jibe at the BJP's "acche din" promise, the TMC MP said that the saffron party has failed to live up to the expectations of people. He pointed out that the price of essential items, petrol and cooking gas have skyrocketed under the BJP rule at the Centre, causing hardships to many people. Slamming the Union government over its handling of the Covid-19 situation, he said the Mamata Banerjee dispensation had to make massive arrangements to bring home people from other states, and provide for their sustenance, with "little or no help" from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata advises voters to be on guard against central forces||Apprehending that a section of central paramilitary forces may visit villages to intimidate people, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked voters to be on guard. Addressing a public meeting at Balagarh in Hooghly district, Mamata alleged central forces are working on instructions of the "Union Home Ministry run by Amit Shah." "I have respect for the central paramilitary forces but they are working on instructions from Delhi. They are committing atrocities on villagers before polling day, some of them are even harassing women. They are asking people to vote for BJP. We will not allow this to continue," the TMC chief said. Mamata called upon the state police force "to keep vigil and not to bow their heads before Delhi. "Your job is to ensure free and fair polls, please be stern with trouble makers and keep your integrity intact." Asking villagers to lodge FIRs at local police station in case of any excess committed by central forces, the chief minister said, "If the police station refuses to accept the FIRs, inform us". Blaming BJP for "spreading lies about promulgation of section 144 in an entire constituency," the TMC supremo said, "They (BJP) spread lies to create panic. In reality, section 144 is in force within 200 metres of a booth. But they are doing this to prevent our voters from going to polling stations." Mamata asked polling agents to be vocal and to protest any "misdeed by BJP and security forces". Asking voters not to turn Bengal into "another Gujarat" by voting for the saffron party, she said, "If you wish to protect the oldest Durga puja in Guptipara, if you wish to protect our festivals like Durga Puja, please ensure the defeat of BJP." Mamata, who iterated the TMC government's commitment to protect the heritage Rathyatra in Mahesh, the celebrations at Bandel Church, the unique Santhal festivals in Jangalmahal, chanted 'Chandi Mantra' while wrapping up her speech. Mamata said the candidate for the reserved Balagarh seat Manoranjan Byapari is chairman of state-run Dalit Sahitya Academy. She exuded confidence that Byapari would always stand by the marginalised in the constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Police deny permission to Mithun Chakraborty’s roadshow||The BJP was denied permission to hold a roadshow of Bollywood superstar Mithun Chakraborty, who had recently joined the saffron camp, in Behala area of the city on Thursday, following which a group of party activists held a demonstration in front of a police station. The agitation was led by actor-turned-politician Srabanti Chatterjee, who is contesting from the Behala Paschim Assembly constituency on a BJP ticket, party sources said. "The Kolkata Police did not allow our leader Mithun Chakraborty to campaign for me in the constituency without citing any reason. "The Trinamool Congress cannot avert its imminent loss by such an undemocratic act of preventing us from campaigning. Is the state government scared of losing power?," the popular Bengali actor said. The saffron party activists shouted slogans against the ruling TMC in front of the Parnasree Police Station. BJP sources said the party sought permission to hold a door-to-door campaign by the Bollywood superstar in the Behala area after the city police had cancelled its roadshow plea on Wednesday night. "The door-to-door campaign by him was also not granted at the last minute," they claimed. The Calcutta Police declined to make any comment on the issue. The BJP candidate later took out a roadshow in the constituency where the National Award-winning actor was not present. The actor-turned-BJP candidate is pitted against TMC heavyweight and Bengal minister Partha Chatterjee who is seeking re-election from the Behala Paschim constituency. "We have nothing to do with any programme of Mithun Chakraborty. We know that the TMC has support from the people of Behala. The BJP candidate is doing drama," a leader of the ruling party said. Chakraborty, however, led a roadshow in Tollygunge constituency for Union minister and BJP's candidate Babul Supriyo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Farm leaders request north Bengal voters to not elect BJP to power||Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the  movement against the new farm laws, have requested people of north Bengal not to vote for the BJP in the Assembly polls as the party’s policies are against peasants, Adivasis and minorities. A delegation of Yogendra Yadav, a founder member of Jai Kisan Andolan, and activist Medha Patkar reached Siliguri on Wednesday. They headed to Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur district where a “krishak mahapanchayat” was organised to tell farmers and others why they should not support the BJP. “We have been visiting north Bengal for years. Considering the rich diversity of population in these areas, we believe the principles on which the BJP work will never be in favour of common people, especially farmers, minorities and Adivasis. If they want to save their culture and heritage, they should stay away from the BJP. I appeal to them not to cast votes in favour of the BJP in the coming elections,” said Yadav. His appeal comes just before the commencement of Assembly elections in north Bengal. The region has 54 seats where polling will start on April 10. A few days ago, another delegation of the Morcha had visited the region to send a similar message to the voters. Over 3,000 people, including Trinamul leaders and supporters, were present at the “mahapanchayat” in Kaliaganj. At the meeting, Yadav and the other speakers criticised the Narendra Modi government over the farm laws and urged the voters to thwart the BJP from winning seats in north Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had won seven of the eight seats in north Bengal. “The Prime Minister finds time to call up Sourav Ganguly to know his well-being but he does not have time to pay respects to 350 farmers who lost their lives during the movement…. They simply want to divide people and so, people should not vote for them,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC removes PM’s doubt, sends notice to Mamata ||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wondered aloud in Cooch Behar whether Mamata Banerjee had received a notice from the Election Commission for appealing to Muslims not to divide their votes. A day later on Wednesday, the Election Commission sent a showcause to the chief minister on the charge of violating norms by asking voters not to divide minority votes. The notice was issued on a complaint filed by the BJP on Monday when Mamata had delivered the speech. Such alacrity from the commission was missing when Trinamul turncoat and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari had called Mamata “begum” and fomented fears of a “mini-Pakistan” in Nandigram on March 29. The EC has also been silent on remarks by Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on March 23 on Mamata’s clothing after her left leg was injured. The transcript of the speech by Mamata in Tarakeshwar on April 3 that the EC cited quotes the Trinamul Congress chief as saying: “I am requesting my minority brothers and sisters with folded hands — don’t divide the minority votes after listening to the devil (shaitaan) person who had taken money from the BJP. He passes many communal statements and initiates clashes between Hindus and Muslims…. The comrades of the CPM and the BJP are roaming around with money given by the BJP to divide the minority votes.” The BJP had said in its complaint that Mamata could have been referring to the ISF’s Abbas Siddiqui or the AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi. The next day, Modi had said in Cooch Behar: “If we had appealed to all Hindus (of Bengal) to join hands and vote for the BJP, we would have been served with notices by the Election Commission. Even the Prime Minister, the President of our party and the candidate (of the Assembly constituency concerned) would have received notices. We don’t know whether Didi has received a notice.” EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said Mamata’s remarks had been found to be in violation of Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct, which prohibit unverified allegations, appeal to caste or communal feelings for votes and intimidation of voters. Mamata has been given 48 hours to reply. Earlier this week, the EC had barred DMK parliamentarian A. Raja from campaigning for two days for distasteful comments against Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had faced a similar ban for unverified allegations and intimidation of an Opposition leader. Sarma’s punishment was reduced by a day after he apologised. On Wednesday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Mamatadi issued notice by @ECISVEEP on @BJP’s complaint What about TMC complaints of 1. Video evidence of BJP candidate distributing cash 2. Cash coupons distributed to attend BJP mtng & vote. Gentlemen — at least keep up the farce of impartiality!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||'Lovely dada' has a habit of going wrong: Mamata counters Shah||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sought to shred the tactic of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to talk up the chances of the BJP and demoralise the Trinamul Congress by relentlessly claiming to have spotted signs of defeat in her. Modi has been splitting hairs on Mamata’s speeches instead of focusing on telling voters in Bengal how a BJP government would be different — considering many turncoats are among its candidates — and what such an administration would do differently. Shah has been playing the psephologist, reeling off estimated seats his party would get after each phase of polling is over. On Wednesday, Shah forecast “63 to 68 seats” for the BJP in the 91 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats that have gone to the polls so far. In the evening, addressing a rally in Jadavpur, Mamata brought up the Union home minister’s claim. She said the “lovely dada” had a habit of going wrong with his poll predictions and asserted that this time would be no different. “That duopoly (Shah and Modi), that syndicate that tries to control the whole nation… the second one, the lovely dada (Shah) said here today that they would win 68 of the 91 seats…. Why so few? Why not 91, why not more than 91?” asked Mamata. She then read out from her phone a list of “misses” by the Union home minister. ⦾ Bihar, 2015. “He had said they were getting a majority alone. They got 53 (out of 243) seats….”⦾ Delhi, 2015. “He had claimed they were getting the majority, and got three (out of 70) seats. ⦾ Delhi, 2020. “He had claimed a massive majority, and got eight out of 70.” Amid loud cheers from the audience of thousands, Mamata continued. ⦾ Rajasthan, 2018. “He had said his party would get the majority. It got 73 (out of 199) seats….⦾ Madhya Pradesh, 2018. He had said his party would get two-thirds majority. It did not cross the halfway mark (out of 231 seats)….⦾ Chhattisgarh, 2018. “He had said they would get 65 (out of 81) seats. They got 15….⦾ Jharkhand, 2019. “He had claimed full majority. His party won 25 out of the 81 seats…. ⦾ Maharashtra, 2019. “He claimed two-thirds (of the 288 seats). They got barely a third.” In the Lok Sabha polls, Shah’s forecast of 22 seats in Bengal for the BJP had more or less come true. Sources in her party said Mamata’s elaborate effort to discredit Shah’s prediction was not only in order to keep it from damaging her party’s chances in the crucial five phases that remain but also to contest the saffron ecosystem’s attempts to peddle the perception that the battle for Bengal was already over with the BJP having won it. “What Didi did from that dais today was vital for the morale of the rank and file, besides the supporters, going forward. There is still everything left to play for. There is a very clear path to victory for us. We cannot let shoulders droop right now,” said a Trinamul source. Mamata said she was in favour of civility and decency. “So I am not going to make similarly absurd claims in response (to Shah)…. I am going to give a far more pragmatic assessment,” said the Trinamul chief. “They (the BJP) might get 25 to 30 of those (91 seats)… the rest (61) going our way. Those phases were in places where they had made gains in the Lok Sabha polls, won parliamentary seats there,” she added, “But we haven’t been sitting idle. Some of those gains we have already reversed.” In her address, the chief minister kept warning against the mistake of trusting the BJP, asserting that the Modi-Shah regime was worse than that of many a historical tyrant. “Forget Donald Trump… more dangerous than (Adolf) Hitler. More dangerous than (Nicolae) Ceausescu…. Grave danger, 440 volts of fatal shock,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Helping hand: Women voters of Bengal to influence mandate||“Amar ma-bonera bolun, khela hobe toh (Tell me my mothers and sisters, is the game on?)” Mamata Banerjee has been concluding almost all her campaign speeches with this question. The response invariably has been overwhelming, with the women in the audience responding enthusiastically: “Hyan Didi (yes, Didi).” Trinamul poll strategists think that if the majority of women in Bengal respond to Mamata the way those attending her rallies have been, a third term as chief minister is certain. The pulse of the people can be gauged from election rallies. However, there is a flip side. Such events are usually attended by people favourably disposed towards a political party and so the mood of the rally may not be the general mood of the electorate. Although Trinamul’s hypothesis, based on women’s reaction at Mamata’s rallies, may be inexact, the premise that women could be the deciding factor in the Bengal polls is logical. Of Bengal’s 7,32,94,980 voters, 3,59,27,084, or 49 per cent, are women. So, if women decisively favour a party, there is little doubt that it would have an edge over its rivals. After the first three phases of the eight-leg elections, there is a general feeling in the Trinamul camp that a large section of women voters have sided with the party. In Nandigram, where the polls took place in a polarised environment, there were reports that scores of women voted for Mamata even as the male members of the family voted for the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. A political observer said Trinamul had multiple reasons to believe that women were with the party. “First, the Trinamul-led government has launched several schemes for women and girls since 2012. Now it is time for the party to reap the dividends. Second, women tend to have an emotional attachment with Mamata, with the party successfully projecting her as the only woman chief minister in the country, whom BJP heavyweights are trying to bully,” the observer said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tone while referring to Mamata on campaign trail has been widely construed as being insulting and verging on harassment. The foundation of the Trinamul government’s women-centric schemes was laid in 2012 when the Kanyashree programme was launched. Initially, all girl students aged between 13 and 18 years were being given Rs 500 annually to continue their studies. On attaining the age of 18, girls received a one-time grant of Rs 25,000. “The amount has now been increased to Rs 1,000 annually. An annual grant of Rs 500 nine years ago had helped many girls in rural areas to continue their studies, defying pressure of early marriage. In the past nine years at least 15 lakh girls have benefited from the scheme and many of them have become voters now. Naturally, they will be sympathetic towards the chief minister,” said a recently retired bureaucrat. According to ballpark calculations, around 34 lakh girls have received or continue to receive Kanyashree benefits. At least 15 lakh of them have got the one-time grant of Rs 25,000, which helped them get admission in colleges. Not only Kanyashree, free bicycles for students of Classes IX to XII have also been of immense help. “In rural areas, parents often hesitate to give bicycles to girls. The scheme helped the girls to continue their studies, riding cycles to schools and colleges. At least 20 lakh girls have benefited from the scheme and the majority of them have become voters now,” an official said. Another “masterstroke”, the official said, was the move to issue Swasthya Sathi cards in the name of the senior-most woman member of the family. The health insurance scheme provides free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh per family. “This card gave a sense of recognition to women, especially rural women,” said another official. Trinamul’s manifesto has promised to give Rs 500 to the matriarch of every family and Rs 1,000 to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe women every month. “See, nobody thought about us this way. The amount (Rs 500 or Rs 1,000) is not that big at a time when the prices of essential commodities have gone up sharply. But it can help us fulfil our simple needs without asking for money from our husbands or sons,” said Ratna Saha, a 58-year-old homemaker in Birbhum’s Mallarpur. The fact that Mamata has endeared herself to women voters became clear when the BJP also promised a slew of benefits for women in its manifesto. It has pledged free access to public transport to all women, free education for girls up to post-graduation level and 33 per cent reservation in government jobs for women. Sections of women, particularly the educated and job aspirants, have found these promises encouraging. “If this happens, it would be very good for women. We speak of equality, but we don’t practise it. As girls face several barriers since they start going to school, reservation in jobs is what women need. I must say the proposal of job reservation for girls is a positive mindset,” said Sikha Das, an economics graduate in Behala. Political observers said the BJP’s promises had drawn the attention of women in urban and semi-urban areas, but many think the proof lies in delivery. The BJP, an observer said, has not appeared to be a woman-friendly party. Besides, the condition of women in several BJP-ruled states and the rising crimes against women have failed to evoke much confidence among the electorate in Bengal. “In contrast, Mamata’s schemes have benefited crores of women in the rural areas. It is said that success in Assembly polls mainly depend on what parties do in the rural areas. It appears that Trinamul has endeared itself to women in rural areas and that might help Mamata,” the observer said. A Left academic, however, disagreed with the narrative that women were aligning with Mamata. “The BJP has managed to polarise the voters along religious lines.… When such polarisation takes place, it is difficult for women, especially those in rural areas, to defy the male members’ diktat on whom to vote. Trinamul may be satisfied with the narrative that beneficiaries of women-centric schemes are voting for them, but the reality may be different,” the academic said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Yogi scores own goal on campaign trail ||Standing atop the mountains of Kurseong, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked why a university should not be set up in the Darjeeling hills, unaware that his question would rebound on his party’s government at the Centre which had done precious little to meet this demand. Addressing a public meeting at Monteviot Ground in Kurseong on Wednesday, Adityanath said: “Why shouldn’t a university be set up here? Had there been a good government here, a government with an intent for development …(the institution would have been set up).” The Uttar Pradesh chief minister then boasted that two AIIMS and 30 government medical colleges were being set up in his state. Adityanath, however, seems unaware that the Mamata Banerjee government had almost completed building infrastructure to set up a campus of Presidency College in the Kurseong Assembly constituency and that the state had also started the process for a Darjeeling Hills University with the governor having already selected a vice-chancellor. The DHU is set to come up at Jogighat in Mungpoo which also falls within the Kurseong Assembly constituency. The demand for the central university has not yet been met though it is listed in the memorandum of agreement of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration as one of the projects to be taken up in the hills. In 2015, a year after the BJP government had come to power at the Centre, the GTA submitted a detailed project report on the central university to the Union HRD ministry. The report was prepared by Noida-based EdCIL (India) Limited, a government of India enterprise. Faculty members of Sikkim University had also helped in preparing the report. Instead of a full-fledged central university, the Centre instead proposed a campus of the Sikkim University in Darjeeling, a demand rejected by the GTA. The other issues pertaining to the hills raised by Adityanath were promoting health tourism in the region, the loss of lives of (statehood) andolankaris, low wages in Bengal and land rights for tea garden workers and infrastructure developments. Adityanath also reiterated that there had not been a single communal riot in his state in the past four years, a claim contested by many. Adityanath, however, said his party was committed to solving the issues of the region, perhaps hinting at the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto promise to find a “permanent political solution” for the hills. In the hills where most political rallies end with “Jai Gorkha” and “Jai Gorkhaland” slogans, what reverberated at the Kurseong meeting of the UP chief minister were “Jai Shree Ram” chants. Adityanath also attended two other public meetings, one in Kranti of Jalpaiguri district and another in Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur district. “The Centre wants to construct a parallel bridge near Sevoke (to connect Siliguri with the Dooars) but the state government is not keen on the project. The resources in forests have been looted and nothing has been done to develop these areas,” he said at Kranti. On Wednesday, Union minister Smriti Irani also reached north Bengal to campaign for BJP candidates. She held two meetings in Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts. At Garalbari, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri, Smriti said: “In Bengal, people have to pay cuts to Trinamul workers to avail themselves of benefits of any government scheme. The central government has provided funds for drinking water schemes but even now, people of Jalpaiguri drink impure water.” Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: No job security||Name: Pritikana JanaOccupation: StudentAge: 30Education: A law graduate, pursuing masters in law.Annual income: Not applicableSize of family: Parents, elder brother and sister-in-law.Seat: Khejuri, East Midnapore Is there any one issue that has decided how you will vote? Poor education system, lack of medical facilities and reluctance of political parties to think about the environment are the major issues that decided who I voted for this time. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016 and why either way? No, I did not vote for the same party as the government could not provide job security. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. The only benefit I received from the Mamata Banerjee government was her new initiative Swasthya Sathi. I can’t recall any other scheme that has benefited me. Three things she has done that hurt you. One, she did not allow industries in Singur and Nandigram. Two, no major jobs were created during her tenure. Three, the state of electricity in our locality and bad roads continue to hurt us. Do you believe she works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? I don’t think she has worked for the poor. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? It is a political campaign to call her a Pishi. I don’t endorse it. However, I want an end to dynasty politics. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you? He did a lot for the Indian Army by supplying modern arms and equipment. I know this as one of my friends is in the army. However, I have not benefited from his schemes. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you. One, implementation of the NRC in Assam. Two, privatisation of public sectors institutions. Three, hike in prices of fuel, LPG cylinders and other essential commodities. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? I don’t think he did anything for the poor or his cronies. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is worse, certainly. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? They won’t possibly form the government but I think a lot of people will vote for them. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Yes, they live in harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Why the BJP is avoiding Raja Rammohan Roy's homes||The orthodox Hindus of Bengal in the early 19th century and the Hindutva hardliners of Nagpur now are united in their distaste for one of the state’s most glorious icons — Raja Rammohan Roy. The Father of the Bengal Renaissance, who was instrumental in the enlightenment of south Asia and had taken a firm stand against religio-social evils such as the Sati, polygamy, child marriage and the caste system, had rhymes of ridicule composed against him by the orthodox lobby led by the likes of Raja Radhakanta Deb of Sovabazar. One of them read: “Byatar bari Khanakul/ Byata shorbonasher mool/ Om Tatsat boley byata baniyeche ischool (That gink from Khanakul/ He’s the root of this ruin /Citing the Bhagavad Gita, he has set up schools).” Cut to the 21st century, Roy is now at the receiving end of social media vitriol. Former Bollywood starlet and Hindutva hardliner Payal Rohatgi has this to say about Roy: “No he was a chamcha to Britishers who used him to defame the Sati tradition. Sati tradition was not compulsory but was introduced to prevent the prostitution of Hindu wives at the hands of Mughal invaders. It was the woman’s choice. #FeministsofIndia Sati was not regressive….” In the political race to usurp the culture and traditions of Bengal, when BJP leaders have hopped from the hearth of one icon to another, Roy’s birthplace in Radhanagar and his ancestral home in Raghunathpur — both under Khanakul I block of Hooghly — have been ignored by the saffron camp. The Pursurah Assembly constituency, under which Khanakul falls, went to polls on Tuesday. Roy (1772-1833) was a founder of the Brahmo Sabha — the precursor to the Brahmo Samaj — a socio-religious reform movement in south Asia. The polymath’s influence was notable in diverse fields, such as politics, administration, education and religion. Since December last year, top BJP leaders began visiting ancestral homes and workplaces of several Bengal icons in a desperate bid to shed the “outsider” label. But Radhanagar and Raghunathpur did not make the cut. The Trinamul Congress has tried turning this into yet another plank to corner the BJP over its alleged lack of understanding of and respect for Bengal and its complex ethos. BJP chief J.P. Nadda had attended a roadshow in Pursurah on March 31, less than 18km from Radhanagar, and Union home minister Amit Shah had come to Arambagh for a roadshow, around 22km from Roy’s ancestral home. “The senior BJP leaders visited these places several times since January but they never stopped by the birthplace or ancestral home of Raja Rammohan Roy…. They have been avoiding his legacy as he had fought superstition to eradicate social evils. The saffron camp wants to restore the nation to the dark ages before the Bengal Renaissance,” said Trinamul’s Hooghly chief Dilip Yadav, also the party’s Pursurah candidate against the BJP’s Biman Ghosh. Yadav pointed out how chief minister Mamata Banerjee almost never forgets to mention Roy or hail his contribution, especially towards the empowerment of women. The BJP claimed that there was a plan to get Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to visit the two sites in Khanakul on Sunday, but it was cancelled over security concerns. “Our senior leaders will certainly visit the place soon,” said Asit Kundu, a BJP state committee member. Asked why Nadda or Shah didn’t visit despite being in the vicinity, Kundu said: “The place had been assigned to Yogiji.” Historians said Roy was never expected to be a priority of the Sangh parivar as he had been directly opposed to its Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan school of thought. “They cannot really stomach Rabindranath Tagore or Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose either, but given the two icons’ omnipresence in the Bengal ethos, the saffron ecosystem hails them for factors other than their glorious secular, inclusive, pluralistic, even socialist vision, and go out of their way to painstakingly underscore their Hindu identities,” said a Calcutta-based political scientist, unwilling to be named as he works for a central institution. “They used to ignore Rammohan Roy and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar for similar reasons till the summer of 2019. Then the (May 14, 2019) vandalism of the Vidyasagar bust took place on the sidelines of an Amit Shah rally during the Lok Sabha polls. They realised what an emotive issue Vidyasagar still was, and the BJP has been tripping over itself in paying homage to him,” he added. Two centuries after Roy, Hooghly remains a pluralistic district, with the Islamic shrine Furfura Sharif — the tomb of Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddique — and Tarakeshwar — a temple to Lord Shiva — coexisting 30km from each other. Trinamul lost some ground to the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 when it trailed in eight of the 18 Assembly segments. Trinamul has grown in Hooghly since the anti-land acquisition movement in Singur in 2008. “But we had trailed even in the Singur Assembly segment in 2019…. We are working hard to win from Singur this time as it is an emotive issue for our leader and the party,” a Trinamul source said. Hooghly, which borders Howrah, Bankura, East Burdwan and West Midnapore, usually sees an impact of the political crests and troughs in neighbouring districts. “Bankura and West Midnapore, for instance, have become strong bases of the BJP…. Hooghly is becoming one rapidly,” said a district BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC minister attacked, blame on BJP||Trinamul Congress candidate and state minority community minister Giasuddin Molla was injured when he was attacked by an armed group of suspected BJP supporters on Wednesday evening The attack on the Magrahat West candidate occurred in the Usti area of Diamond Harbour. Election to the Magrahat West seat was held on Tuesday. Trinamul sources said the minister had suffered injuries to the head and had been admitted to a private hospital at Rajarhat. The sources said his condition was stable. The attack on Giasuddin comes a day after six candidates, belonging to both Trinamul and the BJP, were assaulted during the third phase of the polls on Tuesday. Police and the Trinamul sources said armed men had waylaid Giasuddin near Rajarhat More on Diamond Harbour road around 6.30pm. The attackers vandalised his car and beat up him and some of his party colleagues when he was going to attend an election meeting. Trinamul supporters protesting against the attack raised blockade on NH117 at various locations  in South 24-Parganas district. The agitators also set afire a bus at Shirakol crossing and ransacked several vehicles. Trinamul supporters blocked railway tracks at various locations under the Sealdah south section disrupting train services during rush hours. In retaliation, BJP workers were attacked by alleged Trinamul activists at a number of places like Magrahat and Usti. Additional police forces were sent to control the situation. Para-military personnel have been engaged for area domination and to clear roads and restore normalcy. “It was a planned attack by the BJP....The goons had planned to kill Giasuddin but his security personnel and local residents managed to free him from the clutches of the goons,” a Trinamul leader in Magrahat said. However, the family members of the minister did not rule out the possibility of the Indian Secular Front’s involvement in the attack. The Mathurapur BJP organising district leadership has rejected Trinamul’s charges. “The attack must be the outcome Trinamul’s infighting. We are being maligned without any proof,” a BJP leader said. Three polling agents of the Trinamul Congress were allegedly beaten by BJP workers in Hooghly’s Khanakul late on Tuesday night. Sources said three polling agents were attacked at their homes after they had returned from booths in the Krishnanagar area of Khanakul. The trio were admitted to a hospital in Arambagh with head injuries. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC removes 3 DMs  before voting||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday removed the district magistrates of East Burdwan, West Burdwan and South Dinajpur which would go to the polls in the next few phases. “Such removal of officials, who are leading election preparations in districts, just ahead of the voting hurt the morale of the administration. Everybody in the administration is trying hard to ensure free and fair polls,” said a senior official. According to the order sent to the Bengal chief secretary on Wednesday, the poll panel appointed C. Murugan, a 2007-batch IAS officer, as the district magistrate of South Dinajpur, replacing Nikhil Nirmal. Similarly, 2009-batch IAS officer Shilpa Gaurisaria would take charge as the district magistrate of East Burdwan to replace Enaur Rahman. The new West Burdwan DM is a 2007-batch IAS officer Anurag Srivastava who replaced Purnendu Maji. South Dinajpur would go to the polls in the seventh phase on April 26. East Burdwan would go to the polls in two phases — fifth and sixth — on April 17 and 22. Voting will be held in West Burdwan in the seventh phase on April 26. “The new DMs would not get much time to get acquainted with the ongoing poll preparations. Inexperience of the newly appointed officers could hurt the poll preparedness at the last moment,” said an official. The ECI on Wednesday also removed seven assistant returning officers in Calcutta. The move came after the poll panel had changed eight returning officers in the city on Tuesday. Sources in the ECI said the three DMs had been removed after specific complaints had been lodged against them. “In case of returning officers and assistant returning officers, the ECI was forced to remove them as they had been posted in the respective positions for more than three years. Had the state removed them according to the guidelines, the ECI would not have to intervene,” said a source. Earlier, the Election Commission had ordered removal of Virendra as the director general of police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect and appointed P. Nirajnayan in his place. The panel had removed many other district magistartes also after the polls had been announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul sets up cash coupon test for EC||The Trinamul Congress on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India and issued a statement lambasting the BJP over its  distribution of coupons that allegedly promise cash in exchange of attendance at Narendra Modi’s political rally and voting for his party. Mamata Banerjee’s party, which has been accusing the BJP of such malpractice in Bengal since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, placed the blame squarely on the saffron camp for introducing the concept to the state where it used to be “unprecedented and unheard of”. “In various parts of South 24-Parganas, including Raidighi of Mathurapur, coupons have been distributed by BJP candidates and the organisation to voters asking them to attend the public meetings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and vote for the BJP. Once they do it, they will be paid, on the basis of these coupons, Rs 1,000 per head,” said Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy at a news conference at the Trinamul Congress’s headquarters in Calcutta. The Telegraph carried a report on Wednesday on how such coupons had been distributed at Raidighi. The newspaper clipping was attached to Trinamul’s complaint with the commission. “These coupons contain a photo of Prime Minister Modi, the name of the BJP, that of the Mathurapur organisational district of the party and the public meeting that was held on April 1,” said Roy. “Such coupons are being distributed in various parts of South 24-Parganas and other districts of Bengal. We have already brought it to the notice of the Election Commission of India and we want immediate action to be initiated against this attempt on the BJP’s part to introduce cash for votes in Bengal, which used to be unprecedented and unheard of,” he added. Sources in Trinamul, however, said it did not expect much by way of timely or necessary action by the commission. “From what we have already gathered, the commission is not keen on pursuing this. We don’t expect anything better from this current commission anyway…. We will instead go big with this, to the people,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Roy said the commission, with all its “lofty claims” on its intent to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls in Bengal, ought to step up now. “The buck here stops with the ECI. It is the ECI’s responsibility to stop this, to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls…. Eight-phase polling, countless central forces, teams and teams of observers, fleets of helicopters and drones…. Why should it not investigate and act in this regard?” he asked. The CPM, which lodged a complaint on the same matter with the commission, also sounded unhappy with the Nirvachan Sadan’s approach. Seniors at Alimuddin Street said Shamik Lahiri had lodged the complaint on behalf of the CPM on Tuesday. “Although the ECI had said it would probe the matter, nothing of that sort has happened,” said a CPM state secretariat member. Trinamul said it had been receiving tip-offs from various quarters on the BJP spending cash for not only “buying” votes but also ensuring decent turnouts at Modi’s rallies. “After this came to light from the newspaper report, we began the process of locating these coupons, and there have been thousands and thousands of them found already,” said Roy. Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar has denied the charges. “Their allegations are baseless and they are free to go to the commission for redress,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh’s convoy attacked||The convoy of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was attacked when he went to Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district to campaign for the party’s candidate on Wednesday evening. Ghosh, who suffered injuries to the left hand, has accused Trinamul of organising the attack. He said the attackers had lobbed crude bombs at the convoy and ransacked his car and a number of other vehicles of BJP leaders and workers with iron rods, bricks and stones. Ghosh went to Gossainhat in Sitalkuchi, the Assembly seat where Barendra Chandra Burman of the BJP is contesting against Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief. Gossainhat is around 60km from Cooch Behar, the district headquarters. “The public meeting was about to end when 100 to 150 Trinamul supporters carrying party flags started lobbying bombs at the venue. As we left the place, they hurled bombs at my vehicle and ransacked it. Many other vehicles were also ransacked…. I had faced attacks earlier also but today’s was the most horrible assault on me. It seems we have to campaign with life in danger,” said Ghosh. “If such a situation persists, we doubt how the elections will be…” he added. BJP leaders accompanying Ghosh said the situation had turned to such an extent that he had to wear a helmet while sitting in his car to avoid injuries. Supporters of the BJP and Trinamul clashed at a number of locations in and around Sitalkuchi following the attack on Ghosh. BJP leaders launched a demonstration at the chief electoral officer’s office in Calcutta to protest the attack on Ghosh. On Thursday — the last day of campaign in Cooch Behar, BJP supporters will demonstrate in all police station areas. Trinamul leaders denied the charges. Roy, the district Trinamul president, said BJP supporters had attacked their people when they had gone to attend a public meeting of Mamata Banerjee that was held in Sitalkuchi earlier on Tuesday. “While they were heading for the meeting, some vehicles were ransacked by BJP supporters. Again, while returning home, an attack was organised which they resisted. Dilip Ghosh could not draw people to his meeting and is now trying to create a false hype in the final hours of the campaign,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Gherao central cops, Mamata 'advises' women||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday “advised” the women voters, particularly those living in rural belts, to “gherao” central armed police force (CAPF) personnel if they created any problem during the poll process. The Trinamul supremo, who closed her final leg of campaign in Cooch Behar, came up with the “advice” while speaking at a public meeting in Baneswar under the Cooch Behar North Assembly seat. The north Bengal district would go to the polls on April 10, “If the CRPF tries to create any trouble, I urge the women in rural areas to gherao them... . Some of you should confine them while others will go to vote… You should repeat it to prevent them from intimidating voters,” Mamata said. Since the beginning of the eight-phase polls in Bengal, the chief minister and Trinamul leaders have time and again slammed the central forces and accused Union home minister Amit Shah of using the CAPF to influence the voters in favour of the BJP.. “At villages….don’t feel intimidated. If they try to create any trouble, talk to them… talking to them, at times, means confinement. You should take steps as per the situation. Also, the BJP is spreading lies that prohibitory orders have been enforced across the district. It is incorrect. Such orders are in force only till 200 metres of a booth. This propaganda is being made to discourage people from coming out in groups to cast their votes,” said Mamata. After advising people on how to deal with the central forces, she urged the CRPF and the police to act impartially during the fourth phase of election and tossed questions at the Election Commission while mentioning that 10 people had died during the past few days. “There are complaints that even girls have been molested….if any such thing happens or a candidate is attacked, you have to act,” she told the audience. In course of her speech, Mamata also sounded agitated with a section of the state police and referred to the assault on Trinamul candidate Sujata Mondal who was attacked in Arambagh of Hooghly on Tuesday during the third phase polls. “During the elections, even the (state) police become BJP (supporters). I have seen it in a number of places… it is not the fault of policemen who are in lower ranks…. Some senior people indulge in such bias…. There are reports that these days, many of them have got into an understanding (with the BJP)… I have seen what happened in Arambagh yesterday and also the role of the officer-in-charge of the local police station… We are keeping a note of everything…” said Mamata. Political observers pointed out that so far, it was the CAPF that had been facing the verbal arsenal from Mamata and her party. “But now, she is equally critical of a section of the state police and has even instructed her party workers not to believe the police and guard the EVM during the after the elections. This is significant,” said an observer. Mamata’s remarks have also made the saffron brigade react. On Wednesday, a BJP delegation led by party leader Sisir Bajoria went to meet the CEO and lodged a complaint against Mamata Banerjee’s comments on the CRPF. The delegation has requested the CEO to “censor” the chief minister. “Can a chief minister say this? She gave step by step instructions on how to stop the central forces. We have told the election commission that they’ve given a strong reply to Mamata Banerjee’s letter to them, but our caretaker chief minister doesn’t probably care about all that. Thus, she needs to be “silenced,” “censored,” Bajoria said. The delegation also complained about the attack on party’s Uluberia South candidate Papia Adhikari on Tuesday during the polls, said sources. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Hill rivals display bonhomie||Political leaders in the Darjeeling hills are teaching one lesson or two on conduct to their counterparts in the plains. While five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, during clashes between rival political groups during the third phase of the Assembly polls in the plains of Bengal on Tuesday, the scene was a contrast in the hills on Wednesday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the Darjeeling candidate of the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, was seen hugging GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards whose party is supporting the BJP. The two leaders met while campaigning in Darjeeling town on Wednesday morning. Around the same time, Narbu G Lama, the candidate of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, greeted Tshering Dahal, who is fielded by the Tamang faction, when they crossed each other in Kurseong. While Dahal’s party colleague Anu Chhetri hugged Lama, Dahal offered a khada to the rival candidate. Both the factions of the Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress but are bitter rivals in the hills. “After all we are one, we are Gorkhas,” Tshering was heard saying. All the leaders were accompanied by their supporters and they, too, set an example by their conduct while facing each other. Political rivalry in the hills has been intense and violent in the past. Murders of political rivals, attack on houses and even social boycott were once regular in the hills. For almost four decades, the hills have been a one-party dominated region with leaders and supporters of rival organisations mostly being at the receiving end. Many believe mutual respect for political leaders has been on the rise in the hills for the past few years. “Maybe it is because not a single political party is a dominant force in the hills now. However, one has to admit the political atmosphere has become better in the hills,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM raises bogey of detention||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dwelt on the issue of National Register of Citizens and the possibility of people landing up in detention camps in her campaign outings in north Bengal as she tried to woo Rajbanshis and other communities in the region. Members of those communities are immigrants from Bangladesh that shares borders with north Bengal and Assam. On April 10, elections would be held in 14 Assembly seats in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. Mamata addressed two public meetings in Baneswar and Sitalkuchi for party candidates Binoy Krishna Burman and Partha Pratim Roy. “If you do not vote for us, you will face NPR and NRC and will be thrown into a detention camp like it has happened with over 14 lakh people in Assam. If BJP comes to power, this is the consequence that you have to face. Some other states have done it but we will never implement it in Bengal. For us, all those who live in Bengal are Indian citizens.” Such remarks of Mamata, party insiders said, are a part of the party's strategy to use the citizenship matrix to draw support from people living in these two districts, who can easily relate themselves with the NRC exercise of Assam. “Many of these people are still disappointed as their family members and relatives could not enrol themselves in the NRC. An underlying apprehension that they would be sent to detention camps is always there among them. We are thus underscoring the issue to prove that they too, might face similar consequences,” said a Trinamul leader of Alipurduar. At the meeting, Mamata also addressed the Matuas and other Bengali Hindus who have come from Bangladesh and live in these districts. “The BJP leaders say they will provide land rights to refugees. We have already regularised all the refugee colonies… also, it is our government that is addressing the longstanding issue of enclaves,” she added. Political observers pointed that as the BJP has not taken any immediate initiative to implement the CAA, these people are equally perturbed. “We have seen how the Matua community had mounted pressure on the BJP so that the CAA is implemented immediately…. as the uncertainty still lingers among them, Mamata Banerjee is trying to win their support by asserting that all residents of the state are Indian citizens. Not to forget the minority vote bank of the state that comprises around 28 per cent of the population who are equally worried over the NRC issue,” said an observer. In both the meetings, Mamata also played the development card and went on elaborating on the series of infrastructural developments and other initiatives which include constitution of language academies and development board for Rajbanshis, a separate development board for Rajbanshi Muslims (nasya sheikhs) among others. In 2016, Trinamul had won 12 seats of these two districts. However, in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP could win both Alipurduar and Cooch Behar Parliament seats and had managed to secure leads in 12 Assembly segments, barring two segments of Cooch Behar. Mamata also insisted that her party should win in more than 200 seats. “We need 200 seats or else, the BJP will use money power and would buy some betrayers. They are devils in disguise. We need your support,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||North East||Congress query on hate messages to writer Sikha Sarma||The Congress on Wednesday said the arrest of Guwahati-based writer Sikha Sarma is a “legal matter” but asked the BJP-led government why no action has been taken against those posting hate messages against her on social media following her Facebook post on April 5 for which she was accused in an FIR of “causing disrespect to martyrs”. Sarma was sent to judicial custody after Dispur police produced her in the chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday afternoon. The Congress through its demand has tried to project the state administration of acting in an alleged partisan manner. This became clear when PCC president Ripun Bora  broached issues involving two ruling BJP legislators. Bora said at a news meet here: “The arrest of Smt. Sarma is a legal matter and law will take its own course. But we strongly condemned the hate messages against her on social media and demand that the government take stringent action against those who have posted such messages.” He then sought action against state minister Pijush Hazarika for “threatening” two journalists during the second phase of polling on April 1, urging police authorities to ensure “proper action is taken against him”. He also demanded his disqualification as a candidate in the polls. Bora also pointed out that Patherkandi BJP legislator’s car had been used to carry an EVM machine on April 1 and questioned why he has not yet been arrested. “The Election Commission must provide clarification on incidents related to EVM malfunction and recovery in unexpected places,” Bora added. Sarma was arrested following an FIR lodged by advocates — Umi Deka Baruah and Kangkana Goswami — against the “distasteful” Facebook post, which seemed to allude to Saturday’s Maoist massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh. Sarma’s post in Assamese had said: “A salaried person dying in harness is not a martyr. If that is the case then an electrician dying of electrocution is also a martyr. Don’t make the people emotional, media.” According to the FIR, the post “maligned and disregarded the sacrifice of our martyrs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
08-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Plea for extra eyes on strong rooms||The Opposition Congress moved Assam chief electoral officer Nitin Khade on Wednesday with a plea to provide access/link of CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because the party fears the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls. Assam PCC president Ripun Bora moved Khade a day after the third and final phase of polling ended on Tuesday. Besides seeking access to CCTV surveillance for contesting candidates, the PCC also urged Khade to allow them to install cameras outside the strong rooms to add another layer of monitoring. It also urged the general public to remain vigilant by keeping an eye on the strong rooms. Elaborating on the party’s reasons for the protection of electronic voting machines (EVMs), Bora said: “There have been unwanted incidents involving EVMs at several places, including Barpeta, Barkhetri, Dharapur and Golakganj. There was suspicious transportation of EVMs. Hence we want additional surveillance of the strong rooms where the EVMs are kept... We fear the ruling BJP may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate the people have given us.” Altogether 946 candidates contested the three-phase Assembly elections. The first phase was held on March 27, the second phase on April 1 and the third on April 6. Counting of votes will be held on May 2. The overall polling percentage was 82.04 per cent with the highest turnout of 85.2 per cent recorded in the third phase. However, the overall percentage was less than the 84.72 recorded in the 2016 Assembly polls won convincingly by the BJP-led alliance. “Since the election officers have access/link to monitor the strong rooms 24/7, we are requesting the CEO to provide the same to the contesting candidates in all constituencies so that they can keep an eye on the strong rooms on their mobile. Providing access to CCTV surveillance will definitely add to measures aimed at ensuring fair, free and transparent elections,” Bora said. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said the demand for additional surveillance for strong rooms stemmed from reports swirling around the handling of EVMs, from their transportation to malfunctioning. “We need extra surveillance because we apprehend the ruling party may use the official machinery to manipulate the results. We need to rule out such possibilities,” she said. Bora, who asserted that the Congress-led 10-party mahajot (grand alliance) will win the polls, also thanked the people of Assam for coming out to vote in large numbers, saying that the “third phase of election signals an atmosphere of change”. He also proposed a vote of thanks to all individuals who helped the Congress in the elections, including party leaders and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
08-04-2021||Opinion||Support system: Women’s domestic labour||Women’s domestic labour has been getting judicial recognition as well as political endorsement. In January, the Supreme Court emphasized the fact that the value of a woman’s work at home is no less than that of her office-going husband. Compensating women’s domestic work has now found support among political leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Kamal Haasan. It was even part of the seven-point agenda of the latter’s party for the Tamil Nadu polls. Such support is not entirely altruistic; it is tied to the spike in the importance of Indian women as a voting constituency. A 2019 study found that women voters have not only increased — the number of women voting in the 2000s rose to 883 for every 1,000 men from 715 to every 1,000 men in the 1960s — but they have also had a notable impact on re-election outcomes. This was evident in the results of the 2019 general elections. Narendra Modi won considerable support from women voters. Another reason for the new-found support for wages for domestic work was the redistribution of traditional division of domestic labour during the lockdown. With men being forced to lend a hand at home in the absence of domestic staff, there was some appreciation of the need to compensate women for their chores. Recognition and appreciation by the powers that be need not guarantee meaningful change. For the latter to take place, women must have an equal stake in devising policy concerning their roles and rights. This, however, remains a pipe dream; the representation of women in Indian politics declined sharply from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021. The women’s reservation bill has been awaiting passage in Parliament for more than a decade. The absence of women in institutions of influence has led to other blind spots. There has, for one, been an alarming drop in the participation of women in the nation’s labour force; from 30.3 per cent in 1990, it plummeted to 20.3 percent in 2020. Social conservatism — women often leave the labour force so that they can perform household work — gender bias at the workplace, poor wage rates, absence of maternity leave and the lack of safety are some of the causal factors. Reversing the declining labour participation rate among women requires simultaneous interventions at multiple levels — greater enrolment of women in education, supportive families, sensitive legislation that secures employment guarantees and so on. But all of this can happen if the scale and the layers of the challenge are recognized first.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Fallen off the map: China’s treatment of Uighurs||Sir — In recent months, several major Western retailers have expressed concern over China’s treatment of the Uighurs in the country’s cotton-growing Xinjiang district. Companies including H&M, Adidas, Burberry and Nike have been penalized for questioning China’s actions in this region — online shops of some brands have been blocked and the location of their stores have vanished from certain digital maps. While it is good to see brands prioritize human rights concerns over profit, there is little that the international community can do unless the Chinese government introspects and revises its policies in this area. Abhinav Chakraborty,Calcutta Out of control Sir — It is a matter of great concern that competitive clientelism in Indian politics, especially in Tamil Nadu, is escalating with each passing year (“Free for all”, April 6). In Tamil Nadu, where polling in the assembly elections has just concluded, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has promised, among other things, a washing machine and a free cable TV connection if it is voted to power. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, on the other hand, has said that it will provide a tablet to every government school and college student. Moreover, a day after the DMK promised to give Rs 1,000 per month to female family heads, the AIADMK upped the ante by offering Rs 1,500. The Election Commission’s rather restrained guidelines in the model code of conduct have not been able to put an end to such malpractices. Significantly, in the matter of cash, liquor, coupons and freebies in elections, Tamil Nadu seems to leave most other states way behind. Based on poll campaign observations, the EC has characterized more than 50 per cent of assembly seats — 118 out of 234 — to be “expenditure sensitive constituencies”. This is in sharp contrast to the 16 per cent in West Bengal and about 17 per cent in Kerala. At least two recent elections in Tamil Nadu — in the Vellore parliamentary constituency in 2019 and the R.K. Nagar assembly seat in Chennai in 2017 — had to be rescinded owing to exorbitant and unaccounted for cash flows and freebies offered by rival political parties. Such unabashed clientelism is antithetical to free and fair elections. Elections in Tamil Nadu can certainly do with some institutional scrutiny. Hopefully, people will soon begin to see the reality of these giveaways — that these come from the taxes which they themselves pay. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Over the last few years, it has become abundantly clear to the people that all political parties try to grab power by hook or by crook. This is in sharp contrast to the years immediately after the independence of India when parties worked towards the development and welfare of the electorate. They did not attempt to lure voters by offering them any kind of compensation. Nowadays, political parties include promises of freebies — these can be mixer-grinders, musical instruments or even cash prizes — in their election manifestos. The Madras High Court has rightly questioned the Centre and the EC about this practice. The Centre must enact a law governing manifestos and the EC, too, should be diligent in vetting them. The high court’s reported understanding of the distribution of freebies as a corrupt practice is not off the mark. Such actions will only destroy our democratic credentials. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Sir — The practice of distributing freebies before elections has become a worrying trend in politics. Amidst the ongoing assembly polls in several states, this phenomenon is being debated, once again, with the Madras High Court directing a series of probing questions at the government departments and the EC. There is scope to learn from anti-corruption laws that already exist in India. The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was enacted to combat corruption in government agencies and public sector businesses. A similar Act with regard to the practice of promising freebies in election manifestos could help curb malpractice. Political parties make outlandish commitments in their manifestos only to forget them when they come to power. It is time they are held accountable for their actions. M.R. Jayanthi,Chennai Way forward Sir — The selection of Rebecca Welch as the first female referee to take charge of an English Football League match is historical. She recently officiated Easter Monday’s game between Harrogate Town and Port Vale in League Two. Welch has become a role model in the world of sports. Surely, many will be encouraged to follow in her footsteps. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Secure grip: Cow slaughter and the National Security Act||Abusing the law may not always go unquestioned. Sitting on petitions challenging preventive detentions under the National Security Act between 2018 and 2020, the Allahabad High Court quashed the orders of district magistrates in 94 of 120 cases and ordered that the detained persons be released. Even though these cases were spread over 32 districts of Uttar Pradesh, the court reportedly noted the frequent similarity of phrasing in first information reports and among district magistrates’ orders. The charge of cow slaughter attracted the NSA most often in these cases. The identical phrases usually related to the place of alleged slaughter, a ‘tip’ to the police by an anonymous informer and the fear and disorder generated by the act that, in some instances, were shown to have prevented people from going to work. The emphasis on chaos was needed to invoke a law meant to prevent acts prejudicial to India’s security and public order, but allowing arrest without formal charge and trial. The high court, however, noting that bail was repeatedly blocked by using the law, also underlined the district magistrate’s ‘non-application of mind’ in a number of cases, lack of due process in others, pronounced that some cases fell under law and order, not the NSA, and that some were first allegations with no precedent. Although alleged cow slaughter is just one of the charges for which the UP administration loves to apply the NSA, the Allahabad High Court’s decisions to quash 94 of all 120 cases is of overwhelming importance. All those detained for alleged cow slaughter were from the minority community. The relation of this to the identical phrases of FIRs and orders that the judges remarked on is inescapable. It lays bare the processes of State-sponsored discrimination; the UP chief minister is one of the Central government’s most prized leaders. Last December, when quashing an NSA detention because of lack of due process, the Allahabad High Court had emphasized that the executive must exercise extreme care when applying an extraordinary law that permits no reference to ordinary laws. Personal liberty was paramount, so all legal and Constitutional safeguards must be in place before preventive detention was imposed. Therefore, when an administration ignores this principle, it can be inferred that it is personal liberty, and not crime, that is being targeted. Fear follows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Tips to sustain the great game||Lord Harris, the captain of England in 1878-79 and a founder member of the Imperial Cricket Council, once said, “You do well to love cricket, because it is more free from anything sordid, anything dishonourable than any game in the world. To play it keenly, generously, self-sacrificingly is a moral lesson in itself, and the classroom is God’s air and sunshine. Foster it, my brothers, so that it may attract all who find time to play it, protect it from anything that will sully it, so it may grow in favour with all men.” While the game has gone beyond men, the time factor is continuously driving its evolution. The test of skill, patience, resolve and tenacity over a period of five days is seemingly losing its charm in this era of breakneck speed. Shorter formats — ODI, Twenty20, T10, The Hundred — are becoming popular. Fans are an integral part of any sport; they are the principal consumers. The media, sponsors, administrators and players — in that order — trail them for their interest. Would this lead to a slow but certain extinction of Test cricket? The International Cricket Council has taken a number of measures — Day/Night Tests, four-day matches, a World Test Championship — to ensure its survival. Incidentally, the ICC’s market survey (2017-18) showed that there is a ‘market’ for all three ‘products’; out of a fan base of a billion, 70, 88, 92 per cent fans are interested in Test, ODI and T20 cricket, respectively. But the ICC chief’s concern with the financial viability of Test matches suggests a bleak future for Test cricket. In order to understand the psyche of fans behind liking any particular format — Test, ODI, T20 — a study based out of Calcutta was conducted by this author. It found no link between gender and preference for a format, even though age group appeared to be influential. The younger generation appears to like T20 while older fans enjoy Tests. In order to understand such ‘consumer behavior’, the study devised a construct — REST — to measure overall preference for a format. REST comprises four major dimensions: Result, Excitement, Skill and Time and Money. Apart from a game producing a result, the analysis revealed that close competition between teams leads to uncertainty of outcome, which, in turn, leads to enormous thrill for fans. A predictable or no result does not enchant fans. They also like formats that promote greater innovation in batting, bowling, fielding and even wicket-keeping and promise nail-biting finishes. The skill component comprises the different aspects of batting, bowling, fielding — aggressive or defensive. Finally, fans spend time and money to follow a game. When this concept was used to explain fans’ preference for a particular format using a ‘Structural Equation Model’ — an advanced multivariate statistical analysis that deals with the structural relationships between latent constructs like REST and measured variables like overall liking — the study revealed that ODI happens to be the most balanced in respect to REST parameters and attracts all generations almost equally. Result and Skill were found to be insignificant in explaining the preference for Test cricket and T20, respectively. Excitement was the most dominant factor to explain the preference for T20 whereas skill determined admiration for Test matches. This implies that the fans who love Test matches consider the display of various cricketing skills to be the most important factor and Result to be the least important aspect, while a T20 aficionado is inclined towards excitement rather than skill. These findings provide a hint to the ICC if it wants to ‘cross-sell’: attract the younger and the older generations to Test and T20 versions, respectively. In order to promote Test cricket, matches must be result-oriented and prove to be close encounters. T20 cricket needs to be a more skilful affair to interest older fans. Cricket is a beautiful game. It is ever-evolving with diverse formats, rules and championships. One needs to nurture these formats carefully so that each has a context. This may depend upon a country’s cricketing ability and popularity. Stay tuned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Vision for the future||Some three decades ago, I decided to start working with adivasis and nomadic people. My workplace was Tejgadh, a village in eastern Gujarat. It is situated at the foot of a rocky hill and is skirted by the wide bed of the seasonally flooding Orsang river. The hill has hidden in it ancient caves with rock paintings from a period between 12,000 to 15,000 years before our time. The paintings in the caves should remind one of Mahasweta Devi’s classic, Pterodactyl, invoking a mythical bird and the agony of contemporary adivasi life. It was here that I decided to create the Adivasi Academy. I chanced upon Mahasweta Devi a few years later, and she accepted my invitation to visit the Adivasi Academy. After having a dip in the stream of the Orsang river and visiting the caves with the rock paintings — like the ones she had visualized in Pterodactyl — the first thing she said to me was that she would like to breathe her last at Tejgadh. In my long years of work with her, she would often repeat this desire. A decade and a half later she passed away in her son’s house in Calcutta. In order to respect her wish, I brought her ashes to Tejgadh and created a modest memorial, made of interwoven arches positioned on a red-brick pedestal with an inscription which reads, “Every dream has the right to live” (picture). In physical height, this memorial may be the shortest among memorials one has seen. In a sharp contrast — about 70 kilometres south as the crow flies — is the Statue of Unity installed to remember Sardar Patel. A few weeks ago, I had called young activists from many parts of India to meet at the Adivasi Academy. The purpose was to understand the situation in every state, going beyond reports one receives through the media. When all of us were seated around the Mahasweta memorial, I asked them to read the inscription and enquired what their unfulfilled dreams were. Those who came from Uttarakhand mentioned the melting glaciers, the fragile environment, its continuous degradation, the outward migration of the jobless hill people and the devastated social fabric. The friends from Nagaland complained about the lack of understanding among mainland Indians of the complex Naga history and society and about an increasing alienation. A friend from Meghalaya angrily added that unceasing mining has destroyed the legendary beauty of the Garo, Khasi and Jaintia hills alike. Kashmiri friends spoke with voices heavy with emotion about the complete disruption of normal liberties. Adivasi friends from the central states spoke about the plunder of their forests and rivers by big companies and the pauperization of folks going to cities in hordes in search of employment. Friends from Uttar Pradesh brought in the question of a deep social discord and the lack of opportunities. The Punjabi friends had a lot to say about the woes of farmers. Those from Maharashtra mentioned how the progressive ideas of Jyotiba Phule and Babasaheb Ambedkar had all been forgotten. The Tamil Nadu folks added that Periyar’s dream of an equal society has been entirely put in cold storage and big money and towering celluloid images have been dominating public life. The Karnataka friends highlighted nepotism, casteism and the decline of the egalitarian thoughts of Basavanna and Akkama. A Dalit leader from Gujarat said that he would like to collect small bits of brass and copper from every Dalit in India, mint a large coin out of them with Dr Ambedkar’s imprint and gift it to the president of India for laying at the foundation of the new Parliament building. Women present there spoke with great anxiety about how terrified they feel while expressing themselves in thought, emotion or costume. What Muslims and Christians said was not much different in tenor. Our discussion continued for several hours. My simple question had resulted in unpacking a wide array of historical deceptions and injustices, a longing for creating a society with at least minimum decency and a sense of justice. The seemingly artless words of the inscription had opened up so many wounds. The yearning of my friends in that discussion made it difficult for me to have normal sleep that night. During it, I dreamt, and I am not sure if they were dreams, delusions or debates in my mind. I saw things not so easily to be seen in real life in our time: newly constructed shelters, all clean and with good toilets and drinking water for migrant labourers; ministers and government officials mourning for the dead among the agitating farmers, and farmers celebrating the repeal of the Acts; home ministry officials telling migrants in Assam that no certificate proving their religion is required for asylum and citizenship. In one part of the dream sequence, I saw lynch mobs asking for forgiveness from all the men and women they had ever lynched, and the police accepting FIRs from victims as per the law book. The courtrooms in my dream had entrances adorned with the words, “Justice shall be given equally to all”. In another part of my long dream, I noticed religious fanatics of all shades drowning some books in the Arabian Sea. On asking them what those books contained, they said in many languages, “Oh, these were our books of hate words”. I also saw other books that probably were hospital registers, which showed no deaths of children for want of food or medicine. The National Crime Records Bureau records showed no new incidents of farmers’ suicide or the molestation and rape of women. I also saw a large gathering of mediapersons, but none of them looked scared and intimidated. Strange dream, indeed! I could see in it images, posters, statues and just empty shadows of martyrs who died for India’s freedom — scientists, thinkers, saints, artists, industrialists, sportspersons and mass leaders who made India a free and modern nation. When I opened my eyes, I tried hard to recall if one of the statues I had seen was actually of Rabindranath. Or was it someone else trying to look like him? I concluded that it indeed was Gurudev, for the words inscribed on the pedestal were, “Where the mind is without fear...” These words would sound so hollow if said by any deliberately made-up look-alike. And I said, almost spontaneously, “Khela hobe”. I am sure Mahasweta would have understood my dream. Her deep Bangla compassion for all lives and celebration of freedom, echoed by many Indians in an adivasi village in Gandhi’s Gujarat, are what the idea of India is all about. It has the right to live.  The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bokaro zoo gets animals from Ranchi zoo||Bokaro: A male Black Himalayan bear and a pair of porcupines arrived at the Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park popularly known as Bokaro zoo, on Thursday. The animals were brought from Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park in Ranchi. “These animals were brought after permission of Central Zoo Authourity (CZA) without any exchange from Ranchi Zoo,“said Manikant Dhan, spokesperson of Bokaro zoo. Dhan said, “The male bear that has arrived is 2 years old. The female bear is 2.5 years old. It was spending days alone in absence of any partner after its parents died a few years ago. Meanwhile, the pair of porcupines is also an attraction for the visitors when the Zoo gets opened.” Since 2005, the Bokaro zoo has lost more than a dozen inmates including eight tigers, two lions, two bears, a hippopotamus, three Leopards, and others. At present the zoo boasts several varieties of animals and birds among which a tigress, a female Himalayan bear, a female Hippopotamus are major attractions for visitors. They all are single without pairs. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: Jharkhand Excise division on Wednesday seized a huge consignment of spurious Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) at Mango. Acting on a tip off, the Excise department's officials had raided the basement of Neelkanth Apartment along Dimna Road in Mango at about 11 pm and seized 50 cartons, containing 600 bottles of whiskey from a stationary SUV. No arrests have been made. Assistant commissioner, Jharkhand Excise, Arun Kumar Mishra said from the initial investigation, it was established that it was a consignment of spurious liquor. "There was no batch number mentioned on the liquor bottles as it is mandatory. Moreover, the state tag like "this liquor to be sold in Jharkhand only" was not mentioned neither on the liquor bottles nor on the cartons, " Mishra told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out during the investigation they have succeeded to establish the identity of the SUV owner, but his whereabouts are yet to be traced. The senior excise official said the seized liquor has been sent to a Ranchi-based lab for chemical examination. (Kumud Jenamani) Bokaro: The dead bodies of a woman and her two children were recovered from a well in Parasbani village under of Giridih on Thursday. Hemanti Devi, 26, is believed to have jumped into the well with her son Ayush Kumar, 4, and daughter Sanjana Kumari, 2. “The reason which prompted her to commit suicide is yet to be ascertained. We received information about the incident from the villager and reached the spot. The husband of the deceased Shiv Kumar Das lives outstation. He works in a private firm in Kolkata. We are inquiring from her in-laws about the incident,” said Sharmanand Singh, officer incharge of Birni police station. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host national senior men's handball meet||Jharkhand has won the hosting rights to the National Senior Men’s Handball Championship after over a decade and a half. The Handball Federation of India has allotted the 50th national men’s meet to Jharkhand State Handball Association (JSHA) during its annual general meeting held on April 2. State association secretary, Khurshid Khan, said it was a moment of pride for Jharkhand in getting the rights to host the golden jubilee edition of national senior meet. The steel city last hosted the National Senior Handball Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex and Gopal Maidan in 2004. The junior handball national (in 2014) and the national sub-junior event (in 2016) was also organised in Jamshedpur. “Maharashtra had also tried to get the hosting rights of the senior meet but the HFI finally gave us the nod. JSHA president and senior vice-president of the national outfit Pradeep Kumar Balmuchu was also present at the AGM,” he said. He added the national meet will be organised in Jamshedpur. On when the nationals would be held, Khan, co-chairman of the technical panel of the HFI, said they would convene a meeting to discuss the global pandemic and probable dates. “Covid has emerged as an impediment. We’ll discuss the pandemic at the meeting and discuss probable dates. But, first the Covid-related situation needs to ease. We’ll keep a watch and see how the situation pans out in the months to come,” the JSHA secretary added. A host of logistics needs to be worked out for hosting an event like the nationals. Issues like accommodation, food, training and transport are part of the programme. “These issues need to be worked for hassle-free conduct of the event,” Khan said. According to him, they have to host the national handball event by March 31 next year. “We have ample time to organise the event. So, we won’t rush with the dates. Hope the pandemic gets over soon,” Khan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals told to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients||Jharkhand health secretary K.K. Soan has directed all private hospitals to reserve at least 25 per cent of their beds for Covid patients and work on increasing the number of Covid beds every three to four days. Addressing a meeting with representatives of private hospitals on Thursday, Soan directed all private hospitals to provide updates on Covid beds and patients to the district administration every six hours. The health secretary encouraged home isolation for asymptomatic patients. Besides, he asked all private hospitals to mention treatment charges for  Covid patients on their website and also on the hospital premises in order to avoid confusion and unpleasantness while clearing final bills. “All private hospitals have to mention the per-day treatment charges for Covid patients on their websites as well as in notices pasted on the hospital premises,” he said. While the government claims many Covid beds in private hospitals were vacant, hospital managements have maintained that all their Covid beds were occupied since the last week of March. Many private hospitals also fear that increasing the count of Covid beds would make it difficult to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients. However, after Thursday’s meeting, they agreed to reserve 25 per cent beds for Covid patients and also increase the count of Covid beds gradually. State health minister Banna Gupta came down heavily on private hospitals that did not attend the meeting on Thursday and directed the health department to send out showcause notices to the absentee hospitals. A visibly furious Gupta also directed officials to hold surprise inspections at the premises of the private hospitals that skipped the meeting. He also warned all private healthcare facilities of action under the Disaster Management Act if they violate or tweak rules set by the state government while treating Covid patients. Private hospitals, he said, played an important role in fighting the second wave of the pandemic, and the government expected them to be cooperate. Private facilities treating Covid patients should not charge exorbitant fees but follow the  slabs set by the government, the minister added while talking to the representatives of private hospitals in Ranchi on Thursday. “All necessary medicines needed for Covid treatment should be made available to private as well as government healthcare facilities,” said Gupta, asking the State Drug Directorate to provide sanitisers and other necessary medicines in sufficient quantity. During the meeting, State National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla asked hospitals to prioritise symptomatic patients while providing Covid beds. Oxygen cylinders, he said, would be provided within two to three days of requisition to all private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nor'wester brings much-needed relief across Jharkhand||The season's second Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur and several other parts of Jharkhand on Thursday, resulting in lightning and thundershowers. The  storm, the first in April, originated from the Chhotanagpur plateau area this afternoon and covered places like Ramgarh and Bokaro before hitting the eastern part of Ranchi and later Khunti, Jamshedpur and  other parts of Kolhan on Thursday evening with wind speeds touching 40 kmph. The storm, which was accompanied by rain and lightning, brought respite from the oppressive heat which the state has been experiencing for the last one week.Weathermen said excessive heat coupled with a prevailing  cyclonic circulation hovering 1.5km above sea level triggered the Nor'wester. Daltonganj and other districts in north western Jharkhand which has been experiencing extreme heat for the last few days also experienced the storm around the same time, while Ramgarh experienced a one-minute squall. Jamshedpur recorded 1mm rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum got 2mm rain. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum experienced 3mm rain while the IMD observatory in Daltonganj recorded 2mm rain. Ranchi and its adjoining areas where the impact of the storm was less witnessed rainfall in traces. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre deputy director Abhishek Anand said, "The Nor'wester gained momentum due to the cyclonic circulation over Bihar and Jharkhand. A partly cloudy sky with light rain and thunderstorm is also expected at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next two days." A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, 'Our observations indicated lightning and thundershowers in different areas of Jharkhand with varying wind speed.” The day temperatures witnessed a sudden drop in several districts of Jharkhand due to the thundershowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rebels torch four vehicles in West Singhbhum||Insurgents belonging to outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist torched four vehicles in Lanji region in Chakradharpur sub-division of West Singhbhum district on Thursday. The vehicles were parked close to the warehouse of a road construction contractor. It is suspected that non-payment of levy by a contractor concerned led the insurgents to take this step. Police and paramilitary forces started an anti-insurgency operation at the Lanji region which is located at the bordering Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Sub-divisional police officer, Chakradharpur, Sudhir Kumar confirmed about the incident at Lanji. "Lanji region continues to be a naxal hotbed where the rebels have torched four vehicles being used for a road construction project on fire at the wee hours on Thursday," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He said the violent act committed at Lanji is suspected to have been committed by a group of Maharaj Pramanik. "Pramanik who carries a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head is active at Chowka area in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and also at Kuchai as well as Lanji region is suspected to have torched the four vehicles. Fortunately, the naxals did not inflict any injury to any of the construction staff who were present near the spot when the vehicles were torched," said the SDPO. On March 4, three jawans of paramilitary forces were killed in an IED blast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Godda gets its first train; local MP, rival MLAs vie for credit ||Godda railway station was witness to unruly scenes on Thursday afternoon during an online function to inuagurate a new track and flag off what will be the town's first ever passenger train with MLAs belonging to the rulng dispensation clashing with colleagues of the BJP over taking credit for the successful completion of the project. In New Delhi, railway minister Piyush Goyal launched the 32km Godda-Hansdiha railway line under the East Central Railway and also flagged off the Humsafar Express at 3pm to put the sleepy town of Godda in Santhal Parganas on the railway map of the country. But at the rail station in Godda, supporters of local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey got into a scuffle with supporters of Congress MLA Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) at  while the programme was underway. Yadav was accompanied by Mahagama MLA Dipika Pandey, state transport minister and JMM MLA from Seraikela Champai Soren, who represented the state government at the programme. But according to an eye witness, security personnel assigned to the MLAs and those from the district administration swung into action and prevented the skirmish to snowball into a full-fledged clash. “BJP MP (Dubey) was present with a large contingent of supporters at the station to flag off the train. Simultaneously, MLAs of the ruling coalition  and a minister also turned up with supporters. While one section was hailing the BJP and the Prime Minister for the success of the project, others heaped praise on chief minister Hemant Soren and the erstwhile UPA government at the Centre for the project. Claims and counter-claims led to a verbal altercation, but it was soon brought under under control,” said a local journalist. Later, the BJP took to social media to accuse chief minister Hemant Soren of sending government sponsored "goons" to attack its MP. The Congress on the other hand hit back at the BJP. “It is shameful of him (Nishikant Dubey) to misbehave with MLAs of the ruling coalition and try to deny their contributions,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. Thursday's event, held about a week before a byelection in Madhupur, holds immense significance for Godda. Speaking during the function from Railway Board headquarters in Delhi, rail minister Goyal dedicated the new track and train to the nation. “Even though this project was first approved during the UPA tenure in 2011, the credit for its successful completion goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It is because between 2011-2014, the project didn’t move an inch and after the formation of NDA government, all such pending projects were given pace,” he said. Goyal said the project was a milestone for Godda and the Santhal Parganas. The 32km railway line from Godda to Hansdiha was built at a cost of about Rs 550 crore. The line has seven big bridges, 31 small bridges, 10 over-bridges, and 9 under-bridges, he said. “For the first time, Godda will have train connectivity. To begin with, we are flagging off Humsafar superfast (Express), a direct link to Delhi from today,” he said. “Before 2014, a meager Rs 257 crore was allocated for rail projects in Jharkhand. But now it is over Rs 4000 crore. There are about 22 new rail projects that are underway in Jharkhand. Some of the projects are in partnership with the state government. I urge the state government to provide its monetary contribution on time and ensure timely land allocation to speed up other projects,” he said. An official of Malda rail division under which Godda station clarified that Humsafar Express was a weekly train. “From April 19, it will run regularly. From Godda, it will leave every Monday at 12.40pm and from Delhi, it will start its journey Tuesdays at 11.45pm. The train will reach Delhi from Godda in about 24 hours,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elephant count set to go up at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary||The elephant count at Dalma wildlife sanctuary is all set to pep up during the census as foresters have spotted around 20 calves inside the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. The calves have been spotted with herds at both the eastern and western forest range of the sanctuary. Calves were also seen with a herd near the Chotka Bandh watering holes on Wednesday evening. “Calves were born at the Dalma and Bengal jungles. The calves are 5 to 6 months old,” Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed. According to Chandra, animal census is scheduled at the sanctuary in May or June. The elephants had migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal in August-September last year. Some jumbos returned to Dalma home early while almost all returned in March. There are 155 elephants at Dalma reserve. A forester said the animal census could be postponed in view of the global pandemic. “Animal census takes places in May or June but it could be postponed due to the pandemic. The state government may issue directives to close the sanctuary. We are keeping our fingers crossed,” he added, with a request not to be quoted. However, elephant sighting was drastically low during the day-long animal census conducted at the sanctuary on June 10 last year. Showers had dashed hopes of foresters who were looking forward to an impressive elephant count at the jumbo abode. Altogether 50 elephants were sighted at the east and west forest ranges during the census last time. The animal census was based on field surveys and actual sightings near watering holes. Since water was abundant at the sanctuary as well as pockets falling outside it, most of the elephants moved out of the sanctuary in search of water when the count began. Only a few were sighted during the exercise. Elephants are roving animals and venture out anywhere. The jumbos chose to quench their thirst outside their abode during the last census. Consequently, fewer elephants were sighted Foresters blamed the timing of census for the decrease in the number of elephants. “The animal count is usually conducted in May when heat is at its peak. It usually takes place a week after the annual Bishu Shikar (a tribal hunting festival). But the exercise had to be postponed in view of Covid-19. We could have sighted an impressive number of elephants if the exercise was conducted in May,” one of the foresters said. Bamboo cottage opens The bamboo cottage inside the sanctuary was opened for tourists on Tuesday. The gates of the facility were thrown open after necessary furnishing was completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal polls slows down trade in coal town  ||The Bengal election has adversely affected trade in Dhanbad at a time when traders are already reeling under the impact of Covid affected downturn. The transport of goods from Bengal to Dhanbad has been hit due to apprehensions of seizure of vehicles for security checks by police and administration. Trade in coal town is largely dependent on the wholesale purchase of a wide variety of products ranging from foodgrains, garments to footwear from Calcutta. Traders, who travel back and forth from Calcutta on the Black Diamond Express and Coalfield Express, are also desisting from visiting the city due to rallies and political programmes. Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, told The Telegraph Online: “The worst affected section are the small time traders and retailers who lack capital for bulk purchase of articles, dependent on daily purchase as they are finding it difficult to bring articles on daily basis due to restricted movement from Calcutta.” Citing an example, he said that garment traders of Dhanbad are even avoiding visiting their favorite place, Metiabruz Haat which is the biggest garment market in Calcutta due to the election rush. “The fear of their own security as well as the safety of goods purchased during heightened election campaigning and stiff competition between rival political parties is also preventing coal town traders to visit Calcutta,” said Sohrab. Echoing Sohrab’s sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said, “not only Calcutta, but as Dhanbad shares long borders with Asansol and Purulia area of Bengal, the trade from these places have also been affected as traders could not visit these places freely and commercial vehicles of Dhanbad are not willing to enter Bengal borders.” “Our trade is also largely dependent on supply of articles in colliery areas, including collieries of Eastern Coalfields Limited in  Maithon , Chirkunda and Barakar sharing borders with Bengal so we could not even visit to these places due to increased police checking; frisking of belongings, verification of vehicles documents etc,” said Surolia. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Besides the election related restricted movement, the Covid testing of passengers being carried out at railway stations is also affecting the movement of Dhanbad traders in Bengal, although we appeal to all traders to cooperate with testing as it is meant for their own safety and the safety of their family members.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Weddings cancelled, planners stare at losses and debts||The wedding planners of Dhanbad are in despair as 25 per cent to 30 per cent of marriages scheduled between April and July have been cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions. More than 1200 decorators, tent house owners, band party operators, wedding photographers, florists and caterers hoping to cash in on the wedding season to compensate for the losses from last year’s lockdown are facing a similar situation this year. At present, the biggest predicament being faced by them is with regard to customers demanding a return of the advance payments. Majority of the planners have already invested the money in purchasing articles for the events. Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Jila Decorator Association, told The Telegraph Online: “Out of an average of ten bookings for almost all the decorators everyone has suffered cancellation of three bookings and resultant demand for return of advance but facing very difficult financial condition no one is in position to return the advance money as we have in turn paid the money for purchase of articles.” “Instead of returning the advance money, we are requesting the parties to adjust the advance during rescheduled marriage functions,” said Singh adding that the last opportunity to compensate for losses has been lost. Ram Lakhan Ram, operator of Lakshmi band situated near IIT (ISM) gate, said: “We are very concerned about the cancellation of bookings due to Covid situation turning grim day by day as we have a limited season of two months and thus if the bookings are cancelled during this period and Covid situation improves later it will of no advantage for us as the next lagan season will begin only in November.” “The government diktat to restrict number of  participant to 200 for marriage functions have led another blow to our income besides the cancellation losses as for majority of  marriage functions we used to receive orders of at least 300 plates of food but now the orders are being now truncated to 200 plates,” said a caterer of Hirapur in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to get 2 lakh Covaxin doses on Thursday||Jharkhand will receive 2 lakh doses of Covaxin on Thursday to meet  demands until the Centre provides 10 lakh more vaccine doses by April 9, an official communique from the health department stated on Wednesday. As per data provided by the state health department, Jharkhand had 97,037 doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,124 doses of Covaxin in stock at 7pm on Wednesday. The health department in its communique stated that the 2 lakh additional Covaxin doses provided by the Centre will ensure sufficient availability of Covaxin as well as Covishield vaccines in the state for the time being. Meanwhile, the state reported seven more Covid deaths, including four in Ranchi alone, on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1,151 and that in Ranchi to 276, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 1,312 fresh cases cases against only 277 Covid recoveries, also took the active caseload in the Jharkhand to 7,872. The active caseload in Ranchi crossed the 4,000 mark on Wednesday as the district alone reported 562 cases against 113 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 4,112 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by Wednesday night. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a triple-digit-spike on the day.With 149 fresh cases and 40 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours, East Singhbhum’s active caseload stood at 913. As per figures with the NHM, the growth rate of Covid in Jharkhand further increased to 0.67 per cent against the national average of 0.57 per cent on the day. The doubling rate of cases in the state was also lower than the national average _ it would take 103.11 days for cases to double in the state against the national doubling rate of 122.12 days. So far, over 1.3 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, and 93.10 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in the state has shot up from close to 99 per cent in mid-March to a shade above 93 per cent in the first week of April. A report released by the NHM on Wednesday highlighted that as many as 86,594 Jharkhand residents, 72 per cent of those registered, were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second dose was administered to only 4,199 beneficiaries, hardly 3 per cent of the 1.61 lakh people registered for the second jab on the day. As per government data, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to 18,27,886 people, including nearly 14 lakh people above the age of 45 years. The second jab has been administered to as many as 2,78,989 people in the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cop-villager connect initiative to counter rebels||Jharkhand police have opted for the time-tested initiative of connecting with the community more vigorously to win back the trust of villagers in their offensive against Maoists in the dense forest and hilly terrains of rebel-hit areas. On Wednesday afternoon, Jharkhand director-general of police Niraj Sinha started the community policing initiative at Pilisai police picket in one of the worst rebel-hit areas under Tonto block in Chaibasa subdivision of West Singhbhum district, quite close to the area where three security personnel were killed in an IED blast triggered by suspected Maoists in March this year. “Community policing and bridging the gap between the masses and security forces is the key to gather information and inputs about Maoist movement in the dense forest and treacherous hilly terrains. It had yielded results during the Saranda Action Plan in the 2011-13 in the Saranda forest area. We hope to do the same this time too,” said a senior police official in the special branch unit. Sinha, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was accompanied by senior police officers, including additional director-general of police (special branch) M.L. Meena, CRPF director-general (Jharkhand sector) Maheshwar Dayal and inspector-general of police (operations) Amol V. Homkar, among others. Sinha and Dayal held a discussion with West Singhbhum police and CRPF officials deputed in the district on the strategy to counter the Maoist offensive, especially its strategy to use improvised explosive devices targeting security personnel. “Talks were held on redrawing strategies in the wake of the Chattisgarh incident and also after last month’s incident when three security personnel were killed in an IED blast at Chaibasa. It was decided to win back the confidence of the local villagers which might have taken a beating after the recent IED blast in Chaibasa and news about CRPF jawans being killed and one being taken hostage by Maoists in Chhattisgarh,” said a senior police official deputed in Chaibasa on the condition of anonymity. After the discussion, the senior officers also interacted with CRPF jawans. Thereafter, the DGP and other senior police officers held a meeting with Manki Munda (tribal village heads) and local villagers and learnt about the issues plaguing them. “The villagers opened up to the officers about a litany of problems ranging from drinking water and lack of banking facilities to poor mobile network. The DGP noted down all the grievances aired by the villagers and assured to take up the issues with officials concerned in the administration so that they are addressed promptly,” the police official said. Sinha also distributed 150 jerseys and 10 footballs to tribal youths, 50 dhotis, 50 vests, 50 saris to tribal women, 50 lungis, 60 towels and 100 pairs of slippers. “It is an ongoing process and community policing has always proved to be successful. On the directive of the DGP it will be carried out with new vigour in all rebel-hit areas of the state. The police would try to understand their concern and ameliorate their grievances in the best possible manner through proper execution of developmental programmes of the state government. It is an endeavour to take security and development hand-in-hand,” said R.K. Mallick, additional director-general of police (operations).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
08-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand night curfew till month-end in view of rising Covid cases||The Jharkhand government has decided to impose night curfew in the state from Wednesday till the end of this month in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and attended by state health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh and senior officials of other government departments, including health and disaster management, in Ranchi decided to impose a night curfew between April 8 and 30. “The night curfew would come into effect from 8pm and continue till the morning and start from April 8 for a month. During the night curfew no shops, barring medical shops and other emergencies, would be allowed to be open. More than four persons would not be allowed to be gathered at one spot during this time,” said a notification issued by the state government on Tuesday evening. The night curfew would be in force from 8pm to 6am. School, colleges and coaching institutions will also be closed along with gyms, clubs and parks. For marriage functions, a maximum of 200 people will be allowed on the condition of strictly following Covid-19 norms. This apart, the government has strictly prohibited religious processions and fairs anywhere in the state. “People can gather at religious places but authorities would have to ensure that only 50 per cent of the capacity of the religious places are allowed inside... at any point of time. However, no  religious procession or fairs can be held anywhere in the state,” the notification added. Ram Navami falls on April 21 which witnesses processions by devotees in large numbers across the state. However, students appearing for their board examinations (ICSE, CBSE and state boards) will be allowed to go to their exam centres during this period. Jharkhand registered the largest number of positive cases in a single day on Monday amid the second wave of the coronavirus with 1,086 and as many as 10 deaths. The total number of fatalities has touched 1,140. Ranchi with 37,125 positive cases and East Singhbhum with 19,554 have been the largest contributors in terms of positive cases out of a total number of 1,27,246 cases. The state’s seven-day doubling rate is 126.63 days, a tad more than the national average of 136.20 days. Jharkhand also has a higher recovery rate of 94.52 per cent as against the national average of 92.80 per cent, while it has a mortality rate of 0.88 per cent, much less than the national average of 1.30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
