09-04-2021||Calcutta||Feast with a twist||Sorshe Posto Mangsho (mutton) A perfect afternoon dish which retains the richness of the sorshe-posto bata. Those who like their food hot and spicy may enjoy the burst of flavours of this mutton that may even cause the eyes to water. Ingredients ⦿ Mutton- 1kg ⦿ Black mustard seeds– 100g ⦿ Poppy seeds- 25g ⦿ Green chillies -16 ⦿ Hung curd– 100g ⦿ Onions– three big ones, freshly sliced ⦿ Garlic– 10 cloves, finely sliced ⦿ Salt– to taste ⦿ Bay leaves– 3 ⦿ Dry red chillies– 2 ⦿ Turmeric powder– 2tsp ⦿ Red chilli powder– 2tsp or as required ⦿ Garam masala– 1 tsp ⦿ lSugar– 1tsp ⦿ Mustard oil– as required ⦿ Coriander leaves– for garnishing Method ⦿ Boil mutton in a pressure cooker with adequate water, salt, turmeric powder, ginger and garlic. ⦿ Soak mustard and poppy seeds in hot water for 10 minutes and make a smooth paste with green chillies and salt. ⦿ Heat oil in a pan. ⦿Temper the oil with bay leaves and dry red chillies. ⦿ Add the onions and fry till they turn reddish-brown. Add ginger and garlic till their raw aroma goes. ⦿ Add the hung curd and mix nicely for a few minutes. ⦿ Add the sorshe-posto paste with a little water and mix well again. ⦿ Finally, add the boiled mutton. ⦿ Add salt, sugar, turmeric powder and red chilli powder (optional) to taste. ⦿ Since the mutton is already boiled it will not take much time to get cooked. After it soaks up all the oil add lemon juice, switch off the flame. ⦿ Garnish with coriander leaves. ⦿ Enjoy the steaming dish with rice for lunch. A sweet and spicy snack that can serve as an ideal starter at parties. Ingredients ⦿ Grated paneer- 250g ⦿ Chopped dates- 50g ⦿ Raisins- 50g ⦿ Potatoes (mashed)- 100g ⦿ Ginger (chopped)- 20g ⦿ Green chillies (chopped)- 15g ⦿ Cardamom powder- 2tsp ⦿Khoya (mawa) (grated)- 50g ⦿ Corn powder- as required to taste ⦿ Coriander leaves (chopped)- 2tsp for deep frying ⦿ Oil Method ⦿ Mix all the ingredients except the dates and raisins to make individual balls of koftas. ⦿ Stuff the koftas with the chopped dates and raisins. ⦿ Deep fry the koftas and serve with sauce. See them disappear fast from the plate. Delicious and moist, this cake is bound to fill your mouth with lots of flavours. And it’s simple to make. Ingredients ⦿ Semolina (suji) coarse– 2 cups ⦿ Coconut shredded– 1 cup ⦿ Butter (melted)– ½ cup ⦿ Sugar– ½ cup ⦿ Baking soda-1 tsp ⦿ Yogurt (plain)– 1 cup ⦿ Almond (roasted)– ½ cup For syrup ⦿ Water– 1 cup ⦿ Sugar– 2 cups ⦿ Lemon juice– 1 tsp ⦿ Rosewater (optional)– 1tsp Method ⦿ Mix the suji, coconut, sugar, baking soda and butter in a large bowl. ⦿ Add the yogurt and continue mixing till fully blended. ⦿ Cut diamond or square pieces and add an almond on top of each. ⦿ Grease the baking dish with oil or butter and add the mixture into it. ⦿ Pre-heat the oven to 180° C (or 350°F) and bake for 40 minutes or until the skewer comes out clean. ⦿ While the cake is baking, mix all the ingredients for the syrup and heat on a saucepan in high flame till it boils. ⦿ After the cake is properly baked take it out from the oven and pour the hot syrup over it. ⦿ Let it rest for some time until the syrup is absorbed by the cake. ⦿ Cut the pieces and savour the dessert. Give the traditional sandesh an attractive twist by adding a caramel coat to it. Guests will lap this one up for sure. Ingredients ⦿ Full cream milk- 1l ⦿ Calcium lactate– 2tsp ⦿ Sugar– 6 to 7tsp ⦿ Green cardamom– 4 ⦿ Pistachio (chopped)- 2tsp ⦿ Rose water– 1tsp For the caramel ⦿ Sugar– 1/2cup ⦿ Water– 1/3 cup Method ⦿ To make the chhana, boil milk. Mix calcium lactate in water and add it to the boiling milk and stir. The milk will turn into curd. ⦿ Strain the chhana in a muslin cloth and let it rest for some time. ⦿ Grind the sugar and cardamom into a fine powder. ⦿ Add sugar and rose water into the chhana and mash it till it is smooth and free of lumps. ⦿ Keep the chhana aside and prepare the caramel. ⦿ Put the sugar and water in a pan on high flames. The sugar will start melting and changing its colour. Be careful not to burn the sugar. When it turns golden-brown remove it from the flame. ⦿ Pour the caramel in the pan or baking dish. Add the chhana mixture to it and press lightly. Cover and bake for 25-30 minutes or until the skewer comes out clean. You can also pressure cook it without the vent for five minutes on high flame and then 10 minutes on low flame. When it cools down, de-mould and refrigerate. ⦿ Cut it into desired shape and serve. This is a light summer drink that can serve best as an appetiser. Ingredients ⦿ Gur (jaggery)- 150g ⦿ Lemon- 1 ⦿ Ginger (crushed)- ½ inch ⦿ Fennel seeds (crushed)-1/2 tsp ⦿ Black salt– ½ tsp ⦿ Salt– as per taste ⦿ Black pepper powder– 1 tsp ⦿ Cumin powder (roasted)– 1 tsp ⦿ Mint leaves (chopped)– 2 tsp ⦿ Water (two glasses)- 500ml Method ⦿ Take a bowl, mix the jaggery and water, stir and let it all mix well. ⦿ When the jaggery totally dissolves in water, add lemon juice and grated ginger. ⦿ Then add the remaining spices and the mint leaves and wait for 10 minutes. ⦿ Blend the crude mixture in a blender and strain it. ⦿ Serve the strained sherbet in juice glasses with ice chunks and a lemon slice. Serve chilled. Athrayee Das, a resident of CE Block, New Town, whips up delicacies dipped in Bengali tradition but laced with a trendy touch ahead of Poila Baisakh for you to enjoy at home||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Baisakh on Plate||Sonar Bangla Rangla Punjab Where: Kava-All Day Dining at Fairfield by Marriott When: April 10 to 15 Pocket pinch: Variable from meal to meal and from day to day. The cheapest rate is Rs 1,180 for lunch on Saturday as also from Monday to Wednesday, while the costliest is on Thursday, with both lunch and dinner costing Rs 1,416, all inclusive. Poila Baisakh and Baisakhi will be ushered in together with a special menu curated by guest chef Priyanka M, that draws on the culinary traditions of both states. So right from the appetiser, there are parallel servings of both on the buffet table. If Aam Poda Sharbat comes hand in hand with Masala Lassi as option, Golbari Style Kassa Mangsho in the main course has a variant in Ludhiana Special Cream Chicken. For dinner, it could be Patiala Style Handi Mutton giving company to Dhania Kanchalanka Murgi. There would be rich options for fish lovers and vegetarians too. If for lunch there is Calcutta Style Chicken Biryani, complete with potato, for dinner there would be Wagah Border Chicken Biryani. The desserts too have half a dozen dishes that are combinations like Baked Mihidana with Rabdi and Kesar Pista Phirni. Restospeak: “As Bengal welcomes Baisakh, Punjab is also buzzing with the festive flavours of Baisakhi. So we are bringing a unique food festival with mouth-watering delicacies from both states,” said Priyanka M. “We are not merging the two cuisines in any dish. We are staying true to the flavours of both traditions,” said hotel manager Abhishek Sachdev, pointing out that residents here had an adventurous palette that constantly looked for something new. “That is why we are not serving only Bengali dishes on Poila Baisakh.” Poila Baisakh Culinary Extravaganza Where: X-Spicy, Indismart Hotel, Sector V When: April 15, lunch from noon to 4pm and dinner from 7 to 11pm Pocket pinch: Rs 999, including two pegs of IMFL drinks or two premium beers. The Bengali buffet revisits time-tested favourites like Chingri Malai Curry and Pabda Machher Jhal as well as offers fusion dishes likes Loitya Shutki Salad. “Foodies are always on the lookout for new, experimental dishes but during festivals, they long for a familiar taste. We try to provide both,” says Kaushik Kumar Saha, associate director, food production, Indismart Hotel. So diners will be welcomed with Gandharaj Lebu Mishri Sharbat and Aam Pora Sharbat and starters like Fish Kabiraji with Tomato Kasundi and Chicken Cutlet, cooked in the Anglo Indian style. The Loitya Shutki Salad cooks the de-boned fish with ginger, garlic onions and coriander. The Duck Kosha is also a newbie on the menu, inspired by Santhali cuisine. “This dish takes at least an hour to cook and this is besides the dressing and paraphernalia,” says Saha. Also try the Stuffed Karela. Bitter as it may sound, the gourd is first deseeded and boiled in salt and turmeric. “This removes the strong bitter taste and retains only a mild and flavourful one. The gourd is then cooked in a gravy that will leave diners asking for more,” he says. If there’s one dish every Poila Baisakh at Indismart must have, it is their signature Kosha Mangso with Luchi. “To perfect this dish we have tasted Kosha Mangsho across the state, learnt from them and added our own zing. It has become very popular among customers,” Saha says. For dessert, there is Rajbhog, Baked Mishti Doi and Jungle Rice Payesh, cooked with unpolished rice that lends a taste quite different from the one city folk are used to. Restospeak: “In the pre-Covid days, Poila Baisakh used to be a busy time for us and we are expecting good response this year too,” says Biswarup Biswas, group general manager, Indismart Hotel. This he anticipates as their recent pork festival and New Year’s eve bash were both lapped up by foodies. “Still, to maintain Covid safety, we are providing home delivery of the dishes in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat free of cost.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Getting the shot in groups||In a bid to get more people vaccinated faster, various bodies have started arranging for large groups of people to be inoculated, now that the 45-plus age group can avail of the facility. One such was Purbachal’s St Francis Xavier School, that ferried almost 30 of its staff members, by school bus, to Apollo Clinic at City Centre on Tuesday. “Our teaches have been working so hard through the pandemic, teaching online despite network issues and checking papers on tiny phone screens without a complaint. This was the least we could do for them,” says the school’s secretary and administrator, Ajay Chopra. Out of the eligible candidates, a few backed out as they had already taken their shot, had previous health issues or decided to skip as they had invigilation duty for ISC practical exams the next day. In case they got fever after the jab, these teachers would not have been able to come to invigilate. The charges for the jab, as well as the second one a month later, are being borne by the school. It’s not just education or corporate sector employees that are being offered jabs in bulk. An NGO is ferrying some 100 slum-dwellers of Duttabad for the purpose too. “The idea came from my daughter (actress) Ritabhari (Chakraborty) and her friend Rahul Dasgupta,” says Satarupa Sanyal, film director and president of the NGO Scud Society for Social Communication. “I had my doubts, since government hospitals were already providing the jab free of cost but then I learnt that many in the urban poor community were refusing jabs. But they are highly vulnerable to Covid as they are going to work and could spread the virus too,” says Sanyal, a resident of BC Block. ILS Hospitals agreed to host the initiative and the legwork was done by Sharmistha Mukherjee, a resident of DB Block and a friend of Sanyal’s. “Our target was to inoculate the oldest and physically challenged residents first but they were suspicious of the vaccine and of government hospitals. It was only when we ferried them by car and made them rest at an air-conditioned waiting room at the hospital that they gained some trust,” says Mukherjee. And of course, the mood lightened when Ritabhari dropped by and interacted with everyone. When some women were refusing to take the jab in the last minute, Mukherjee herself took a shot to motivate them. “I have had a brain tumour and my doctors had asked me not to take the Covid vaccine just yet. But these slum dwellers’ need was greater than mine so I took the plunge,” she said. The first leg of the initiative took place last week — with 30 residents getting the jab — and the rest will follow in the days to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Supply woe for jab sites||Hospitals have been so swamped with registrations since the Covid vaccine became available to those aged 45 years and above, that at least two in our vicinity had to suspend the drive for a day as they ran out of vials. “Initially we couldn’t start giving vaccination in full strength to the 45-plus age group. In fact, we had to suspend vaccination for an entire day as we could not acquire vaccines,” said Ranjika Chattopadhyay, Covid Vaccine Centre Officer at Daffodil Hospital. They received the vaccines only at night and resumed the drive the next morning. “In the initial days, we vaccinated 160-180 people. Now we are vaccinating almost 250-300 people per day but supply is a recurring problem.” ILS Hospitals Salt Lake is suffering from the same problem. “We have been facing supply shortage even before the 45-plus age group announcement was made,” said an official in charge of vaccination. “Despite making advance payments for the vaccines, supply from Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital has been delayed right from the second week of March. Vaccinations have had to be kept on hold for several hours at a stretch on such days.” The hospital then started sourcing vaccines from the Barasat District Hospital. The Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and the Reckjoani Health Centre in Rajarhat allot supply units to most vaccination centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. In times of crisis, hospitals can also try other nearby centres like Barasat District Hospital. Usually most vaccination centres pick up 10-12 vials per day from a government supply centre and each vial accounts for 10 jabs or a maximum of 11 jabs. However, the ground rule is that once a vial is opened it has to be finished within an hour, from the time it is opened. As of now, Ohio Hospital in New Town is vaccinating 120 people per day while Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, is vaccinating 80-85 people per day. The Apollo Clinic at City Centre is vaccinating 320 people daily while ILS Hospitals Salt Lake is vaccinating 250-280 people a day. Gopal Mukhopadhyay of Apollo Clinic at City Centre said: “There is growing concern about the supply of vaccines. It is quite erratic at Salt Lake Subdivisional Hospital. Sometimes we have smooth supply for a few weeks followed by alternate days of limited supply. At such times, we have to request customers to return the next day.” A lot of people, he said, had been visiting their clinic in an attempt to avoid queues at hospitals. “Also, we have a loyal set of customers who keep coming here for doctor consultations and so ours is a familiar setting for them,” said Mukhopadhyay. Eager for jab Predictably, there is a surge during the weekend for vaccines while weekdays usually record low footfall. Most people are booking slots through the Aarogya Setu app or the Co-Win portal, and spot registrations are also being conducted in large numbers, provided people are carrying their Aadhaar cards along. “Initially I was apprehensive about the jab. I wanted to wait and watch,” said Anjali Mukherjee, a resident of AC Block. “But now that many are getting infected during the second wave, I didn’t want to risk it. My parents got vaccinated last month, while my husband and I got our first dose over the weekend at Ohio Hospital.” Residents have also benefited from the government notification announcing that vaccinations should not be suspended over holidays and weekends. “It was impossible for me to get vaccinated during the 9am-4pm slot on weekdays. But now I can get vaccinated on a Sunday. It would also help if the timings were extended till 9pm on weekdays so people could get their jabs on their way back from work,” said Smritika Michaels, a resident of BD Block in New Town. Shortage at source Superintendant of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Partha Pratim Guha admits to shortage. “Our hospital is not short of vaccine but we act as the cold chain point for several other hospitals — ILS, Calcutta Heart Clinic & Hospital Society, Parkview Super Speciality Hospital, Techno India Dama, Amri, Matri Sadan etc. If we receive less vials, we are unable to pass on adequate supply to the hospitals which depend on us,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Up to 300 people are being turned away a day at some hospitals due to a shortage in vaccine, he says. This acute shortage, he adds, began after the 45-plus age group got allowed to avail the facility. The Centre has also allowed vaccination sessions at workplaces but the authorities have no idea where the extra supply will come from. “There was another confusion recently when they asked us to stop giving first doses of Covaxin due to shortage. So we reduced the days on which Covaxin would be given from three to two. But another notice some days later said that there was no shortage but that less Covaxin were being supplied due to less demand. They asked us to resume first doses of Covaxin but how can we when supply is so erratic?” asks Guha. Supply of Covishield is unreliable too. The Co-Win portal too acts up now and then. If a hospital is unable to access it, patients have to be sent home without jabs. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress’ Abhisek banks on IT background||The name Abhisek Banerjee featuring in the poll fray draws a smile because of the heavyweight namesake in Trinamul Congress. But the Left Front-supported Congress candidate in Bidhannagar refuses to accept that the recall value is an advantage. “He (Trinamul’s Abhishek) has no identity of his own. I am an information technologist and a self-made man,” he declares, dismissing parallels with the chief minister’s nephew. An election debutant, Banerjee has quit his IT job to try his luck at the hustings. “It was one of my father’s last wishes. He passed away in January. He used to say: ‘You cannot play cricket from the commentary box.’” He believes he has the credentials to get another job if things do not work according to plan. Banerjee is aware that the BJP’s rise has had to do with the failure of Left Front to retain their vote share. But he refuses to call them Left Front supporters. “Only the five to seven per cent party card-holders can be called committed supporters. The rest are floating voters who switch their loyalty according to the election context.” He refuses to believe that the Bidhannagar seat will be a two-way fight between the TMC and the BJP. “If the educated electorate is lamenting about the uneducated running the administration, voters will not be honest to their feelings if despite having an educated candidate in the fray, they base their choice on their assumption of who will win rather than who is deserving.” As his party’s local IT cell head, he is adept at coining catchy slogans — Sikshitora pele pawd, jochchoreder hobe bipod or Chit fund-o shilpo hetha, shilpo telebhaja/ Didi Modi-r nokol swarge manush pachchhe saja. Even his party’s theme song for the election is composed by him. His biggest connect with the voters of Bidhannagar, he feels, would be his academic background, value system and culture. “Amake tolabaji kore khete hoy na,” he says acidly. The Congress candiate challenges the BJP to prepare a mock cabinet of ministers from the candidates they have fielded. “They simply do not have efficient people to run the state even if they win.” Even the ruling party, he points out, has mostly fielded pure politicians or people from the show business. As an IT professional, he wonders why a good start-up like Byju’s has not come out of Bengal. “Before every election, we are shown Wipro and Infosys like the proverbial crocodile hatchlings. I know how to nurture offshore development of foreign banks or incubation centres or start-ups.” Banerjee also has some ideas about starting a bike ambulance service, introducing cantilever parking in every block where space can be booked through an app and hawker rehabilitation. “Rome wasn’t built in a day but at least I have a building plan,” he signs off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘This vote is a walkover for me’||Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and MLA of Rajarhat New Town, switched loyalities from Trinamul Congress in 2019 and is now contesting for the first time from the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency on a BJP ticket. The flamboyant politician faces The Telegraph Salt Lake at his party’s imposing office in CF Block. Here are snatches from the conversation: ⦿ This vote is a walkover (for me). In the Lok Sabha election (in 2019), there was a five to seven per cent vote swing because of (Narendra) Modiji’s personal image. There was no alternative to him. People wanted a stable government. This time, the issues are local. He (Sujit Bose) is vice-chairman (of South Dum Dum Municipality), has done work, legal or illegal, and has pulled off stunts like “sonar thakur” (referring to the gold ornaments on the idol at Sreebhumi Sporting Club Durga puja). He is a minister of two departments and a three-time MLA. But there is no fight. It will be a mock fight. ⦿ He might have spent from his local area development fund as MLA. I too was an MLA for 10 years. I spent on ambulance and hearse. He built AC bus stands. Hoy toh ogulo manusher jonyei baniyechhilen. Kintu Lake Town-er more ey dekhlam ekjon pagli okhane ghor baniye shuye achhe (laughs derisively). There is no plan. Yes, he did plan out his hoarding campaign. Round the year, birth to death, morning to night, everything is highlighted in photographs. ⦿ After he (Bose) lost twice, when the 2009 byelections came following the death of Subhasbabu (Chakraborty, the Left Front minister and local MLA), the current chief minister, who was then the Opposition leader, called both of us. “Ekhon Sujit dnarak, 2011-y tui dnarabi”, she told me. But in 2011, no one wanted to contest in New Town. People were scared of the Left Front candidate. She told me: “Jodi jeettey hoy, okhane unnayan korte hoy, tui ekmatro jeetbi, ar keu parbe na.” She had that faith in me and I could prove myself worthy of that faith. BJP too has faith in me for this seat. I am happy to represent the locality where I reside. Ghorer chhele ghore phirlo. ⦿ Duare Sarkar er hoarding lagiyechhe ar BJP-r duare ‘niye nao’ bole bhikkhe korechhe. At 5am, he went to the airport, at 11pm he went to JW Marriott (to meet the BJP leadership). It is a national party. It is not easy to enter. He has lost confidence. How will he compete? The commander-in-chief has surrendered. How will his soldiers fight? ⦿ Mriganka Bhattacharya (a  councillor from Kalindi) has joined us (from Trinamul). Devasish Jana has joined. Bhalo chhele. Swati Banerjee (TMC’s Ward 5 councillor who had joined BJP but quit within days) eleni ba kyano, geleni ba kyano uni janen. BJP did not request anyone to come. She had applied to join the party unconditionally, in writing. Three days later, she went back to TMC. Many of my old party colleagues are contacting me in the dead of night on WhatsApp or Facebook (smiles). Even my secretary is getting messages saying that they are with me or being handed dhagas or prasad. But BJP does not accommodate everyone. The party will see what they want to come for. Ayaram, gayaram. I am having fun watching this. ⦿ Drinking water is a problem in Ward 19 and 32 of South Dum Dum Municipality. There are no councillors in five wards for almost four years. There has been no election! ⦿ I decorated Salt Lake during the Fifa Under-17 World Cup. I removed encroachers from Central Park. He (Bose) resettled them beside Okakura Bhavan. They are Bangladeshis. People of Salt Lake had wanted the pavements to be for pedestrians. I had achieved that then. A hawking zone near Karunamoyee would take care of the encroachment problem. ⦿ By June 2, 2021, a month of the election result, I will ensure running water (in south Dum Dum). I will improve drainage under the bridge in Jessore Road, where water stagnates after a shower. I also want to create a masterplan for the people of Duttabad, the original settlers of Salt Lake. Duttabad was under Ward 25 of South Dum Dum Municipality along with Dakshindari, from where Sujit became a councillor for the first time in the mid 80s. Many of them have ownership documents for the land. These are freehold land, not leasehold. Salt Lake is shining, but Duttabad remains the darkness under the lamp. Residents there remain the supply point for political rallies for regime after regime. ⦿ I was not aware that there are so many thieves in the 10 wards on the other side (under South Dum Dum Municipality)! They are so prompt about removing my flags and hoardings that they vanish within two-three hours of being put up. I staged a sit-in on the street to protest against this. ⦿ It is not possible to supply masks. We start a rally with 200-300 people, end with 2,000. How many people will I give masks to? The rallies of Modiji or Amit (Shah)ji draw 10-12 lakh people. There will be a stampede if masks are to be distributed there. ⦿ I watch south Indian films on TV dubbed in Hindi over dinner when I return home after midnight. That’s my relaxation. (Actor) Ravi Kishenji had come to campaign for me. It was a smash hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Polls 2021: ‘My trump card is the work I have done’||It may be election time but Sujit Bose’s office on the ground floor of his Sreebhumi residence is full of ordinary citizens who have very day-to-day issues to be sorted. The sitting MLA and Trinamul Congress candidate seeking re-election has just returned from the day’s first leg of campaigning at lunchtime but lunch is far away, what with the steady flow of visitors. Someone wants help with admission to Bidhannagar Government High School, someone complains about payment being stuck in red tape while another needs help with hospital admission. Bose deals with each case, issuing relevant instructions to his office assistants when needed, and finally turns to take questions from The Telegraph Salt Lake. Your competitor Sabyasachi Dutta thinks it is a walkover. He needs to know what walkover means. Being a former cricketer and footballer, I do. You get a walkover when your opponent does not turn up for the match. Here I am very much present! Would you say it is the toughest contest you have faced? I have fought against Subhas Chakraborty too. I do not think about who I am contesting against. Will this be a Narendra Modi versus Mamata Banerjee fight? Assembly election is about the candidate, whether he has delivered in his last term. I have devoted 18 of 24 hours in a day to serving people. You are seeing what I stay busy with. In his four years as mayor, he (Dutta) could not prepare a single DPR (detailed project report). All that he has done is build a separate lift in Poura Bhavan for the mayor. We prefer to be with people. Obviously he does not. Residents could not get a trade licence or a mutation certificate. Even residents of his constituency come to me to get documents signed as their MLA is beyond access. What is your trump card? My work. (He produces a 62-page booklet that lists out the work done in his tenure and the amount allotted by him from his fund for each project over 10 years). The water treatment plant project got stuck when he (Dutta) left. I managed to fast track the project. It got inaugurated in Salt Lake before the Pujas. For long, the roads were crying for repair. He escaped without doing anything. I had to get involved in Corporation matters. Now repairs are being done across Salt Lake. He was bent on giving the contract to install LED lights to a private firm of his choice. There were regular debates on this in the mayor-in-council meetings. The matter reached Nabanna and the tender was found to be faulty and scrapped. Now the same job is being done across Salt Lake through the government’s own Webel at a fraction of the cost his chosen firm had quoted. In South Dum Dum, we are doing a big water supply project. A Rs 285 crore water treatment plant is coming up in Bangur Avenue. It will produce 15MGD (million gallons per day) water. An intake jetty is being built in Kamarhati from where water from the Hooghly will be pumped in over a 13km pipeline to be filtered and distributed in south Dum Dum. This will take care of the area’s water requirement for the next 20-25 years. It got delayed by the lockdown. I expect it to be ready by the year-end. That created a lot of controversy. Yes, they did their best to derail the project, went to court and what not. What was filled up were ditches of dirty water. We increased greenery and ensured proper drainage. Both sides of the Kestopur canal — Lake Town and Salt Lake — were renovated for 2km. A Bailey bridge now connects the two sides. Your rival is talking of a banquet hall being developed … What do (building materials) Syndicate leaders know of development work? Bhojai (Samir) Sardar and Sabyasachi Dutta are Syndicate leaders. Both are contesting this election. Ora eent-bali-chun-surkir jonno thik achhey. I have worked to develop hospital, school, college, playgrounds… This booklet will tell you at a glance what all I have done. Ask him to fill up a single page with his work. He will fail. I have built the clock tower, rehabilitated people from Duttabad displaced by (East West) Metro… Apparently they have still not got possession papers… It is under process. They have been given the keys to the apartments. They have all got possession. Railways delayed the paperwork. I spoke to KMDA yesterday. The department secretary said it is ready. They will get it after the election. We are giving patta to people in slums. We have done so in Dakshindari, Patipukur and Lalkuthi. It is a great decision by the chief minister to give possession to people who are occupying government land for many years. We will give it in Duttabad also. As far as I know, all the land there belongs to the urban development department. If anyone can prove individual ownership, we are not going to snatch away his land. Even he will get possession and get a house built under our Banglar Bari scheme. He (Dutta) did not even give water to Duttabad while he was mayor. In fact, he had opposed water connection. I arranged for the supply. Jedin Duttabad ey mic dhorbo, sedin shob bujhie debo. He had removed hawkers from Salt Lake. Our government has a policy. If we evict hawkers, we will rehabilitate them. Mamata Banerjee does not snatch livelihood of poor people. Sabyasachi Dutta does not evict hawkers in BF-CF Block but does so elsewhere. Does he know how many poor people from Mahisbathan, Polenite or Nayapatty earn a living from hawking in Sector V? I am their committee chairman. Stalls are being built for them. These poor people provide cheap food to the 50-60,000 people who come to work in Sector V. Jibone ekta eent gnatheni. He has not done a single thing in his mayorship. Dutta is blaming you for resettling people evicted from Central Park next to Okakura Bhavan. He is saying they are Bangladeshis. When they were evicted to make  space for the Book Fair, they were resettled on land owned by the urban development department. The police checked their voter ID card. Only those who had documents were resettled. O bolbe, or matha cholchhe na. Hotasha theke eshob bolchhe. Are you worried about the BJP support base among the Hindi-speaking voters? To me, all voters are same. I do not distinguish. I talk only of my work. Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital has developed in front of your eyes. Just as the health department has sanctioned funds for it, so has the MLA. I gave almost Rs 30 lakh there. I had written to the government for fair price medicine shop, ICCU and blood bank there. All three have opened. Dialysis unit is coming up. Are you worried about the lead BJP got from this Assembly segment in 2019? The Lok Sabha elections are a different ball game. In the Assembly election, people want the Mamata Banerjee government to continue in office. They will see how much work Sujit Bose has done. Many of your party colleagues shifted allegiance to BJP recently. Doler shob Bibhishon chhilo. Dosh bochhor sorkar er shob sujog niyechhe, tarpor paliyechhe. Du ekjon dol-ey thekeo kshoti korechhe. They harmed us even in the 2016 election from inside. I know how they did so. I want peaceful, free and fair election. Bhojai Sardar is also contesting. People know what his background is. He stands as independent candidate every time Sabyasachi contests. I do not want an election conducted by Bhojai Sardar. Dutta is claiming you tried to join BJP and met the leadership twice. Who is he that I have to counter him? Not everyone has sold their spine like he has. I have some ideology. Have mad dogs bitten me? I am a minister in the government. I am trusted by the chief minister. Politically I am senior to him. Top people in the world of sports and culture nationally know me. Diego Maradona came to inaugurate his own statue here. Let him say what he wants. The answer will come in the ballot box.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Ground floor must for all polling stations||This year, all polling stations will have to be on the ground floor. While there were no polling stations on higher floors in Rajarhat New Town, there were 31 first floor stations in Bidhannagar. “We are trying to relocate them to the ground floor of the same structure, failing which, we are booking the nearest government premise. But if no such option is available, temporary structures are having to be built,” said Arnab Saha, the officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency and the returning officer for the Rajarhat Gopalpur constituency. The booths in Gyan Mancha, on the first floor of Purbachal market, for instance, will be shifted to temporary structures that have come up at the ground level and on the playground. A booth in St Francis Xavier School too will be shifted to the Purbachal Cluster VIII community hall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: 80-plus to cast poll at home from Saturday||Voters aged above 80 will for the first time get the chance to vote at home. Between April 10 and 14, a polling team will visit those who have applied for the facility to get them to cast their vote on postal ballot. The same privilege will be accorded to those who have submitted the relevant form with a medical certificate, proving them to have more than 40 per cent disability. “A team will visit the voter at home. It will have two polling personnel, a videographer, a police official and a member of the Central Armed Police Force. Since the list will be made available to the candidates, they have the right to send their agents as well,” said Arnab Saha, the officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency and the returning officer for the Rajarhat Gopalpur constituency. In Covid situation, if a voter does not want so many people to enter the room, the polling may happen in the verandah or courtyard of the house. “The voter will put a tick mark against the candidate of his choice on the postal ballot, fold it and put it in the ballot box. The whole process, except the choice of the candidate will be videographed to maintain transparency, as postal ballots are a sensitive matter,” he said. The Bidhannagar constituency has about 9,000 candidates eligible  for this facility, including 354 persons with disabilities. Of them, a total of 1,128 voters, including 13 with disabilities, have opted to cast their votes at home. In Rajarhat New Town, the figure voting at home is 569. “Of voters who are eligible for this new facility, most are preferring to come to the polling stations. We did a super-checking of a 10 per cent sample to cross-check whether the booth level officials had indeed approached them with the offer. They said they take this as an occasion to meet neighbours and socialise. Barely 10 to 12 per cent took up the offer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Safe house to reopen||The Covid safe house in New Town’s Action Area 2, near Tank 12, that had been shut due to lack of inmates and turned into a Covid vaccination centre, will be converted back to a safe house, said NKDA chief Debashis Sen on Wednesday. “We are taking this measure as Covid cases are rising again and we have to prepare for emergencies,” he said. The vaccination centre  above CB Market will continue and a second one will start near Pride Hotel. “A banquet hall is being built in the Pride Hotel campus at the ground floor level, next to the bus terminus. We will temporarily turn that into an immunisation centre,” he said. “While the Covid safety protocol remains the same, we are once again emphasising on them at popular spots like Eco Park, Eco Urban Village and Cafe Ekante. In the same spirit, people are encouraged to avoid public transport when possible and walk or use cycles and e-cycles to commute,” he said. The offices of Hidco and NKDA will operate with 50 per cent staff attendance from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||NKDA-crowned New Town blocks & complexes pad up for Covid war||Another wave of Covid is spreading and cases are on the rise. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to three model blocks and housing complexes each from New Town to learn how they plan to tackle the situation. The chosen associations are toppers in a contest organised by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), that ranked them on the basis of criteria such as Covid awareness, cleanliness and eco-friendly steps. The contest begun in October last year and the results were announced on March 31. “Our intention is to build a friendly, healthy and sustainable township but for that we need the support of the residents,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of NKDA. The second edition of the contest has begun — from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Here is what the winners of the maiden edition had to say — Gated communities Rank: First Complex: Uniworld City Prize money: Rs 25,000 Their effort: “We are an 18-month-old association so there was a lot to do from scratch. Besides greenery and cleanliness, we took multiple steps to segregate our waste,” said vice-president Bimal Kumar Sarkar. Covid precautions then: Even before the lockdown they had stopped their senior citizens from going out. A team of volunteers delivered essential items to them. They arranged vegetable, fruit and meat vendors to come and sell inside the complex so residents would not have to step out. Active Covid cases: Two families Covid precautions now: “We are taking steps as per the demand of the situation,” said Sarkar. “We have installed hand-washing facilities and kept sanitisers under every tower.” Rank: Second Complex: Sunrise Point Prize money: Rs15, 000 Their effort: “We have a lot of greenery. We also reduced the use of plastic bags and installed solar panels. We plan to implement solid waste segregation this year,” said secretary Gobinda Biswas. Covid precautions then: They had built a team to reach supplies to the doorsteps of senior citizens. They also provided their security guards with six months’ worth of kitchen supplies so they could stay in the complex. Active Covid cases: Two Covid precautions now: “We have kept aside a lift exclusively for domestic helps as they come from outside and could spread the virus,” said Biswas. Rank: Third Complex: Alaktika Prize money: Rs 10,000 Their effort: “We are planning to install solar panels and will invest more in rain water harvesting,” said joint secretary Arabindo Adhikary. Covid precautions then: They were particular about sanitisation and temperature check at their gates and replaced stage events during the Pujas with online ones. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: “We are tightening rules again, especially about compulsory sanitisation and mask-wearing at the gates,” said Adhikary. “We have also kept an oxygen cylinder on standby for emergency.” Blocks Rank: First Block: BA Prize money: Rs 25, 000 Their effort: “We push residents to give up plastic, plant trees annually and keep our locality clean,” said secretary Prabir Mazumder. Covid precautions then: They helped the needy in the block with food and sanitary kit and followed up with Covid positive cases in their area. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: Though awareness has increased, they are still trying to take appropriate steps, asking residents to strictly maintain the social distancing norms and wear masks. Rank: Second Block: BE Prize money: Rs 15,000 Their effort: Senior citizens of the block water the plants themselves in their green verge, said secretary Pulok Dey. “We are now turning the focus to our areas of weakness so we can do even better next time.” Covid precautions then: They started sanitising the block twice a week from May 17, 2020 and have still kept up the practice. They also organised a blood donation camp. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: A month back they were thinking of  stopping the sanitisation but since cases are rising again, they have decided to continue. The block committee is urging both residents and domestic helps to take the vaccine. Rank: Third Block: BD Prize money: Rs 10, 000 Their effort: “We stressed on cleanliness, greenery, plastic control and dengue awareness. We went around asking nearby shops to stop using plastic bags and gave out eco-friendly bags instead,” said Partha Sarathi Adak of the committee. Covid precautions then: The association distributed food and health kit to the needy and was on call whenever residents needed anything. Covid precautions now: They have cancelled Poila Baisakh and Rabindrajayanti programmes this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: What you need to know before stepping out on poll day||Parts of Calcutta will vote in the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday. A ready reckoner of things one needs to know before stepping out of home on the polling day. ⚫ Some of the constituencies going to the polls: Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Behala East, Behala West and  Metiabruz ⚫ Voting starts at: 7am ⚫ Voting ends at: Officially 6.30pm. Voters who queue up outside their polling booth before 6.30pm will be allowed to cast their vote, however long it takes to complete the process. ⚫ Will there be any restrictions in areas going to the polls? Yes. Usually, Section 144 of the CrPC is imposed on the area that falls within 100 metres of a polling booth. In case of a sensitive booth, the radius is extended to 200 metres. Police are supposed to prevent assemblies in areas close to polling booths. ⚫ Will there be any restrictions in areas adjoining the constituencies that are going to the polls? No, except restrictions on sale of liquor. ⚫ Dry day restrictions: Liquor shops in Assembly constituencies going to the polls and the ones in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed from 6.30pm on Thursday till the end of voting on Saturday. According to orders issued by the state excise department, all categories of retail excise licensed premises shall remain closed in the Kasba, Behala Paschim, Metiabruz, Rashbehari, Calcutta Port and Ballygunge Assembly constituencies from 6.30pm on Thursday till the end of elections on April 10. Restaurants that are licensed to serve liquor may remain open but will not be able to serve liquor during this period. ⚫ How much cash can I carry if I have to travel through or near a constituency going to the polls? Carrying up to Rs 50,000 is permissible. Any amount more than that will need to be explained with documents, citing the source and destination of the money. If the person fails to explain the source and destination of the cash, the police will seize the money and may refer the case to the income tax department. If someone is caught by the police carrying more than Rs 10 lakh, it is mandatory to inform the IT department. The department will initiate a probe into the ownership of the cash. ⚫ Is there any restriction on carrying jewellery? No. But if the police spot anyone carrying more than 1kg jewellery, they have to refer the matter to the income tax department. ⚫ Will public transport be available in and around the areas going to the polls? Sources in the transport department said fewer vehicles would be available because many had been requisitioned for the elections. ⚫ Do I need to carry any identity document while travelling through a constituency where elections will be held or adjoining areas? As outsiders are not allowed in areas where elections are held, one should ideally carry an identity proof when traveling through such areas. ⚫ What documents do I need to carry while going to the polling station? The voter will have to present the electoral photo identity card (EPIC) or any of the following identity documents: ⚫ Aadhaar card ⚫ Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) Job Card ⚫ Passbooks with photograph issued by banks/post office ⚫ Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of ministry of labour ⚫Driving licence ⚫ PAN card ⚫ Smart card issued by registrar general of India (RGI) under National Population Register (NPR) ⚫ Indian passport ⚫ Pension document with photograph ⚫ Service Identity Cards with photograph issued to employees by central/state government/PSUs/public limited companies ⚫ Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs ⚫ Is there any restriction on going to vote in groups? People going to vote in large groups may be questioned as large gatherings are not allowed in a zone where Section 144 of the CrPC is in force. It is better not to go in large groups unless they are members of the same family. ⚫ Will there be any restriction in parking outside the polling booth? No vehicle will be allowed within a radius of 200 metre of any polling station. ⚫ Can an umbrella and a water bottle be carried to the polling booth? Yes ⚫ Where to report if I feel intimidated by someone while going to vote? One can call up the Election Commission of India (ECI) or the police helpline numbers to report issues related to the elections. ⚫ ECI helpline:1950 In the Calcutta police area: Lalbazar control room — 033-22143230 /033-22141310||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Call to EC to focus on Covid protocols||Several health experts on Thursday expressed concern that the Covid protocols had not been made part of the election code of conduct despite a steep rise in the number of people testing positive for the disease in Bengal. The authorities need to keep in mind that the Assembly elections are being held under unusual circumstances, the experts said. “It’s a tightrope walk which has to be handled carefully. But what we are seeing is that everyone is expressing concern about gatherings and lack of Covid hygiene but no one is doing anything in practice. This applies to the election commission, political parties and all others concerned,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “We fear that the lack of health discipline will create a severe healthcare and livelihood crisis in the next 15 days. There will be a crisis of hospital beds as many people will get infected.” Chowdhury said the situation could have been avoided. “We maintained discipline and still enjoyed the festival of Durga Puja. But now it seems we have forgotten all rationality. It’s the responsibility of the election commission to prevent violence and troubles before, during and after the polls. But it is also the EC's responsibility to ensure Covid protocols are followed,” said Chowdhury. The poll panel issues notices to parties and candidates for violating the code of conduct. “Why can’t it issue similar notices for violation of the Covid-appropriate behaviour? With the help of police and other agencies, the EC is trying to maintain law and order. Why isn’t it using the same forces to ensure the Covid protocols are followed?” asked Chowdhury. Intensive care expert Sauren Panja said the poll panel should have ordered more restrictions on gatherings at election rallies. “The EC, along with focusing on law and order, must see to it that everyone wears a mask and follows the distancing protocol, and also proper sanitisation is carried out,” Panja said. “Many elderly people with comorbidities, who are vulnerable despite being vaccinated, are not going out much. But they will go to vote and their safety should not be compromised. If required, separate queues should be formed based on age groups.” The pattern of the spread of the virus during the ongoing second wave of infection shows that the SARS-CoV 2 in circulation is more virulent than the one prevalent during the first wave last year, Panja said. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,819 to 16,109 on Thursday. The state recorded 2,783 new infections and 957 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: 44 constituencies will go to polls on Saturday||Kasba and Jadavpur are among the 44 constituencies that will go to the polls in the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday (April 10), the campaigning for which ended at 6.30pm on Thursday. The key contenders in Jadavpur are Debabrata Majumdar of Trinamul, Sujan Chakraborty of the Sanyukta Morcha and Rinku Naskar of the BJP. In Kasba, the contest is among Javed Khan of Trinamul, Shatarup Ghosh of the Sanyukta Morcha and Indranil Khan of the BJP. Metro asked voters of the two constituencies about the issues uppermost on their minds. Communal harmony Eighteen-year-old Tania Das, a resident of Jadavapur’s Chittaranjan Colony, is in the first year of college. She feels her career is bound to be affected if there is communal strife. “For me the most important issue in this election is whether we will have communal harmony in our society. If there is a fight between communities, development and jobs will become secondary. A society can progress only if people live in harmony,” Tania said, her mother Shefali nodding in approval. Schoolteacher Surya Subha Banerjee, a resident of Garia (a part of which falls in the Jadavpur constituency), echoed Tania’s concern. “Never before was there a competition between leaders to prove who is a better Hindu. The BJP is polarising society with the aim to garner Hindu votes. To counter that, Mamata Banerjee is chanting puja mantras at every rally. Where are we heading?” he asked. Price rise Guria Balmiki, 27, and her neighbour Maya Debi, 42, are worried over how to run their households amid rising prices of essential food items and LPG cylinders. Guria’s husband pulls a rickshaw-van for a living, while Maya’s husband runs a tea stall. “We are poor. We find it very difficult when prices of vegetables and other essential food items rise sharply. The rise in the cooking gas price is particularly difficult for us to deal with,” said Guria, a resident of Jadavpur’s Kamarpara. Mousumi Bhatta, 43, a resident of Kasba’s Yogendra Gardens, too, said the rise in the LPG price is a major problem they are dealing with. “We use LPG frugally so a cylinder lasts a month,” said Mousumi, who runs a medicine store with her husband. Beyond freebies Schoolteacher Banerjee said he was surprised that none of the parties was talking about the infrastructure they would create and the investments they would bring. “One party is saying they will give Rs 500 to every person every month if they come to power. Another is saying they will give Rs 3,000 every month to a few communities. But do such payments help anyone?” asked Banerjee. Needed: jobs Babu Das, a resident of Baghajatin (part of Jadavpur) who has five mouths to feed, said: “I work in a garment store. There are very few job options, so I have to accept whatever I am paid. I could have earned more if there were enough jobs around,” he said. Prabal Ray, a doctor, echoed him: “My daughter works in Mumbai. Beyond a level, there are no jobs in the city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Poll caravan rolls into city||Union minister and the BJP candidate for Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo, wrapped up his campaign on Thursday in a road show where he trained all his guns on the outgoing Trinamul MLA from the constituency, Aroop Biswas. Trinamul’s Biswas barely spent a minute on Supriyo in his last street corner meeting. He spent most of his time appealing to CPM supporters to vote for Mamata Banerjee if they wanted an inclusive and peaceful Bengal. The results of the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 general elections show the CPM still commands a sizable support base in Tollygunge, which goes to the polls on April 10. “There are many Left supporters who are still dedicated, who have not sold their souls to the BJP. I have a lot of respect for them. They write slogans against me every day. I don’t mind. I appeal to honest CPM voters that if you really want a free and peaceful Bengal, an inclusive Bengal without discrimination, please vote for Mamata Banerjee,” Biswas said at a street corner meeting beside the Azadgarh market. Azadgarh and neighbouring areas like Tilak Nagar and Bjioygarh used to be known as refugee colonies and were CPM bastions till a decade ago. Biswas acknowledged that many traditional Left supporters still lived in the area, saying he felt “sad that the CPM cannot find a local candidate against me”. Actor Debdut Ghosh, a Dum Dum resident, is the CPM candidate from the Sanyukta Morcha in Tollygunge. In 2016, it was Madhuja Sen Roy, a resident of Jhargram. “The people of the state are in trouble because of the TMC and the BJP. They will vote for our alliance,” said Ghosh. “Can any Trinamul worker say with certainty that their leaders will not join the BJP.” At the heart of Biswas’s appeal to Left voters is poll arithmetic. In 2016, Biswas had polled around 90,500 votes, which translated to a vote share of nearly 47 per cent. He was trailed by Madhuja Sen Roy, who polled some 81,000 votes or a 42 per cent vote share. The BJP candidate, Mohan Rao, had secured a little less than 15,000 votes or an 8 per cent of the vote share. In the 2019 general election, Trinamul’s Mimi Chakraborty led in the Tollygunge Assembly segment — which is a part of the Jadavpur Lok Sabha seat — with around 78,000 votes. The CPM’s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya trailed her with around 59,000 votes. The BJP’s Anupam Hazra got around 46,000 votes. “There was a pro-Modi wave before the Lok Sabha polls because of the Pulwama incident. That was behind the rise in the BJP’s vote share. There seems to be no such wave this time. So, even if a section of the dedicated CPM supporters votes for us, Aroop-da’s margin will go up many times from 2016,” said a local Trinamul leader. On Thursday, Biswas and several speakers before him spoke on the “perils” of the Modi regime’s citizenship thrust. Earlier in the day, Supriyo took part in a road show in an open vehicle, accompanied by another star campaigner for the BJP, Mithun Chakraborty. The convoy started from the statue of Kishore Kumar near the ITC Sangeet Research Academy and passed through the interiors of Kudghat and Bansdroni. Speaking to reporters at multiple stops, Supriyo targeted Aroop and his brother Swaroop for treating Tollygunge — especially the entertainment industry — as their “fiefdom”. “I am going to win from Tollygunge not just against Aroop Biswas. I am going to win against his tyranny. I am going to win against the right hand of Mamata Banerjee,” he said. “Aroop and Swaroop Biswas run a fiefdom in Tollygunge…. They intimidate artistes into supporting Trinamul. People who do not support them do not get roles in soaps and films. They had threatened people, hardworking technicians, for not turning up at a rally on April 4,” Supriyo said. The roadshow had a dozen bikes and a couple of SUVs trailing the open vehicle. The number of people walking along was reasonably low. But many people flocked to their balconies, waving at the stars. Asked if he had been pitchforked from Delhi into the Bengal battle, Supriyo, also an MP from Asansol, said: “I told the party very willingly that I wanted to fight (in the Bengal polls). As a Bengali, my conscience would have been hurt had I been sitting in Delhi, not helping the people against the tyranny of Mamata Banerjee.” Biswas, a three-term MLA from Tollygunge, briefly mentioned Supriyo at the beginning of his speech in Azadgarh. “He (Supriyo) has been travelling only in a jeep and on bikes. He has not set his foot on the land of Tollygunge,” said the outgoing PWD minister. A political analyst said the BJP seemed to have missed a trick by limiting its Tollygunge poll campaign to the film industry. “The choice of Supriyo suggests that…. He is speaking a lot about the Biswas brothers’ control over the entertainment industry. But Tollygunge is more than that. There are many places like Azadgarh and Bijoygarh which used to be known as refugee colonies. The impact of the CAA-NRC-NPR narrative will be crucial in the vote,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Women’s rights group working with men to challenge patriarchy||⚫ A 35-year-old man would expect his wife to behave in a way that suited him. He wouldn’t let her go out of the house without his approval. But in the last few years, he has realised that his wife is a “human being” who has her own choices, a partner with whom he can make family decisions and share his anxieties. ⚫ A man, now in his 30s, had hit his partner 10 years back but was too “manly” to admit it and seek forgiveness. Much later, he confessed what he had done at a public event but was not branded a “woman beater”. The experience helped him change his attitude and realise how he should be, which is different from what a patriarchal society expects him to be. A women’s rights organisation launched a campaign inviting men and boys to think and work for equality. On Thursday evening, Swayam, which has been working to end discrimination and violence against women for 25 years, launched “Soch Badlein, Baat Badlegi”. The campaign urges men to “challenge patriarchal thinking and change the way they think, behave and act”. “This campaign tries to make men look inwards, to break free from patriarchal thinking and to be who they are. To not be scared and not subscribe to the narrow point of view of masculinity that is prescribed by patriarchy,” said Anuradha Kapoor, the director of Swayam. The organisation launched two 35-second films that show a change in the attitude of men. One of the films shows a schoolgirl on a bicycle trying to navigate her way on an uneven road as three men look on. If these roads are built properly, these kids wouldn’t face difficulties going to school, the men say. In the other film, a woman during net practice throws a yorker and the batsman is stumped out. “She’ll get picked for the Indian team,” say two players watching her play cricket. The films then say: “In a world where men talk like this… Women will always feel safe and equal.” Swayam has partnered with advertising agency Ogilvy and a production company Lucifer’s Circus to make the films. Swayam has been working with boys and men for the last four years and has noticed a change in them and a positive impact on their lives.Kapoor said that changed thinking changes one’s actions and behaviour and this will initiate a change in society. “Stop thinking of women as inferior, stop thinking of women as objects and start looking at them as equals. The moment you do that, there will be a shift in the way you treat them. You will treat them equally and the result will be a happier society, a happier you and a safe and equal world for women as well,” she said. The films, available on the social media pages of Swayam, want to take the message to the ground and start a discussion to provide men the space to share their stories. A 30-year-old man who works with Swayam said that when a woman is subjected to violence, it not only has an impact on her but her family, including men, too. “My sister was subjected to violence at her in-laws’ for dowry. Being the sole earning member, I had to run from pillar to post to make arrangements for it. I was also subjected to torture,” he said. Another man said that treating his wife as an equal has helped him reduce the aggression in him. “I treat her as equal and can discuss my problems with her and resolve family matters together. It has led to mutual respect and a stronger bond between us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Decapitated body found on fringes of Salt Lake||A decapitated and partially decomposed body of a man was recovered from near a water body in Mahisbathan, on the fringes of Salt Lake, on Thursday, police said. The identity of the man, in his late 30s or 40s, is yet to be ascertained, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The body with no clothes on it and wrapped in a piece of cloth, lying in the bushes near the water body. Construction workers and fishermen who had first spotted the body alerted the police. “Our teams searched the nearby water bodies and fields but the man’s head could not be found till late in the evening,” an officer said. Apart from the missing head, the body had no injury marks. The area where the body was found has a number of water bodies where fish farming is practised. There are a number of residential buildings, too. Of late, there has been a rise in construction of multi-storied building complexes because of Mahisbathan’s proximity to Sector V. “Based on preliminary findings, it seems the man was killed somewhere else and the body was dumped in the water body,” said an officer. “Whoever killed the man dumped the head elsewhere to ensure that he could not be identified easily. We have not found any identity card or cellphone near the body.” The body has been sent to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital for post-mortem. A forensic team visited the spot to collect samples. A blue beret cap was found in a bush not far from where the body was found. “We have alerted all neighbouring police stations and asked them to provide information about any missing male,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. According to the preliminary post mortem, the man had died at least 48 hours before the body was removed. The body had swollen up as it had been submerged in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Schools shift to online classes as cases rise||At least two schools have suspended in-person instructions for Classes IX to XII and several others are being flooded with requests from parents to do so because of an alarming rise in the number of Covid cases. While Sanskrit Collegiate School, a government-run institution in central Calcutta, started holding classes on digital platforms on Thursday, Jadavpur Vidyapith, a government-aided school, has been holding online classes from April 5. Sanskrit Collegiate School will continue online classes till April 16 and Jadavpur Vidyapith till April 10. Debabrata Mukhopadhyay, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School, said they stopped in-person classes following an appeal from the guardians, who are scared to send their wards to the school amid rising Covid cases. “They are worried about using public transport. Physical distancing can be hardly maintained on buses and trains. So, we have decided to suspend in-person classes and will soon review the situation,” said Mukhopadhyay. Several other schools have stopped short of taking such decisions in absence of any government directive. The headmistress of a girls’ school said parents are appealing to switch to online classes entirely. “In fact, we are looking forward to a government directive on closure,” she said. Schools in Bengal had reopened on February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII after being shut from March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The rising number of Covid cases from the middle of March this year has led to a sharp dip in attendance, said an official of the education department. He said the heads of the institutions are repeatedly requesting through the district inspectors (DI) of schools to suspend scrap in-person classes as the situation is getting worse. “Although we have not issued any centralised order till date about doing away with physical classes, the schools have been empowered to take steps they deem fit,” he said. An official of Sanskrit Collegiate School said at least three teachers of the school had tested positive and were in home isolation. According to him, when the classes had resumed on February 12, on average 100 students were attending classes. “Over the past few days the number came down to five,” he said. Jadavpur Vidyapith recorded the presence of over 400 students on an average when the classes resumed. “Over the past few days the figure has come down to 50,” said an official of the school. Headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said: “Chances are that classes will be held online for the students of Classes IX and X. We intend to bring students of only Class XI in smaller groups as their practical classes are due.” The practical classes and exams of those in Class XII are already over, he added. An official of the school education department said, concerns over using public transport and lack of consistent sanitisation drive at schools are making the parents jittery. “Many were sending their kids to the schools as the Madhyamik and Higher Secondary examinations will be held in June. But considering the sharp rise in cases, they are now doubting whether the board exams can be held at all on time and have stopped sending their wards,” said the headmaster of a school in south Calcutta. Suvrajit Dutta, the headmaster of Hindu School, said they have convened a meeting of the academic council on April 12 to decide on how the classes would be held from April 19. “Guardians want that physical classes be reduced to thrice a week...,” said Dutta. JU roster Jadavpur University has told its officers that they can attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as informed earlier, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. The relaxation was given to non-teaching employees from last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Business||Sensex sheds 155 points to finish below 50,000||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 155 points on Friday, tracking losses in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank amid largely negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 154.89 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,591.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 38.95 points or 0.26 per cent to 14,834.85. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, NTPC, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, L&T and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, HUL, Tech Mahindra and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "Domestic equities traded range-bound with continued selling pressure from financials. Further, weak cues from Asian markets and concerns of sharp rise in COVID-19 cases across the country weighed on sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. While financials remained a drag, pharma stocks witnessed strong buying due to expectations of improvement in sales volume in the backdrop of spike in new coronavirus cases, he said, adding IT stocks remained in focus ahead of results next week. He stated that continued sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the country and resultant mobility restrictions are expected to weigh on investor sentiment in the near term. Further, recent weakness in the rupee may also aggravate investors' concerns and adversely impact FPIs flows, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo finished with gains. Top stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.27 per cent lower at USD 63.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid largely negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 186.94 points or 0.38 per cent lower at 49,559.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.10 points or 0.30 per cent to 14,829.70. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HUL, Sun Pharma, ITC, ONGC, PowerGrid and SBI were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49,746.21, and Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,873.80. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 110.85 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Surging COVID-19 cases have become an area of serious concern. Unless this second wave peaks soon and subsides, economic activity will be impacted and the market assumptions of above 10 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth will be challenged," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. This big uncertainty will weigh on market sentiments for some time, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading with gains. Top stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.03 per cent lower at USD 63.18 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Retail automobile sales falls sharply by 28.64 per cent in March 2021||Retail automobile sales, including cars, two-wheelers and other categories, fell sharply by 28.64 per cent in March 2021 compared with the same month last year despite the low base of 2020, according to the registration data released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA). However, registrations in March grew 10.05 per cent over February. According to FADA, which collected vehicle registration data from 1,277 of the 1,482 regional transport offices, passenger vehicle sales stood at 2,17,879 units in March 2020. The dealers’ association warned that the lockdown in Maharashtra to contain the spread of Covid-19 will have a “catastrophic impact” on April sales as dealers will not be able to realise the potential of festivals such as Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Baisakhi and Poila Boishakh. Unveiled Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd (M&M) on Thursday unveiled the brand name of its new SUV, built on the W601 platform, as the XUV700. Hyundai Motor India Ltd on Thursday showcased its upcoming six and seven seater premium SUV Alcazar. The vehicle will epitomise manufacturing prowess of the South Korean company and will sport a third generation 2 litre petrol engine and a 1.5 litre diesel engine with six-speed automatic and manual transmission options. Overall, FADA maintains extreme caution for the month of April as Covid rises to newer highs. “Covid is not only spreading faster but is also trying to destabilize the growth which India has been able to achieve in the last few months. Any lockdown at this point will severely hamper the momentum which is getting built for the auto Industry to come out of the woods,” FADA said in a release. Two-wheeler sales, however, declined 35.26 per cent to 11,95,445 units last month, as compared to 18,46,613 units in March 2020. Commercial vehicle sales also fell 42.2 per cent to 67,372 units against 1,16,559 units a year ago. Similarly, three-wheeler sales dropped 50.72 per cent to 38,034 units last month from 77,173 units in the year-ago period. Tractor sales, however, grew by 29.21 per cent to 69,082 units last month, against 53,463 units in the same month last year. Total registrations across categories declined by 28.64 per cent to 16,49,678 units last month compared to 23,11,687 units in the year-ago period Global shortage of wafers which is an input for semiconductor, continued to linger around and kept PV waiting periods as high as 7 month, said FADA. According to FADA Survey, 47 per cent PV dealers said that they lost more than 20 per cent sales due to supply side constraints. Tractors continued its dream run as rural incomes saw improvements after successive monsoons and good rabi produce. According to experts, India will witness a normal monsoon for the third year in a row. This will further see tractors performing well in FY 21-22. Financial woes brought by Covid-19 have pushed about 32 million Indians out of the middle class, undoing years of economic gains. This had its impact on 2-wheelers as it saw one of its steepest de-growth in the last few months. This coupled with high fuel prices and price increase acted as double whammy, FADA said, citing a finding from Pew Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Tesla scouting for locations to open showrooms in three Indian cities||Tesla Inc is scouting for locations to open showrooms in three Indian cities and has hired an executive to lead its lobbying and business efforts ahead of its planned entry into the country, sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters. The electric car maker in January registered a local company in India, where it is expected to import and sell the Model 3 sedan by as early as mid-2021, seeking to target rich customers in a niche market. The world’s most valuable auto maker by market capitalisation is looking for commercial properties as large as 20,000-30,000 square feet each to open showrooms and service centres in New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore, three sources said. Separately, Tesla has recruited Manuj Khurana, a former executive of India’s investment promotion body Invest India, in the first major hire to lead its policy and business development efforts in the country, two other sources said. Tesla did not respond to a request for comment, while Khurana declined to comment. In October, Tesla CEO Elon Musk had said on Twitter the company will enter India in 2021 “for sure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Century Plyboards (India) Limited to invest more than Rs 650 crore||Plywood and laminate maker Century Plyboards (India) Limited has lined up a capital expenditure of more than Rs 650 crore in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh amid recovering demand. The capex spend includes a new unit for medium density fibreboard (MDF) in Andhra Pradesh at an investment of Rs 450 crore and the expansion of the Hoshiarpur unit in Punjab for Rs 200 crore. The latter was an ongoing project that was disrupted because of Covid. Keshav Bhajanka, executive director of CenturyPly, on Thursday said amid recovering demand, the company plans to scale up capacity. The two projects are expected to be complete by 2022. “On the demand front as of now we are not seeing too much of a slowdown. Most people would be looking to complete their house innovation. Real estate is also getting sold and transactions are taking place,” Bhajanka said while announcing a technology in plywood that will prevent the rapid spread of fire in urban and rural habitats. He added that the company is geared up to meet business disruptions going forward. “The basic disruption from Covid was in the supply chain. Raw material security was a major issue. We have been able to increase the total quantity of raw material that we are carrying to create a buffer for a longer period of time,” said Bhajanka. He added that the company has taken price increase across categories to tide over the increasing raw material costs over the past 3-4 months. On the international business, Bhajanka said that the company has started manufacturing in Gabon in central Africa but disruption in movement of containers has affected dispatch. Bhajanka was speaking on the occasion of announcement of a technology in plywood that will prevent rapid spread of fire in urban and rural habitats. “We are deeply concerned about rising incidences of fire across our country and decided to focus on what can be done to address this issue. The Firewall solution prepares plywood to fight fire and give crucial time to save lives and valuables,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea launches Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises||After Airtel, Vi Business, the enterprise arm of Vodafone Idea, on Thursday launched Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises. The Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises which are 5G ready are designed to help businesses impacted by the pandemic and going digital. The IoT solution offering comprises connectivity, hardware, network, application, analytics, security and support. Vodafone-Idea will adopt a consulting-based model to help businesses identify their needs, designs and develop customised IoT and implement it. “It will also provide them with a tailored solution to be integrated with the best-in-class enterprise-grade IoT framework,” the firm said. “Vodafone-Idea IoT is transforming the way businesses operate by reinventing processes, operations, customer experiences and developing newer business models and revenue opportunities,” it said. The company will provide a range of IoT solutions across industries for smart infrastructure, mobility and utility, on its 5G-ready network. “We are starting this journey today with three categories—smart infrastructure, smart mobility and smart utility. We will keep adding to this,” said Abhijit Kishore, chief enterprise business officer, Vodafone Idea. The country is yet to roll out 5G wireless service but operators and equipment vendors have started preparing for the launch of the next generation technology. IoT is crucial to the roll-out of 5G as it will help to connect billions of devices under the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Private equity funds express interest in investing up to $250 million in Srei Equipment Finance||Private equity funds — US-based Arena Investors LP and Singapore’s Makara Capital Partners – have expressed interest in investing up to $250 million in Srei Equipment Finance. The non-bank finance company on Thursday said that a strategic coordination committee (SCC) consisting of independent directors announced last month will coordinate, negotiate and conclude discussions with the private equity investors to bring capital into the business and advise the management. Ernst and Young will advise the committee on the proposed fund raising exercise. “The SCC is running an independent process for investor identification and has received expressions of interest from Arena Investors LP and Makara Capital Partners. This process is being carried out in parallel to the debt realignment plan. The SCC will engage in discussions with potential investors to raise fresh capital for the business,” Srei Equipment Finance said in a statement. “The SCC will also be the nodal point for a comprehensive cash flow realignment plan with banks and financial institutions and for all external service providers, including investment bankers, lawyers and consultants,” the statement added. The NBFC’s cash flow has come under stress because of asset liability mismatch. While the company has offered moratorium to eligible borrowers, it was not allowed moratorium by its lenders. Srei chairman Hemant Kanoria in a letter to non convertible debenture holders has sought to address concern of the investors over repayment of liabilities. He said that the company had anticipated the challenging situation and approached NCLT with a scheme of proposed repayment of loans. “We wish to assure our investors that the collateral/securities against the loans given by your company together with the receivables are sufficient to repay all the liabilities in an orderly manner over a period of time,” said Kanoria in the letter. “We have already initiated necessary steps in this regard including aggressive sell down of assets, reduced disbursements and attempt to re-profile our liabilities...The present asset liability profile needs time to be corrected to the current dispensation and we need support and guidance from the RBI and our banking partners to ensure effective transition of our business model,” the letter said. RBI has conducted a special audit into the books of the lender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Steel production and sales rose in the fourth quarter of 2020-21||Frontline steel makers’ production and sales rose in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 compared with the preceding quarter, pointing to a pent-up demand despite skyrocketing prices in the domestic market and excellent export opportunities. The top five players, which  account for about 55 per cent of India’s installed capacity —Tata Steel, JSW Steel, Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), Jindal Steel & Power Ltd and AM/NS India (formerly Essar Steel) — all reported a strong set of numbers for the three months ended March 31. The quarter, usually buoyant for steel consumption as the dry weather helps construction activities, had a terrible end last year as the Modi government imposed a lockdown at two days of notice. Devoid of such unprecedented disruptions, steel mills managed to scale up production and sales significantly this year compared with the same period last year. However, what is noteworthy is that all the firms, except AM/NS, managed to grow over the December quarter despite a heavy base (see chart). JSW Steel’s crude steel production stood at 4.19 million tonnes (mt) in the fourth quarter, registering a growth of 2 per cent over the December quarter. The company’s average capacity utilisation improved from 91 per cent in the third quarter to 93 per cent in the fourth quarter. However, capacity utilisation in March 2021 was 96 per cent. Tata Steel’s delivery volume was higher in the March quarter both in India and Europe. While the domestic growth was marginal, it was 18 per cent higher in Europe at 2.49 mt compared with 2.11mt in the preceding quarter. Exports constituted 11 per cent of the India deliveries. At 4.27mt, SAIL’s volumes in the fourth quarter was 3 per cent higher than the preceding quarter’s 4.15mt. SAIL achieved its best ever annual sales of 14.87mt, 4.4 per cent higher than 14.23mt in the previous year. JSPL, which focuses mainly on long products (used in construction) recorded 1.92 mt sales, surpassing 1.87mt in the third quarter. It also posted the highest ever annual sales of 7.28mt in 2020-21. The export market contributed 38 per cent of the deliveries. AM/NS India, which only produces flat products that go into consumer durables and automobiles, saw a marginal decline at 1.7mt compared with 1.72mt in the December quarter. Sales were, however, up on a year-on-year basis. A fresh round of price hikes coupled with export opportunities powered the scrips of all the listed companies which hit fresh 52-week highs on consecutive days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Amazon moves the Supreme Court on Future-Reliance deal||Amazon has moved the Supreme Court, challenging the Delhi high court’s division bench order that had vacated a stay on Kishore Biyani-led Future Group’s  Rs 24,713-crore asset sale to Reliance Industries. Amazon, in the petition, sought a stay on the March 22 order of the division bench, terming it “illegal”, “random”, “inequitable and unfair”. On March 22, a division bench of the Delhi high court had granted Future a reprieve from a March 18 single-judge order that restrained it from taking any steps to sell assets to Reliance. Amazon has now moved the Supreme Court and challenged the March 22 order, requesting a stay till a final outcome is known of its earlier plea related to the deal. “Pass an ex-parte interim order/ interim order and stay the impugned interim common order dated 22.03.2021 passed by the high court of Delhi …. till the issues raised herein are finally decided by this hon’ble court,” Amazon said in its petition. It has also requested the apex court to pass any further order, which it “may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case”, Amazon’s petition said. Amazon and Future Retail Ltd (FRL) did not respond to e-mailed queries. According to the plea filed by Amazon, the division bench has committed a “grave error” in passing an order in a “non-maintainable appeal”, permitting Future Group to commit further breaches of the Emergency Arbitration order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||A 21-year Reliance riddle for Sebi||A Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) order on a 21-year-old matter has put the spotlight on whether its probe or action should be timebound. The market regulator on Wednesday imposed a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) chief Mukesh Ambani, his younger brother Anil Ambani and others, including persons acting in concert (PAC), for non-compliance with the regulator’s takeover rules. However, the case dates back to 2000 when Dhirubhai Ambani was the chairman of undivided Reliance, which  split in 2005. The capital markets regulator also penalised Mukesh’s wife Nita Ambani, Anil’s wife Tina Ambani, K.D. Ambani and some  family members. According to Sebi, Reliance’s promoters and PAC failed to disclose the acquisition of more than a 5 per cent stake in the company way back in 2000. In a regulatory filing on Thursday, RIL said chairman Mukesh Ambani will appeal against the fine . Reliance Industries (RIL) had issued debentures with convertible warrants in 1994 and allotted equity shares against the warrants in 2000. “Sebi had issued a show-cause notice in February 2011 (more than 11 years after the acquisition of shares) to then promoter and promoter group (as in the year 2000) alleging violation’’ of takeover regulations, the company said. “The show-cause notice has now been adjudicated (21 years after the acquisition of shares) and a penalty of Rs 25 crore levied on the then promoter and promoter group.” “The promoter and the promoter group have informed RIL that there has been no violation of Regulation 11(1) of the Sebi Takeover Regulations and they have complied with applicable laws, and an appeal will be preferred to the Securities Appellate Tribunal and they remain confident of vindicating their position,” the company said. The development has led to questions on the huge time taken by the regulator on the case and whether any action or investigation should be subject to a certain time frame as a prolonged delay because of  even justifiable reasons may affect other stakeholders. In its order, Sebi said the penalty of Rs 25 crore has to be paid jointly and severally, by the individuals and entities concerned. The market regulator has also named 38 persons acting in concert (PAC), many of which do not exist any more as they have been merged with another entity. However, SEBI in its order has said that around 17 such firms have been merged with Reliance Industries Holding Pvt Ltd. While the latter’s name figures in the list, it also includes Kankhal Trading LLP (earlier known as  Kankhal lnvts & Trdg Co. Ltd) and Reliance Realty Ltd (earlier known as Terene Fibres India (P) Ltd). As per the order, RIL's promoters acquired 6.83 per cent stake in the company during 2000 through conversion of 3 crore warrants issued to them back in 1994. Sebi noted that 6.83 per cent shares that were acquired by RIL promoters together with PACs consequent to exercise of option on warrants attached with non-convertible secured redeemable debentures were in excess of ceiling of 5 per cent prescribed under the takeover regulations. Thus, the obligation to make a public announcement about acquiring the shares arose on January 7, 2000. This was the date on which the PACs were allotted RIL equity shares on exercise of warrants issued in January 1994, the order noted. However, Sebi found that the promoters and PACs did not make any public announcement for acquiring the shares. Since the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring shares, it is alleged that they have violated the provisions of the takeover regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Covid-19 second wave poses risks for NBFCs: Fitch Ratings||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic poses a risk of asset quality and liquidity issues for non-banking finance companies (NBFC) and these challenges are likely to increase if recent restrictions to contain the pandemic are expanded or prolonged, leading to greater economic and operational disruption, Fitch Ratings said on Thursday. The rating agency further said that an increase in the rate of infections and broadening of social distancing restrictions pose downside risks to its 12.8 per cent growth projection for the current fiscal. “India’s non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) face renewed asset quality and liquidity risks amid a second wave of coronavirus infections,” Fitch Ratings said in a statement. It said a key Covid hotspot is Maharashtra, the state with the largest economic contribution in India at 13-14 per cent of the national GDP. Maharashtra introduced stricter social-distancing measures over the weekend in response to rising coronavirus cases, including weekend curfews and weekday activity restrictions till April-end. Several other states — Gujarat, Punjab, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, which together account for about 16 per cent of national GDP — have also implemented additional restrictions, including night curfews. “The economic impact of these curbs will depend on their duration and severity. Expanded curbs could derail the fragile recovery in India’s NBFI sector as a nationwide lockdown was gradually relaxed from mid-2020,” Fitch added. SMEs, commercial vehicle operators, microfinance and other wholesale borrowers remain at greater risk of stress in this environment, particularly as financial buffers would have narrowed after the severe economic shock over the past year. Production and supply chains remain susceptible to labour shortages if the large-scale urban-to-rural labour migration recurs. "Against this, we believe authorities have gained experience in balancing the trade-off between tighter restrictions and maintaining economic activity over the past year," Fitch added. It said resurgence in asset-quality pressure for NBFIs could lead to renewed funding strains for the sector, particularly as many government schemes that provided funding relief to NBFIs in 2020 have expired. These include the Partial Credit Guarantee scheme supporting asset-backed securitisation and Special Liquidity Scheme providing government-guaranteed short-term funding relief. The extension of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for SMEs till June 2021, it said will offer such borrowers further breathing room. Fitch will review ratings of NBFIs if more severe restrictions that have greater operational repercussions for rated entities are imposed. Meanwhile, Moody’s Investors Service said the rapid increase in new cases is credit negative for Indian airports, given the adverse impact on passenger and aircraft traffic, the key revenue driver for the sector. The surge in infection numbers will heighten health concerns, renew economic uncertainty and temper consumers' willingness to travel. Higher infection numbers could also force the reintroduction of travel restrictions that will drastically reduce passenger traffic. Most of Indian airports’ revenue is linked to airport traffic, including aeronautical revenue that is collected on a per-passenger or aircraft-movement basis, and non-aeronautical revenue such as retail, food and beverage as well as car parking, it said. Beyond the impact on domestic traffic, the recent outbreak will also likely delay the reopening of international borders, which has recently been postponed to the end of April. Although international passengers only represent a small component of total passenger traffic in India, airports generally earn a higher amount on a per-passenger basis from this segment after accounting for duty-free retail. Duty-free retail accounted for 15%-20% of total non-aeronautical revenue at the rated airports before the pandemic. Rated airports' credit quality will potentially weaken if the severity and duration of the second wave reaches a level that would lead to liquidity stress or challenge their ability to return to a level of cash flow generation which supports their current ratings, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds witness a net inflow of Rs 9,115 crore in March||Equity mutual funds saw a net inflow of Rs 9,115 crore in March, making it the first net infusion in nine months, data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed on Thursday. Equity schemes had been witnessing net outflows since July with investors choosing to book profits. In February, these schemes had seen a net outflow of Rs 4,534 crore. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net outflow of Rs 29,745 crore across all segments during the period under review compared with a net inflow of Rs 4,090 crore in February. According to the industry body, barring multi-cap and value fund categories, all equity schemes saw inflows last month. Gold ETFs  witnessed a total net inflow of Rs 662 crore last month compared with Rs 491 crore in February. Overall, equity schemes had witnessed an outflow of Rs 9,253 crore in January. Rs 10,147 crore in December, Rs 12,917 crore in November, Rs 2,725 crore in October, and Rs 734 crore in September, Rs 4,000 crore in August and Rs 2,480 crore in July, which was their first withdrawal in over four years. For the entire year, N S Venkatesh, Chief Executive, AMFI said that the pandemic-impacted fiscal 2020-21 ended on a healthy note with the industry average assets under management (AAUMs) at historic high at Rs 32.17 lakh crores as on March 31, 2021, rising 30 per cent as compared to Rs 24.70 lakh crores as on March 31, 2020. "I want to reinforce that mutual funds continue to be preferred investment vehicle to build long term goal-based wealth creation, as is reflected from the number of unique investors across mutual fund schemes increasing in the last one year, by 10 per cent from 2.08 Crore as on March 31, 2020 to 2.28 Crore as on March 31, 2021’’, he added. Venkatesh further pointed out that yet another highlight during the year was the rising acceptance for mutual funds from Tier II and Tier III locations, with mutual fund AUM from beyond the Top 30 cities rising 54 per cent to Rs 5,35,373 crore as on March 31, 2021, as compared to from Rs 3,48,167 crore as on March 31, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Bond markets continue their rally after RBI announced bond purchase programme||Bond markets continued their rally on Thursday buoyed by the announcement of the Reserve Bank of India's bond purchase programme from the secondary market — the Government Securities Acquisition Programme 1.0 (G-SAP). Yields of the benchmark 10-year security closed at 6.03 per cent on Thursday, lower by 5 basis points from Wednesday. Analysts do not rule out the possibility of the benchmark yield falling below 6 per cent. The RBI has said it will purchase Rs 1 lakh crore in the present quarter, but the market expects it will purchase the same amounts in the other three quarters. Bond yields and their prices are inversely related. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ashhish Vaidya, head of treasury at DBS Bank India, said the benchmark yield may go below 6 per cent. He said the supply of government securities was huge compared with the demand. “The central bank had to come in to fill in the gap and contain the interest rates and rightly so since it has to manage the growth impetus,’’ he observed. Vaidya, however, warned of sticky inflation and expectations of higher rates, which may require more intervention from the RBI. “The bond market was in a wait and watch mode going into 2021-22 to digest Rs 12 lakh crore of G-Sec supply. With the explicit guidance now on G-Sec buying programme, supply concerns seem to have been addressed, to a certain extent,’’ analysts at ICICI Securities said in a note. Unveiling the G-SAP programme, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the central bank will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve amidst comfortable liquidity conditions. G-SAP schedule The RBI on Thursday said the first purchase of government securities for an amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15. The central bank will buy five securities — 4.48 per cent GS 2023, 5.15 per cent GS 2025, 6.79 per cent GS 2027, 5.85 per cent GS 2030 and 6.22 per cent GS 2035. The announcement comes at a time bank credit remains soft. This has led to banks parking surplus funds in the RBI’s reverse repo window. The banks had parked Rs 7.28 lakh crore with the RBI on April 6 using the reverse repo route against Rs 6.13 lakh crore on March 30 and Rs 4.63 lakh crore in the middle of March. During the third quarter of the last fiscal, surplus liquidity —average daily net absorptions under the liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) —  rose to Rs 5.33 lakh crore. In the fourth quarter, it increased to  to Rs 5.9 lakh crore . The RBI’s announcement of a Rs 2 lakh crore variable reverse repo rate auction on Friday should mop up some of the liquidity, analysts said. Investors also gave a thumbs-up to G-SAP and the RBI’s dovish monetary policy, with the benchmark Sensex on Thursday rising over 456 points during intra-day trades. However, the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country saw stocks giving up these gains. The 30-share index settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49746.21. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14873.80. UltraTech Cement was the top performer among the Sensex constituents, rallying 4.24 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and L&T. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards, slipping up to 1.07 per cent. "Domestic market continued its optimistic rally supported by dovish monetary policy, though it witnessed consolidation during the second half due to selling in banking stocks. Metal stocks led the sectorial rally on a strong outlook supported by rising steel prices and production. The fourth quarter earnings season has started and the market is expected to have a stock-centric rally in the coming days which has a very broad positive view," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra records 58,993 fresh cases, 301 fatalities||Maharashtra on Friday reported 58,993 new cases of coronavirus, which pushed its overall tally to 32,88,540, while the death of 301 patients took the toll to 57,329, the state health department said. The state has been recording more than 55,000 cases over the past few days. The highest single-day spike of 59,907 cases was reported on April 7. With a record number of 2,45,707 tests conducted during the day, the count of people who have been tested so far in the state has grown to 2,16,31,258. Of the total number, 15.2per cent have tested positive for the virus. The state's recovery rate is 81.96 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.74 per cent, it said. Mumbai city registered a one-day spike of 9,202 cases. Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai city and its satellite towns, saw 18,408 cases and 52 deaths. This took the total number of cases there to 10,45,980 and death toll to 20,939. With 45,391 patients getting discharge from hospitals during the day, the recovery count rose to 26,95,148. There are 5,34,603 active cases in the state at present. Currently,26,95,065 people are in home quarantine and 24,157 in institutional quarantine. Of the 301 deaths reported on Friday, 158 had occurred in the last 48 hours, the health department said in a statement. Pune division saw 11,862cases, including 5,714 in Pune city and 2,026 in Pimpri Chinchwad. Nagpur division reported 10,335 new cases, including 4492 in Nagpur city alone, while Kolhapur division reported 774 cases, Aurangabad division 2,851 cases, Latur division 4,472 cases, Akola division 1,916 cases and Nashik division 8,375 cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with private hospitals and representatives of the diamond industry over the pandemic situation. The weekend lockdown announced as part of the curbs to break the virus chain came into force from Friday night. The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total number of cases 32,88,540, deaths 57,329, recoveries 26,95,148, active 5,34,603, total tests 2,16,31,258.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||India conveys ‘concern’ to US after its Navy conducts exercise without ‘consent’||India on Friday said it had conveyed its concerns to the United States after the US Navy announced that a ship of its fleet had carried out a freedom of navigation operation in the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without New Delhi’s ‘consent’. The Ministry of External Affairs in a statement said that the country “does not authorise other States to carry out (such operations) in the Exclusive Economic Zone”. “The Government of India's stated position on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the Convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state,” the statement read. “The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the Government of USA through diplomatic channels,” it further said. The US Navy, in a statement, announced that it asserted navigational rights and freedoms inside India's EEZ without seeking the country's prior consent. “This freedom of navigation operation upheld the rights, freedoms and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's excessive maritime claims,” the US 7th fleet said in a statement on April 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Delhi schools will remain shut until further orders, announces Kejriwal||Schools in the national capital will remain closed for all classes till further orders due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. The national capital has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks. On Thursday, the daily case count breached the 7,000-mark for the first time this year. "Due to rising cases of Covid-19, schools in Delhi will remain closed for all classes till further orders," Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi government had last week announced that students of any classes will not be called to school in the new academic session. However, class 10 and class 12 students who are due to appear in board exams in May-June were going to school with consent of their parents. There have been demands from students for holding online examinations and over one lakh students have already signed a petition to the CBSE in this regard. CBSE officials, however, said as per Covid guidelines exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students. Delhi had recorded 7,437 Covid-19 cases Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people had died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson in talks with Indian govt for clinical trial of single shot vaccine||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose COVID-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. The US Food and Drug Administration has already approved Johnson & Johnson's COVID-19 vaccine that works with just one dose for emergency use in February. "We are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen COVID-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals," Johnson & Johnson India spokesperson said in an email reply. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. "At Johnson & Johnson, we remain fully focused on bringing a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine to people around the world, if authorised for use by local health authorities", the spokesperson said. India is currently using two vaccines for COVID-19 -- one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Virology. Both the vaccines are being manufactured within the country by domestic firms. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||US Navy carries out 'freedom of navigation' exercise on Indian waters without 'consent'||The US Navy carried out a freedom of navigation operation in the Indian waters near Lakshadweep Islands on Wednesday without New Delhi's prior consent to challenge India's "excessive" maritime claims, according to an official statement. The operation was conducted by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones on April 7, a statement issued by the Commander of the US seventh fleet said. "On April 7, 2021 (local time) USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India's exclusive economic zone, without requesting India's prior consent, consistent with international law," the statement said. India requires that other countries should take prior consent from it to conduct military exercises or manoeuvres in its exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, which the US Navy statement claimed was inconsistent with international law. "This freedom of navigation operation ( FONOP ) upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's excessive maritime claims," it said. US forces operate in the Indo-Pacific region on a daily basis. All operations are designed in accordance with international law and demonstrate that the United States will fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows, the statement said. "We conduct routine and regular Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs), as we have done in the past and will continue to in the future. FONOPs are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements," it added. It is not the first time that the US Navy has conducted such an operation in India's Exclusive Economic Zone. The US Department of Defence publishes an annual Freedom of Navigation Report "identifying the excessive maritime claims that US forces operationally challenged . The last time the US Navy conducted such an operation was the fiscal year 2019, according to the Department of Defence. In an unclassified report to the US Congress in July 2020, the US Navy said it conducted an operation in the Indian Ocean region during the period of October 1, 2018, through September 30, 2019, to preserve the rights, freedoms, and uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all nations by international law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Omar Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. "For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it's finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #Covid-19 this afternoon. I'm completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I'm self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc," he said in a tweet. "I am very grateful to everyone reaching out to me here on Twitter to wish me well. I apologise for not replying individually. For the next few days I'm focusing on beating this virus & will be back here after the battle is won," Omar Abdullah added in his tweet. His father Farooq Abdullah had tested positive for coronavirus on March 30. He was kept in home-isolation initially, but doctors later decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. He was discharged on Wednesday from a Srinagar hospital as doctors were of the opinion that he could recover at home since all his parameters were fine, officials said. On Thursday, Omar had said his father was responding well to treatment. "My father has asked me to convey his deep gratitude to all our colleagues for these prayers and all the messages he has been receiving. He is responding well to the treatment and is getting better," he had tweeted. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
09-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses health minister for shortage of vaccines in Opposition states||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding an immediate moratorium on Covid-19 vaccine exports when the nation is facing "vaccine starvation", and sought opening up of vaccination to "everyone who needs it". In his letter, Gandhi also sought more say to state governments in vaccine procurement and distribution, and asked for a provision of a direct income support to vulnerable sections amid the disastrous second wave of Covid-19 in India. "I humbly request you to provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity and place an immediate moratorium on vaccine export," Gandhi said as he extended his support to the vaccination programme. "Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it," he demanded and sought fast-tracking of approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Questioning the government for permitting large-scale exports of vaccines, he said, "While our nation is facing vaccine starvation, more than six crore doses of vaccines have been exported." Rahul, in his letter, also asked the prime minister to double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing Rs 35,000 crore and give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution. His suggestions came a day after Prime Minister Modi said vaccines will have to be prioritised due to limited supply and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at Gandhi alleging that the shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of commitment, even as Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the BJP leader not to rile and follow 'Raj dharma' instead. In his letter to the prime minister, Rahul also said that state governments were repeatedly highlighting vaccine shortage only to receive intemperate statements by the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. He accused the health minister of targeting opposition-ruled states and undercutting cooperative federalism. In an apparent reference to the prime minister's picture on vaccination certificates, Rahul said, "Our vaccination programme has to move beyond an individual's picture on the vaccine certificate, towards guaranteeing maximum vaccination." The former Congress chief stressed that his party supports only a well-planned, universal and speedy vaccination drive. Taking a swipe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's remark after the notification on interest rates was taken back, he asked, "Was the export of vaccines also an 'oversight', like many other decisions of this government, or an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our own citizens." "This is unfortunate considering our scientific community and vaccine suppliers worked overtime to develop a solution but their efforts are undermined by the Centre's poor implementation and 'oversight'," Gandhi said. Expressing concern over the rising cases of the coronavirus, he said that over the last year, the country suffered many irreparable losses, made tremendous sacrifices, and yet, it is under a renewed attack by this virus. Rahul alleged that the vaccination drive in the country is slow and said at the current rate, it would take years to inoculate 75 per cent of the population. "This will have catastrophic effects and will gravely decelerate India's economy," he added. The former Congress chief said even though public health is a state subject, "our states have been bypassed right from vaccine procurement to registration". He alleged that a large section of the poor have been excluded due to the initial mandatory online registration. In his attack on Gandhi, Ravi Shankar Prasad had tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi must know that shortage in Congress-ruled states is not of vaccines but of basic commitment towards healthcare." "He should write letters to his party's governments to stop their 'vasooli' (extortion) ventures and concentrate on administering the lakhs of vaccines they are sitting on," he said. India is not facing vaccine starvation but Gandhi is facing "attention starvation", Prasad said. "Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken vaccine? Is it an oversight or he doesn't want it or has he already taken one in many of his undisclosed trips to foreign locations but doesn't want to disclose?" he said. "After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full-time lobbying? First, he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India's acquisition programme. Now, he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines," Prasad said. Hitting back, Surjewala said Prasad should stop riling and start serving the country and follow 'Raj dharma'. "So stop riling, frothing and steaming up. Start serving India and fellow Indians. Follow 'Raj Dharma'," he said. "Dear Prasad, you and ministers in government have become perpetually ranting, ill-tempered, churlish trolls. We will lobby for public good when the Modi government causes loss of Euro 2.81 Billion (Rs 21,075 crore) to exchequer in Rafale Scam. Obviously, it cheeses you off," Surejwala tweeted. The Congress leader said that his party will lobby for every Indian to be vaccinated and end discrimination in allocation of vaccine to opposition states. The party will lobby for halting export of coronavirus vaccine when our fellow Indians are facing huge shortages and end of digital isolation of poor in vaccination, Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Irresponsible for CBSE to force board exams on students, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said it is irresponsible on the part of the CBSE to force students to appear for Board examinations and demanded that the exams be either cancelled or rescheduled in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country. She said the Board exams should be either cancelled or be held in such a manner that it does not require the physical presence of students. "It is downright irresponsible of boards like the CBSE to force students to sit for exams under the prevailing circumstances. Board exams should either be cancelled, rescheduled or arranged in a manner that does not require the physical presence of children at crowded exam centres," she said on Twitter. According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. India is seeing over one lakh cases everyday for the past few days and on Friday morning, the country reported almost 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases, as per official data. There have been demands from students for holding online examinations and over one lakh students have already signed a petition to the CBSE in this regard. CBSE officials, however, said as per Covid guidelines exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Arnab Goswami's interim relief in suicide abetment case extended||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended its earlier order granting interim protection to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and exempted him from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibag in Raigad district in connection with an abetment to suicide case. Goswami and two others Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibag-based interior designer Anvay Naik in May 2018 over alleged non- payment of dues by the companies of the accused persons. The trio has moved the high court seeking to quash the FIR and subsequent chargesheet filed by the police against them. They had sought interim protection and exemption from appearance before a magistrates court in Alibag, a coastal town in Raigad district located around 100km from Mumbai. The accused persons have to appear before the magistrates court for committal of trial in the case to a sessions court. The high court had on March 5 granted the three accused persons exemption from appearance before the court and said it would hear the petitions on April 16. Goswami's counsel Sanjog Parab on Friday told the court that since April 16 has been declared as a holiday by the high court, the petitions could be heard later. The interim order granting the petitioner (Goswami) exemption may be extended as the next date before the magistrate is April 26, Parab said. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale agreed and said it would hear the petitions on April 23. Accordingly, we extend the interim relief of exemption from appearance until further orders, the court said. Goswami and the other two accused were arrested on November 4, 2020. After the arrest, they had sought urgent bail from the high court which rejected their pleas following which they moved the Supreme Court. The apex court granted the trio bail on November 11, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||India and China hold 11th round of military talks||India and China held another round of military talks on Friday to take forward the disengagement process in the remaining friction points such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. The 11th round of the Corps Commander-level talks began at around 10:30 am at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The 10th round of the military dialogue took place on February 20, two days after both militaries concluded the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake. The talks lasted for around 16 hours. The Indian delegation at Friday's talks is led by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. One of the people cited above said India will insist on completing the disengagement process at the remaining friction points at the earliest. Late last month, Army chief General MM Naravane said the threat to India has only "abated" following the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas, but it has not gone away altogether. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake in February, in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that the resolution of the outstanding issues, including at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra, is essential for the overall ties between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Is it right to put Indians at risk by exporting vaccines, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the export of Covid-19 vaccines, and asked if it is right to do so and put the lives of Indians in danger. He said vaccine shortage is a very serious problem during Corona times and is not a celebration. Gandhi also called upon the central government to help states without any bias and help provide them with more vaccines. "Shortage of vaccines in view of the rise in Corona cases is a very serious problem and not a celebration," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Is it right to export the vaccine and put Indians at risk? The central government should help all states without any bias. We all have to fight this pandemic together and defeat it," he added. Some states have been demanding more vaccines and the Congress is seeking the vaccine for all. The Centre, however, has accused some states of doing politics on the issue of vaccines. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that 9.1 crore vaccine doses have been utilised, while 2.4 crore are in stock and 1.9 crore vaccines are in the pipeline, indicating there are sufficient doses available for all states. He also dismissed as "farce" the "hue and cry" by certain states about partisanship by the Centre and called it an attempt to hide their own incompetence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||India logs over 1.31 lakh fresh Covid cases, 780 casualties in a day||India registered a record single-day spike of 1,31,968 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its infection tally to 1,30,60,542, while the death toll increased to 1,67,642 with 780 more fatalities in a day, highest since October 18, the Union Health Ministry data showed. Registering a steady increase for the 30th day in a row, the number of active COVID-19 cases increased to 9,79,608, which is 7.5 per cent of the total infections, according to the data updated at 8 am. The recovery rate in the country has further dropped to 91.22 per cent, it added. The active COVID-19 caseload in the country was recorded at its lowest of 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,19,13,292, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,40,41,584 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the country so far, including 13,64,205 on Thursday. The 780 new fatalities include 376 from Maharashtra, 94 from Chhattisgarh, 56 from Punjab, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 36 from Karnataka, 35 from Gujarat, 27 from Madhya Pradesh, 24 from Delhi, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Kerala and 11 from Haryana. A total of 1,67,642 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country. The figure includes 57,028 fatalities from Maharashtra, 12,840 from Tamil Nadu, 12,767 from Karnataka, 11,157 from Delhi, 10,370 from West Bengal, 9,003 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,334 from Punjab and 7,268 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium meet||The five-member Supreme Court collegium on Thursday briefly met but no decision was taken on the elevation of Chief Justice of Tripura High Court Akhil Kureshi and Karnataka judge Justice Nagarathna to the Supreme Court. All the five collegium members — CJI S.A. Bobde, Justice N.V. Ramana despite ill health, Justices R.F. Nariman, U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar — attended the meeting. Held in a cordial atmosphere, the meeting remained inconclusive, sources told The Telegraph. The meeting was held in the backdrop of the superannuation of Justice Bobde on April 23. He will be succeeded by Justice Ramana. Normally, outgoing CJIs do not convene collegium meetings. However, Justice Bobde presided over the meeting since there is no bar on him convening the meeting, sources said. Justice Kureshi had remanded Amit Shah to police custody in 2010 in connection with a fake encounter case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Maoists release CRPF hostage||The CRPF commando taken hostage by the Maoists after Saturday’s massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh was released on Thursday afternoon. Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, Jammu and Kashmir resident and member of the CRPF’s elite Cobra unit, was freed deep inside the forests in the presence of a team of 11 “facilitators”, made up mostly of local journalists and social workers. The facilitators, who had arrived on motorbikes, took Manhas to the CRPF’s Terrem police camp on the Bijapur-Sukma border, near the site of the ambush. “The jawan returned safely to the Terrem camp along with the facilitators around 4.30pm,” a CRPF official in Chhattisgarh said. He said Manhas had undergone a check-up at the Basaguda field hospital. The Maoists had on Wednesday released a photograph of Manhas and said he was safe. The picture showed the commando in battle fatigues, sitting on a sheet of blue tarpaulin laid out on the floor of what seemed a makeshift tent of dried leaves and bamboo poles. Officials said social worker Dharampal Saini and Gelam Boraiya, chief of the tribal body Gondwana Samaj, led the team of facilitators, who included six local journalists. “They had been talking to the Maoists for the jawan’s safe return,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. In a statement on Thursday night, CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh said: “On behalf of CRPF, I thank all those who have worked for his safe release. The constable Manhas is in good health and he has been subjected to mandatory detailed medical/health check-up immediately after his release.... He talked to his family members telephonically.” On Tuesday, the banned CPI (Maoist) had asked the government to pick a fresh mediator for their ongoing secret talks, sources in the security establishment said without elaborating. Twenty-two jawans were killed and 31 injured in a four-hour gun battle after a team of security personnel apparently walked into a Maoist trap on Saturday. Sources in the security establishment have alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders, but Kuldiep has denied any lapses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi radar archaeological survey ordered||A Varanasi court has asked the central government to conduct an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi area through radar technology, the directive coming on a 30-year-old petition that claimed a temple existed under the mosque at the site. A lawyer for the Muslim side said the order — on a controversy that carries echoes of the Ayodhya dispute — would be challenged in high court. The Gyanvapi mosque shares a compound with the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Sangh parivar outfits claim that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had got a part of the Kashi Vishwanath temple demolished in 1669 and had the mosque built over a well that contained a Shivalinga. Right-wing Hindu groups have long threatened to have the mosque razed to resurrect the supposedly buried temple. The agenda received a boost after November 2019 when the Supreme Court handed over to Hindus the disputed Ayodhya plot where a mob had pulled down the Babri Masjid, which the parivar claimed was built over a demolished Ram temple. On Thursday, civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari directed the survey, also asking the Archaeological Survey of India to form a five-member committee to monitor the exercise that will detect and map underground structures. The court was hearing a petition that local lawyer Vijay Shankar Rastogi had moved in 1991 on behalf of Lord Visheshwar Nath (Shiva). The case had been heard over 200 times by various judges since then, Rastogi says, before a district judge handed it over three years ago to a fast-track court that has now ruled on the matter. According to written history, Aurangzeb had been furious when the Maharani of Kutch was dishonoured during a visit to the temple and ordered demolition of a portion of the shrine. Queen Ahilyabai Holkar of Indore got the temple reconstructed in 1780. Two years ago, while laying the foundation stone for the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, a central scheme to renovate the shrine and beautify its neighbourhood, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that God had chosen him to finish what Queen Ahilyabai had started two centuries ago. He said Shiva had assigned him the task with the message: “Bete, batein bahut karte ho; aao idhar, kar ke dikhao (Son, you speak a lot; come here and prove yourself by doing something).” The Gyanvapi Anjuman Intezamiya (management) Committee has throughout the pendency of the court case alleged a Right-wing conspiracy to bring the mosque down. Abhay Nath, counsel for the Sunni Central Waqf Board, which is monitoring the case on the committee’s behalf, said: “We are not happy with the court order and will move the high court against it.” Rastogi said: “We believe the original temple was built by the legendary king Vikramaditya. Ahilyabai Holkar got the current Shivalinga installed in 1780.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court rider on Rohingya return||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that no Rohingya refugee from Jammu and Kashmir can be deported from the country unless the government follows the procedure prescribed under the law for the expulsion of illegal migrants. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde passed the direction while refusing to entertain a plea for a blanket stay on the possible deportation process of about 150-180 Rohingya Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir. “It is not possible to grant the interim relief. However, it is made clear that the Rohingya in Jammu on whose behalf the application has been moved shall not be deported unless the procedure prescribed for such deportation is followed,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. The government will have to proceed in line with the Foreigners Act, under which alleged illegal migrants have to be first identified and only then prosecuted before a tribunal. Only on being declared as “illegal migrants” by the tribunal can they be deported. The application has been moved by Samiullah Khan, a Rohingya refugee who had challenged the central government’s decision to deport thousands of Rohingya who had entered India from Myanmar following the political turmoil in the neighbouring country. The application has cited news reports to plead that since March 7 this year nearly 150-170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu have been illegally detained and jailed in the local sub-jail that has been converted into a holding centre. It had sought a restraint on the Union government from deporting the Rohingya, particularly from Jammu and Kashmir, following the reported biometric verification of such refugees by the administration of the Union Territory. The application had quoted inspector-general of police (Jammu) Mukesh Singh as stating that the refugees face deportation to Myanmar following verification by their embassy. According to the application, there have been reports that some refugees never returned to their camps after the biometric verification and had been detained or jailed by police. The alleged action was taken although most Rohingya refugees have cards issued by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) acknowledging their status and granting them protection. The application quoted media reports to point out how panic had gripped this already marginalised refugee community in Jammu after the verification drive and disappearance of family members. The applicant has prayed for directions from the court to release the refugees who have been detained. He has also pleaded for a direction to the Centre to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting Rohingya refugees and a direction to the UNHCR to intervene and assess the protection needs of the refugees. On March 26, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had assured the bench that the Rohingya refugees would not be deported unless the Myanmar government identified them and agreed to take them back. The 11th round of corps commander talks between India and China will take place on Friday morning amid reports from the ground that Beijing has so far not shown any intent to disengage from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Our Special Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-222
09-04-2021||India||Kickbacks in Rafale deal: French portal Mediapart||French online news portal Mediapart, which has been pursuing the cover-up in France of the misdeeds in the Rafale deal with India, on Thursday reported that Sushen Gupta, a defence dealer under investigation by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering in the AgustaWestland chopper scam, received “kickbacks” to influence the purchase of the 36 aircraft in flyaway condition. Citing the ED investigation, which said Gupta also “received kickbacks” to influence the result of “other defence deals”, the Mediapart report states it has information that one such deal is “the inter-governmental agreement signed in 2016 for the 7.8-billion-euro sale by France to India of 36 Rafale fighter aircraft, built by Dassault Aviation’’. In all these cases, ED had said the money was found to have transited through the same shell companies and the same types of “software consultancy” contracts used in the helicopter deal. As middleman for Dassault and Thales — a defence electronics firm in which Dassault and the French state are the major shareholders — Gupta obtained confidential documents from the Indian defence ministry relating to the activities of the negotiating team during the discussions on the Rafale deal in 2015, Mediapart said. In the first of its three-part series on the Rafale deal, Mediapart had disclosed that Gupta was involved in the deal though both the Indian and the French governments had stated that no middlemen were involved in this agreement. Mediapart reported that the French anti-corruption unit found that one million euros had been paid to Defsys Solutions — owned by Gupta’s family — by Dassault Aviation which it had failed to explain. In India, the Rafale deal has been mired in controversy ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it during his April 2015 visit to Paris, contradicting then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar’s official statement that the plan to purchase 126 French fighter jets would not be taken up for discussion during the visit. Not only did Modi announce a deal for 36 Rafales in a flyaway state, he also junked the earlier deal under which the bulk of the jets were supposed to be built in India in collaboration with the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. Further questions cropped up after the offset deal was given to Anil Ambani’s joint venture company with Dassault instead of HAL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Supreme Court upholds CBI probe on Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed the appeal filed by the Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh challenging the CBI probe ordered into allegations of extortion against him. Bombay High Court had ordered the probe by the central agency on former police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegation that Deshmukh had directed cops to extort Rs 100 crore every month from businesses and bars. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta, after hearing the arguments of senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Deshmukh and Abhishek Manu Singhvi for the Maharashtra government, upheld the CBI probe on the ground that the matter involved serious allegations against people of high standing. The court  pointed out that there was no business or political rivalry between Deshmukh and Singh. The Supreme Court order, dictated by Justice Kaul, said: “… We are of the view that the nature of allegations, the personas involved and the seriousness of the allegations do require an independent agency to inquire into the matter. It is a matter of public confidence, given the factual scenario. “We may also add that what has been directed is only a preliminary inquiry albeit by an independent agency. We are unable to accept the contentions… of Dr A.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel, that merely because the Home Minister has resigned after the impugned order would be a factor not to direct enquiry by an independent agency. “The two personas held post of Home Minister and Commissioner of Police for a long period and the latter would be a post of confidence of the former. Further, we are unable to accept the contention… of Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, that even for directing a preliminary inquiry, the petitioner Mr Anil Deshmukh is mandatorily entitled to be heard in his individual capacity even though the State Government was represented and he was a Minister at that time. “For the aforesaid reasons, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order(s). The special leave petitions are dismissed.” Sibal had submitted during the arguments that “it will be a sad day in this country if you uphold an order like this. Such an order cannot be passed behind my back.” He had said Singh’s PILs in Bombay High Court on the basis of which the CBI probe was ordered had been based merely on allegations and that no notice had been served on Deshmukh. “Setting criminal law in motion is fraught with serious consequences,” Sibal argued. The court orally observed: “All these problems are arising because of the fallout that has happened. Allegations are extremely serious and it has become curious and curious. In this scenario, is it not a CBI probe case?” The bench also said that the state was under an obligation to register an FIR as soon as the allegations surfaced. Further, Deshmukh did not resign even after a commission of inquiry was set up. It was only when the high court ordered a CBI probe that he chose to quit, the court observed. “Looking at the personas involved and the seriousness of the allegations, an independent inquiry is called for. You can’t say it affects the federal structure. This does not happen every day. Both have been made heads of institutions where something has gone wrong.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Maharashtra alleges Covid vaccine bias ||The Maharashtra government on Thursday alleged discrimination against the Opposition-ruled states with regard to the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and complained that smaller states such as Gujarat and Haryana had got far more doses despite the situation being grave in the state ruled by the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state had demanded 40 lakh doses for one week but was given merely 7.5 lakh doses. “The Centre has now increased the limit to 17 lakh, which is not enough. Many vaccination centres in the state have closed down due to shortage. We have raised the issue with the Centre on several occasions,” Tope added. He said states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana had been given more vaccines despite them having lesser population and lower number of Covid-19 cases. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Wednesday lashed out at Maharashtra, saying that the “attempts by some state governments to distract attention from their failures and spread panic among the people” were deplorable as the crisis was triggered because of their “lackadaisical attitude”. But Tope asserted that the state would run out of vaccines in three days and asked the Centre to send more stocks at the earliest. While vaccination centres in several states have been turning away people, the BJP-ruled states have not yet raised red flags like Maharashtra. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana and Jharkhand have reported vaccine shortage. Tope on Thursday said Maharashtra had only two days’ stock of Covid-19 vaccines. “Vaccination has stopped in districts such as Satara, Sangli and Panvel. There are many more districts where it has stopped. We have two more days of stock,” he said. He added, “I am not saying that the Centre is not giving us vaccines but the speed of delivery is slow.” Tope claimed that the state government was working on a war footing to increase the number of beds in Pune, Mumbai, Nasik and other parts of the state. The state has also demanded the inclusion of people in the age group of 20-40 years in the vaccination campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Post-vaccine Covid cases ‘not a surprise’||People who test Covid-19 positive after one dose or even two doses of the vaccines shouldn’t be surprised, according to medical experts who say the current vaccines are primarily designed to protect people from severe disease and deaths. Amid the nationwide vaccination campaign that has administered over 92 million doses, including both doses to 11.5 million people, some vaccinated people, including over two dozen doctors at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, have been detected as Covid-19 positive. But medical experts say the current Covid-19 vaccines are intended to generate immune responses that will prevent the coronavirus from causing severe disease after people have been exposed to it. Some vaccine recipients subsequently exposed to the infection may develop some symptoms such as mild fever. “The vaccines’ primary purpose is to prevent damage to the lungs and blood vessels,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. At least 39 doctors at KGMU, including vice-chancellor Bipin Puri, have tested Covid-19 positive this week, including 17 who had received their second doses by March-end. Recipients of both doses elsewhere, including Calcutta, Delhi and Manipal, have also tested positive. “Such an unusual number of infected people at one place will require an epidemiological investigation,” a community medicine specialist in Delhi said. Such reports circulating widely across social media have at times prompted questions about vaccine efficacy from potential recipients. But experts say people testing positive after vaccination should not deter anyone from taking whatever vaccine is available. “It only means they were infected with the coronavirus after being vaccinated — that’s not surprising,” said Shailendra Saxena, head of the Centre for Advanced Research at the KGMU. “These vaccines do not prevent an individual from being infected.” Given this risk of infection, health guidelines in India and other countries recommend that even fully vaccinated recipients should keep taking precautions such as wearing masks, staying six feet away from others, avoiding crowds and washing their hands. Genome sequencing efforts have revealed the emergence of new coronavirus variants in India but Saxena and other medical experts say there is no evidence yet to suggest that the new strains might be causing reinfections in people already infected or in vaccine recipients. Medical researchers also point out that all vaccines come with a specific level of protective efficacy. Clinical trials have suggested that Covishield has an efficacy of about 71 per cent while Covaxin has an efficacy of about 81 per cent. Those values indicate that despite two doses, small fractions of individual recipients do not show adequate immune responses to protect them from the infection. However, the trials have suggested that all recipients are likely protected from severe disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Covid surge: Students running out of patience ||⚫ JNU is holding an inquiry against 12 students for allegedly barging into closed reading rooms. ⚫ First-year students of South Asian University (SAU) are boycotting their online classes over withheld scholarships and freeships. ⚫ Delhi University students are campaigning for the campus to be reopened and the students vaccinated against Covid. Students fearful of the Covid resurgence spoiling another academic year have gone on the warpath, demanding universities reopen campuses for in-person classes and the Centre relax its over-45-only policy to vaccinate them. The students’ frustration at what they see as the authorities’ rigidity has led to certain unusual situations. For instance, JNU reopened the reading rooms at its main library two days after several research students forcibly entered them on March 10 –– indirectly acknowledging the justice of the students’ demand –– but has started an inquiry against 12 students in connection with the act. JNU had allowed its research students back into the campus a few months ago but reopened the main library only for lending books. It kept the reading rooms, which have wi-fi facility, shut citing the Covid protocol. This week, 12 students received a notice from the proctor’s office to appear before an inquiry and explain the March 10 “indiscipline” and violation of Covid rules. “We didn’t do any damage; a few students entered the reading rooms forcibly,” Kaushik Rai, a PhD student, said. “When the students were ready to follow (social-distancing) protocols, there was no reason to deny them (entry into the reading rooms). This action (inquiry) is uncalled for.” Rai said he had merely protested outside the library on March 10 but had still received the notice, accusing him of forced entry. An email to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar seeking the reasons for the closure of the reading rooms till the March 10 protest has remained unanswered. The 200-odd first-year students of SAU, an international university in Delhi for students from Saarc countries, have been boycotting their online classes for the past two weeks. All research students at SAU are entitled to scholarships of Rs 25,000 a month apart from free accommodation. Most of the master’s students get either a freeship, under which they are reimbursed the tuition and hostel fees, or a scholarship –– which means a freeship plus Rs 5,000 a month. The first-year students, admitted online last October, are yet to receive their scholarships or freeships. “The university has decided to confirm the admissions only after ‘physical verification’ (students coming in person with their documents),” a student who didn’t want to be identified said. The students allege the university has not set a timetable for physical verification and has, instead, precluded such verification by requesting the Indian missions in the Saarc countries via the foreign ministry not to issue visas to the first-year students. “So we are provisional students now, and are not getting our dues,” the student who requested anonymity said. An email to SAU president (equivalent to a vice-chancellor elsewhere) Ranjan Kumar Mohanty about the students’ complaint has brought no response yet. Delhi University students began an online campaign two weeks ago seeking reopening of the campus and Covid vaccination. “The university should facilitate vaccination for the students,” Surendra Singh, a student, said. Under the Centre’s current policy, those under 45 can be Covid-vaccinated only if they are healthcare or frontline workers. On Tuesday, the government’s top health officials rejected calls from some doctors and state governments to vaccinate all adults. JNU student N. Sai Balaji said that university students across the country were demanding vaccination and the resumption of in-person classes. About 30 students of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication here have been demonstrating in front of the institution for a few hours every day over the past four days demanding resumption of physical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||PM averse to Covid vaccine age shift and full lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday rejected demands to start vaccinating people aged below 45 and ruled out a nationwide lockdown, urging chief ministers to focus on testing and earmarking small containment zones to arrest the Covid resurgence afflicting many states. Modi’s comments came at a virtual meeting with the chief ministers, many of whom demanded relaxing the age criterion for Covid vaccination, which is now 45 years or above. The Prime Minister acknowledged that the emerging situation posed a “serious concern” but advised the chief ministers to concentrate on “test, track, treat” instead of turning the entire focus on vaccination. “Test, track, treat, Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid management: we have to focus on these,” the Prime Minister said. Ruling out a countrywide lockdown like last year, Modi advised the chief ministers to set up “micro-containment zones”. Modi appeared to suggest the country lacked enough vaccines to relax the age criterion. “Developed countries of the world, who have all the resources, even they have fixed criteria for vaccination. India isn’t different from them,” he said. “You know how much vaccine is manufactured. It’s not that big factories can be set up overnight. Whatever is available, we have to prioritise.” Modi added that one state couldn’t be given priority, a likely snub to worst-hit Maharashtra’s demand for more vaccines. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Wednesday lashed out at Opposition-ruled Maharashtra after its health minister complained of a vaccine shortage, alleging that the state’s “lackadaisical attitude” was “bogging down” the country’s Covid fight. Modi insisted that aggressive testing was the only way to battle the current surge. Modi favoured night curfews, a measure whose effectiveness in combating Covid has been widely questioned. The Prime Minister asserted the whole world had accepted the idea of night curfews and suggested they be called “corona curfews” to spread awareness. “A curfew makes people remember they are living in the age of (the) corona(virus). It’s good that we promote the night curfew as ‘corona curfew’,” he said. Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, who had been one of the chief ministers at the meeting to stress the need for immunising people younger than 45 who go out to work, later took the demand to the public arena. “Request flexibility to states to devise local vaccination strategy within broad parameters of Centre’s approach,” Amarinder tweeted, saying he had written to the Prime Minister about this. “Also need to immunise youngsters in high risk areas & patients of liver and kidney disease below 45.” Modi, however, prodded the chief ministers to instead ensure that everyone above 45 was vaccinated. The Prime Minister suggested a “tika utsav” (vaccine festival) between April 11 and 14, but only for the “eligible section” of the over-45. He said this would boost the vaccination drive and reduce wastage. Modi underscored that April 11 was the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule and April 14 that of Babasaheb Ambedkar. For the below-45, the Prime Minister suggested they focus on following the Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and observing social distancing. He also urged the youth to encourage those above 45 to get vaccinated and to spread awareness about the need to follow the pandemic protocols. “If our youth follow the Covid protocols and inspire others to (do so), you will see that we can again come down from the peak,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Bihar police arrest six for killing five persons last month||Bihar police have arrested six persons from near the Indo-Nepal border here in connection with the killing of five persons last month, an incident dubbed as a “caste war” by the media and “massacre” by the Opposition. All the six persons, including the alleged mastermind Praveen Jha, were arrested from a village in Bisfi police station area on Wednesday, said Madhubani superintendent of police Satya Prakash. Those arrested were allegedly involved in gunning down five persons, including four brothers, belonging to the Rajput caste, in a village under Benipatti police station on March 29. Prakash maintained that the incident that took place on Holi had followed a dispute over catching fish from a pond. However, some media reports said the mass killing was a fall out of a protracted struggle for supremacy among the two dominant castes — Brahmins and Rajputs — in the area. The Opposition RJD had latched on the issue to train its guns at the Nitish Kumar government and claimed that the police was trying to “shield” the killers since they enjoyed the patronage of a powerful local BJP leader. The Opposition party, which was often criticised for massacres carried out by rival Maoist groups and private armies of landlords while it ruled the state, has contended that the “carnage” in Madhubani was proof that “jungle raj” prevailed in Bihar. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who had earlier this week travelled to Benipatti to console the family members of the deceased, exultingly posted on Twitter that “police announced the arrests just 10 minutes ahead of a press conference where we were going to expose the collusion between the administration and the perpetrators. This is the power of the opposition”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||India||Video shows Kamal Hasan trying to poke a reporter with walking stick||A video has emerged showing Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan purportedly trying to poke a reporter of a TV channel with his walking stick. According to Coimbatore Press Club sources, the reporter was videographing Haasan arriving at a polling centre in the Coimbatore South constituency on Tuesday from where he is a candidate. Haasan, a veteran actor, reportedly did not like being videographed and pointed the lower end of his walking stick at the neck of the reporter and tried to poke him with it, the sources said. The reporter, however, did not react and left. The video has been widely shared on social media. Coimbatore Press Club has demanded an apology from Haasan and threatened legal action against the actor turned politician, the sources said. Haasan has been using a walking stick after he had a surgery on his leg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission removes Mamata Banerjee's security officer ||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Friday removed an SP rank officer posted in the security of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, an official said. The step against Asoke Chakraborty, an officer on special duty (OSD) in an ex-cadre post in the rank of superintendent of police, is believed to have been taken because of "security lapses" which led to Banerjee's foot injury in Nandigram last month, he said. "He is removed from the post with immediate effect," the official in the state CEO's office said. Banerjee suffered the injury after a fall while campaigning in her constituency Nandigram on March 10. Since then, she is seeking votes for her party sitting on a wheelchair. The poll panel earlier suspended Banerjee's Director Security Vivek Sahay following the incident. The EC, in an order, also attached Ajeet Singh Yadav, SP of Counter Insurgency Force, to the Howrah Police Commissionerate, "in view of the sensitivity of the assembly election in Howrah district in phase 4" on Saturday. The officer, who is directed to report to the Commissioner of Police of Howrah immediately, "will be released after completion of the duty," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Darjeeling is searching for the 'better' enemy ||Since February 7, Sumendra Tamang and his friends have been campaigning in the Darjeeling hills, the terai and dooars areas, talking to workers in the and cinchona gardens, landless labourers and farm-hands, explaining to them why they must not vote for the BJP. They are singing songs and enacting plays at street corners in front of harried tea workers taking a break during lunch hour and laterin the evenings, outside bustees in the plains and hills. “We are trying to find out who the better enemy is,” says Tamang, a 30-year-old economics graduate from Jadavpur University who now describes himself as an "anti-Fascist activist". Tamang’s organisation, "Laali Guras (Red Rhododendrons)", is a part of the Shramjeevi Adhikaar Abhiyaan (Workers Rights Movement) which has been at the forefront of the campaign against the BJP. “Fascism itself means little to the people. So, we tell them about the laws and the impact it will have on their lives. Fascism comes in many forms,” says the 30-year-old. Out of the 14 seats in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri that go to the polls in the fourth phase on Saturday, along with 30 others in south Bengal, the BJP had led in 12 of the Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This territory in North Bengal had marked itself saffron in 2019 cashing in on resentment brewing among the myriad communities that have made their homes there since 1835 when the Bannackburn and the Lingia tea estates were formed in Darjeeling. A survey carried out by the Bengal government’s labour department in 2013 stated 1.86 lakh families were residing in the tea estates of Darjeeling, terai and dooars. “We in the Hills are aware of what is going on in the rest of the country. The new farm laws, the labour laws, NRC all of these impact us directly… Two days back, the Kurseong BJP nominee said NRC will not impact Gorkhas. But, in Assam the Gorkhas have been delisted,” says Tamang. Like in the rest of Bengal, the CPM’s 34-year-old uninterrupted reign is still fresh in the minds of the people in the Hills, Dooars and Terai. They have also seen the decade-long Mamata Banerjee government, which came riding on an anti-CPM wave with a bagful of promises. They are also seeing the Narendra Modi government at work in the Centre, which now promises "Asol poriborton” and “Sonar Bangla” _ something that means little to a daily wage earner who goes home to his wife and children with a meagre Rs 176 in hand. One of the songs Tamang's group sing goes like this. “Gaon gaon bata utha, bustee bustee bata utha, yu des ko muhaar phernalai utha” (Rise from the villages, rise from the houses, rise to change the face of this country).” Tamang speaks about three of the most important legislations introduced by the Narendra Modi government and how it could impact their lives. “In the Trinamul-BJP binary, opposing one does not mean supporting the other. We are talking about the policies. The farm laws, the four labour codes, the NRC,” he says. Two days ago, Kurseong BJP nominee B.P. Bajgai had declared that if even one report could be produced to prove that one lakh Gurkhas had been excluded from the NRC in Assam, he would not contest the polls. He was trying to counter the fear of the "doubtful voter" tag in Assam. In Assam, around 23,000 Gorkhas have been marked "D" or doubtful voters. In case the head of a family is marked a "doubtful voter", all family members are excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC). This fear has percolated among the Gorkhas, Muslims and also a section of the Hindus about their status as citizens if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. “Most of the people don’t have birth certificates. The parja-patta (land documents) they don’t have. Seventy per cent of the people here will turn into refugees overnight if the NRC is implemented,” says Tamang. The BJP in its campaign in Bengal has stressed on implementation of the NRC, while chief minister Mamata Banerjee has remained steadfast in her opposition. In October 2020, a petition was sent to the chief minister demanding the minimum wage, pending since 2014, be fixed. Like the competitive communalism the BJP and Trinamul have been engaged in, there is also a competition for promises. In February, the Modi government announced a Rs 1000crore package for the tea industry in North Bengal and Assam in the Union budget. The following day, Mamata announced concrete houses for all tea garden workers in three years. There is no clarity whether this scheme would benefit the 50,000-odd workers in the 14 closed tea gardens and their families. Last July amidst the nationwide loockdown, almost a lakh small tea gardens in North Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar provided a hike of Rs 9 to  workers, raising their daily wage to Rs 159. Voters in these parts will keep the nine rupees in mind when they go to the polling booths on Saturday. In Assam, around 23,000 Gorkhas have been marked as D (Doubtful) voters. In case the head of a family is marked "doubtful voter" the names of his family members are excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The fear has percolated amongst the Gorkhas, Muslims and also a section of the Hindus about their status as citizens if the BJP comes to power in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Will keep talking about CPRF meddling till it stops working for BJP, says Mamata||Reacting sharply to the notice served on her by the Election Commission of India for her comments over central forces intimidating voters, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit out at the poll panel, saying that she would continue speaking about CRPF interference till it stops working for the BJP. Iterating that the ECI was working at the behest of the BJP, Banerjee said, the prime minister campaigns on polling days, yet there is no ruling that he has violated the Model Code of Conduct (MCC). Speaking at a rally at Jamalpur in Purba Bardhaman, the TMC chief said, "I will continue speaking about interference by CPRF till it stops working for the BJP. Will salute the force, once it does. I do not care anything about your (ECI's) showcause letters." The chief minister also accused the ECI of "not listening to the TMC but following whatever the BJP is saying". Banerjee said, she is also campaigning on election days because the prime minister does so. "Why are you (PM) having 'Pariksha pe charcha' in Bengal where assembly elections are being held? Is it not a violation of MCC?" she asked. The ECI on Thursday issued a notice to the Bengal chief minister on Thursday night for her "completely false, provocative and intemperate statements" against central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state, saying her remarks are demoralising the personnel. The notice issued on Thursday night said Banerjee prima facie violated various sections of the Indian Penal Code with her remarks against the central forces. Banerjee has been asked to reply by Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s anger on central forces exposes her fear of losing polls, claims Shah||Coming down hard on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday her fulminations against central forces betrayed frustration over "impending defeat" in the Assembly elections. He exuded confidence that the BJP will win anywhere between 63 and 68 seats where polling has been held in the first three phases. Polling is over in 91 of the state's 294- Assembly constituencies in the three phases. "I have never seen a chief minister or the president of a political party use the kind of words Mamata Banerjee is using against central forces. Is she trying to create anarchy? Does she want disturbance? "I want her to have some common sense. She should know that central forces do not function under the home ministry during elections. They are under the control of the Election Commission," he told a press conference. Shah was responding to the TMC supremo's claim of CAPF personnel harassing and intimidating electors, and asking them to vote for the BJP at the behest of Shah and the home ministry. He said Mamata’s appeal for minority unity to prevent division of their votes shows minority voters were drifting away from the TMC. People of Bengal are peeved about Mamata Banerjee's failure to check infiltration, her protest against the CAA and appeasement politics, Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||EC notice to Mamata over remark on central forces||The Election Commission (EC) has issued a notice to West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee for her alleged statements against central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state. The notice issued on Thursday night said Banerjee prima facie violated various sections of the Indian Penal Code with her remarks against the central forces. The chief minister has been asked to respond to the notice by 11 am on Saturday. The EC said prima facie, the completely false, provocative and intemperate statements by Banerjee attempted to berate and vilify central paramilitary forces during the electoral process. Mamata on Thursday apprehended that a section of central paramilitary forces may visit villages to intimidate people and asked voters to be on guard. While addressing a public meeting at Balagarh in Hooghly district, Mamata had alleged central forces were working on instructions of the "Union Home Ministry run by Amit Shah." "I have respect for the central paramilitary forces but they are working on instructions from Delhi. They are committing atrocities on villagers before polling day, some of them are even harassing women. They are asking people to vote for BJP. We will not allow this to continue," the TMC chief said. The TMC supremo also called upon the state police force 'to keep vigil and not to bow their heads before Delhi.' "Your job is to ensure free and fair polls, please be stern with trouble makers and keep your integrity intact," she had said. Asking villagers to lodge FIRs at local police station in case of any excess committed by central forces, the chief minister had said, "If the police station refuses to accept the FIRs, inform us".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Abhishek Banerjee pits ‘words’ against ‘work done’||Trinamul MP and party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday underscored the “hollow promises” of BJP leaders and compared them with the “commitments met” by the Mamata Banerjee government during the past 10 years. Abhishek was in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts to attend public meetings as the campaign ended in these districts where elections would be held on April 10. “You want free bhason (empty speeches) from outsiders or free ration provided by Banglar nijer meye (Bengal’s own girl)? These people, who were never seen during the Covid 19 crisis, have now become daily commuters and are turning up here in Bengal every day. But people will never stand in their support as they are known for making hollow promises,” the youth Trinamul leader said at a public meeting in Kumargram Assembly seat of Alipurduar. In north Bengal, where the saffron camp had managed to win seven of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party are trying to drive home the point that even though the region elected BJP MPs, the central government and the MPs failed to deliver these past two years. Abhishek also underlined the revision of tea wages and other initiatives taken by the state government during the past 10 years and questioned what the BJP has done for the tea sector. In Alipurduar district, results of four out of five seats depend on support of the tea population. In north Bengal overall, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of 15-odd Assembly seats. “When Mamata Banerjee came to power, the daily tea wage was Rs 67. It is Rs 202 now. Additionally, the state government has facilitated the reopening of a number of closed tea gardens, while the central government that had committed to take over some of the closed gardens has not done anything about it so far. It is clear who meets the commitments and who makes promises but never meets them,” said the Trinamul MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. Abhishek assured the crowd that if his party was voted to power, wages of tea workers would be revised in due course. The BJP too, is trying to woo the tea population, announcing that if it came to power in Bengal, daily tea wage would be hiked to Rs 350. Later in the day, in Tufanganj area of Cooch Behar district, Abhishek dubbed the BJP leaders “migratory birds”. “People should choose whether they want the parijayi pakkhi (migratory birds) or Lokkhi (goddess Lakshmi). It is the time to make a decision. If they come to power, they would take five years to do a job that can be done in seven days,” said Abhishek. Along with Abhishek, Trinamul brought in actors-turned-politicians Soham Chakraborty and Sayantika Banerjee. They held road shows to support party candidates, Alipurduar’s Sourav Chakraborty, and Falakata, Subhas Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Owaisi flags TMC-BJP ‘tacit understanding’ ||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday accused Trinamul and the BJP of a “tacit understanding”, and said his party never compromised on its anti-BJP stand, at public meetings in North Dinajpur and Malda. Both these north Bengal districts have sizeable Muslim populations. In recent months, the AIMIM — which won five Assembly seats last year in Bihar’s Seemanchal area near Bengal — is focussing on Bengal areas near Bihar. “It seems Owaisi plans to repeat his Bihar gains on this side of the border,” said a political observer. So far, the AIMIM has decided to field candidates in Itahar (North Dinajpur) and Malatipur (Malda), along with a couple of other seats in Murshidabad, another district with a high minority concentration. “You voted Trinamul to defeat the BJP in 2019. But your bid ended in vain as some Trinamul workers voted for BJP. Leaders of these parties have a tacit understanding. Now that I am vocal, Mamata Banerjee is accusing me of taking money from the BJP to contest in Bengal. Trinamul can’t thwart the BJP. The best option is AIMIM. We have never compromised on our anti-BJP stand,” Owaisi said in Malatipur. Earlier in Itahar, he came up with figures to cite how the community, around 28 per cent of Bengal’s populace, suffered in Bengal. “Around 20 per cent of Muslim children are still out of schools and colleges. Also, 80 per cent of Muslims who live here earn a maximum of Rs 5,000 a month and among them 38 per cent earn Rs 2,500. Only 3 per cent make around Rs 15,000 a month. It is a clear indication of what the Congress, Left and Trinamul have done for them (Muslims) in Bengal,” he said. Trinamul leaders sounded unperturbed. “People are well aware of his tricks and intentions…. he does not have any influence or support base in Bengal. Those who went to his meetings did so merely out of curiosity. Whatever he has said is far from the truth,” said Mausam Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief. Murder in market A farmer was hacked to death by his brother-in-law at Jajoil area under Habibpur police station of Malda on Thursday morning. Police have arrested the accused from the spot. Sources said Bifal Mandal,38, was hacked in public by his brother-in-law Ukil Mandal when the former at a weekly market in the locality. “The deceased had a scuffle with his wife on Wednesday night and she left for her brother Ukil’s house. In the morning, as Bifal went to market, Ukil, a barber, attacked him with a sharp weapon,” said a police officer. People caught Ukil and rished Bifal to a local hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Police were told and they arrested Ukil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Fresh attacks on TMC and BJP workers||A group of BJP workers, who were taking part in a procession in support of their Labhpur nominee, allegedly pelted stones at a Trinamul party office “without provocation” and damaged around six motorcycles kept outside the office in Sainthia on Thursday morning. BJP denied this allegation and instead said Trinamul workers had attacked them. Sources said senior Trinamul leaders in Sainthia — some areas of which fall under the Labhpur Assembly seat — had called up a meeting at the party office at Sangra village on Thursday morning. Simultaneously, BJP supporters took out a procession for their Labhpur nominee Biswajit Mondal. Trinamul leaders alleged that a group of BJP workers broke away from the procession and attacked the party office by pelting stones and ransacked around six motorbikes that were parked outside. “Without any provocation, the BJP workers attacked our party office and ransacked motorbikes. Four of our workers were injured in the attack and several motorbikes damaged. As the BJP is fearing defeat, their party workers are resorting to violence,” said Abhijit Sinha, a Trinamul vice-president of Birbhum district and the party’s Labhpur nominee. The BJP district leadership, however, alleged that Trinamul was the first to attack the BJP procession when it was passing by the Trinamul office. “Trinamul was the first to attack on us and they also harassed our women workers. Our supporters spontaneously reacted to the Trinamul attack. We have also lodged a police complaint,” said Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum district president. Birbhum superintendent of police Meeraj Khalid said that the police had started a case and have arrested four persons in this connection. BJP nominee thrashed BJP’s Haroa candidate Rajendra Saha was allegedly assaulted by suspected Trinamul supporters at the Lebutala area of Haroa in North 24-Parganas district on Thursday evening. Saha was allegedly punched and thrashed by a group of Trinamul supporters when he was speaking to party workers after an election meeting. At least six party workers were injured in the attack and five vehicles of Saha’s campaign team were vandalised. The injured BJP workers have been admitted to Haroa Rural Hospital. As news of the attack spread, angry BJP supporters demonstrated against alleged police inaction. Refuting the allegations of thrashing the BJP candidate, Trinamul leader Hafiz Ahmed said: “It was actually a clash between the BJP’s old and new factions. Trinamul supporters had no role in this incident.” BJP candidate Saha, however, said Trinamul attacked him and his aides out of insecurity. “It was a planned attack by the ruling party in the state because it is afraid of losing support in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Molest slur on central armed police force jawan||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the Bengal chief election officer, seeking immediate steps against a central armed police force jawan accused of molesting a minor girl in Hooghly district on April 5 night, a day before he served on election duty in potential violation of the law. Sources said a 15-year-old girl had allegedly been dragged into a school and molested by the jawan who was posted there for election duty. The sources said the chairperson of the WBCPCR, Ananya Chakraborti, had visited the home of the girl on Wednesday after being informed of the incident. Police did not arrest the accused jawan and allowed him to leave despite the commission’s directive to the law enforcers not to do so. In its letter to the Election Commission, the child rights panel accused the police of not starting the case under the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act. The letter claimed it was a threat to other women that the jawan was allowed to leave for duty. “If the victim is a minor, it is mandatory to start a case under Pocso Act and the accused should be arrested immediately. I personally met the victim who told me that she had ghastly been molested by the jawan who even offered money to her. We are surprised that police can treat such a serious case so lightly,” said Chakraborti who added  another letter had been sent to the police seeking the reason for not starting the case. Amandeep, the superintendent of police of Hooghly rural district, however claimed the allegation was that the CAPF jawan had tried to molest the girl and the probe was going on according to norms. “The process of identification is over and the girl’s statement has been recorded. Today (Thursday), she was sent to court to record her statement in front of a judicial magistrate.” Asked why the jawan had not been arrested, the SP said: “The complaint was that the jawan tried to molest the girl.” Chakraborti, however, said: “It is horrible if the SP speaks like that. I met the girl who told me how a gruesome assault was carried out on her. She was complaining of illness too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission flying squad attacked, BJP blamed||A magistrate-level officer in charge of an Election Commission flying squad was assaulted allegedly by a group of BJP supporters at Hanskhali in Nadia on Wednesday night. Suman Mallick, an inspector of cooperative societies, was assaulted around 7.30pm when he was leading the flying squad in removing party flags from public space at Gournagar. Sources said Mallick had also been deputed to investigate complaints lodged with the C-vigil mobile app. “His accompanying team fled immediately upon seeing the BJP goons turn violent,” said an eyewitness. Hanskhali block development officer Amitabha Bhattacharya was reportedly informed about the attack immediately and rushed to the site. Hanskhali police said they had initiated a case against 20 unidentified persons on Thursday afternoon on the basis of a complaint lodged by the BDO. The BDO said a police team accompanying the flying squad had fled when the mob was beating up Mallick. According to local sources and the police, about 20 BJP supporters vandalised the flying squad’s vehicle as well. A member of the team who fled the attack said: “We were executing instructions of the commission regarding a complaint of illegally affixed flags at public places. Accordingly, we were removing the illegally planted flags from various public places in Mayurhat panchayat when BJP supporters tried to prevent us.” “Soumitra Debnath, a video photographer accompanying the squad, was also beaten up severely. He was admitted to a hospital,” the squad member added. Krishnaganj BJP candidate and incumbent MLA Ashis Kumar Biswas rejected the involvement of his party in the incident. “The local BDO has been playing a proactive role in implicating BJP supporters according to the instruction of Trinamul leaders so that they can get clear ground on the day of the election.” On Thursday evening, the BJP lodged a complaint with EC, accusing the Hanskhali BDO of “prejudicial” and “biased” behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Uproar over BJP candidate Bajgain’s NRC remark||BJP candidate from Kurseong B.P. Bajgain’s statement that the process of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam has not affected 1 lakh Gorkhas there has triggered condemnation from the community of the neighbouring state. Bajgain, at a public meeting at Monteviot in Kurseong on Wednesday, said: “In Assam, the NRC has been implemented, has any Gorkha said that this has caused (them) suffering? They (the Opposition) are saying one lakh Gorkhas have been affected. If (the Opposition) can place even one report about 1 lakh Gorkhas, I will not contest the election.” Nanda Kirati Dewan of Assam, the president of the apolitical Bharatiya Gorkha Yuwa Parisangh, was among the first to condemn the statement late on Wednesday. The issue became a talking point on Thursday, but Bajgain said he stood by what he said. “I have said if anyone can provide me a list of 1 lakh Gorkhas (in Assam) who have been affected by the NRC, I won’t contest polls. The figure of the affected Gorkhas is much less,” he said. Non-BJP politicians were trying to “demonise the NRC”, Bajgain claimed, adding NRC-enlisted Gorkhas would never be doubted on their citizenship in future. Dewan, over the phone from Guwahati, said Bajgain’s statement was misleading and demanded an apology. “He clearly said not a single Gorkha was affected,” Dewan said, referring to the first part of Bajgain’s statement where he had asked if any Gorkha complained. “This is a misleading and an irresponsible statement. The process of documentation is difficult.” Dewan said 23,000 Gorkhas had been earmarked Doubtful (D) voters. “If the head of a family is classified as a D-voter, his family members don’t find their names in the NRC. That’s why Gorkha outfits in Assam are coming to the conclusion that 1 lakh Gorkhas have been affected by the process,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Back TMC or get off government land, minister tells monk||State tourism minister Gautam Deb, considered north Bengal’s tallest Trinamul leader, on Thursday seemed to lose his cool while campaigning in his Dabgram-Fulbari constituency. Deb, in Thakurnagar area on Siliguri outskirts in Jalpaiguri district, was heard telling a monk that if he supported Trinamul, he would be allowed to stay on, but support to the saffron camp would amount to his eviction. Deb said this in front of a small ashram run by a monk, Sudhakrishna Das Goswami, on government land near Eastern Bypass that skirts Siliguri. He later defended his statement by alleging that RSS activities went on inside the ashram. “You are residing on government land…if you support us, we will extend all help to you… but if you back the BJP, you have to face eviction. I am Gautam Deb and what I say I do,” Deb was heard telling Goswami. Goswami, who appeared baffled, mumbled that he was a “simple monk and not into political activities”. The minister, however, went on: “Sitting on a government land, such political practices might be carried out in Modi’s state (Gujarat)… but it won’t be allowed in Bengal.” Contacted later, the monk said he has been staying at the ashram for past five-six years. “I am not into political activities. The ashram’s doors are open for all. At times, people who assemble here do start political discussions but I have no connection with them. I have no inkling why he (the state tourism minister) passed such remarks at me,” he said. Sikha Chatterjee, the BJP candidate, was quick to react. She alleged that over the years, some local Trinamul leaders helped many people to settle on government land in exchange of money. “Ironically, a Trinamul leader is threatening (one of) them to face eviction. We have a good number of supporters in the locality. We believe the minister’s reaction is a sudden outburst of his frustration,” she said. With the BJP drumming up the issue, Deb tried to clarify his comments. “We have information that the premises in which that person (Goswami) lives, is being used by the RSS for training. Also, secret meetings of the BJP are being held in the location. That is why I made it clear that such political activities can’t be carried out by encroaching on a government plot. I do not think there has been any violation of the model code of conduct,” he said. In Dabgram-Fulbari seat spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of Jalpaiguri, the contest between Trinamul and BJP is heating up. In 2011, Deb won with a margin of 11,236 votes. In 2016, he won with an even bigger margin of 23,811 votes. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got a lead of 86,117 votes. This election promises to reveal which trend — of 2016 or 2019 — proves enduring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Yogi promises 'anti-Romeo squads' if party voted to power||The BJP takes pride in not naming a candidate for chief minister in Bengal but Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is already behaving like Bengal’s chief minister-designate, spoiling to impose elements of his cultural nationalism on the state. Adityanath, who has been flagging his pet themes such as the so-called “love jihad”, “illegal” cow slaughter and cattle smuggling on the campaign trail in Bengal, went a step further on Thursday to promise anti-Romeo squads in the eastern state if the BJP was voted to power. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister bragged that “posters of rioters” were put up in his state and their properties confiscated, referring to the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in late 2019 and early 2020. If such repressive measures are enforced in Bengal, the consequences can be devastating for a state known for dissent and protest. “There will be anti-Romeo squads for goons who roam about in front of the schools of sisters and daughters,” Adityanath told an election rally in the Champdani Assembly constituency in Hooghly. The Bengal BJP manifesto does not mention anything about the discredited squad being replicated in the state. A brainchild of Adityanath, the Anti-Romeo Squad was a wing of the Uttar Pradesh police that was tasked with protecting women but ended up facing allegations of hounding, harassing and extorting money from couples and lovers spending time in parks. Within two months of its formation in March 2017, the squad had booked more than 200 consenting pairs who were found walking or sitting together. In Lucknow, the squad was accused of harassing a father and his daughter at the gate of a mall. Tejvir Singh, a sub-inspector who headed one such squad in Rampur, was allegedly caught by some children trying to outrage the modesty of a six-year-old child. The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Romeo Squad was active for about eight months and then became defunct. In October 2018, Prashant Chaudhary and Sandeep Kumar Rana, two constables who were part of the defunct squad, were arrested for shooting at and killing Vivek Tiwari, an executive of Apple company, at 2am. Tiwari was shot while giving a lift to a female colleague in his SUV before returning home from a late-night party, held to mark the launch of a mobile phone. A group of women activists had released a joint statement in April 2017 condemning the activities of the squad. “In many cases, these ‘anti-Romeo squads’ have become an even greater source of harassment and fear for women and men, which has even been acknowledged by the director-general of police, Uttar Pradesh…,” the statement read. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 59,853 cases of crime against women were reported in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, the highest among all the states. Adityanath’s promise drew outrage and derision in Bengal. Bratya Basu, minister and Trinamul Congress spokesperson, minced no words: “He is more of a fool, one you would find in a Shakespearean play. Such squads are just not possible in a civil society. They remind one of the Nazi troops.” Kaninika Ghosh (Bose), CPM women’s wing leader, wanted to remind Adityanath of the “ill fate” of women in Uttar Pradesh. “This man should just be the RSS poster boy and take care of his state first. His state ranks first on the list of crimes against women. One can’t just say anything one wants to in Bengal,” Kaninika said. She added that in future, there would be “anti-RSS squads” in Bengal. Adityanath took a jibe at Mamata Banerjee over the anti-CAA protests in the state. He said Trinamul workers supported the anti-CAA protests since Mamata considered the protesters her vote bank. “In UP, posters of the rioters were put up and their property confiscated,” the chief minister boasted, referring to a controversial crackdown that ran into allegations of torture during the height of the protests against the citizenship regime. In his first public meeting in poll-bound Bengal in early March, Adityanath had said that cow slaughter and “love jihad” had increased in Bengal because of the Trinamul Congress’s indulgence in appeasement politics. “Incidents of love jihad are taking place in the state through fraud and deceit. There is a law against love jihad in Uttar Pradesh. But in West Bengal, where the state government is indulging in the politics of appeasement, it’s neither curbing cattle smuggling nor the dangerous incidents of love jihad,” Adityanath had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: 16 held for attack on Dilip Ghosh in Cooch Behar||Sixteen persons were arrested for attacking Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on Wednesday evening. District police and administration have sent separate reports to the Election Commission and senior state police officers on the attack on Ghosh’s convoy. He had suffered minor injuries in the attack. On Wednesday, suspected Trinamul supporters attacked BJP members who were attending a public meeting. Ghosh, who was present, alleged the Trinamul activists had lobbed bombs and ransacked a number of cars. Again, while he was moving out of Sitalkuchi, stones and bricks were thrown at his vehicle and some other cars. The incident had prompted the BJP to organise protests in different parts of Bengal, including Calcutta. “In total, 15 vehicles were ransacked. We have heard 16 persons were arrested and hope the police and the Election Commission will take steps for law and order during and after the polls,” district BJP secretary Sanjoy Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Brickbats hit tail of Mithun Chakraborty road show||A car trailing a road show of the BJP’s star campaigner, actor Mithun Chakraborty, was allegedly attacked with brickbats in Howrah’s Domjur on Thursday. The saffron party claimed that Trinamul goons were behind the attack. Chakraborty, who joined the BJP last month, on Thursday was at Bankra in Domjur to campaign for Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee, who before he joined the BJP was the state forest minister. The BJP leadership claimed that a vehicle carrying some BJP supporters who were following the rally near its tail was attacked with brickbats. “There was a lot of excitement in Bankra. People wanted a glimpse of Mithunda and shower blessings upon Rajibda. Suddenly, some goons started pelting brickbats at a vehicle in the rally,” a BJP leader, present at the spot, said. “We suspect Trinamul.” The vehicle, a van, was damaged in the sudden attack but no one was injured, the BJP leader added. A local Trinamul leader denied the charge. “Ever since Rajib Banerjee left Trinamul for the BJP, people are angry and this attack was an outburst of that. Our party had nothing to do with it,” he said. Immediately after the incident, police and combat forces reached the spot and the security of the area was tightened. The rally went unhindered since the vehicle carrying Chakraborty and Banerjee was much ahead of the van that faced the brickbats. Chakraborty, who was with the Left and Trinamul earlier in his political career, has been campaigning for many candidates of his new party across the state and attracting huge crowds with one-liners from his film hits. Srabanti rally Another rally that Chakraborty was supposed to attend but did not on Thursday — in Calcutta — had been denied permission by the police. This rally was supposed to be in support of the BJP candidate of Behala West, actress Srabanti Chatterjee. BJP sources claimed that they had made an online application for the permission of the road show on Wednesday afternoon, but the police denied permission in the evening. On Thursday morning, actress Chatterjee’s followers gathered in front of the Parnashree police station in protest. Chatterjee, who also spoke to the police, claimed she was told that permission was denied because another political party had planned an event at the same time. But Chatterjee took out her rally without permission and claimed her rivals were scared. Thursday was the last day of campaign for both Domjur and Behala West seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues notice to Suvendu for an alleged communal jibe||The Election Commission on Thursday served a showcause on BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari for an alleged communal jibe in his election speech last month when he had said a vote to his rival would lead to a “mini Pakistan”. The commission had sent a showcause to Adhikari’s rival and chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for asking minorities not to divide their votes. Both Mamata and Adhikari have been accused of violating Clauses 2 and 3 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct that prohibit unverified allegations against candidates and communal appeal for votes. The EC is yet to respond to a query from The Telegraph on why Adhikari was not additionally accused of flouting Clause 4 of Part I of the MCC that covers intimidation as well as Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of Representation of the People Act, 1951, which deal with communal appeal for votes and incitement of hatred between communities. In the showcause to Mamata, she was accused of flouting these sections, too. MCC violations are punished by the EC with curbs on campaigning. Violations of the act can result in an FIR. Adhikari was asked to reply to the showcause within 24 hours. The EC issued the notice on a complaint lodged by CPIML (Liberation) politburo member Kavita Krishnan on March 31. The excerpt from Adhikari’s speech in Nandigram on March 29 cited by the EC in its notice to him says: “On the one hand, Begum is competing against us… You are not giving votes to Begum. If you vote for Begum there will be mini Pakistan. (Barely audible)… A Daud Ibrahim has come up in your locality.” He added: “With which flower did Ramachandra worship Maa Durga? All of you should, therefore, vote for lotus.” In her complaint, Kavita had referred to speeches of Adhikari on March 7 and 29. Krishnan quoted him say on March 7: “You are the ‘phuphu’ (the word for paternal aunt used by Muslims) of infiltrators and the ‘khala’ (the word for maternal aunt used primarily by Muslims) of the Rohingya.” Kavita told The Telegraph on Thursday: “The EC has not taken cognisance of the March 7 speech that is extremely communal.” Adhikari was showcaused after the EC had been accused of duplicity. While Mamata was served the notice for her speech in Tarakeshwar on April 3, Adhikari’s address that invited the EC’s showcause had been given on March 29. Besides, the CPIML (Liberation) leader had lodged the complaint with the EC against Adhikari on March 31. The commission served the showcause on Mamata on a complaint lodged by the BJP on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Long live revolution, not development ||The promise of an “adarsh gram (model village)” continues to elude Sebdullajote in Naxalbari. Located around 25km from Siliguri, this nondescript hamlet nestled in the Terai in Darjeeling district is the cradle of the peasants’ uprising in 1967 that culminated in the Naxalbari Movement. Back in 2014, S.S. Ahluwalia, the then BJP MP of Darjeeling, had come to Sebdullajote, the home of firebrand Naxalite leader Kanu Sanyal, and promised to develop it and some adjoining hamlets under the Hatighisha panchayat into model villages under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana (PMAGY), a scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Under the scheme, each MP has to choose and develop a “model village” every year in his or her constituency. However, even after seven years, the areas under the Hatighisha panchayat are far from being model villages, still struggling for basic amenities such as good roads, drinking water and healthcare facilities. “It seems to be yet another hollow promise of yet another BJP leader. Ahluwalia had shown interest in developing the area, keeping in mind its rich political history and in remembrance of Kanubabu who worked for the people till his last breath. I had sent a number of proposals to Ahluwalia for the development of the village but nothing was done,” said Jyasthamohan Roy, the former CPM pradhan of Hatighisha. Even today, the 50,000-odd residents of Hatighisha have to depend on the Manjha, a local stream, for drinking water. Roy said that under the PMAGY, there had been elaborate plans to develop rural areas, introducing facilities such as banking infrastructure and Wifi. According to him, only two roads have been rebuilt in the area near Asian Highway II. “There is a sharp contrast here. On one hand, we have a four-lane international highway nearby. On the other, villages in the neighbourhood don’t even have basic facilities,” Roy said. Sebdullajote, where Sanyal’s hut still stands 11 years after his death, and the neighbouring villages have only one sub-health centre, where doctors visit once a month. Dipu Haldar, a close associate of Sanyal, said: “In most cases, villagers have to travel 10km to reach the block hospital in Naxalbari even for basic treatment. What disappoints us is that Kanuda’s struggle for socio-economic development of the poor people seems to have come to naught because of the politicians who make tall claims about working for the people. It is unimaginable that people who live barely 25km from the largest town of north Bengal have to depend on a stream for drinking water.” A few months ago, the public health engineering department had installed two wayside taps after Haldar and some other locals had submitted a memorandum, but both are lying out of order. The Asian Highway also touches Bengaijote, another village where the peasants’ uprising had erupted in 1967 after police had opened fired and killed nine women and two children. The locality has a “martyrs’ column” in the name of the victims, along with the busts of Lenin, Stalin, Mao Tse Tung, Lin Piao and Charu Mazumdar, the foremost leader of the Naxalbari movement. In 1967, peasants, particularly sharecroppers, had rebelled against jotedars (owners of vast stretches of agricultural land) and private moneylenders in Naxalbari. The uprising began after a sharecropper who tried to till a piece of land after he had been evicted by the landlord was beaten up. Hundreds of peasants rose in protest, and led by Left leaders such as Charu Mazumdar, Kanu Sanyal and Jangal Santhal, began seizing land from the landlords. Food grains and arms were also looted. The state government mobilised the police. The rebellious peasants resisted, which led to the death of a sub-inspector during an ambush. In retaliation, the police opened fire in Bengaijote village, killing nine women and two children on May 25, 1967. As the situation continued to remain tense, the state deployed paramilitary forces, which led to the arrests of some leaders while others went underground. The movement continued to spread in different corners of the country as leaders like Mazumdar and Sanyal walked out of the CPM and floated the CPIML. In the seventies, the movement intensified, particularly among students in Bengal, before it was brutally suppressed. The movement also suffered a setback following Mazumdar’s death in 1972. “For political leaders and researchers, Naxalbari is a unique place because of its political history. The block needs to be developed and places like the hut of Kanu Sanyal where he breathed his last in 2010 and the site of the shooting in Bengaijote should be conserved. Unfortunately, no such initiative has been taken so far,” said Ajit Kumar Ray, a retired professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee sticks to plea to avoid vote division||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday came out all guns blazing against the Election Commission, albeit without naming the panel, wondering whether the EC had the shame to issue a showcause to her while it was sitting silent on numerous complaints on Nandigram Muslims being labelled as Pakistanis by BJP leaders. On Wednesday, the commission had sent a showcause to the chief minister on the charge of violating norms by asking Muslims not to divide their votes. The notice was issued on a complaint filed by the BJP on Monday when Mamata had delivered the speech. The chief minister said at a rally in Howrah’s Domjur on Thursday that it didn’t matter how many notices she got from the commission as she spoke in favour of unity. “Listen to me, clearly…. They could issue 10 showcause notices to me, it doesn’t matter. My answer would remain unchanged,” said Mamata to thunderous applause from an audience of thousands. “I am telling everybody, there will be no division. Everybody stand united as one and cast your votes. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, everybody. Nobody vote for them (the BJP),” she added. Mamata was given 48 hours to reply to the EC’s showcause. With her combative approach in the publicly issued response to the notice, the chief minister made it clear that she was unwilling to take even the commission’s rap across the knuckles lying down. “The commission has been shamelessly biased towards the BJP. It needs to be called out and publicly shamed repeatedly for that,” said a senior Trinamul Congress leader. The leader pointed out that the showcause was served on Mamata a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wondered aloud in Cooch Behar whether she had received a notice from the commission for her appeal to Muslims not to divide their votes. “Every BJP leader of note, right up to Modi and Amit Shah, have been repugnantly communal on numerous occasions, in all their election campaigns in recent years, including this time. They keep getting away with little or no action, even by way of these infantile notices from the commission,” added the Trinamul leader. On Thursday, the Trinamul chief apparently lambasted the commission, which she has repeatedly been accused of working to favour the BJP, demanding answers on the absence of measures against the likes of Modi. “There is no point in complaining against me. How many have there been against Narendra Modi? He, who does Hindu-Muslim (polarisation) every single day. How many complaints are against him?” the chief minister asked. “How many complaints against those who called our citizens — in Nandigram — Pakistanis because they are Muslims? Have they no shame? They should hang themselves in shame,” she added. She was referring to Trinamul turncoat and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari who had called Mamata “begum” and fomented fears of a “mini-Pakistan” in Nandigram on March 29. EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said Mamata’s remarks had been found to be in violation of Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct, which prohibit unverified allegations, appeal to caste or communal feelings for votes and intimidation of voters. “They dare complain against me on this… chhai korbey (they will be able to do nothing),” said Mamata on Thursday. She went on to reassert the pluralistic and inclusive worldview at the core of her politics and policy-making. “I am with Hindus. I am with Muslims. I am with Sikhs. I am with Christians. I am with Scheduled Castes. I am with Scheduled Tribes,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||How a hungry river and biting govt apathy have upended lives on the banks of the Ganga||In 1927, Oscar Hammerstein II had penned Ol’ Man River. Set to tune by Jerome Kern and sung by Paul Robeson, the song became a milestone. Later, it inspired Bhupen Hazarika to write a song on another mighty river. “Bistirno du parer, ashonkho manusher hahakar shuneo, nishobde nirobe O Ganga tumi, Ganga boicho keno (On your sprawling banks you hear the cries of countless people, still O Ganga, why do you flow),” Hazarika wrote. The song, which spoke about the pains, thoughts, lives and aspirations of people dwelling on the banks of the Ganga, still resonate in Malda and Murshidabad — located on the left and right banks of the river. As Bengal votes, these residents spoke about their despair, resentment and hopes. “Ganga gilchhe amader, bochorer por bochor (The Ganga is gobbling us up, year after year). We light lamps, we pray in temples and mosques, but nothing changes. Whether it is the house of a Hindu or a Muslim, she devours it all),” says Bishu Mondal, a resident of Manikchak in Malda, the block through which the Ganga enters Bengal from Jharkhand. Over the years in Malda, the river has changed the geography of three blocks. Similar is the situation on the other bank, where seven blocks starting from Samserganj in the west have been affected by continuous erosion. “It is not only a question of land. The lives of thousands of people have been doomed. Affluent families who owned houses, mango plantations and agricultural fields have become penniless overnight. Many of them, like me, now live in small huts built on government land and work as daily labourers,” says Golam Hossain, a resident of Panchanandapur that is under the Mothabari Assembly seat in Malda. Asina Khatun, an 18-year-old resident of Manikchak, has had to give up studies because the Ganga has swallowed her school. “No new school was built. I had to quit studies. We need to travel 5km to collect ration. Is this development? There hasn’t been an inch of progress in our area and people who had indulged in corruption are now switching parties. We don’t protest as we have to live and survive here,” she says. The affected residents point out that even Swadhin Sarkar, the BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, the Malda block through which the Ganga enters Bangladesh, is a victim of erosion. “The river destroyed his house a few years ago,” says Minati Mondal, a Baishnabnagar resident. In Malda, the Ganga moves along a stretch of 180km from west to east, covering four blocks. In Murshidabad, it flows along a distance of 105km through seven blocks. The residents who bear the brunt of the river’s fury allege that there is complete silence in the power corridors of Delhi. The Narendra Modi government that has taken up the National Mission for Clean Ganga, often referred to as the “Namami Gange” campaign, seems to have forgotten about those who live on the banks of the river, the residents complain. “We are no better than refugees…. Every year, hundreds of people on both banks lose their land and homes. Yet, no initiative is being taken by the central government. The Prime Minister speaks about keeping the Ganga clean, takes boat rides in Varanasi but seems to be oblivious of the distress that we face here in the downstream of the river,” says Amzad Ali, a resident of Samserganj, one of the affected districts of Murshidabad. In Samserganj, two villages have been completely eroded by the river, forcing hundreds of residents to shift to other places. They say no comprehensive plan has been drawn up to arrest the erosion. “Occasionally, the Farakka Barrage Authority carries out some anti-erosion work, and so does the state irrigation department. There is no concrete plan,” says Bishu Choudhury, a Baishnabnagar resident. Residents say the political parties have not shown much interest in improving their lot. The Congress, which still considers Malda and Murshidabad its bastions, is busy retaining its support base. Trinamul is diligently trying to prove that it has carried out an array of development projects while the BJP is polarising voters, the residents say. “It is shocking to see that there is no specific plan for the rehabilitation of the erosion victims. A handful of people who get lucky receive land or a house under some government scheme. The rest of us have to fend for ourselves. Landlosers are offered employment or financial assistance for projects but we don’t have any such option. We have supported various parties but our situation has not changed,” says Sanjay Majhi, a resident of Jalangi, another block in Murshidabad. The locals say that although the BJP has elaborated how it intends to develop Gangasagar, revive the Adi Ganga in Calcutta and improve riverfronts in Howrah, it has been silent on developing the banks of the river. The BJP leadership on both banks of the Ganga admit that no major work has been done but try to pass the buck on to the state government. “It is true that a lot needs to be done. Over the years, the Centre has devised multiple plans but the benefits did not reach the people because of the state government,” says Manik Sarkar, a BJP district general secretary of the Murshidabad (north) committee. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a BJP Kisan Morcha leader who is contesting elections from Malda, claims that a couple of months ago, central water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat had taken stock of the situation in Baishnabnagar and held meetings with Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) authorities. “But Trinamul should tell the public why erosion haunts the lives of the people at Mothabari, Manikchak and Ratua where the FBP has nothing to do and anti-erosion measures are to be taken by the state irrigation department,” she says. Even amid the despair, hope lingers among the residents, thousands of whom are dependant on the river. From fishermen to farmers, people make a living because of the Ganga, which has blessed them with fish, vegetables and crops in abundance. “The fertile silt deposits of the river largely help the farmers,” says Hariswami Das, a schoolteacher in Baishnabnagar. According to river experts, improvement in infrastructure like construction of safe riverine ports for steamers, fishery projects and regular cruise services along the Ganga can improve the situation. “Along with specific plans to check erosion, development of such infrastructure can boost economic activities and help those who have lost land,” says Tuhin Subhra Mondal, a river expert. The Ganga, considered sacred by Hindus, is an epitome of amity in Bengal. Unlike most states upstream, the majority of the people who depend on the river in Malda and Murshidabad are Muslims. This is because in both districts, the minorities form over half of the population and the majority of them live in blocks through which the Ganga passes. “The Ganga is our life source, our mother, our source of livelihood,” says Mohammad Liaquat, a Jalangi resident. For generations, Ali’s family has been dependant on the Ganga, whether it is for a pot of water to cook rice or for fishing or other daily chores. This message of inclusiveness needs to be emphasised, social researchers believe, at a time the BJP has been trying to use the Ganga as a religious agenda to reap political dividends. “This is something amazing here in Bengal and is in consonance with the rich legacy of amity that the state has upheld for decades. People here share their distress and aspirations together, cutting across religious lines,” says Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government revives steps to check Covid-19||The Bengal government has decided to put in place all activities that were followed during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic in October last year with novel coronavirus cases making an alarming rise in the state again over the past few weeks. “We are apprehending that we will reach a situation similar to what we faced during the peak of pandemic in October last year. We have activated all our resources so that we can reach the level of preparedness within the next two days,” said a senior health department official. Sources in the health department said the state government wanted to increase the number of tests and beds, open more safe houses and generate awareness among the masses to follow Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks in public places. The government would also follow the norms of 50 per cent attendance of employees in government offices once again, which was diluted in the past few months. Officials in the health department said they were preparing for a tough time as the number of active cases had increased rapidly in the past few weeks. Till mid-March, the number of active cases was over 2,200. But the figure had reached 16,109 on Wednesday. “This is alarming. We are heading towards a disaster for two reasons. First, no Covid-19 protocol is being followed in election rallies. Second, common people are not following Covid-19 protocols while going out of homes. If no action is taken right at the moment, we may face more than 10,000 daily cases at the end of April," said an official. Till now, the state government has not yet considered imposing any restrictions like night curfew which some states have already adopted to prevent spread of the virus. “The problem of Bengal is that elections are on and there is no political boss to take a call on the issue. That’s why the officials are putting all possible arrangements ready to tackle more cases in the coming days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||North East||Ulfa relocation warning to tea company||The proscribed Ulfa (Independent) on Thursday served a notice to a leading tea company demanding immediate relocation of all its administrative offices to Assam and recruitment of indigenous people of the state, failing which it will be “prevented from doing business in Assam”. The outift gave the notice to Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited through an emailed statement sent to PTI and other media houses. The notice, signed by Ulfa (I) publicity department member self-styled “Capt.” Rumel Asom, said: “The United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) has taken note of ... management of the tea estates in Assam under your ownership. We appreciate that you are in the business of making profit and to that end you must devise your corporate planning. However, you have heavy responsibilities to the land and her people .....” “... You have your head office outside Assam where no indigenous personnel from Assam is in employment. The liaison office is also not in Assam.” The outfit further said that “we are aware you are recruiting your workers from outside Assam” instead of employing local youth and warned that this was “contrary to the spirit of ‘Win, Win’ relationship” between corporates and the state. It went on to warn that company officials will not be allowed to travel in Assam, and APPL may face “ruin” by ”forcing closure of tea gardens”, if their demands were not met. Amalgamated Plantations Private Ltd (APPL) was carved out of the erstwhile Tata Tea Ltd (now Tata Global Beverages Ltd) 10 years ago to run tea estates in Bengal and Assam. The APPL head office is in Calcutta and its corporate office is in Guwahati. APPL managing director Vikram Singh Gulia could not be reached for his comments. According to the company website, it is the second largest tea producer in the country with multiple stakeholders, including TGBL, Tata Investment Corporation Ltd, International Finance Corporation, partner investors, employees and estate workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
09-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: BJP begins work on promises||The BJP-led government in Assam has begun the groundwork for implementation of the party’s pre-poll commitments, according to senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, implying that the party was confident of retaining power. Sarma also urged the people of the state not to panic about the Covid-19 situation as positive cases continued to surge and the Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education near here was declared a containment zone for 14 days on Thursday. “Election is over. I am back to discharging my official duty as before. All government officials are working. We are well-equipped. So there is no need to panic (about Covid-19 pandemic) because we know we will have to discharge these responsibilities after May 2.... It will be a continuous government. “We will continue to discharge our responsibilities to the people of Assam with the same dedication and sincerity as before,” Sarma said at a news conference at the party headquarters here on Thursday to thank everyone for the successful and peaceful conduct of the three-phase Assembly polls that ended on April 6. Sarma, who holds portfolios such as education, finance, public works department and health, then assured that the BJP’s pre-poll commitments such as hiking the amount of Orunodoi scheme (financial assistance through direct benefit transfer) from Rs 830 to Rs 3,000 per month and waiving of microfinance loans availed by women will be fulfilled. “Let me assure you that we will implement all our 10 pre-poll commitments, including providing one lakh jobs (by next March). We have already started preparing a blueprint. I have asked my officers to see how many Rs 50,000, Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh loans are there... so that we can take some good decisions in our first cabinet meeting.” Sarma, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and state BJP unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass exuded confidence that the party will form the next government for the good work they had done for the people of Assam. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. Sarma said the Congress has suffered in the polls because its leaders surrendered before one person — AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal — suggesting that the BJP’s strategy of attacking Ajmal to polarise the voters has succeeded. The BJP has continuously attacked the three-time Dhubri MP of espousing the cause of illegal migrants, a sensitive issue in the state. The Congress, however, feels the 10-party alliance which it led, will regain Dispur with its allies, getting at least a seat more than the BP-led alliance but fears that the ruling party may try to manipulate the mandate. On Wednesday, the Assam PCC had moved the Assam chief electoral officer with a plea to provide access/link to CCTV surveillance of strong rooms where EVMs are kept to all the contesting candidates. On Thursday, the PCC moved the Election Commission to take up the counting of postal ballots before the EVMs. PCC president Ripun Bora in a letter to the poll panel said: “… in the last Bihar Assembly election, the postal ballot votes were counted late night after the EVM votes. For this many discrepancies and complaints were raised during the counting of ballots by many contesting candidates and it was viral on social media. As a result, many candidates lost by a narrow margin and pointed fingers at the Election Commission.” “Therefore, we appeal to your honour to take necessary and proper steps to count the postal ballots before the EVM votes so that the vote counting of Assam Assembly election might be clean and clear and nobody would be able to raise fingers against the Election Commission,” Bora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
09-04-2021||Opinion||Time to act: Second Covid wave||Sir — In this second wave of Covid-19, the virus is spreading at a faster pace than last year, and the health ministry has alerted the people that the next four weeks are going to be critical (“Get ready”, April 7). Now who is to be held accountable for this situation? The common citizens as well as the authorities have brought this plight upon the country. As lockdowns and strict restrictions were lifted, most people began to flout the norms that should have been followed. Further, the vaccination drive gave the people a false sense of safety; they seemed convinced that if the remedy is already available then the malady cannot be fatal any more. Election campaigns in some states saw leaders and party workers completely ignoring all Covid protocol, since their aim was to amass votes rather than caring for the safety of the people. Rules were allowed to be flouted during religious festivals — congregations took place at various places — simply in order to appease the electorate along the lines of religion. Now the Centre is emphasizing the need for ‘people’s participation’ in controlling the second wave of the pandemic. The cooperation of the people is indeed crucial. Lockdowns can break the economic spine of the nation; the only alternative is to follow safety measures sincerely, keeping in mind that negligence is equal to imperilling oneself, one’s society, and the nation as a whole. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The second wave of Covid-19 appears to be more dangerous than the first as the number of active cases is rising at a rapid pace. This week, on several days, the country recorded a daily spike of over one lakh cases. The Centre has already warned the people about the gravity of the situation. While people were thoroughly scared by the first outbreak of this novel virus strain and tried to follow containment measures undertaken by the government earnestly, now it seems that they have become complacent with regard to following protocol even when they know that such behaviour risks their own lives and jeopardizes the health of others. The rapid spread of the virus in different parts of the country is truly a cause for concern. The situation must be remedied immediately. The pace at which the vaccination drive is being conducted must be increased. More people should be considered for inoculation — the age group covered must be expanded from above 45 to above 30 now. Those who are not following Covid prevention rules should be penalized since the casual approach of some people towards this crisis may prove to be costly for a large part of the population. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — The gravity of the situation with respect to the second wave of Covid-19 can be gauged from the comparative time taken for the spike in cases. While last year, it took 61 days for active cases to jump from 25,000 to 92,000, this time the same number took just 22 days. Governments must be held accountable for this — they ‘unlocked’ the states and allowed gatherings for electioneering, weddings and other festivities without masks or social distancing rules. People were also misled by scientists who predicted the end of the pandemic by February this year. Many people on social media also downplayed the seriousness of the issue. There are only a few remedies now. Door-to-door vaccination is a must, accompanied by an increase in testing and tracing. The government should focus on strengthening the healthcare infrastructure of the country. All gatherings — political and social — must be cancelled at once. Finally, it needs to be ensured that lockdown norms are followed strictly. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Back in focus Sir — The Congress has demanded an independent probe into the Rs 60,000 crore Rafale jet deal after a section of the French media claimed that Dassault agreed to pay one million euros as bribe to a middleman in India. The government has been asked if this merits a ban on the company. There must be an explanation from and action on the part of the government so that the people of India can find out the truth. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — There seems to be no end to the Rafale controversy. Even as new Rafale aircraft are arriving in India, allegations of bribery in the purchase have reared their head. While the case must no doubt be thoroughly investigated, the Opposition should also find new ammunition to attack the Centre with. Koushik Pal,Calcutta  Alarm bells Sir — Having lived in Calcutta for a while, I have come to know my locality like the back of my hand. But something seemed unfamiliar last evening. Soon I figured that I had never seen the lanes this clean with all the street lights working. This should not have been surprising; it is ‘election season’ after all, and the government is going all out to get people’s votes. But this trend is not unique to Bengal. Across India, polls serve as an alarm for ruling regimes. The prime minister had once said that there should be one election in the nation. On the contrary, there should be polls round the year to keep governments on their toes. Sangeeta Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||Money bags: SC allows sale of electoral bonds||While dismissing the petition seeking to stay the sale of electoral bonds before assembly elections began in several states, the Supreme Court had said that there is no illegality or anonymity in the periodic issuing of these documents since adequate firewalls are in place on the basis of the suggestions of the Reserve Bank of India and the Election Commission. The apex court’s nod has enabled the finance ministry to launch its quarterly sale of bonds to political outfits. The window period, on this occasion, will last till April 10. In spite of the highest court’s assurance, it will be fair to say that murmurs about the opacity of the mechanism persist. Earlier, every transaction greater than the value of Rs 20,000 had to be reported to the EC: this clause has been done away with in order to uphold donors’ secrecy. There is worry that this kind of anonymity could lead to the creation of a quid pro quo arrangement between business donors with deep pockets and the government. Such a patron-client relationship is disastrous for democratic equality; the party in government, flush with funds from influential donors, would have an unfair advantage over its rivals during elections; its patron, too, is likely to have considerable leverage on the levers of power on account of being the financer. There is also evidence that the field of electoral financing is far from equal. Before the last Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party had raised the lion’s share of its finances — 61 per cent — through this shadowy portal of electoral bonds, raising allegations of the deepening of the ties between State and corporations. Reservations have also been expressed — the EC had raised this very point earlier — that electoral bonds could encourage the channelling of black money into politics. The EC’s change of stance on the matter is mystifying. Opacity is antithetical to democracy. The Supreme Court has repeatedly highlighted the importance of transparency: in a path-breaking judgment, the court had made it compulsory for contestants to declare their assets and criminal antecedents, if any, while filing nominations. The thrust towards transparency should be taken forward to create a citizens’ fund for political donations that can be accessed on the basis of political performance or other parameters that safeguard the spirit of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||On hold: RBI keeps policy rates unchanged||The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee has decided, as was anticipated by most experts, to keep policy rates unchanged at 4 per cent (repo rate) and 3.35 per cent (reverse repo rate). The forecast for gross domestic product growth rate for 2021-22 remains at 10.5 per cent. The standstill in monetary policy comes at a time when uncertainty regarding growth as well as inflation has increased due to the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. The inflation rate of the consumers’ price index is around 5 per cent, well within the tolerance corridor of 2-6 per cent. Since inflation is above the target rate of 4 per cent and economic growth is indicated to be at a healthy double-digit, there is no point in reducing rates to emphasize the central bank’s accommodative policy stance. If the growth rate falters, or the inflation rate starts climbing, the RBI might have to consider interest rate changes depending on whether inflationary forces or growth hurdles turn out to be stronger. The RBI has also claimed that during 2020-21, it ended up with open market purchases of government securities to the tune of Rs 3.13 lakh crore. The central bank has, therefore, introduced a new scheme of secondary-market government securities acquisition programme termed G-SAP 1.0 for the current year. Under this arrangement, the RBI will make an upfront commitment to buy a specified amount of government securities to ensure that the yield curve of G-sec does not move suddenly and sharply. Orthodox monetary policy would avoid such a measure since it might appear to be a way of controlling yields and not letting the market determine interest rates. The RBI has emphasized strongly that this is not the objective. Its goal is to avoid volatility in yields and ensure a stable liquidity position. This is important since the yield curve is used as a benchmark in the pricing of many financial market instruments. Under the new scheme, the RBI has already announced an amount of Rs 1 lakh crore purchases during the first quarter of this year. The markets are certain to carefully track the impact on yield curves and judge to what extent it might turn out to be a proxy for exerting influence on the pricing of many financial market instruments. In short, the RBI has wisely put on hold any tinkering with policy rates in a situation that seems to be under control. But the new clouds of uncertainty hovering in the near future could make interest rates go up or down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||When Left Feels Right||When the forces both from the Left and the Right are getting aggressive and blinkered, when it has become difficult to exchange ideas with some semblance of affability, the long-established liberal values of tolerance, difference and dissent have prompted freedom-loving people to converse through disagreements intrinsic to a robust democratic system. Why then should the State feel a certain sense of disquiet at resistance? The Black Lives Matter Movement or the farmers’ protests are striking examples of the stamina of resistance movements to safeguard the basic human right of equality. Slavery, industrialization and today’s scourge of neoliberalism have been confronted by a resurgence in public opposition to the fervour of the Far Right, thereby replicating the drive for participatory democracy through opposition to the rise of capital, consumerism, and the free market economy. However, it is worrisome to see Left intellectuals glossing over, if not wholly condoning, the violence that comes out of resistance. State violence is to be condemned; but does it automatically follow that resistance violence is to be commended? This is a moral dilemma that neither Hannah Arendt (On Violence) nor other liberal minds confront squarely. But in his seminal work, Violence and the Sacred, René Girard argues that the need for disagreement is both sacred as well as an imperative for the evolution of democratic institutions. In an over-regulated political system with symptoms of a low trust government, the only remedy lies in the defiance of the official discourse and the doublespeak of the State narrative. This defiance can be transformative with the creation of social, cultural and intellectual spaces of fair play and justice with a deep commitment to equality. As Jacques Derrida points out in Specter of Marx, the ghost in Hamlet is like Marx, haunting human civilization whenever fundamental rights are threatened. Progressive radical thinking, with its substantial impact on history, has been responsible for the birth of the institutions of democracy that we enjoy today. Governments have the potential to translate social movements into legislation. It is possible that the progressive government of Joe Biden is keen on seizing the moment through its perception of the historical context. We in India, too, have much to learn from this and the Occupy Wall Street protests, a clarion call to a commitment to equal opportunity. Liberal action on the insensitive relationship between the police and the citizen, on the criminal justice system, on extremism and racism will depend on the sway the new generation of activists has on the ruling party. The pursuit of social and economic justice calls for a more robust, impartial and self-respecting system at a time when the Left stands discredited across the world. Political parties committed to a democratic manifesto remain spineless without the involvement of the Left with its inherent ability to establish a critical interface with middle-of-the-road liberalism. Likewise, in the absence of a sturdy liberal centre, the Left would decline to autocracy and sectarianism. It is time, therefore, to reclaim the Left as the critical constituent of a democratic structure whose presence is vital to moments of crisis and challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||Poles apart||The Indian government’s rescue and recovery package against the pandemic has been among the most niggardly in the world, amounting, shorn of ‘window-dressing’, to no more than 1 per cent of the gross domestic product. Other third world countries have done better, but not much better. By contrast, advanced countries have unrolled generous rescue packages. The United States of America, even under Donald Trump, released a package of $2 trillion, roughly 10 per cent of its GDP; the Joe Biden administration has announced a further $1.9 trillion, of which about $1 trillion constitutes transfers to the people. Altogether, the US would be spending 20 per cent of its GDP on such packages (although not in a single year). The European Union, too, has had substantial rescue packages during the pandemic. These packages have meant significant fiscal deficits. The International Monetary Fund encouraged enhanced government expenditures during the pandemic and, hence, implicitly larger fiscal deficits, not just in the advanced countries but even in the third world. This has given rise to a belief that it has abandoned its usual insistence on ‘austerity’ in these special times. Oddly, however, according to an Oxfam study, recent IMF loans to third world countries have almost invariably enjoined ‘austerity’ upon the borrowers. Oxfam found that of the 91 loan agreements signed by the IMF with 81 third world countries after March 2020, as many as 76 encouraged or required ‘austerity’ measures. These included cuts in public expenditure, including public healthcare expenditure and pension payments. They imposed wage-freezes or wage-cuts that would reduce the incomes of doctors, nurses and other workers in public healthcare facilities as well as cuts in unemployment benefits and sick pay. Such measures have been standard IMF prescription for decades. Their incorporation into loan agreements even during the pandemic suggests that the IMF not only discriminates between rich and poor countries but also that when it comes to the latter, its pious pronouncements signify nothing. It is not just the discrimination during the pandemic that is worrying; what is of concern is what happens afterwards. The world capitalist economies have, for long, been saddled with massive unemployment (which was only aggravated by the pandemic), although this fact is camouflaged by reduced worker participation rates because of the ‘discouraged worker effect’. Now, even after the pandemic abates, the advanced countries are unlikely to go back to a regime of fiscal rectitude such as that demanded by finance capital and articulated by the IMF. In fact, Biden’s rescue package has elements that are non-transitory and will endure even after the pandemic. We may be witnessing, in short, a revival of State intervention in demand management in the advanced countries under the cover of the pandemic. This is excellent news, for otherwise workers suffer through mass unemployment just to satisfy the caprices of finance that is opposed to such State intervention. (Joan Robinson, the renowned economist, had called the view that fiscal deficits should be eschewed or restricted in all circumstances the “humbug of finance”). The problem arises when we have governments stimulating economic activity in the advanced countries while governments in the third world are forced to adopt ‘austerity’. A growing developed world and a languishing third world, one may think, cannot possibly co-exist as the former is bound to pull up the latter. But Trump has already introduced protectionism in the US (which had started in a small way even under Barack Obama) and other advanced countries are likely to emulate the US. This means that the relocation of activities from the ‘North’ to the ‘South’, exemplified by the shift of manufacturing to China and of services to India, that had characterized neoliberal globalization till recently, could well be coming to an end. A boom in the advanced countries then will not pull up any third world country via this route and income compression imposed on the local population through anti-inflationary policies in the third world would ensure that prices of primary commodities supplied by it do not rise too much and have only limited growth-enhancing effects. Such a global divide, if it occurs, would break from what we have been witnessing under neoliberalism in two important ways. One, the distress of workers in the advanced countries would be somewhat ameliorated. This is necessary for the system since their restiveness constitutes a threat to it that can no longer be contained by resorting to a diversionary, neo-fascist discourse against the ‘Other’. Two, the big corporates of the third world would shift their activities even more to the global plane away from stagnant local economies without feeling constrained by such stagnation. This would mean an end to the recently-achieved de-segmentation of the world economy. During colonial rule, metropolitan capitalism had brought about a segmentation of the world economy: labour from the ‘south’ was not allowed to migrate freely to the ‘north’ (it still is not), and capital from the ‘north, although allowed to migrate freely to the ‘south’, never actually did so, except to areas like mines and plantations that refurbished the colonial pattern of international division of labour; and capital from the ‘south’, hemmed in by racial discrimination and a hostile colonial environment, faced protectionist barriers in the ‘north’. The ‘north’ and the ‘south’, therefore, got segmented. The ‘north’ developed high-productivity manufacturing; its labour market, made relatively tight by massive migration to the ‘new world’, allowed a rise in workers’ wages. The ‘south’, stuck with producing primary commodities, had its workers earning subsistence wages, placed amidst vast labour reserves created by the destruction of craft production through the ‘drain of surplus’ and through competition from imports. Neoliberal globalization effected some de-segmentation, as capital from the ‘north’ at long last located plants in the ‘south’ to take advantage of the latter’s low wages for producing for a global market. But, if there is protectionism in the ‘north’ against non-traditional exports from the ‘south’, and if the latter experiences stagnation and, hence, stagnant markets, then we shall see a re-segmentation of the world economy, with the working people of the ‘south’ consigned to acute distress. Even in the heyday of neoliberal globalization, as the Indian case testifies, there was an increase in the poverty ratio despite extraordinary growth. It does not follow, however, that the cessation of growth would mean a reduction in poverty. The poverty-engendering factors under neoliberalism, namely the undermining of petty production, especially peasant agriculture, will continue to operate even as the growth-rate collapses, which will only aggravate poverty and unemployment further. The three new farm bills in India, introduced in the midst of acute distress, make this clear. The IMF’s discriminatory behaviour thus portends great distress for the working people of the ‘south’, not just during the pandemic, but even afterwards. Two counteracting forces may be adduced against the scenario sketched above. One, finance would move ‘south’ en masse if the ‘north’ resorts to any fiscal stimulation of demand; but this, if it happens (and there are limits to the extent to which finance will flow ‘south’), will only mean that the entire world economy would remain submerged in crisis. The other is world-wide protests against the IMF’s discriminatory behaviour. If these do not succeed, then the ‘south’ will have little option except to delink from a globalization that promotes a re-segmentation of the world. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Students in Hazaribagh protest coaching centre closure||Hazaribagh: Around 1000 to 1500 students belonging to a coaching centre in Korra Chowk area protested its closure following government restrictions due to Covid-19. The students said the lockdown last year had affected their preparations and they were not willing to go through another such phase. On April.7, Chief minister Hemant Soren had taken the decision to shut down all educational institutions including coaching centres due to surge in Covid cases. One of the protesting students said if political rallies and elections can be held then why would they let their education suffer. The students said they require guidance for their board exams and the coaching centre is beneficial for their preparations. “Keep your politics away from education and if you will try to force your decision on us, we will not sit quietly this time,” said one of the students. The agitators refused a proposal to form a team and meet senior district officials to discuss the matter. Block development officer of Sadar, Amitabh Bhagat and subdivisional police officer Mahesh Prajapati told them that it was a government order to prevent the spread of Covid. The students said they will return on Saturday to resume their classes. “We will move ahead after taking directives from the senior officials,” said district officials. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Administrative and police officials on Friday lodged 24 FIRs, seized more than one and a half dozen vehicles and imposed fines of about Rs 40,000 from residents, vehicle riders, shopkeepers, vendors and all those who were caught without masks in public places. The teams headed by IAS officer, sub-divisional officer of Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, conducted a massive mask-checking drive in Bokaro Steel Township, Chas Township and Chandankyari areas under Chas sub-division. The maximum number of FIRs and vehicle seizure was done in main market areas of Bokaro Township under Sector-IV Police Station. Many people wandering in the City Centre market of Bokaro Township without masks managed to escape. At present, the Bokaro township has about 350 active cases of Covid-19. On Friday, there were 61 cases detected. The rising cases have raised concern in administrations. The administration has grown tough to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government should be implemented without any lapses in the district. On Thursday, officials were out in public places and had requested vendors, shopkeepers and residents to wear masks and follow the guidelines. But many shopkeepers and residents were found wandering without masks. SDO said, “We have conducted the mask checking drive massively and this time we lodged FIR under different sections of the IPC and DDMA Act against those who were found without masks. The vehicle riders were also slapped with a fine of Rs 500 apart from an FIR. The drive will continue.” (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||HC raps civil surgeon for Covid tests report delay||Jharkhand high court on Friday passed a scathing remark against Ranchi civil surgeon V.B.Prasad describing as "inhumane" the inordinate delays conducting Covid tests and asked him not to play with the lives of of people. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad made the observation during a virtual hearing of a PIL related to poor management of the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). State health secretary K.K.Soan, Ranchi civil surgeon Prasad, and  others involved were connected to the day's court proceedings online. During the course of hearing, the  wanted to know on the reasons behind delay in test reports of the samples collected from high court. The bench noted that the samples were collected by Sadar hospital on April 5, but the test reports were yet to be given. The bench criticised the  civil surgeon for the delay. “If this is the situation of high court personnel, then we can imagine how common people could be struggling for getting timely test reports. Such delays could lead to destroying of the samples and results could be inaccurate, putting one’s life in jeopardy,” the court  observed. The bench then told the  civil surgeon that it was " inhumane" and you (civil surgeon) should tender your resignation if the official concerned isn’t able to do the job properly. The court, will hear the matter on April 2, directed the civil surgeon to furnish a detailed report before that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city cancels Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami celebrations ||The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti has decided to cancel Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami celebrations for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of Covid-19. The 10-day Basanti Durga Puja begins on April 13, and will end on April 22. The Ram Navami procession in the respective localities of varios Akhara committees was supposed to be taken out on April 21. The steel city witnesses as many as 14 Basanti Durga Puja and altogether there are 175- odd Ram Navami Akhara committees including 149 licenced ones. Some of the prominent Basanti Pujas are organised at the Beldih Kalibari in Bistupur and Sakchi-based Durgabari. Last year, Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami were organised with minimal arrangements due to the lockdown. "Concerned over rising cases of Covid-19 and the government imposed restrictions, we have asked the  organisers of Basanti Durga Puja and Ram Navami Akharas to cancel all celebrations including cultural programmes and processions. However, to keep the tradition alive symbolic puja will be done with smaller idols, " said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of JDPKS. According to the decision of the state government, the night curfew was implemented from Thursday between 8 pm and 6 am on Friday. Police had to force shops to close beyond 8 pm at several places in Mango and Sonari. On Friday morning, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) sealed an eatery and a beverage stall doing brisk business at Sakchi by violating Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand|| Forest dept to plant 87,000 saplings in Chandil ||The forest department is going to start a tree planting drive in Chandil range area in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district. At a time when man-elephant conflict continues to rise in the area, the forest department has decided to plant around 87,000 saplings during the monsoon season. Chandil forest range is an elephant corridor and jumbos from Bengal, Chaibasa and Dalma elephant sanctuary visit it for a sojourn. Range officer of Chandil, Ashok Kumar, said the massive tree plantation drive is aimed at making the forest range more environment-friendly. "We are going to plant 87,000 saplings of various kinds of trees, especially fruit-bearing trees. Except for saplings of Mango tree, the afforestation drive will make room for almost all kinds of fruits-bearing trees," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The range officer pointed out while most of the saplings will be covered in the vacant space in forest, saplings will also be planted along the roads and also in and around the government office as well as school promises. He said the plantation done along the roadside and other government institutions will be supported with tree-guards. The range officer informed that the tree plantation will be done mainly at Dobo, Jhawri and Rudia jungles, all falling under the Chandil forest range. He said of the 87,000 plants, 45,000 saplings will be planted in Dobo jungle. According to the forest department, the herds of migratory elephants first come to the forests in Chandil range, but in absence of adequate vegetation the elephants tend to stray into human habitats causing destruction of crops and also human life. According to sources, in 2020-2021, the forest department has paid Rs 53 lakh as compensation for the loss of crops, residential houses and human lives in the Chandil forest range. If the forest cover in Chandil gets dense, the migratory elephants will not tend to invade into human habitat as there will be enough food for them in the jungle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad officials to penalise illegal Covid test centres||Radiological centres across Dhanbad have been warned of strict action against illegal Covid-19 tests by the district administration on Friday. The administration has instructed the centres to share data of every individual visiting the centre, including their diagnostic reports, with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme  (IDSP) cell of the district on a daily basis before 5 pm. The instructions were given by Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh during a meeting held at the district collectorate on Friday with all radiological centre operators. Singh has directed the operators to carry out thorough santisation of the place immediately after the detection of a case and test all their employees. “All centre operators should take their responsibility seriously of preventing Covid infection and such a practice of illegal covid detection and allowing the affected persons to remain untreated may lead to spread of infection,” said Singh. The Deputy Commissioner will be reviewing the situation every 15 days and will take immediate action against anyone not adhering to the measures. Singh inspected the sensitisation camp developed at Jharkhand Armed Police camp in Govindpur and took stock of facilities at the centre. He interacted with the Covid rule violators brought to the camp. The sensitisation camp was started earlier this week, to catch Covid rule violators and inform them about the importance of maintaining norms. The violators are made to spend a day at the camp and can leave only after they take a test and sign a bond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Special Olympics Jharkhand issues advisory to parents amid Covid spike||The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) on Friday issued an advisory to parents of mentally impaired to ensure that their wards remain engaged in activities while staying indoors as the pandemic spreads its wings across the state. The advisory has been issued to parents of around 34,000 special athletes in Jharkhand. “Our athletes are forced to stay indoors in view of the pandemic. We want them to continue with their daily drills and keep themselves occupied. This would keep them in good stead when we resume our outdoor training,” said the board’s assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. He added since it is not possible to inform all the parents physically, they have created a Facebook account for the same. “Parents can read the advisory on our Facebook page,” Sahota, a former international cyclist, added. According to him,  special athletes can do physical exercises, dribbling (by placing cones) and also practice throws. “Parents can act as coaches for the same. National and international competitions  would resume once Covid-related situation improves and we want our athletes to slip into outdoor training mode once it starts” Sahota, also resource person (for cycling) at the Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation working for the promotion of mentally impaired, emphasised. The state chapter also advised parents to not allow their children to unnecessarily venture out of homes and also not allow them to ride bikes. “There are chances of special athletes getting injured in road mishaps. Sometimes, it may prove to be fatal,” Sahota said. The Special Olympics Jharkhand has branches across the state. It has tied up with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to pep up activities in government schools. It recently introduced Cornhole Baggo, a highly popular game in Europe and the United States, across the state via webinar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city mom of 3 gears up for Trans Himalayan trip||Payo Murmu is working hard to strike the right balance between her age and family commitments. The 57-year-old mother of three grown up sons is keen to give a good account of herself when she joins the FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21 being organised in collaboration with the ministry of youth affairs and sports under the FIT India banner. The expedition, which is also being supported by Tata Motors and Tata Sports Club as drive and fitness partners respectively,is expected to begin in the first week of May and will conclude in the second week of October this year. For Payo, a former employee of Tata Steel’s loco traffic wing and a resident of New Baridih locality of the city, gearing up for the challenge is the need of the hour, and she understands it. Her early morning routine consists of jogging, brisk walking and light exercises. She wakes up at 4 am and covers 7 km on the Baridih-Tinplate Chowk stretch before returning home to take care of daily homely chores. "I am very excited to be part of the expedition. It's a challenging journey and I need to keep myself fit and motivated. I also do yoga and meditation," Payo told The Telegraph Online. A hard working tribal, Payo lives with her husband Sawna and sons Chandra, Ram and Lakshman. Sawna runs a motor garage near his house. "I'll be again going to the mountains after a gap of almost five years. I had left climbing after failing to annex Mount Everest in 2017. I was very disappointed and never thought of being part of any expedition. It's an opportunity for me and I don't want to miss it. Though climbing Everest is a different proposition but I would like to make amends this time and complete the journey," she added. Payo and Tata Steel Adventure Foundation's Hemant Gupta could not make it to the 29,029 ft Everest Peak as the 2015 earthquake in Nepal stopped them from making further progress. She again failed to conquer the peak in 2017 due to fatigue and a stomach bug. Hemant, however, made it to the summit. "Bahut dukh hua tha. Ek mauka tha duniya ki sabse badi choti par pahuchne ka" (Was very sad. It was an opportunity to reach the world's tallest roof)," she recalled. The FIT@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition will be led by Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to climb Mount Everest in 1984. The team members, selected from across India, comprises of retired professionals and homemakers. The 10-member team also boasts of three women Everest summiteers. The 5-month long expedition involves traversing the Himalayas from Arunachal to Karakoram range (East to West), covering around 4,500 kms and dissecting about 40 mountain passes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant in Madhupur to spearhead bypoll campaign||Chief minister Hemant Soren joined workers of his party and those of coalition partners in Madhupur on Friday afternoon to step up campaigning for the April 17 byelection with plans to camp there for the next five days. The ruling UPA comprising JMM, Congress and RJD have put up incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan as their joint candidate in Madhupur. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Hafizul’s father and former minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet in October last year. BJP on the other hand has fielded Ganga Narayan Singh, an AJSU-P turncoat, as NDA candidate, making it a bipolar contest. Madhupur is going to be the third byelection ever since the Hemant Soren government came to power in 2019. Ahead of voting, the ruling coalition is confident of victory, pitching the contest as one to elect a "minister". Hemant inducted Hafizul in his cabinet early in the year to ensure JMM’s claim on the seat. Hemant will return to Ranchi on the night of April 14, said JMM sources. Asked about his long stay, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said it was only natural for th chief minister to spearhead the campaign as he was the executive president of the JMM and the leader of the coalition government. “JMM is more than confident of retaining the seat. All coalition partners are working together to ensure Hafizul’s win,” he said. According to party sources, Hemant was to hold an election rally at Thana ground at Margomunda on Friday evening. On Saturday, he is expected to hold rallies in Devipur and Ghasko Hatia. Thereafter, he will address close to half a dozen rallies over the next few days till April 14. Congress has deputed workers across the region too. On Wednesday night, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon arrived in Madhupur for a three-day electoral tour. The Opposition BJP is also canvassing vigorously with Babulal Marandi, the leader of the BJP legislature party, leading from the front. Since the last week, Marandi has been actively holding rallies across the constituency in favour of the BJP candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad starts helpline for vaccine recipients||The district health committee has launched a helpline number for Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries developing adverse reactions following the immunisation. The After Event Following Immunization (AEFI) cases can call 9608264821 if they are suffering from side effects like itching, headache, abdominal pain, body ache or fever and other complications. Dr Vikas Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, told The Telegraph Online: “We were not receiving district level feedbacks with regard to effects of covid vaccination  and thus launched the helpline number to get feed backs and ensure necessary intervention to manage any side effect or complication for which proper arrangement are in place at different hospitals of the district including, Sadar Hospitals.” The minor side effects of Covishield site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills, arthralgia and nausea etc. Similarly, for Covaxin, minor side effects include injection site pain and swelling, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold and cough. “We are getting unverified news about side effects of Covid vaccination which sometimes creates confusion among other people who have yet not taken the vaccine,” said Rana. “Our aim by launching the helpline number is to get the feedback and provide support to vaccinated people to manage his complication and at same time preventing the confusion among others,” said Rana and added, within an hour of launching the helpline at around 10pm he has received over six calls. Around 1,613 were vaccinated on Thursday at 10 centers across the district including 468 at Sadar Hospital, Dhanbad, 213 at CHC Jharia; 99 at CHC Tundi; 131 at CHC Baliapur; 182 at CHC Baghmara; 131 at CHC Govindpur; 100 at CHC Topchanchi; 167 at CHC Nirsa; 92 at Central Hospital of BCCL and 30 at Sahid Nirmal Memorial Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fearing lockdown, migrant workers returning to Jharkhand||Imposition of a host of curbs and the fear of another nationwide lockdown prompted by a surge in Covid cases in as many as 12 states has led to many workers to return to their homes in Jharkhand which is also seeing a steady rise in infections. Thirty-four-year-old Md Gulfam of Jamtara district is among several other migrant workers who got off at Hatia railway station on Thursday night as the Pune-Hatia biweekly special train chugged in. According to sources in Ranchi railway division, the train was almost full with people, primarily students and migrant workers from Pune and other parts of Maharashtra. Gulfam said he was among the 11 from his village to have gone to Pune in November last year to work in a hotel. “Due to the weekend lockdown and night curfew till April 30, hotels are badly hit in Pune. Our employer said he would not be able to afford to pay our salaries and provide for us in the coming days. Hence, we thought of returning home before the situation worsens,” Gulfam told The TelegraphOnline over telephone while on way to Jamtara on Friday. With him was Md Khalid who said they used to work in a tyre company in Chennai until last year’s lockdown led to job losses. “We wanted to stay on in Jamtara but since we did not get any work for months, we headed to Pune through a common contact who got us work at a hotel as waiters and cooks. We managed to earn Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000 per month. Accommodation was free,” he said, but added that they chose to return to Jharkhand now to avoid being stranded in the event of another lockdown. Rakesh Minz (42) of Ranchi’s Ormanjhi, who spent days on the road while trying to return home from Delhi after last year’s lockdown, got back home earlier in the week. Minz, who used to work in an automobile spare parts company in Gurgaon, said he, along with 50 other contractual workers from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar, was asked by their employer last month to cut down on working hours as a cost cutting measure. “Less working hours meant less earnings which would make it difficult for us to sustain. Many were even removed from the job, citing lack of enough work. So, I chose to return as my salary fell short by more than half,” he said. Minz has now bought himself a push cart. He would like to start selling fruits and vegetables. Ironically, The Jharkhand government was unable to provide any comprehensive count of workers returning. But officials in the state labour department conceded that many were indeed returning to the state. Last year, about six lakh migrants returned to Jharkhand via shramik special trains, buses and flights. Owing to lack of jobs here, many migrated to big cities to explore opportunities after lockdown curbs were eased. Chief minister Hemant Soren had on many occasions announced that the state government was working to set up a proper mechanism to keep a tab on Jharkhand residents working in other states to ensure their welfare. These efforts have largely remianed a non-starter. According to a senior officer of the state labour department, migrant workers leaving the state could register themselves  through the https://shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in/home portal. "But, such declarations are voluntary and it is virtually impossible to keep tabs on migrant   workers of the unorganised sector," he said. But additional labour commissioner S. S. Pathak claimed the labour department was still running a migrant helpline (18003456526), which was launched last year. “The department usually swings into action depending on the nature of complaints or grievances that are registered on this helpline,” he said. Jharkhand NREGA Watch, a social outfit working on rural employment, has appealed to the state government to be ready with contingency plans to reduce the impending rural distress. “Return of migrants would spur demand for rural jobs," said NREGA Watch convener James Herenj. "As we are already seeing many coming back, we appeal to the government to direct all district administrations to work out pre-approved plans under MNREGA so that people can get jobs readily as an immediate cushion for livelihood," he said, adding that ahead of the monsoon season, people could be engaged in work like digging of ponds and wells.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1880 fresh Covid cases takes active caseload to 9429 in the state||At least seven Covid patients, including six from Ranchi alone, died during treatment in Jharkhand on Thursday, while the active caseload in the state jumped to 9429 as at least 1882 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus from Wednesday night to Thursday night, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Besides reporting six Covid casualties, Ranchi also reported 858 fresh cases of infection on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi also reported 239 of the 498 Covid recoveries on Thursday, but the active caseload here still rose to 4,727, which is more than 50 per cent of the total number of active cases in the state. As per government data, as many as 1158 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and at least 282 of them were from Ranchi, which has reported the highest number of Covid casualties in the state since mid-March. The Covid toll was 360 in East Singhbhum, which reported the highest number of Covid deaths during the first wave of the virus last year. The active caseload also crossed the 1000 mark in East SInghbhum on Thursday as the district reported 204 cases of infection against 56 Covid recoveries, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. In terms of caseload, East Singhbhum is only second to Ranchi in the state. Thursday’s findings took the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand to 0.80 per cent against the national average of 0.61 per cent, government data revealed. The doubling rate of cases in the state also dropped below 100 days for the first time this year on Thursday. As per government data, it would take 86.97 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 114.53 days. As per government records, more than 1.32 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 92.16 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from close to 99 per cent in mid-March to 92.16 per cent in the first week of April. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 virus to 40,584 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 5119 people. As per NHM data, the state achieved 50 per cent of its target for the first dose of the vaccine and only 3 per cent of the target for the second dose. The state also received 2 lakh doses of Covaxin from the Centre on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
09-04-2021||Jharkhand||Arsenic filters developed by Birla Institute of Technology researchers||A team of researchers from Birla Institute of Technology (BIT), Mesra (Ranchi), has developed a filtration system for eliminating arsenic from groundwater for using it for drinking purpose. “It’s an affordable filtration system developed by using naturally available materials to combat the growing problem of arsenic contamination of groundwater,” informed Sanjay Kumar Swain, the leader of the team. “The project was funded by the Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences of the Bhaba Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai,” he further informed,  adding their team comprised of Usha Jha and Amulya Ranjan Panda from BIT and Sanjukta A. Kumar, a BARC scientist, besides him. “It’s a low cost system made of locally available materials and can be made by the local people,” Swain further informed when pointed out such filtration systems were already developed by others also and added it needed no electricity or an overhead tank and the cylindrical filters can be easily installed. About 200 to 240 litres of safe drinking water can be obtained from this filter every day, with outflow of about 10 to 12 litres per hour, he informed, adding the cost would be just 3 paise per litre. “We have worked on it for the past four years and tested its efficiency both in the laboratory and also in under different groundwater conditions in affected areas,” Swain said, adding they had already applied for an Indian patent. Earlier, educational institutions like IITs (Kharagpur, Madras and Bombay) and Tezpur University in Assam had developed some such filtration systems. “But most of those removed pentavalent arsenate while ours is capable of removing both trivalent arsenite and pentavalent arsenate,” Swain claimed when asked, adding their filters could also remove iron, phosphate and manganese from groundwater to bring it down to the permissible level prescribed by the World Health Organisation. Arsenic is found in parts of Assam, Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh in more than prescribed limit, causing health hazards for the local residents. “While the limit is 0.01 milligram per litre, arsenic is found up to 1 mg/litre (100 times more) at certain parts of these states,” Swain further said, adding some areas in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand were also badly affected. They made four filters and successfully tested in those affected parts of Sahebganj over the past two years, he further said. “We will disclose the details about the materials used in our filters once our patent formalities were complete,” he replied when pointed out that other educational institutions that worked on it had reportedly used such materials as laterite soil, cooking soda, potassium permanganate and ferric chloride. The cost of an arsenic filter developed by them would cost within Rs 4,000 and would last for at least five years, he said. “We shall be glad if any organisation comes forward with an offer of funding a project for providing these filters to affected families,” Swain replied when asked about their future plan, adding that it could also be used for commercial production of filters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
