10-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid bed crisis looms over Calcutta hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has appealed to people to alert them if a private hospital refuses to admit a Covid patent citing lack of beds. Healthcare institutes said they were facing a crisis of beds because of the huge number of Covid and non-Covid patients turning up for admission. Officials of several private hospitals said the situation was likely to worsen because, given the number of non-Covid patients, they could not increase the number of Covid beds beyond a point. “All are requested to bring to our notice if there is any refusal of admission due to non vacancy in any CE (clinical establishment) so that the matter may be taken to resolve and redirect where admission can take place,” the commission said in an appeal to people on Friday. An official of the commission said they had received complaints of refusal against a private hospital. Officials of some private hospitals in the city admitted that the Covid beds, especially the ones in the critical care unit, were mostly occupied. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals had no vacant Covid bed on Friday. “We have 38 Covid beds, out of which 18 are ICU beds. All beds are occupied. We are working on adding 18 ICU beds soon,” said an official of the hospital. At Belle Vue Clinic, all 116 Covid beds were occupied on Friday. “A few Covid patients were refused admission because all our Covid beds are occupied. We will not be able to increase the number of Covid beds again immediately as the demand of non-Covid patients is also very high,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “We have 40 Covid beds and seven of them are ICU beds. Only one ICU bed and five non-ICU beds are vacant,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have thought about converting one more ward into a Covid ward. But there are 42 non-Covid patients in that ward now. We have to wait till they are discharged…. It will take some time.” Most private hospitals have noticed that the demand is more for critical care beds. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said all the 55 critical care beds for Covid patients at its units in Mukundapur, Salt Lake and Dhakuria were occupied. “We have planned to add 20 ICU beds from Monday. All the 55 ICU beds are occupied now. It has remained so for the last two-three days,” he said. Several complaints of hospitals demanding a hefty deposit before admitting patients had emerged when the pandemic was at its peak last year. The commission had imposed a penalty on a few such hospitals and asked all hospitals to not seek any advance deposit as a condition to admit a Covid patient. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,494 to 18,603 on Friday. The state recorded 3,648 new infections and 1,146 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Covid protocol for voting in Calcutta||A large number of Calcuttans will cast their vote on Saturday amid the Covid-19 scare. Here is a list of things voters should know and follow while exercising their franchise during the time of pandemic. Voters will be asked to stand 6ft-apart in the queue. There may or may not be markings. In the absence of markings, voters will be expected to maintain the gap themselves. Block level officers and volunteers will monitor the queue. It is mandatory to wear a mask. If a voter does not carry one, polling officials may provide him or her with a fresh mask. During the process of identification. the voter will be asked to lower the mask. People suffering from Covid-19 and those under quarantine can vote in the last hour of polling under the supervision of health authorities. Covid-related measures will have to be strictly followed when such patients and people under quarantine vote. Every voter will undergo thermal screening for body temperature before entering the booth. If the temperature exceeds 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, the person will be subjected to a second round of thermal screening. If the temperature persists, he or she will be asked to collect a token from a counter on the polling premises and go home. Such persons will be asked to cast their vote in the last hour of polling. They will have to show their tokens and follow all Covid-related protocols while casting their vote. Voters will have to sanitise their hands or wash their hands with soap and water at the entrance to the polling stations. Every voter will be handed over a disposable glove for one hand, with which he or she will sign the voting register and press the EVM button. The glove will have to be thrown into a designated drum/bucket. At the end of the day’s polling, the used gloves will be disposed of in the nearest government hospital. Election officials will have to ensure that no more than 1,000 voters are allowed on the premises of a polling station at any given point of time. The earlier limit was 1,500. Fewer people are being allowed this time as a precaution against Covid. As part of the Covid-19 protocol, all polling booths have been set up on the ground floor to prevent serpentine queues and facilitate voting of those who are unwell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
10-04-2021||Calcutta||GD Birla reschedules practical exam ||GD Birla Centre for Education has had to reschedule the ISC (Class XII) practical paper that was to be held on Monday after a Class X student tested positive for Covid-19. The school will remain closed till April 15. “Since a student has tested positive (for Covid-19), the school is taking abundant precaution to ensure protection to other students,” a spokesperson for the school said. This year the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has said that the ISC Class XII practical exams will have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Only two days’ stock of doses in Bengal||Bengal has barely two days’ stock of Covid-19 vaccine doses and several centres in Calcutta had to suspend vaccination on Friday and a few others said they could not administer the jabs on Saturday because of the shortage. An official in the state health department said on Friday evening Bengal had about eight lakh vials of Covid vaccines left. On an average, three to four lakh vials are required across the state every day. “We were supposed to receive a consignment of vaccines from the Centre on Friday but it didn’t come. Officials in Delhi were unable to tell us when the next consignment would be sent. If we don’t get fresh supply by Monday or Tuesday, vaccination will come to a stop. We asked the Centre on Friday to supply vaccines on an emergency basis,” the official said. The health department, he said, has been restricting supply of vials to hospitals and other vaccination centres. Several states have complained of shortage of supply of vaccines. Maharashtra has said it had to close many vaccination centres for want of doses. “There is a lack of transparency on the part of Union government officials. They must clearly tell us what is the situation and when we can expect the next consignment,” said the official of Bengal’s health department. Several hospitals in Calcutta had to temporarily stop vaccination on Friday because of the shortage. Belle Vue Clinic had to suspend vaccination for an hour from 4.30pm. “We had sought 35 vials from the health department on Friday but received only 20. We had 11 more from Thursday’s supply but all 31 were exhausted by 4.30pm,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. There were at least 50 people waiting for doses at that time. The hospital sought more vials and got five. Vaccination resumed at 5.30pm, Tondon said. Other hospitals, too, said they got much less than what they had asked for. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had sought 35 vials on Friday but got only 25. “We had a few vials left from yesterday, which we used today. There’ll be no vaccination on Saturday at our hospital because there is no stock and also because of the elections,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. “The health department has promised to send a few vials of Covaxin on Sunday. If we get those, some people will be vaccinated on Sunday but many have to be asked to come on a later date.” AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake, too, will not run vaccination on Saturday. “We have not received any vials. We'll be forced to put up posters stating ‘No Vaccine Available’ at the AMRI Salt Lake vaccination centre till we receive further supplies,” said an official of the hospital. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body would barely manage to vaccinate on Saturday. There will be fewer recipients on Saturday because of elections in Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala. “There will not be adequate stock for Sunday,” the official said. The CMC has been vaccinating more than 11,000 people from its 80 health clinics every day. “It could be we will be vaccinating whoever comes till stocks last,” said an official.. If a steady supply of vaccine doses does not resume, the civic body’s plan to scale up vaccination could be hampered. The CMC has planned to start vaccination in 40 more clinics — taking the total number of clinics running vaccination to 120 — from the middle of April. But uncertainty about vaccine supply could derail the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP against women’s dignity, says panel||The BJP represents a force that challenges a woman’s right to live with dignity and tries to normalise this through a sustained campaign, said speakers on a panel discussing “Raging power of women against BJP-RSS”. The speakers referred to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister recently telling an election rally in Bengal that “anti-Romeo squads” would be raised in the state if the BJP came to power. “Anti-Romeo squads” may prima facie pass off as a tool to protect a woman but delved deeper, it emerges as a tool to subjugate a woman, Sharmishtha Roy, a doctor who was associated with the “No NRC” movement, told Metro. “There is a debate whether even parents can have any say on who an adult woman would choose as her partner. Here the state through a squad would decide who a woman could have as her partner. This is an assault on a woman’s right to live with dignity,” Roy said. Fellow speaker Kasturi Basu, a documentary filmmaker, activist, writer and editor based in the city, said there was a ploy behind this carefully strategised narrative. “Through this (‘anti-Romeo squads’) narrative, they are trying to incite the patriarchal elements. They are instigating these rogue elements through this. By injecting patriarchal ideas constantly, they want to make it a part of mainstream discourse and normalise this assault on women,” she said. “That is why women should vote against the BJP in the elections now underway,” Basu said. The discussion, moderated by Maroona Murmu, professor of history at Jadavpur University, was held in a hall in Bhowanipore, part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency where Union minister Amit Shah held a roadshow on Friday afternoon. Women’s rights activist and human rights scholar Navsharan Singh in her speech referred to the spirited fight put up by women from Punjab and Haryana in the protest against the Centre’s farm laws. She appealed to the women in the audience to resolve not to vote for a force that “believes in pulverising the dignity of a woman”. “The women on the borders of Delhi are not only fighting against the farm laws thrust on the farmers by the BJP government. They are now fighting for the release of women journalists who have been jailed by the BJP government. I refer to this so that the audience can make up their mind on who they should be voting for,” Singh said. Social and peace activist and theatre personality Saira Shah Halim said the BJP refers to issues like “love jihad” because they believe in assaulting a woman’s agency. “Don’t women have the agency to decide who they want as their partner? It took women a lot of effort to earn this right. No force can be allowed to challenge it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Kisan Social Army’s message for voters||A group of young representatives of the farmers’ movement on Delhi’s borders visited a village in Murshidabad on Friday to urge voters to defeat the BJP in the state polls. The Narendra Modi regime’s “apathy” towards the long-standing protest is an insult to the entire farming community, the group told villagers at Mahalandi, around 20km from Kandi town. Murshidabad votes in the last two phases of elections on April 26 and 29. The six-member team reached Calcutta on March 31 to take part in the “No Vote to BJP” campaign and mobilise support for the protests against the farm laws. The team has campaigned in Hooghly and Nadia. They have also visited places like Dunlop, Bhowanipore and Belghoria that have a sizeable Sikh community, which has been at the forefront of the campaign in Bengal in support of farmers. Two days ago, they were addressing a rally near Dunlop Gurdwara, after which they met with residents of the area to chalk out the strategy for a sustained campaign against the farm laws in Bengal. “The two issues (“No Vote to BJP” and campaign against the farm laws) are not separate. The BJP government is the common adversary for farmers everywhere. Our fight is not for farmers of Punjab and Haryana but in Bengal, Assam and everywhere in India,” said Anup Singh of the Kisan Social Army, the social media publicity arm of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ protest on the borders of the national capital. Singh hails from Haryana and has been camping at Tikri, on Delhi’s borders. In Murshidabad, Ankur Sangwan, another team member, stressed the “importance of a legally-guaranteed minimum support price”. “A legally-guaranteed MSP, along with a strong state procurement system, is much more viable for farmers than contract farming, where corporates will decide everything,” Sangwan told the gathering. Bengal has a minimum support price for farmers. But unlike some north Indian states, the government procurement process in Bengal is inefficient because of which there is a degree of reluctance among a section of farmers to sell their produce to the administration. At a rally on College Street on Tuesday, Singh spoke of farmers’ unity. “Punjab and Haryana had a long-standing rivalry over water sharing and the common capital, Chandigarh. But in the course of the movement, we have bonded like brothers, facing police batons and water canons together,” Singh told the rally. “It shows we are for unity, Modi is for division,” he said. The Kisan Social Army set up a Bengal “core committee” on Thursday. The 21-member committee, which includes several local persons, will organise meetings with small groups of people in the coming days. “Once the BJP is defeated in Bengal, we will take farmers from the state to Delhi. It will be a huge boost to our morale,” said Sangwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Caught with Rs 50 lakh in Calcutta on poll-eve||A man was caught with Rs 50 lakh on him in central Calcutta on the eve of the fourth phase of the Assembly elections, in which parts of Calcutta will vote. The man, who was identified as Ravi Shankar Gupta, 43, from BK Pal Avenue, allegedly failed to explain the source or the destination of the money, police said. Police officers conducting checks intercepted him on Ganesh Chandra Avenue, near Chandni Chowk, on Friday afternoon. He was then handed over to Bowbazar police station. The model code of conduct of the Election Commission of India does not set any limit to the amount of money one can carry before or during polls, but any amount more than Rs 50,000 requires documents specifying the source and the destination of the money. If the police find someone carrying more than Rs 10 lakh, they have to inform the income tax department. Officers in Lalbazar said Gupta could not give any explanation as to from where he had got the money and where he was going to deliver it. He was stopped on Ganesh Chandra Avenue based on a specific tip-off and his bag was searched. “Bundles of currency notes were found inside the bag. The findings of a preliminary investigation suggests that he (Gupta) is a trader and may have been involved in hawala operations,” said a senior police officer. The matter has been referred to the income tax department. The department will formally seize the cash and initiate a probe into its origin. However, the police said, it was still not clear if the money was linked to any political party. Various wings of Calcutta police along with the adjoining commissionerates intensify vehicle checking and often use technological and human inputs to stop illegal transportation of money and arms. A few weeks ago, the special task force of Calcutta police had seized Rs 61 lakh from alleged drug racketeers in central Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Teen accused of killing brother in Ekbalpore||An 18-year-old boy, who worked as a mason at a building in Ekbalpore, was arrested on Friday for allegedly killing his brother, who was four years junior to him. Mujahid Ansari, 14, was found lying in a pool of blood on Thursday night in a building under construction where he and his father and brother worked as masons. Police said his father was the first to spot Mujahid, who had been missing since Thursday evening, on the fifth floor of the building. He had puncture marks all over his face.  “It appeared that someone had hit his face repeatedly with a sharp weapon,” said an officer of the homicide wing of the detective department. During questioning, Mujahid’s elder brother Mubarak allegedly kept changing his statement. And that caught the cops attention. “Mubarak confessed to his crime. Further probe revealed that a wooden plank with nails jutting out was used to hit Mujahid,” said a senior officer of the port division. “We have learned that the brothers had a strained relationship. But the exact trigger of yesterday’s incident is still unclear.” The police said the family, from Jharkhand, had come to Calcutta to work as labourers. Mubarak has been charged with murder of his minor brother, a section, if proved before the court, could lead to a maximum punishment of death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Business||Tanishq optimistic about demand despite second wave of pandemic||Jewellery major Tanishq is optimistic about demand amid rising concerns over the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The company does not predict a rerun of a lockdown seen in the early months of 2020 that disrupted jewellery sales across the country. Titan in an update on the bourses has said that its jewellery division has seen strong sales momentum. Declining gold prices have helped it to gain in market share. The division grew 60 per cent during the fourth quarter (ex-B2B sales), led by a 32 per cent rise in January and February, followed by a much higher growth in March because of its low base. The company has added 26 stores in the jewellery division, adding 123,000 retail square feet to its retail footprint in 2020-21. The performance has prompted brokerages to be bullish on the company. “Jewellery growth has exceeded expectations and the momentum is likely to remain strong, driven by the wedding season ahead. While Maharashtra, a key market (15-20 per cent of jewelry revenues), may see a short-term impact due to the lockdown, strong momentum in jewellery and pent-up demand would drive further upgrades to our forecasts. Titan remains the preferred pick in the discretionary space,” said Emkay Global Financial Services in its report. The Titan stock at Rs 1,591.75 was up 1.14 per cent on the BSE on Friday. However, the rising instances of infection in key markets ahead of the wedding season and with festivals such as Gudi Padwa and Poila Boishakh, Akshay Tritiya to follow, there is a heightened concern among jewellers. “In many parts of the country, we don’t see any impact as we speak. Our estimate is that the situation is not going to be like last year,” said Ajoy Chawla, CEO, Jewellery Division, Titan Company Ltd. He was speaking at a new brand proposition of its wedding brand Rivaah. However, a Reuters report says physical gold demand in India stalled this week after local prices rebounded from a one-year trough and coronavirus restrictions were imposed, while buyers in other major Asian hubs were also put off by an uptick in prices. On Friday, local gold futures were trading at around Rs 46,600 ($623.99) per 10 grams after falling to Rs 43,320 last week, the lowest level since April 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
10-04-2021||Business||Manipal Health to sell its Malaysian hospital to Ramsay Sime Darby Healthcare||Manipal Health Enterprises on Friday said it will divest its Malaysian business to Ramsay Sime Darby Healthcare. The company, however, did not disclose the value of the deal. Set up in 2016, the 220-bed Manipal Hospitals, Klang, is a high-end tertiary care hospital accredited by the Malaysian society for quality in health. The facility offers over 30 specialty services, including Klang’s only trauma centre, Dilip Jose, managing director and chief executive of Manipal Hospitals, said. The divestment comes at a time Manipal Hospitals gears up for a smooth integration of Columbia Asia Hospitals India, an acquisition that is nearing completion. The Bangalore-based Manipal Hospitals is among the top five healthcare providers in the country serving over 3 million patients annually, offering affordable, quality healthcare in multispecialty and tertiary care along with homecare. With 10 tertiary/quaternary care facilities and four secondary care hospitals, Manipal Hospitals operates and manages about 6,000 beds across 14 hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||UCO Bank plans to set off accumulated losses of Rs 12,537 crore ||State-owned Uco Bank has proposed to set off its accumulated losses of over Rs 12,537 crore by utilising the balance in the share premium account and has convened an EGM next month to seek shareholders’ approval. A share premium account reflects the difference between the par/face value of shares and the subscription price of the shares. It is an additional paid-in capital, which can also be termed as paid-in capital in excess of par value. It is a reserve that cannot be distributed, however, can be used for the defined purposes. The bank will also seek the approval of the shareholders for issuing preference shares to the government for capital infusion in the next EGM. The extraordinary general meeting (EGM) will be held on Friday, May 7, 2021, through video conferencing. Uco Bank said it will seek the consent of the shareholders to set off its accumulated loss of over Rs 12,537.39 crore as on March 31, 2020, by utilising the balance standing to the credit of share premium account as on date and take the same into account during the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||India plans to scale up crude imports from Latin America, Africa and the US||India plans to diversify crude imports and scout for increasing shipments from Latin America, Africa and the US. It is also exploring the option of resuming imports from Iran the moment Washington eases its sanctions as Saudi Arabia has been cold to India’s demand on crude output. Industry sources said the government has asked the state-owned oil firms to diversify crude procurement sources and reduce dependence on oil from West Asia to cut down risk and also take advantage of the pricing and bargain as a large consumer. Sources said the PSU refiners are also looking to purchase oil from Brazil’s Tupi grade, Guyana’s Liza oil and Norway’s Johan Sverdrup to fill up the shortfall. Firms are trying to buy more from the US too. IOC has floated a spot tender seeking crude from West Africa, the US and Canada. India traditionally buys oil from Nigeria, Angola, Algeria, Egypt and Equatorial Guinea. In recent years it has bought oil from Cameroon, Chad, Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire also. Fuel contracts India’s fuel demand contracted by a massive 9.1 per cent in 2020-21, the first in more than two decades, as a stringent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic pummelled economic activity, government data has showed. India consumed 194.63 million tonnes of petroleum products in 2020-21 as compared with 214.12 million tonnes demand in the previous year, according to the latest data released by the oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||Net direct tax mop up exceeds revised estimates at Rs 9.45 lakh crore in FY21||Net direct tax collections for the fiscal ended March 2021 stood at Rs 9.45 lakh crore, exceeding the revised budget estimate of Rs 9.05 lakh crore by 5 per cent. The collections were, however, lower by 10 per cent from the previous fiscal. Of the total provisional net direct tax collections, around Rs 4.57 lakh crore have been garnered in corporate taxes, Rs 4.71 lakh crore in income tax and around Rs 17,000 crore in securities transaction tax. Provisional estimates released by the finance ministry showed that the gross direct tax collection stood at Rs 12.06 lakh crore in 2020-21, a rise of 5 per cent over the preceding fiscal. Tax refunds jumped almost 42 per cent on a yearly basis to Rs 2.61 lakh crore, the provisional data showed. “Refunds amounting to Rs 2.61 lakh crore have been issued in 2020-21 against refunds of Rs 1.83 lakh crore issued in 2019-20, an increase of around 42 per cent over the preceding financial year,” the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, P.C. Mody, said. “The collections appear to have contracted a modest 3.5 per cent in March 2021. We expect the fiscal deficit to be limited to Rs 17-17.2 lakh crore  for the just-concluded fiscal. With the contraction in direct taxes in 2020-21 limited to 10 per cent, the growth target for fiscal 2021-22 is now around 17 per cent, only modestly higher than the projected nominal GDP growth,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. The economy is slowly recovering and tax collection numbers are on expected lines, according to Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings and Research. “This, along with indirect tax collections for FY21, suggests that fiscal deficit in FY21 may be lower than the revised estimate, provided there is no slippage on expenditure side. This is further corroborated by the central government cancelling last scheduled government borrowing in FY21,” Pant said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said:  “The data shows that collections have been better than the revised numbers in budget. However, the RE of Rs 9.05 lakh crore was much lower than the budgeted Rs 13.19 lakh crore for the fiscal. Also, all refunds have not yet been made, which will show up in April-May.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||DoT issues show-cause notice to Vodafone Idea over non-payment of licence fee ||The department of telecom has issued a show-cause notice to Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) over non-payment of licence fee for the fourth quarter of 2020-21, with regard to some circles, sources said. The show-cause notice dated April 7, 2021 states that the company has not paid the licence fee for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 (by March 25) for the Bihar, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh (East) and Odisha circles as well as for national long distance telephony. An e-mail sent to Vodafone Idea on the issue remained unanswered. However, sources close to the company said that payments had been made towards licence fee and spectrum usage charges for the quarter ended March 2021, last month, and that payment gaps if any, will be completed within the defined timeline. According to the notice, seen by PTI, the department of telecom (DoT) has directed Vodafone Idea to show cause by April 12, 2021, why action should not be taken against the company under relevant clauses of the licence agreement. The licence fee is payable in four quarterly instalments during each financial year. The quarterly instalment of the licence fee for the first three quarters of a financial year is payable within 15 days of the completion of the relevant quarter. For the last quarter of the financial year, licensees have to pay the licence fee by March 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||Yields on 10-year bond fell below 6 per cent for the first time in two months||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday fell below 6 per cent for the first time in two months as expectations swirled around the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which kicks off next Thursday. The programme is meant to stabilise yields that will enable the government to carry out its gargantuan Rs 12-lakh-crore borrowing programme for the year without disrupting the fund-raising plans of other companies. In the meantime, the RBI on Friday undertook a variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction that was meant to push up short-term yields leading to the flattening of the yield curve over time. The 10-year note on Friday troughed at 5.97 per cent, a level last seen on February 11 and five basis points below the previous close of 6.03 per cent. The yields have declined nearly 22 basis points from Wednesday’s high of 6.19 per cent on the announcement of G-SAP 1.0. The yields inched up later in the day and settled at 6.01 per cent at close. Markets are divided over G-SAP 1.0: a section believes the RBI move will lead to a cap on the long-term rate on yields. But there are others who believe the amount is too small compared with the government’s borrowing programme. So far, the RBI has said it will raise Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter. It has not disclosed the amounts it will buy in the rest of the year. Markets expect the RBI to purchase Rs 1 lakh crore each in the next three quarters. M. Govinda Rao, chief economic adviser at Brickwork Ratings, cited the IMF’s World Economic Outlook and warned if monetary policy is carried out with an eye to shield the government’s borrowing programme at the expense of price stability, “inflation could increase rapidly. Hopefully, the RBI will cautiously approach the issue in managing liquidity”. Variable reverse repo The RBI on Friday received an overwhelming response to its 14-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction under its liquidity adjustment facility (LAF). The first variable reverse repo auction after the meeting of MPC earlier this week saw an excess subscription of 67.8 per cent. The RBI has said it will hold VRRR auctions of longer duration, though it has not made any formal announcements. At the 14-day VRRR auction, against a notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the RBI received bids worth Rs 3.35 lakh crore. The central bank accepted bids for Rs 2 lakh crore. The cut-off rate was set at 3.48 per cent  higher than the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. Suyash Choudhary, head – fixed income, IDFC AMC, said longer term VRRR will ensure both the very short-term rates and the longer tenor rates will rise. “ If this happens it will allow the RBI to start normalising the exceptionally low levels of near end rates that exist today.’’ Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research, said the longer term VRRR shows the RBI plans to move up the curve, while at the same time ensuring  the move is part of their overall liquidity operations . “Banking system liquidity remains in comfortable surplus, which apart from only a gradual pickup in credit growth is also buttressed by strong dollar flows which have been mopped by the central bank. An eye will be on global market volatility as the central bank seeks to manoeuvre a challenging balance beam, capping bond yields, staying pro-growth, and keeping liquidity flush yet keep inflation under control,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||India||No lockdown in Delhi, but ‘some restrictions’ will be put in place: Kejriwal||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said lockdown is "not an option" but some restrictions will be put in place in the national capital which is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The chief minister said this during an interaction with reporters after visiting the LNJP Hospital -- the mainstay of Delhi's fight against Covid-19 -- to review its preparedness. "Lockdown is not an option, however, we will be putting some restrictions in place to contain the spread of the virus. We will release the restrictions in the coming few days. Covid centres are being rebuilt and some have already started functioning," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister's office. Kejriwal said the administration and hospitals are working to contain the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city. "We are currently in a comfortable position with reference to beds and ventilators. We will ensure that the people of Delhi stay safe, to the best of our abilities," he added. Coronavirus cases in Delhi have mounted at a very rapid rate in the last few days, and the number of deaths too have risen. Delhi recorded 8,521 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest single-day surge since November 11 last year, while 39 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,196. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. At present, 1,500 beds out of 2,000 are reserved for Covid-19 patients, and the number might be increased according to requirements in the future, Kejriwal said. "The last few days have seen a rise in the number of corona cases in the entire country, including Delhi. We need to simultaneously spearhead an aggressive vaccination campaign and also put in place measures that can effectively contain the spread of the virus along with making the hospital management equally effective," he said. Right now, we have declared 1,500 of those as Covid beds, 500 are still non-Covid. Slowly, the outpatient department will also be shut at the hospital and if the situation demands, all 2,000 will be made available for Covid patients, the chief minister said. "Whatever is required by the hospitals from our end, will be provided. We sincerely hope and pray to God that no one falls prey to the disease but in the scenario that they do, we will ensure that the hospitals are ready for the challenge and the people of Delhi face no obstacles in recovery," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
10-04-2021||India||Sonia reviews Covid-19 spread in Congress ruled states||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday reviewed the efforts by the states ruled by her party to tackle the second wave of the coronavirus infection and the vaccination drive. Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to test, track and vaccinate. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting. While Singh pointed out that Punjab's vaccination stock will last for five more days, Baghel said Chhattisgarh will run out of the vaccine stock in three days. The Congress chief also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, chief spokesperson of the party Randeep Surjewala said. "The priority is to test, track and vaccinate," he wrote on Twitter, quoting Sonia Gandhi. "The (Narendra) Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India," the Congress chief said at the meeting. She said all public gatherings and poll rallies should be cancelled as the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise and asked the chief ministers if the economic packages announced by the Centre had the desired impact. "Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own," Sonia Gandhi said. Surjewala said the Punjab chief minister has pointed out a vaccine shortage. "He candidly points out that the Central Govt has given no assurance of numbers and supply," he wrote on Twitter. "We must focus on India's vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries. We must stress on responsible behaviour -- adhering to all laws and Covid regulations without an exception," she said. The Congress chief said cooperation with the states is showing respect to federalism and it is equally important for the states to be constructive and cooperate with the Centre in its efforts to fight the pandemic. "We are all united in this fight," Sonia Gandhi said. She said strict measures need to be taken in the Congress-ruled states to ensure that the pandemic does not go out of control and large-scale testing, preparation of adequate facilities and setting up temporary ones should be ensured. "We must make all efforts to support those who face the brunt of reduced economic activity as the restrictions become harder and more stringent," she said. Gandhi asked, "Is there enough vaccine available? Has the central government been cooperative? What are our states doing to ensure the availability of oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows?" "What are your views on another lockdown? What about the economic fallout? How bad is the situation in your state? Should public gatherings, including election rallies, not be cancelled?" she asked. Stating that various packages have been announced by the Centre to help MSMEs and stimulate the economy, the Congress chief asked, "What impact have these packages had and what more should the government be doing to deal with the continuing crisis? Do you see economic recovery happening in the manner that is being officially claimed?" "According to our discussion on Covid, I would like to be briefed on the latest situation regarding the agitation of farmers that has been going on now for well over five months. "The Congress-ruled states have passed their own laws but those have not received the presidential assent. What more should we do even though the keys to the solution are with the Centre, which has created the problem in the first place," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||India records over 1.45 lakh fresh Covid cases, 794 casualties in a day||With a record 1,45,384 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,32,05,926, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, while the death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,68,436 with 794 more fatalities, the highest since October 18 last year, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 31st day in a row, the number of active coronavirus cases in the country has gone up to 10,46,631, accounting for 7.93 per cent of its total caseload, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 90.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, accounting for only 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases in the country. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,19,90,859, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.28 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,52,14,803 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 11,73,219 on Friday. The 794 fresh fatalities include 301 from Maharashtra, 91 from Chhattisgarh, 56 from Punjab, 46 from Karnataka, 42 from Gujarat, 39 from Delhi, 36 from Uttar Pradesh, 32 from Rajasthan, 23 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 22 from Kerala, 17 from Jharkhand and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. Of the total number of 1,68,436 deaths caused by COVID-19 in the country, Maharashtra accounts for 57,329, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,863), Karnataka (12,813), Delhi (11,196), West Bengal (10,378), Uttar Pradesh (9,039), Punjab (7,390) and Andhra Pradesh (7,279). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||US Navy conducts exercise in Indian waters sans intimation||The US Navy has declared with impunity that it carried out an exercise in Indian waters near the Lakshadweep Islands on Wednesday without New Delhi’s prior consent to challenge India’s “excessive” maritime claims. A statement from the Commander of the US Seventh Fleet said the navy would continue to perform such “freedom of navigation operations” in future to uphold “the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law”. Indian navy veterans and defence officials expressed shock that a friendly country would not just transgress Indian maritime policy but advertise it. The phrase  “Seventh Fleet” has other domestic implications, too, especially against the backdrop of the 50th anniversary of the Liberation of Bangladesh. Within India, the Seventh Fleet has come to symbolise the country’s will to stand up to a superpower like the US and defy the arm-twisting tactics of Henry Kissinger, Richard Nixon’s hawkish secretary of state, during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The Nixon administration had tried to intimidate India and lift the morale of West Pakistan by sending Task Force 74 of the Seventh Fleet to the Bay of Bengal. Led by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, India had refused to blink and the Soviet Union had despatched naval units from its Pacific Fleet, helping New Delhi thwart America’s gunboat diplomacy. This week, the US statement did not mince words: “This freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India’s excessive maritime claims.” India, which requires other countries to seek permission before carrying out military exercises on its waters, said the US action had violated a UN Convention and that New Delhi had conveyed its concerns through diplomatic channels. The US Navy had conducted such an operation earlier too, but did not make it public in the manner it has done now.  For instance, an exercise in 2018-19 became known only in 2020 when the report was unclassified. The statement from the Commander of the US Seventh Fleet defended the operation by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones in India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) as “consistent with international law” and described New Delhi’s requirement of prior consent as “inconsistent with international law”. “On April 7, 2021 (local time) USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law,” the statement said. “India required prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvres in its exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, a claim inconsistent with international law.” India’s foreign ministry issued a statement on Friday saying: “The Government of India’s stated position on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is that the Convention does not authorise other States to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state. “The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of USA through diplomatic channels.” India’s defence ministry declined to comment officially. A ministry official said: “This is totally unbecoming of the US since it is among India’s closest strategic partners and both sides have been opposing China’s maritime expansionism, especially in the South China Sea.” The former navy chief, Admiral Arun Prakash, said there was an irony to the development. “There is irony here. While India ratified UN Law of the Seas in 1995, the US has failed to do it so far. For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it? USN please switch on IFF (Identification, friend or foe)!” he tweeted. The US Navy statement said its forces operated daily in the Indo-Pacific region and all their operations were “designed in accordance with international law and demonstrate that the US will fly, sail and operate wherever international law allows”. “We conduct routine and regular... (FONOPs), as we have done in the past and will continue to in the future. FONOPs are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements,” the statement said. In October 2019, the Indian Navy had chased away a Chinese research vessel from Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands as it lacked permission to operate there. Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh had then said: “Our stand is very clear…. If you have to do anything in our exclusive economic zone, you have to notify Indian navy and take permission.” The last time the US Navy conducted such an operation in India’s exclusive economic zone was in 2018-19, according to the US defence department that publishes an annual freedom of navigation report “identifying the excessive maritime claims that US forces operationally challenged”. In an unclassified report to the US Congress in July 2020, the US navy said it had conducted an operation in the Indian Ocean region between October 1, 2018, and September 30, 2019, to preserve the rights, freedoms, and uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all nations by international law. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||States running out of Covid-19 vaccine doses||Dozens of Covid-19 vaccination centres in Maharashtra and Odisha suspended operations on Friday after running out of vaccine stocks, a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had asserted there was no vaccine shortage. Several private hospitals in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, too have reported they have no vaccines, while Bengal, Odisha and Rajasthan have told the Centre they would run out of vaccine stocks in two days. The Union health ministry did not explain why so many vaccination centres in at least five states had or would soon run out of stocks, but one health expert tracking the campaign said it was “obviously either a supply issue or a distribution issue”. Vardhan had tweeted on Thursday that India had administered about 91 million doses and had 24 million doses “in stock” and 19 million doses “in the pipeline”, without clarifying what “pipeline” meant. “Where does the question of (vaccine) shortages arise? We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply,” Vardhan wrote. Two senior health officials, both of whom are involved in guiding the country’s vaccination strategy, failed to respond to queries from The Telegraph about multiple states facing shortages despite the minister’s assurances. A third official, also advising the vaccination strategy, said: “I don’t have the information that you’re looking for.” Health officials had earlier insisted that the Centre was monitoring the vaccine stocks and the daily use in every state. “If this is being done efficiently, why should any vaccination centre run out of stocks?” a senior public health expert asked. “An efficient distribution system would ensure the stocks get replenished before they run out,” the public health and infectious disease expert who is not associated with the vaccination campaign told this newspaper. On Friday, as India recorded over 131,000 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count until now, inoculations were suspended at sites in Mumbai and Odisha. In Mumbai, city health authorities told PTI that 75 of the 120 vaccination centres across the city, including a jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre in a key business district, had suspended inoculation because of shortages. The remaining centres were likely to suspend the vaccination drive by Friday afternoon or evening as the stocks were fast depleting, the officials said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s executive health officer, Mangala Gomare, told the agency that Mumbai was expected to get 180,000 doses on Friday. The jumbo Covid-19 centre, where the civic body has set up a mega inoculation facility, suspended vaccinations after administering the less than 200 doses available in stock, a doctor from the centre said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that his state would run out of vaccines within two days, and requested at least 3 million doses. Rajasthan has administered over 8.6 million doses and plans to inoculate 500,000 people every day, Gehlot said. More than 700 vaccination centres in Odisha have already suspended inoculations because of a lack of vaccines, state officials said. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had flagged the acute shortage of vaccines in the state during Modi’s interaction with chief ministers on Thursday. Patnaik had urged Modi to ensure that Odisha had enough vaccine stocks for at least 10 days. A public health expert said it was unclear what criteria the Centre was using to distribute the vaccines among different states. Vardhan had said on Thursday that Maharashtra and Rajasthan were two of the top three states in the allocation of Covid-19 vaccine doses. “Both are non-BJP government states,” he had tweeted, releasing figures of the doses: Maharashtra (10.6 million), Gujarat (10.5 million), Rajasthan (10.4 million). But Maharashtra’s population of 120 million is nearly twice Gujarat’s 64 million. "Ideally we would expect the vaccine distribution to be in proportion to the states’ populations and caseloads,” said Dileep Mavlankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. India’s count of active patients rose on Friday to nearly 980,000. Among these, about 44,000 patients are on oxygen support, 22,000 are in intensive care units and nearly 4,500 are on ventilator, according to data presented on Friday by Vardhan at a Group of Ministers meeting on Covid-19. Ten states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan — account for over 80 per cent of the new patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad accuses Rahul of lobbying for pharma companies||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday accused Rahul Gandhi of lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, slamming the Congress leader’s letter to the Prime Minister over the slow pace of the vaccination drive. In a series of tweets, Prasad also sought to hit back with a question: “Why has Rahul Gandhi not yet taken the vaccine?” Rahul became eligible to take the vaccine after it was opened to everyone over 45 on April 1. “After failing as a part time politician has Rahul Gandhi switched to full time lobbying?” Prasad asked. “First he lobbied for fighter plane companies…. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines,” he added. “India is not facing a vaccine starvation but Shri Rahul Gandhi is facing attention starvation,” Prasad claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Rafale: Congress seeks thorough investigation of 2.81bn euro loss||The Congress on Friday made a fresh demand for a thorough investigation as latest revelations in the Rafale deal suggested a loss of Rs 21,075 crore (2.81 billion euros) to the national exchequer because the Indian Negotiating Team was overruled to fix a higher price for the fighter jets acquired from the French company Dassault Aviation. Claiming vindication of its stand that the Rafale deal involved massive corruption, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference: “The Prime Minister needs to answer some questions. Isn’t it correct that the Indian Negotiating Team (INT) on August 10, 2015, arrived at a benchmark cost of 5.06 billion euros for 36 Rafale fighter jets including weaponry package, etc? Is it now not proved by the INT document released by the French news portal Mediapart which has accessed Enforcement Directorate (ED) documents recovered from the middleman?” Surjewala added: “Isn’t it correct that the price of 7.87 billion euros for 36 aircraft was decided by Dassault Aviation in its internal meeting dated January 20, 2016? Isn’t it correct that the INT had rejected this price calculation of 7.87 billion euros for the 36 aircraft the very next day? Isn’t it correct that on September 23, 2016, the price of 7.87 billion euros (as decided by Dassault in their internal meeting) was accepted by the (Narendra) Modi government and the contract awarded to Dassault?” The Congress had earlier also accused the Prime Minister’s Office of overruling the INT to fix a higher price. Surjewala said: “What was the quid pro quo for accepting the price of 7.87 billion euros when the defence ministry itself had calculated the cost at 5.06 billion euros and had rejected the Dassault calculation? What is the reason for additional payment of 2.81 billion euros (Rs 21,075 crore — value in 2016), causing loss to the public exchequer? Asking why the Modi government was silent on these revelations despite seizure of sensitive confidential documents from the said middleman in 2019, brought out in public domain now by the French news portal, Surjewala queried: “Isn’t it correct that the ED has recovered the ‘secret defence ministry documents’ from the middleman in the raid dated March 26, 2019, including the benchmark price document dated August 10, 2015, the ‘record of discussions’ by the INT, the ‘Excel sheet of calculations’ made by the defence ministry and Eurofighter’s counter offer of 20 per cent discount to the government?” The Congress spokesperson said: “Why did the Modi government then not take action against Dassault, the political executive or the defence ministry officers who leaked the documents? Isn’t it correct that ‘anti-corruption clauses’, that is, ‘no bribery, no gift, no influence, no commission, no middlemen’ is the mandatory policy in defence contracts as per the ‘Defence Procurement Procedure’? Isn’t it correct that the ‘anti-corruption clauses’ were part of the tender issued by the UPA for purchase of 126 fighter aircraft? Isn’t it correct that the mandatory ‘anti-corruption clauses’ were proposed by the defence ministry to be part of the ‘Inter-Governmental Agreement’ dated July 20, 2015? Isn’t it correct that the French government/Dassault deleted the anti-corruption clauses?” Surjewala asked: “How was a middleman in a reported note to Dassault dated June 24, 2014, promising Dassault officials ‘a meeting with Indian political high command’ and possible change of the defence minister? Did such a meeting take place with the ‘high command’ in the Modi government? Is it correct that after the alleged meeting, the Prime Minister announced the off-the-shelf purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft on April 10, 2015, and also the removal of HAL as the offset partner and bringing in a private Indian industrialist? Is it also correct that the defence portfolio was also changed in November 2014?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Rahul demands immediate moratorium on vaccine export||Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded an immediate moratorium on vaccine export, saying the Narendra Modi government’s mismanagement had frittered away the advantage India’s scientists had given the country. “Over the last year, our country suffered irreparable losses, made tremendous sacrifices, and yet we are under a renewed attack by the coronavirus,” Rahul wrote to Prime Minister Modi. “This is unfortunate considering our scientific community and vaccine suppliers worked overtime to develop a solution but their efforts are undermined by the poor implementation and oversight.” The invocation of “oversight” seemed an attempt to underline the questions about the government’s functioning that were recently raised when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman used the word to explain an apparently inadvertent order cutting small savings interest rates. While the order was quickly withdrawn at a time many states were election-bound, many citizens and social media users wondered how casually the Centre had to function for such an order to be issued by oversight. Demanding an “immediate moratorium” on vaccine export, Rahul wrote to Modi: “Was the export of vaccines also an ‘oversight’, like many other decisions of this government, or an effort to garner publicity at the cost of our own citizens?” India has already exported 6.45 crore doses of Covid vaccines, some of them free of cost, as a goodwill gesture to friendly countries. But the process has now been halted with several states reporting shortages. “India had the first mover advantage in vaccination and yet we are moving at a snail’s pace. Historically, India has achieved abundant experience in designing and executing some of the world’s biggest vaccination programmes. Yet in the present case, we have managed to fully vaccinate less than 1 per cent of the population in 3 months,” Rahul wrote. “Countries with sizeable populations have managed to vaccinate relatively many more people. At our current vaccination rate, it would take years to inoculate 75 per cent of the population. This will have catastrophic effects and will gravely decelerate India’s economy.” Rahul appeared to be seeking to expose the BJP’s ‘India first’ slogan by harping on the vaccine exports. Rahul recalled how the Congress had successfully run vaccination drives over the last 70 years. He sought more freedom for the states. “Centralisation and individualised propaganda are counter-productive. Even though public health is a state subject, our states have been bypassed right from vaccine procurement to registration,” he wrote. Rahul suggested a few measures: “Provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity. Fast-track approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it. Double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing Rs 35,000 crore. “Give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution. Provide direct income support to the vulnerable sections in the disastrous second wave.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Rabies shot instead of Covid jab in Uttar Pradesh||Three elderly women were allegedly administered anti-rabies injections instead of Covid vaccines at a community health centre in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district on Thursday. Saroj Verma, 70, Anarkali Devi, 72, and Satyavati Devi, 60, had gone to the community health centre for the vaccination on Thursday. “Saroj began vomiting after around 20 minutes,” said Awadhesh Singh, a neighbour of Anarkali and Satyavati. “One of them called us and we took her to a private hospital, where a doctor checked the chit she had been given at the community health centre. It was written on the chits of the women that they had been administered anti-rabies injections,” Awadhesh added. The three women have sent a written complaint to Jasjeet Kaur, the district magistrate of Shamli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Vaccine: Serum bound by global pact to ship jabs to Covax||The Serum Institute of India is legally compelled to ship coronavirus vaccine to global vaccine sharing facility Covax, its co-lead Gavi has told Reuters, a provision that could complicate the firm’s efforts to boost domestic supplies. India, where infections have surged to 13.06 million, suspended all major exports of vaccines last month to fill demand at home, forcing the world’s biggest vaccine maker to divert nearly all its production to the domestic market. “The agreement is legally binding and served as a basis for the first-round allocation document, which has been communicated to all participating economies,” a Gavi spokeswoman said by email. The pact specified Gavi would receive from the Serum Institute 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca vaccine or that of Novavax, with 200 million committed, and the rest on option. Serum Institute partner AstraZeneca has already issued it a legal notice over delays to other shipments, while many Indian states have complained of a shortage facing priority recipients. Gavi said its pact with Serum took effect when the World Health Organisation approved the AstraZeneca shot on February 15, after a source said Serum had originally been supposed to send doses to Covax only from May. “Serum has pledged that, alongside supplying India, it will prioritise the Covax multilateral solution for equitable distribution,” Gavi added. Covax had expected more than 100 million doses from Serum between February and May, excluding supplies for India, but has so far received only about 18.2 million. Gavi did not respond on Friday to questions about what now lies ahead. Serum also did not respond to a request for comment. The firm has sought $403 million from New Delhi as a grant to boost monthly output to more than 100 million doses by end-May, from 65 million to 70 million now. Reuters On Thursday, the foreign ministry said domestic demand would determine the extent of India’s exports. It has already shipped 64.5 million doses and given out 92 million at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi survey order queried||Thursday’s directive by a Varanasi court for an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi area came while a petition questioning the hearing in the lower court was pending with Allahabad High Court, the Muslim side said on Friday. It said civil judge Ashutosh Tiwari’s order was therefore bad in jurisprudence and would be challenged in the high court. The 30-year-old petition sought the radar technology survey to ascertain whether parts of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple lay under the Gyanvapi mosque. M.R. Shamshad, who is fighting the case for the Gyanvapi Anjuman Intzamiya (management) Committee, said the Muslim side had petitioned the high court in 2019 asking that the petition be no longer heard in the lower courts. “The high court had reserved its judgment two months ago. We were waiting for the order,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-220
10-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls: Unnao rape convict’s wife gets BJP ticket ||Former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s wife will be contesting the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls on a BJP ticket. The BJP has made her a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Kuldeep Sengar was awarded life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019, for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao. After his conviction, Sengar’s membership as an MLA was cancelled. Samajwadi Party chief spokesman Rajendra Chowdhury said: “On one hand, it (BJP) talks about eliminating criminals and on the other, it glorifies them....” BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava said names of all the candidates were recommended by the district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
10-04-2021||India||Everyone aged 18 and above can pick their own faith: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Friday orally observed every person aged 18 and above has a right to choose his or her religion while refusing to entertain a PIL seeking direction to the Centre and states to control “black magic, superstition and religious conversion”. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and Hemant Gupta warned the petitioner Ashwini Upadhyaya that it would impose a heavy cost on him if he persisted with the arguments, forcing the latter to withdraw the petition. “I don’t see a reason as to why any person above the age of 18 years cannot choose his religion... There is a reason why the word propagate is there in the Indian Constitution,” Justice Nariman heading the bench told the petitioner, an advocate. The court was referring to Article 25 of the Constitution which guarantees every person freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion. The observation comes in the backdrop of several BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka passing anti-conversion laws to curb alleged cases of “love jihad”, a Right-wing allegation that Muslim men are luring Hindu women into marriage to indoctrinate and radicalise them. Justice Nariman observed that the present PIL was a case of “publicity interest litigation”. “Religious conversion by ‘carrot and stick’ and ‘by hook or crook’ not only offends Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (right to life and liberty), 25 (right to freedom of religion) but also against the principles of secularism which is integral part of basic structure of Constitution,” the petition said. According to Upadhyaya, on May 10, 1995, in the Sarla Mudgal case, an apex court bench had directed the Centre to explore the feasibility of enacting an anti-conversion law but the government did nothing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
10-04-2021||India||Odisha asks for vaccines and Rs 300 crore to fight the pandemic||Odisha has urged the Centre to immediately send more vaccines to the state and sanction it a sum of Rs 300 crore to effectively fight the corona pandemic. The state is facing an acute shortage of vaccines and it has stocks left only for two days. More than 700 vaccination centres have already shut down because of lack of vaccines. On Thursday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik raised the issue of acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the state during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with chief ministers to review the corona situation in the country. Naveen urged the Prime Minister to ensure that Odisha had enough vaccines stocks at least for next ten days. “Odisha has been doing well in the vaccination programme with the lowest wastage rate in the country and an efficient system of administering the vaccines to eligible persons. We have not been able to ramp up the vaccination programme due to supply issues. We are currently able to vaccinate 2.5 lakh persons per day and have capability to increase it further. We request that at least 10 days stock of the vaccines is ensured for Odisha,” Naveen said. He also asked the Centre to immediately release the Rs 300 crore to Odisha for 2021-22 for Covid management. “During 2020-21, Odisha had requested for Rs 400 crore under Emergency Covid Response Plan (ECRP), but we received only Rs 146 crore. In view of the new wave of Covid, it is requested that at least Rs 300 crore be released to Odisha for 2021-22 for Covid management,” chief minister said. Earlier, health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das said: “The state requires 2.5 lakh doses of vaccine every day. But if vaccines don’t reach the state immediately all vaccination centres in the state will be closed from Saturday. We have asked for immediate supply of 25 lakh doses of vaccines.” Naveen on Friday launched a 14-day Mask Abhiyana to beat the coronavirus. He also urged women to ensure that their family members wear the masks while going out of the house. The announcement came on a day when Odisha witnessed the highest surge of 1,282 new cases. Announcing the Abhiyana, Naveen said: “If we do practice anything for 14 days, then it becomes a habit. Only by practicing such things, we can overcome the corona without the lockdown.” Making it clear that the government is not in favour of any lockdown, Naveen pointed out how lockdown last year had made an impact on the socio-economic condition of the people. “If we wear the masks properly and abide by the Covid guidelines, we will overcome the situation without going for a lockdown,” he said. He further said: “Several states have declared lockdown, shutdown and night curfew. Odisha has also witnessed a surge in cases and this can be contained if we follow the safety protocols and use a mask.” Meanwhile, the Odisha government has made it mandatory for the people coming from other states to produce the RT-PCR negative report obtained within 72 hours of entry of final vaccination certificates (after two doses of vaccinations). Health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das said: “People coming without such reports will have to undergo seven days mandatory and institutional quarantine.” In another development, the Odisha government has suspended all modes of public transport from Chhattisgarh and vice versa from April 10-30. Following a direction from the government, the police have launched a drive to impose penalty on people violating Covid-19 guidelines. “On the second day of the special Covid enforcement drive, Odisha police acted against 11801 violators of mask usage and social distancing rules and collected a fine of Rs 26,61,450 in the last 24 hours,” tweeted Odisha police. It said: “Cumulatively in two days action has been taken against 21201 violators of Covid protocols in the state and penal fines amounting to Rs 51,69,350 have been collected. We urge all to wear masks and maintain social distance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
10-04-2021||India||Row over EVM use in Bihar panchayat polls||Bihar appears to be heading towards a constitutional crisis as elections to the three-tier panchayati raj system are likely to miss the deadline for completion because the Election Commission and the state poll panel are at loggerheads over the use of electronic voting machines (EVM) in the polls. When the state election commission approached Patna High Court on the issue, it had suggested the two constitutional bodies sort out the matter in a mutual manner instead of contesting each other in front of the judiciary. However, with no resolution in sight and the EC not relenting on the issue, the matter has come to a head. The high court has also been unable to take up the case for hearing despite it being listed on Tuesday and Wednesday. The poll process needs to be completed by June 15. The notification for the polls was supposed to be published in March, but is already delayed by a month. If the elections are not completed on time, the state government will have to make alternative arrangements. “Though the case is in Patna High Court, if the polls are not completed on time, we will have to make alternative arrangements. We may appoint administrators to run the local self-government institutions. The panchayat sevak, block development officers, MLAs and others could be given the responsibility,” Bihar panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary told The Telegraph. The rural local body polls involve 8,386 panchayats, block samitis and zilla parishad with elections held for around 2.59 lakh posts in six categories — mukhiya (panchayat headman), ward members, sarpanch (gram kutchery or village court head), panch (village court member) and others at the block and district levels. According to SEC officials, the problem started when it decided to use EVMs in the panchayat polls instead of ballot papers. It approached the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) to buy the EVMs. “We moved to buy around 15,000 multi-post EVMs consisting of one control unit and six ballot units attached to it to cover six types of posts at the three-tier local self-government level. “These EVMs are different from the ones used by the EC and have ‘secured detachable memory module’. Their total cost would come to around Rs 122 crore,” SEC secretary Yogendra Ram told this newspaper. The votes would get registered in these memory modules and they could be removed and stored and the EVMs could then be fitted with fresh memory modules and sent for further use in the next phase of polls. There are a total of 1.2 lakh polling booths in the state at present and they were expected to go for voting in nine or 10 phases. On the other hand, the EVMs used by the EC do not have detachable memory modules and each one consists of a control unit and ballot units. So for six different posts that would be up for local elections, at least 12 to 13 machines (control and ballot unit) would be needed. Moreover, they could not be rotated and all the booths would need separate EVMs. “The EC wanted us to loan its second-generation M2 EVMs. It is currently using the third generation M3 EVMs for the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. We refused because using them would become a logistical nightmare with our limited resources. Moreover, it would have charged us for the EVMs,” Yogendra said. He said the SEC thought of introducing EVMs to bring transparency and cut down allegations of wrongdoing in the elections. States like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and many others are already using the EVMs in their local polls. Yogendra pointed out that the EC withholding permission to the ECIL for supplying EVMs to Bihar was bizarre because it never did so with regard to other states. “We finally moved the high court for justice. Let us see the outcome. We are just hoping that we get success in our endeavour,” Yogendra said. Bihar chief electoral officer S.R. Srinivasa, who is in Kerala for the Assembly polls there, refused to comment on the issue over the telephone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-221
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Central forces intimidating voters, Mamata tells EC||Defending her remarks, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is learnt to have told the Election Commission on Saturday that she has the highest regard for central armed police forces, but there have been serious allegations of CAPF intimidating voters and influencing the electorate to cast their vote for a particular political party. Responding to a notice issued by the poll panel on Thursday seeking explanation over her "prima facie completely false, provocative and intemperate statements" against the central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state, the Trinamool Congress chief denied the contents of the EC communication. Mamata also urged the poll watchdog to rescind its notice, contending she has not violated the model code or the various sections of the Indian Penal Code. She claimed that a girl was allegedly molested by an unidentified CRPF personnel in the early hours of April 6 at Ramnagar, under Tarakeshwar police station and the matter was reported to the police which lodged an FIR. The TMC had complained to the state chief electoral officer. But till date, no tangible action has been taken nor an advisory or instruction issued by Election Commission to the central forces in this regard, she claimed. "I have the highest regard for the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) and commend and laud their contributions to the safety and security of the country," she said in her reply. But during the first three phases of polls in Bengal, there have been serious allegations of CAPF resorting to intimidation of voters by exerting force, influencing the electorate to cast their votes for a particular political party, Mamata is learnt to have alleged her reply. Her party has also lodged several complaints but only a few were redressed, she claimed. To drive home her point that she did not instigate people to carry out violent acts against the central forces, Mamata also reproduced certain portions of her speech in her reply to the EC. "I tell you ladies, a group of you go and restrain (gherao) them while another group will go to cast their votes. One group will restrain them and another group will go to cast their votes. "Don't waste your vote if you engage yourself only in restraining them, they will be happy that you did not cast your vote. This is their plan. It is the plan of the BJP. "And your plan will be that you will not be scared if they try to intimidate you coming to your village on the one hand, on the other you just talk to them. Talking to them will tantamount to restraining them. You don't have to gherao them literally," according to the portion of her speech cited in her reply. She said in her speech, she had only called upon the voters, specifically women voters, "to protest democratically by gherao if and when somebody (including CAPF) created any obstruction in their right to vote". She said "gherao" is one of the democratic ways of registering public protest and there is no reason why gherao should be considered illegal. Mamata said the term "gherao" has been a part of the political lexicon of Bengal since late 1960. She said it has been used to connote peaceful "satyagraha" against authorities and she referred to "gherao" in her speech by way of verbal engagement and not a literal gherao. The TMC chief again targeted the Centre and the CAPF on Saturday, after four people were killed in firing by CISF personnel allegedly after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles" in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district. Mamata said her government will initiate a CID probe into the incident and questioned the central forces' version of firing in self-defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee demands Shah’s resignation over Cooch Behar violence||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday sought Union Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation over the killing of four people in firing by central forces at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. Mamata, speaking at a public meeting at Baduria in North 24 Parganas, said she would be leaving for Cooch Behar after attending rallies, and would visit the spot where CISF personnel opened fire during polling in the fourth phase. "Shah should resign owing responsibility for the incident which is dastardly, cold-blooded and unprecedented," the Trinamool Congress supremo said. Four people were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", police said. The chief minister said her party would bring out protest rallies throughout the state on Sunday, and asked TMC activists to wear black badges and demonstrate peacefully from 2 pm to 4 pm. Mamata said she had long apprehended that central forces would act in such a manner. "As BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill them." She alleged this was part of a conspiracy hatched by Shah. "However, I would ask everyone to remain calm and cast their vote peacefully. Avenge the deaths by defeating them," Mamata asserted. Later, at a press conference in Calcutta, TMC leaders termed the Cooch Behar incident as "pre-planned murder", and also called for the resignation of Shah. TMC Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy said the party condemns the unprovoked firing by central forces on innocent people. "We demand the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah. We want the Election Commission to come out with video footage of the firing to make people aware of the truth," Roy said. "PM Narendra Modi and Shah cannot accept their imminent defeat in the ongoing elections in Bengal. This (firing incident) has happened at the behest of Amit Shah," senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee claimed. Mukherjee said this was a "pre-planned murder committed to create panic among the common people" so that they become reluctant to cast votes in subsequent phases. Chief Minister Mamata Mamata will visit the houses of the deceased, he said. "TMC will always stand beside these hapless families," Mukherjee said. Earlier, Mamata said the death toll in the Assembly elections has so far been higher than the panchayat polls held three years ago. "Some 17-18 people have been killed since the elections began. At least 12 of them belonged to our party," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: 5 persons, including 18-year-old, killed during voting||Five persons, including an 18-years old who went to vote for the first time, were killed during the fourth phase of polling in Bengal at Sitalkuchi, a tiny village in Cooch Behar district, around 137 km from Siliguri, on Thursday. The Election Commission stopped voting at polling station number 126 in Sitalkuchi where four persons died in firing by Central forces. Till 5pm, the total voter turnout in the state was reported at 76.16 per cent. The highest turnout of 79.73 per cent was registered in Cooch Behar district, followed by 76.2 per cent polling in Hoogly. In South 24 Parganas it was 75.49 per cent, while in Howrah it was 75.03 per cent and in Alipurduar 73.65 per cent, officials said. Eighteen-year-old Anand Burman who was outside booth 85 in Pathantuli area was caught in a clash between Trinamul and BJP workers. The death of the teenager sparked violence in the area around the booth and in several villages. Later, around 9.35 am, a Quick Response Team was attacked by a group of 50-60 men, who also damaged police vehicles, near booth number 126 at Sitalkuchi. Election Commission sources said the QRT fired five to six rounds in the air in self-defence. After an hour, another group of around 150 assembled at booth 186 and allegedly manhandled the polling staff. They also assaulted the on-duty Home Guards and Asha workers after entering the booth ignoring the appeals of the CISF officers. A little later a CISF personnel fired two rounds in the air. Two separate units of a Quick Response Team and the local police too arrived at the booth. The CISF personnel opened fire when some people from the mob allegedly tried to snatch their rifles. This led to the four deaths. “As per preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. A scuffle took place and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire. Further details are awaited," a senior police officer said. The ruling Trinamul claimed three others were grievously injured. The violence on Saturday added to the acrimonious atmosphere in which polls are being conducted in Bengal, in fact, shredding the Election Commission’s reasoning to stagger voting in eight phases. Within hours of the deaths, Sitalkuchi became the talking-point of the campaign elsewhere in the state, with both Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee accusing each other’s party of having instigated the violence. Mamata laid the blame for Saturday’s firing and deaths on the doors of the Union home minister Amit Shah. “The police from Delhi (central forces) have killed five of my brothers. They opened fire on a queue outside a polling booth,” Mamata said in Bongaon. “The panchayat polls were held under my administration without so much bloodshed. Already 20 people are dead. Amit Shah you resign, you resign, you resign. You have failed as a home minister,” she thundered. She also accused the central forces of assaulting women in the rural areas and forcing the villagers to vote for the BJP. Mamata, who also campaigned in South Bengal’s border district of Bijpur, was scheduled to leave for Siliguri later in the day. Before that she was to visit Sitalkuchi. Modi was in Siliguri, where polls will be held on April 17, and blamed Mamata and the Trinamul Congress for Saturday’s violence. “What happened in Cooch Behar is extremely sad. Seeing the support that the people have for the BJP, Didi and her goons have lost their minds. I will make it clear to Didi and her goons, their writ will no longer run in Bengal,” Modi said. “I urge the Election Commission to take strictest action against the perpetrators in Cooch Behar. Didi, this violence, attempts to instigate the villagers against the central forces will not save you.” Both Modi and Mamata claimed to have received the mandate to rule Bengal for the next five years, and the violence, they added, was the last resort of their rivals to scare away voters. Mamata claimed she would not let the deaths go unavenged, although it wasn’t clear what she meant. “Ami dekhe nebo (I will see). I am not a weak player. We have won in the three phases and we will win today,” she said. “BJP has lost completely. They know they won’t win.” Complaint to EC In an email to the Election Commission, Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said, “In booth 126, AC-Sitalkuchi 5 people have been shot dead by the CRPF after BJP captured the booth. According to our sources, all 5 were Trinamul party workers belonging to a certain faith… This is a grave violation of the law and the MCC on manifold accounts.” There were reports of violence in other parts of the 44 Assembly seats that went to polls on Saturday. Trinamul is scheduled to hold demonstrations on Sunday across the state demanding Shah’s resignation. State minister Subrata Mukherjee said the incident proved the desperation of the Union Home minister. “Innocent people are being killed so that the voters in the remaining phases do not turn out in large numbers. Shah is the man behind this conspiracy. He is desperate,” Mukherjee said. Chilli powder attack In the Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. In Bangor in South 24 Parganas, clashes were reported between ISF and TMC workers after the former alleged the ruling party was not allowing their polling agents to enter the booth. In Chanditala in Hooghly, CPI(M) activists scuffled with TMC supporters outside a booth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly polls 2021: Political storm erupts after 5 killed during voting ||Five people were killed, including four in the firing by CISF personnel, during the fourth phase of polling on Saturday for 44 assembly seats of West Bengal, triggering a political firestorm. An estimated 52.89 per cent of 1.15 crore voters exercised their franchise till 1 p.m. Four people were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district, police said. The Election Commission ordered stopping the voting exercise at polling station number 126 in Sitalkuchi where the incident happened when polling was underway. "According to preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. "A scuffle took place, and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire. Further details are awaited," a police official said. The EC has sought a detailed report on the incident. According to official sources, the preliminary report submitted by EC's special police observer Vivek Dubey said a huge mob of around 350-400 people had gheraoed the central forces, following which they fired in "self-defence". The incident led to violence in the area where bombs were hurled, prompting central forces to baton-charge to bring the situation under control. In another incident, an 18-year-old voter, Ananda Barman, was gunned down outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli, also in Sitalkuchi, after clashes broke out between activists of the ruling TMC and the BJP. Condoling the deaths in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces. "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally in North Bengal's Siliguri. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee demanded the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah and a reply from him on firing by the central forces which led to the death of people "standing in the queue to vote". Asserting that she had apprehended such an incident all along, Banerjee said, "After killing so many people, they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self- defence. They should feel ashamed." "This is a lie....the CRPF opened fire on people standing in the line for voting, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I had been apprehending the forces would act in such a manner for long. As the BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," she said at a rally in North 24 Parganas. The chief minister said she will visit the scene of the incident. In the Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. In Bangor in South 24 Parganas, clashes were reported between ISF and TMC workers after the former alleged the ruling party was not allowing their polling agents to enter the booth. In Chanditala in Hooghly, CPI(M) activists scuffled with TMC supporters outside a booth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Didi, your tactics won't work, says Modi as 4 shot dead by central forces||Condoling the death of four people in firing by central forces in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces. "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally at Siliguri in North Bengal. Four persons were killed when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles" in Cooch Behar district. The incident took place in the Sitalkuchi area when voting was underway, a senior district police officer said. "Didi, this violence, the tactic of instigating people to attack the security forces, the tactic of obstructing the polling process will not protect you. You have to go out of power. Didi is asking people to attack and gherao security forces who are here to protect the rights of the people of the state," he said. Attacking Mamata over the culture of violence and "tolabaji" (extortion), Modi said people of Bengal had made up their mind to defeat the TMC. "Didi, you don't preside over the destiny of the people of Bengal, they are not your 'jagir' (fiefdom)," he said. North Bengal, he said, was critical to national security which has been undermined due to appeasement politics of Mamata. Reaching out to the numerically strong Dalit Rajbongshi and Matua communities, Modi said the TMC insults them, and claimed a party leader was shown in a video likening the scheduled caste people to beggars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: TMC has conceded election, claims BJP leader after circulating audio clip of Prashant Kishor||The BJP shared an audio clip on Saturday to claim that  West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor had conceded defeat in the ongoing Assembly elections after acknowledging that there was a “Modi cult” in the entire country which would play a key role in the saffron party’s favour during voting in Bengal. At least four separate audio clips were shared by BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya on his twitter handle prompting Kishor to say that the BJP was using to selective portions of his conversation with a group of journalists to come to conclusions. "I have said this before & repeating again - BJP will not CROSS 100 in WB. Period," Kishor tweeted. Kishor appears to say in the clips that Narendra Modi is as popular as Mamata in Bengal. Other factors including polarisation, anger against the TMC government and Dalit votes will work in favour of the saffron party. “In a public chat on Club House, Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist concedes that even in TMC’s internal surveys, BJP is winning. The vote is for Modi, polarisation is a reality, the SCs (27% of WB’s population), Matuas are all voting for the BJP! BJP has cadre on ground,” one of Malviya’s tweets, which went viral, read. In one of the clips, Kishor is heard saying, “If there is a vote, then it is in the name of Modi, in the name of being Hindu. polarisation, Modi, SC (Scheduled Castes), Hindi-speaking -- these are the factors. “Modi is popular here (Bengal). Hindi-speaking people have more than one crore votes. Dalits are 27 per cent and they stand with the BJP fully. Also, polarisation is there,” he went on to say. In another clip, Kishor appears to concede that there is anger against the Mamata Banerjee government, but no such issue exists when it comes to Modi. He also said that the two leaders are equally popular. “We have done a survey on leaders and Modi and Mamata are equally popular, which is a very big thing,” he says. Posting another clip, Malviya wrote, “Another candid admission by Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist - all that the Left, Congress and TMC ecosystem have done in the last 20 years is Muslim appeasement. Implication? It has resulted in resentment on ground. The speakers had not realised that the chat was public!” Here, Kishor was heard saying that the previous governments, as well as TMC, have been appeasing minorities for the last 20 years. “In Bengal, the key to winning polls is whoever the Muslims vote for, will bag the elections...there is some element in which the BJP gets favour, and that element is coming from the blatant misuse of minority politics. We cannot deny that.” Kishor also said that the Matua community will largely vote for the BJP, but “not as unitedly as they did in the Lok Sabha”. He conceded that there will be 75 BJP to 25 other parties in case of this group of refugees from Bangladesh. “TMC’s election was just thrown away,” Malviya wrote, sharing the final clip, where Kishor was told that the chat room was open for all, and someone was recording the talk to post it on social media. “On a day Bengal is voting for 4th phase on as many as 44 seats, TMC cadre and leaders woke up to find out that Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist has conceded the election,” he said in another tweet. Reacting to the whole fiasco, Kishore took to Twitter later and wrote, “I am glad BJP is taking my chat more seriously than words of their own leaders! They should show courage & share the full chat instead of getting excited with selective use of parts of it.I have said this before & repeating again - BJP will not CROSS 100 in WB. Period.” In another tweet, Kishore said that the saffron party will “struggle” to cross double-digit in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks people to remain calm as storm brews over voter deaths||Appealing to people to remain calm, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged armed central police shot dead people standing in a queue to vote in Sitalkuchi. The chief minister speaking at a public meeting here, asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah to explain why five lives were lost in central forces' firing in Sitalkuchi in Coochbehar district during the fourth phase of polling. Claiming she had long apprehended such a situation after watching the "high handedness" of central forces for long, Banerjee said "after killing so many people they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self defence. They should feel ashamed.This is a lie." "The CRPF opened fire on people standing in a queue to vote, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I have been apprehending that the forces' would act in such a manner for a long time. As BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," Banerjee charged. She alleged this was part of a conspiracy hatched by the Union home minister. "However, I would ask everyone to remain calm and cast their vote peacefully. Avenge the deaths by defeating them," she said. Banerjee said that the death toll in this election was far higher than that in the Panchayat elections held three years ago. "If you count the total number of killings since the elections began some 17-18 persons were killed. At least 12 people belonged to our party alone." Banerjee said the EC owed the people an explanation on today's incident. "We are not in charge of the administration. The EC is in charge of administration," she pointed out. "They have removed the senior IPS Surajit Kar Purakaystha. They have removed my OSD Ashok Chakraborty, who is a lower ranked retired officer from RPF. Yet the EC bringing in retired officers to oversee polls here," she said. TMC seeks explanation from EC The ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal on Saturday sought explanation from the Election Commission over the death of four persons, who were shot allegedly by central forces at Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of assembly elections. "We are sad to say with deep concern that firing by central forces has left four dead and four injured at Mathabhanga. We also want to say that the central forces are committing crimes and crossing all limits. The EC should come out with an explanation," TMC Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen said. Sen said when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had pointed to the excesses of the central forces, she was twice issued a showcause notice. "Now, the people of the state want to showcause the EC about how this unfortunate event unfolded," she said. The TMC leader said the BJP is playing mind games and resorting to pressure tactics. "Mamata Banerjee has already won the Nandigram seat by a huge margin. BJP is merely selling a dream to its party workers," Sen said. She also shared clippings of purported videos, one of which showed central forces vandalising TMC camps at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Five, including a first time voter shot dead in Cooch Behar as voting gets underway||Four persons were killed as CISF personnel allegedly opened fire after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district on Saturday, hours after an 18-year-old voter was allegedly gunned down by miscreants outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli area of the same district. The incident involving the CISF took place in Sitalkuchi area when voting was underway, a senior police officer said. "As per preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. "A scuffle took place and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire," he said. Condemning the incident, the Election Commission on Saturday ordered adjournment of polls at polling station number 126 in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency of Bengal amid reports of violence. A spokesperson of the poll panel said the decision was based on an interim report filed by special observers. Detailed reports have been sought from them and the state Chief Electoral Officer by 5 pm. Meanwhile, A first-time voter was allegedly shot dead on Saturday in Cooch Behar district of West Bengal, where 33.98 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 11 am in the fourth phase of assembly elections amid sporadic incidents of violence, officials said. Ananda Barman was allegedly gunned down by miscreants outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli area after clashes broke out between activists of the ruling TMC and the BJP. The culprits, who are yet to be identified, managed to flee, the officials said. The incident led to violence in the area as bombs were hurled, prompting central forces to baton-charge to bring the situation under control, police said. Both the TMC and BJP claimed that Barman belonged to their party, but his family members said he was an activist of the saffron party. "We have received information about a person being shot outside a polling booth in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. We have sought a report from the micro observer," an Election Commission official said. The Trinamool Congress has moved the EC, complaining against the BJP of not allowing its agents to enter several booths at Coochbehar's Natabari, Sitalkuchi, Tufanganj, Mathabhanga and Dinhata. The BJP has denied the allegations. In Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her while trying to escape, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. Meanwhile, BJP candidate Indranil Khan accused the central forces of not taking action against bogus voters in Kasba constituency in Calcutta. Over 1.15 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 373 candidates, including Union minister Babul Supriyo and state ministers Partha Chatterjee and Arup Biswas. Voting will continue till 6.30 pm. Tight security arrangements have been made to ensure peaceful voting with 789 companies of central armed police forces (CAPF) being deployed to guard 15,940 polling stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Floating voters, fluid loyalties and change as new constant ||A diplomat friend once cited the experience from an earlier era in Bengal to underline just how fragile the concept of national identity can be. “Imagine,” he said, “a person born in Dhaka in, say, 1930. He was Indian till the age of 17. A Pakistani for the next 25 years.  And then became a Bangladeshi. He belonged to three nations in less than four decades…” That era, of course, is long over. But as one travels through parts of Bengal in the midst of yet another landmark election, the most striking aspect is not the much talked of rise of the BJP but a fragility of another kind -- of how utterly fluid political loyalties have become in a state once known for its firm ideological fidelities. The other is a sense of déjà vu.  The cry of “poriborton”, which rent the air in these parts exactly 10 years ago and catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power, is back in circulation with a gusto.  As we crisscross a dozen odd constituencies going to the polls on April 10, the recurring refrain is that there is a “hawa” for the BJP this time because people want “change.” Sitting in a chai shop near the Sankrail industrial area in Howrah district, Subhendu Mondol is confident that the BJP will win the seat this time because people are unhappy with the corruption of lower level TMC cadres.  “Didi prothom paanch bochor bhalo kaaj korechilen. Kintu taar pore Didir chela chamundara eto cut money khe phele che ki hojom korte parche na. (Didi did a lot of good work in the first five years. But in the second term, her minions siphoned off so much cut money that they are suffering from indigestion).” If some cite the “cut money” culture as the reason for their disenchantment with the ruling regime, the youth who throng chai shops, hope that a change of guard in the state might lead to more industry, more jobs. But the much more dominant strain is a generalized desire for “poriborton” for its own sake.  Asked to explain the reasons for the “BJP hawa”, the most frequently heard response is: “Poriborton dorkar. Lokera bole aamra chautrish bochor Baam ke dekhechi, dosh bochor Didi ke dekhlam , e baar ekti natun party ke try kori. (We need change. People say we experienced Left rule for 34 years, TMC rule for 10. Let us try a new party).” At a shop in Teghoria, which falls in Sonarpur North constituency, Bhaskar Mondol goes one step further: “Ganatantra te borabor poriborton kora uchit. Tahalei netara kaaj kore. (Change is essential in democracy. Only then are politicians kept on their toes).” Ironically, even while talking of “poriborton”, the same people express a cynicism about politicians that was rarely heard in Bengal before. It is not just that a host of TMC turncoats are now fighting on a BJP ticket. The cadres have switched sides too. Gaurango Ghosh, a jute mill worker in Ghusuri in Howrah, who is rooting for “change” says in the same breath: “After 2011, all the neighbourhood boys who used to be with CPM joined the TMC. And now all the TMC boys have joined the BJP. Danda ekta, jhanda onek. (There is one flagpole but the flags keep changing).” It is not just the leaders and cadres who have changed flags. Voters have too. In a village under the Uluberia East seat, Malati Barik says her father-in-law was “kottor CPM” and the entire family voted Left for years. But when the TMC took over, they shifted their loyalties. And now they are on the verge of another change. “Jokhon jemon dheu uthbe, tokhon tamon bhaaste hobe (When a wave comes, we have to float with it).” One well documented reason for the plunge in the Left’s vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to just 6.34% (which coincided with the BJP’s huge jump to 40.64%) is the large-scale violence against Left supporters in rural Bengal – a phenomenon which began after TMC assumed power but escalated during the panchayat polls of 2018. But “TMC terror” is not the only reason for the shift. A more subtle factor at work today is the emergence of the “floating voter” -- a phenomenon new to Bengal and key to the rise of the BJP. With the BJP pulling out all the stops to add Bengal to its long list of electoral conquests, and secular forces fervently hoping that Mamata Banerjee will stave off the challenge, the entire nation’s attention is riveted on this particular election in the state. The real watershed election, though, was in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee ended the 34-year-run of the Left Front. Much has been written about Bengal’s “cultural exceptionalism”.  But on the ground, what made the state different was a stable political grid. The Left had a loyal support base among the peasantry and moffusil intelligentsia; there was a large anti-Left section too who won a fair share of votes even if it was not converted into a winning a great number of seats. The “floating voter” – unallied to any party structure or ideology – was few and far between. In 2011, when Mamata Banerjee defeated the Left behemoth following peasant agitations against land acquisition in Singur and Nandigram, that grid was smashed completely. Over the last decade, the mass base of the Left -- which is distinct from cadre strength – scattered. The depoliticized floating voter came into being. And like in other parts of India, the main aim of the floating voter is to go with the “winning side,” whichever party that may be. The BJP’s attempt at communal polarization is certainly one factor behind its expansion in Bengal and this is evident from the fact that everyone who talks of “poriborton” today belongs to the majority community. But a more important factor has been its ability to take advantage of the anti-incumbency sentiments that has grown against the TMC. And the most important factor attracting a large swathe of floating voters is that it has created the impression of being a winning party. An eight-phase election spread over a month has been carefully crafted in a way that the BJP starts in its strongholds, and with each passing phase, spreads the word that it is on a winning spree. The CPM-led secular front may take part of the anti-incumbency vote in seats where it has fielded strong candidates – such as Jadavpur where the CPM’s sitting MLA Sujan Chakraborty remains popular. But as a “new party” on the Bengal scene, the BJP could be a far bigger beneficiary of the “poriborton” sentiment being voiced across the state. What is striking though is that while “poriborton” is on many a voter’s lips, no one adds Narendra Modi’s prefix of “ashol (real)” to it. And though his posters are everywhere, hardly anyone takes the name of Modi, focusing instead on the need for change. Both hard core supporters of the BJP as well as its fervent opponents regard the 2021 assembly elections as momentous, with far reaching consequences for both the state and the country. The voters on the ground seem curiously matter of fact in comparison. With the experience of ending the once invincible Left ten years ago, they are almost cocky in their conviction that change will be the new constant. Unmoved by fears of what “change” may actually mean, a frequent response is: “Bhalo na hole, aabar bodle debo. (If it is not good, we will get rid of them too).” Naïve as the sentiment maybe, it does have a reassuring ring to it…||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Four injured in Trinamul, BJP clash at Sitalkuchi ||At least four persons suffered injuries in a clash between Trinamul and BJP supporters at Sitalkuchi on Friday, a day before Cooch Behar votes. The injured are under treatment at different hospitals. Girindra Nath Burman, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga who was attacked by a group of suspected BJP supporters on Thursday night, is said to be stable now. In Cooch Behar, a number of violent incidents have been reported across the district as the elections drew near. On Wednesday evening, the convoy of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was attacked in Sitalkuchi. On Friday, Trinamul supporters demonstrated in different locations of the district, protesting the attack on their candidate. “The BJP had organised the attack. We want the police to arrest all the attackers,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president. After the attack on Ghosh, the police had sprung into action and arrested 16 persons. Two persons have been arrested in connection with the attack on Burman, police sources said. Officials of the district administration, who were busy making arrangements to send polling and security persons to 3,229 booths of the district, said 774 polling stations had been identified as critical, among which 208 had been marked vulnerable. “Altogether, 188 companies of CAPF would be deployed, both in booths and in quick response teams. The state police will also be posted in specific areas,” said an official. In neighbouring Alipurduar district, polling would be held in 1,726 booths, among which 300 have been marked as sensitive. In total, 98 companies of CAPF would be deployed in the district, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP to tighten cash flow for candidates||The BJP central leadership has decided to tighten the cash flow to its Bengal candidates in the remaining phases, multiple sources in the party told The Telegraph although its chief spokesperson in the state denied such a move. As with everything else in elections, there was no unanimity on the reasons cited. A section of the party said the cash flow was being squeezed following an internal assessment that the performance in the third phase had not been satisfactory. But others felt that it could be merely to ensure financial prudence. Asked whether the fist was being tightened, Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of the state BJP, said: “This information isn’t true.” Multiple BJP sources said the party had sent a group of auditors from Delhi to Calcutta last month to keep tabs on the use of the campaign funds. This was followed by the decision to tighten the purse strings after Tuesday’s vote, they said, referring to the third phase of polling. The fourth phase covering 44 seats is being held on Saturday. “Our central leaders  had told us that funds wouldn't be a problem in the effort to wrest Bengal from Trinamul, but the condition was that we had to deliver,” a state BJP source said. “The feedback now is that the performance in the third phase did not go along expected lines despite the heavy spending.” The source said the party's internal assessment belied Union home minister Amit Shah's public claims of a BJP sweep of the 91 Bengal seats that have voted in the first three phases. The Election Commission monitors candidates' poll expenses. With Assembly candidates facing a ceiling of Rs 30.8 lakh on campaign spending, nominees of the bigger parties usually hire an auditor to track their election expenditure. “But I can't recollect any party's central office sending auditors to keep tabs on how its candidates are spending the money provided by the headquarters," a BJP source said. Another source said an allegation by a section in the party that funds provided by the headquarters "are not spent judiciously" by several candidates might have prompted the move to send the auditors. None in the party would officially comment on how much money the BJP was providing each candidate with. Sources in the party's Hastings office said the amount differed on the basis of the nature of the constituency and the stature of the candidate. "The senior candidates are getting more than the newcomers. A candidate who is more popular than his peers and has a better chance of winning may receive more money," a BJP nominee said. According to the Election Commission's rules, a candidate has to open a new account and carry out all poll spending through this account. BJP sources, however, said a portion of the money is often given to the candidate in cash for "easy access". "If the candidate is new, the money is sometimes disbursed through the district president," a source added. While most national parties have their central unit send a part of the poll funds to the candidates, in the case of the BJP this Bengal election the proportion of the centrally disbursed money has been very high, the sources conceded. Bengal has seen some extravagant campaigning this election, mainly by the BJP. Almost every day, the BJP's national leaders have been flying to the state in chartered flights and checking in at five-star hotels. The party has booked a sizeable portion of a five-star hotel in Calcutta where these leaders stay and hold daily news conferences. The poll panel does not impose a ceiling on these expenses, which are not counted as part of the candidates' spending. An official from the BJP's Asansol organisational district corroborated that the funds flow had slowed. He said the party candidates from his district, whose fates will be decided in the seventh phase on April 26, had so far received "only Rs 10 lakh". "They are asking me to speak to the leaders but nothing I do will work unless the national leaders give the nod," the official said. Sources said Shah had asked the Bengal BJP leaders to cut unnecessary expenditure on his helicopter rides too. Multiple sources said Shah had been furious with some state BJP leaders who were responsible for scheduling his April 7 itinerary. Shah was in Bengal to participate in road shows in Singur, Domjur, Howrah Central and Behala East. Although these places are not too far from one another, the party had arranged for Shah to travel in a helicopter throughout. "Amitji was furious. He didn't find any justification for travelling such small distances in a helicopter. He summoned the person in charge of the arrangements and gave him an earful," a party source said. "Amitji told the person responsible to respect the party's funds. When this person said he had arranged for the helicopter to ensure Amitji's comfort, he got angrier."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC may ban public meetings, rallies if Covid protocols flouted||The Election Commission on Friday said it wouldn’t hesitate to ban public meetings and rallies if Covid-19 protocols were flouted. In a letter to all heads of national and state parties on Friday, the Election Commission reiterated norms of using masks, sanitizers and thermal scanning, and following social distancing — violations of which are punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, — during campaigns. Delhi High Court had on Thursday issued a notice to the EC on the plea of a former DGP to enforce pandemic safety norms in the campaigns. In Bengal, five more phases of polls remain to be held. Three phases of elections are already over in the state. Commission secretary N. Bhutia added in the latter: “It is advisable that political/leaders candidates who have incumbent duty to control spread of Covid, demonstrate by their personal example and nudge all supporters in the beginning of rally, meetings, campaign itself to wear masks, use sanitizers and put in place crowd control measures as per social distancing norms…. It is clarified that the Commission, in cases of breach, will not hesitate in banning public meetings, rallies etc. of the defaulting candidates. star campaigners political leaders without any further reference.” Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, his predecessor Oomen Chandy and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP in Tamil Nadu Kanimozhi tested positive for the novel coronavirus this week. The one-phase polling in Tamil Nadu and Kerala had been held on April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission changes cops ahead of vote day||The Election Commission of India late on Friday transferred Bhangar police station inspector-in-charge Shyam Prasad Saha and appointed Tirthendu Ganguly in his place, hours before Bhangar goes to polls on Saturday. Ganguly was posted in the Special Task Force, Bengal. “All Opposition parties, including the ISF, were alleging that the IC (Saha) was playing a partisan role to help the Trinamul candidate. As the EC wants free and fair polls, the IC was shunted,” said an EC source. The EC also appointed Ajeet Singh Yadav, the SP of Counter Insurgency Force (CIF), as special police observer for Howrah, which also goes to polls on Saturday. Yadav will be responsible for deploying forces and maintaining law and order in the district with nine Assembly seats, including Domjur and Central Howrah. Security officer The EC on Friday removed Asoke Chakraborty, an officer on special duty (OSD) in the directorate of security that arranges security for VIPs, including the chief minister, from the post. No reason was cited, but sources said it could be linked to Mamata Banerjee’s injury in Nandigram on March 10. The EC had earlier removed and suspended the director of security, Vivek Sahay, and East Midnapore police chief Pravin Prakash in that connection. The poll panel had also asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify officers below director of security rank responsible for the incident. Both asked for time. More recently, the CID was asked to inquire into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah iterates BJP promises for north||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday iterated the promises made by the BJP for north Bengal which has 54 Assembly seats. “North Bengal has been neglected by Communists as well as the Mamata Banerjee government. None of the governments in Bengal has taken any initiative for Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and other communities who live in the region. We have come up with a series of plans for north Bengal, which include formation of a separate development board for the region,” Shah told the media in Calcutta. A number of promises pertaining to north Bengal were mentioned in the “Sankalpa Patra” or the BJP’s election manifesto which had been published by the Union home minister earlier. On Friday, Shah spoke about the proposal to form a Narayani battalion (in the name of the royal troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar) in the central armed police forces and a CAPF training centre in Cooch Behar. He reiterated that if voted to power, the BJP would install a statue of Panchanan Burma, a Rajbanshi reformer. “We will also confer ST (Scheduled Tribe) status on 11 Gorkha communities and work for the improvement of the tea industry. A tea park and an IT hub would be set up in Siliguri,” said Shah. Such emphasis by the Union home minister on the BJP’s plans for north Bengal shows the saffron camp is keen to retain its support base in the region. “It is evident that Amit Shah, who is the key strategist of the BJP for the Bengal polls, would leave no stone unturned to grab power in Bengal. A few hours ahead of the fourth phase of the elections, he tried to stoke the sentiments of different communities as well as people associated with prominent economic sectors like tea,” said an observer. Rajbanshis mainly live in the Cooch Behar district which will go to the polls on Saturday. There are 14 Assembly seats in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, two north Bengal districts where elections will be held on Saturday. In 2016, Trinamul had won 12 seats but in the 2019 general election, the BJP managed to secure lead in 12 Assembly segments. Told about Shah’s comments, Alipurduar district Trinamul Congress president Mridul Goswami said: “People of the region are well aware that the BJP is famous for making lengthy promises which they never deliver on….. Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, meets her commitments. The BJP leadership might give a try but this time, people will stand with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC showcauses Mamata for jawan gherao call||The Election Commission on Thursday again showcaused Mamata Banerjee primarily for asking women to gherao central force personnel if they created trouble during voting. But the Bengal chief minister remained unfazed and said she would continue to make such statements against paramilitary jawans as long as they allegedly acted at the behest of the BJP. The EC had sent another showcause to Mamata on Wednesday for her call to minorities not to divide their votes, which the commission deemed communal. The latest notice cites statements of Mamata on March 28 and April 7. In its notice, the commission quoted Mamata as saying on a private English news channel on March 28: “Who gave so much power to them that the central police are threatening women without allowing them to cast their votes? I saw the same thing in 2019, I saw the same thing in 2016.” According to the commission, Mamata said in Cooch Behar on April 7: “They will bring goons from Assam to create panic…. And if CAPF creates disturbances, I tell you ladies, a group of you go and restrain (gherao) them while another group will go to cast their votes.” CAPF is the abbreviation of central armed police forces, which the commission has deployed in unprecedented numbers for the Bengal Assembly polls. Mamata added: “It is the plan of the BJP. And your plan will be that you will not be scared if they try to intimidate you coming to your village on the one hand, on the other you just talk to them. Talking to them will be tantamount to restrain them. You don’t have to gherao them literally.” The commission has found her statement in violation of Sections 186 (obstruction of public servant), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 505 (public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code, cumulatively punishable by a jail term of more than five years. The chief minister has time to reply until 11am on Saturday, failing which the commission could file an FIR against her. Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said in the notice: “… it is more than obvious that Ms. Mamata Banerjee, Chairperson of AITC has been consistent in berating and demoralizing the Central Para Military Forces… Far more discouraging is the fact that Ms. Banerjee has been trying to make an emotional pitch for the women voters to go to the extent of inciting them to attack the personnel of CPFs.” The notice said the Trinamul Congress had told chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on February 21 that the Border Security Force was coercing voters at frontier villages to vote for a particular party, but had only given anecdotal evidence. The Trinamul Congress chief refused to bow down despite the second showcause. Addressing a public rally at Jamalpur in East Burdwan on Friday, Mamata said: “I will continue to comment on the CRPF ….. as long as they keep working for the BJP. I will salute them if they don’t work for the BJP.” “Remember, we respect the jawans of our country and salute them. But I am not ready to salute Amit Shah. They (jawans) are working under the instructions of Amit Shah. I will not salute Shah even if that is necessary for survival. Those who were involved in the riots of Gujarat became the leaders of Delhi,” she added. Mamata once again demanded answers from the commission for its purported inaction on the likes of Union home minister Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi despite their alleged violation of the model code of conduct on a number of occasions. “The Prime Minister is doing that Pariksha Pe Charcha… you may do it but why is it (being televised) in Bengal. Is the model code (of conduct) not violated when he addresses such programmes during the elections?” she asked. “Amit Shah is saying whatever he wants, but the code is not violated then (according to the commission). The code is violated only if Mamata Banerjee addresses the masses. I was with the people, I am with them, and will continue to be with them. That will be my answer to all your showcauses,” added the chief minister. She said this was not the first time that the commission had showcaused her and had even prevented her (in 2019) from campaigning a day earlier than scheduled. “I know it is a way to torture us… it is an injustice on Trinamul. But you (the commission) can’t do anything, as the people are with us. You (the commission) have changed everything (by way of rules) to fulfil the wishes of the BJP, daily…,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Attacked in Nandigram before vote day, TMC worker Rabindranath Manna dies||Trinamul worker Rabindranath Manna, 46, who had gone into a coma after allegedly being thrashed by BJP goons in East Midnapore’s Balarampur on the night of March 27, died at SSKM Hospital in Calcutta on Friday evening. Balarampur falls under Nandigram Assembly seat, from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee contested against aide-turned-BJP rival Suvendu Adhikari. “Manna, who was admitted at (the SSKM) trauma centre, passed away today. Who killed him? BJP killed him. The person who killed him was not arrested. It seems to me that polling is going on by implementing Article 356 (President’s rule),” said Mamata in the evening. Manna’s death triggered an outpouring of anger from Trinamul supporters in Nandigram and its adjoining areas on Friday afternoon, when the body was taken back to his village by state water resources development minister Saumen Mahapatra. Trinamul workers agitated in front of Nandigram police station for over two hours demanding the immediate arrest of the culprits. “We are surprised that though chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited our home and assured us of help, no action has been taken on arresting the perpetrators of this crime yet,” said Raju, Manna’s son. Asked, Trinamul’s Nandigram election agent Sheikh Sufian alleged a conspiracy. “The Election Commission is working for the BJP thus no arrests have been made. We will be taking out a protest rally in the afternoon tomorrow (Saturday) regarding this injustice,” he said. The Telegraph reported on April 1 how the chief minister had made a detour to Balarampur village, 10km from her final election rally in Nandigram the evening before, heeding the desperate pleas of Raju who had reached out to her from the post-rally crowd. Mamata had alleged to reporters that BJP goons and “outsiders” had overrun several parts of the district including Balarampur, where Manna had been severely attacked a few evenings before that. Manna’s family admitted that the chief minister’s personnel had taken care of all medical expenses. BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal, however, said the party had nothing to do with Manna’s death. “This is a result of Trinamul infighting, they are trying to pin the blame on us,” he said. Body found In a similar development in nearby Bhagabanpur, the body of a BJP worker was recovered with several injuries on Thursday. It was identified as that of migrant worker Shambhu Barui, 22, from Garbari village. The body was found two days after he went missing. Sources said Barui had come home to vote. BJP workers on Friday filed a complaint and protested in front of Bhagabanpur police station demanding justice and alleging Trinamul’s hand in the death. Trinamul sources denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP brings UP goons to rig polls, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday accused the BJP of bringing in arms from Bihar and goons from Uttar Pradesh to spread violence during the polls and Union home minister Amit Shah of employing violent means to manipulate the election. “BJP has brought guns and killed our people. He (Shah) is thinking everything will be done with guns. They have brought guns and goons. They brought guns from Bihar and goons from Uttar Pradesh,” Mamata said at a campaign rally in East Burdwan’s Jamalpur. Mamata said BJP’s goal was to restrain people from casting votes to win the Bengal polls by spreading violence. “We want a peaceful election. But it is the BJP that is indulging in hooliganism…beating up candidates, common people as people don’t go to cast their votes amid panic. They are here for a few days but I will be here for 365 days. Don’t be panicked,” she said. Mamata said Shah was spreading violence to manipulate elections in Bengal. She also blamed Shah for the attack on Trinamul leaders. “One of our candidates in Mathabhanga was beaten up yesterday (Thursday). It is a work by Amit Shah. It was a plan to attack our candidates to spread tension and resort to violence in the midst of polls in Bengal. He knows that BJP will be defeated in this election and therefore he is doing such things,” said Mamata at Memari in East Burdwan. Trinamul candidate for Mathabhanga seat Girindra Nath Barman was attacked on Thursday night while he was returning from campaign. His car was ransacked and Barman was admitted to a hospital with head injuries. Mamata also referred to the attack on party’s Arambagh nominee Sujata Mondal Khan, who was injured in an alleged attack by BJP goons on April 6. “If you (Shah) are sure about your victory then why are you attacking our candidates?” asked Mamata. Mamata continued: “My Mathabhanga candidate who belongs to a Scheduled Caste community was injured yesterday and he is now admitted to a hospital. They have beaten Sujata…along with her security personnel. They also beat up our candidate in Goghat.” She added that a party worker in Hooghly’s Khanakul was also killed on Thursday night. On Friday, Rabin Manna, a Trinamul worker from Nandigram who was allegedly beaten up by BJP goons died at a Calcutta hospital. Mamata accused BJP for murdering Manna and said that the situation in Bengal is like the election is going on by imposing section 356 of CrPc. Mamata asked the voters not to follow the direction of people in uniform as they were “BJP goons in uniform”. “If anyone in police uniform asks you not to vote for me, please don’t listen to them. If you listen then the BJP will send you to detention camp by implementing NPR (National Population Register) which they did in Assam. In the list of 14 lakh people there are people from Hindu, Muslim and other communities,” said Mamata. Mamata said the central forces were not working under Election Commission but under the instruction of Amit Shah. “The central forces are working under instruction from the office of Amit Shah. I have never seen such a home minister. (He is) more dangerous than a tiger,” Mamata said from her rally in Memari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah knocks at doors on Didi’s home turf||When Mamata Banerjee was unleashing an attack on Amit Shah in East Burdwan on Friday, the Union home minister was moving from door-to-door in the chief minister’s home turf Bhowanipore, appealing to people to vote for the BJP. Mamata is the sitting MLA from Bhowanipore but this time has contested from Nandigram in a prestige battle with her protégé-turned-BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. Shah visited a Bhawanipore slum in ward 72 of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Friday, indicating how important it was for the BJP’s central leadership to wrest power in Bengal. “This wasn’t just a road show or a public meeting. The Union home minister calling on every house in a slum and speaking to the residents is very significant because Bhawanipore is Mamata’s home turf,” a state BJP leader said. “Our leaders believe if we win Nandigram and Bhowanipore, half the job is done,” he added. Mamata has fielded a senior party colleague and minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who is the sitting MLA from the adjacent Rashbehari seat, from Bhowanipore. BJP leaders said Shah’s strategy for Bengal included a battle of perception and Friday’s campaign in Bhawanipore was part of the ploy. “The image of Shah moving around in Mamata Banerjee’s home constituency will be televised across TV channels and covered by the media. The perception about BJP’s desperation to win Bengal will gain momentum and televised images of Shah leading from the front will sway voters, who are still undecided, towards us,” said a senior BJP leader. In December, Nadda attended a similar door-to-door campaign in a Bhowanipore slum. However, slum residents were reportedly unhappy with the visit as they couldn’t talk to Nadda personally. However, Shah’s Friday’s event was a success according to the BJP. Local residents like Krishna Makal and Purnima Sardar were happy to see Shah up close. “We are BJP workers. Our vote is for Modiji,” Makal said as Sardar nodded. A day before Shah’s campaign, on Thursday, violent clashes took place between BJP and Trinamul workers in the area. BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, Trinamul turncoat and actor Rudranil Ghosh alleged Trinamul goons had threatened to murder party worker Animesh Das. Later, when Ghosh and other party workers had rushed to Das’ defence, they were attacked with stones. “Several BJP workers suffered serious injuries. I have injuries in my left arm and legs. Trinamul goons attacked local women with swords and pistols,” Ghosh said. When BJP workers went to lodge a police complaint at the Chetla police station, Trinamul workers allegedly attacked them again. Later police forces reached the spot and brought the situation under control. On Friday, Ghosh accompanied Shah in his campaign. Before the home minister walked into 13 Bakulbagan Road slum, under ward 72, he met some injured workers and assured them that after May 2 — the day of results — Trinamul atrocities would end, implying BJP victory. He distributed leaflets among slum residents. Shah had lunch at the home of Samarendra Prosad Biswas, 89, who has twice been BJP Bengal’s state secretary. At a news meet earlier in the day, Shah referred to poll violence in several parts of the state. “Incidents of poll violence in these elections are far less than what used to happen earlier. I will still condemn such incidents and urge the Election Commission to deal with these firmly,” Shah said. Shah resorted to polarising voters and referred to Mamata’s appeal to Muslim voters not let their votes get divided. Shah said the chief minister should remember that other communities were also hearing her appeal. “The rest should decide for themselves. The Muslims should decide too. But others must understand that she is not even asking them to vote for her,” Shah said in an attempt to polarise the Hindu electorate. He added that if elected the BJP would annul the anti-CAA resolution passed in the Bengal Assembly. Taking the perception war a notch higher, Shah asked Mamata to start introspecting about the reasons behind her “defeat”. Bhowanipore campaign apart, Shah led two road shows in Jagaddal and Madhyamgram in North 24-Parganas on Friday. BJP national party president J.P. Nadda took part in an event in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Can’t buy Congress faces, says Adhir Ranjan Choudhury||State Congress president and MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday spoke on the integrity of Congress candidates in fray in the ongoing Assembly elections, a move that hints at underlying fears of horse-trading and defection after poll results among some political forces. Choudhury, who was in North Dinajpur — one of the erstwhile strongholds of the Congress — to campaign for his party’s candidates, said they had fielded candidates who could not be “purchased”. “We have taken care in selecting the candidates, and those who are in the poll fray will not sell themselves to other parties,” said the Congress leader at a public meeting in Islampur. After the 2011 and 2016 elections, the party that has been bled the most by Trinamul is the Congress. Over years, party leaders saw how elected representatives, right from the MPs to panchayat members, defected to Trinamul. “This time, there is an apprehension of a similar defection, particularly if none of the parties manage to secure the magic figure. Also, on a number of occasions earlier, Congress supporters had expressed disgruntlement after the person they had voted for joined another party. There is also a chance that such defections may discourage a section of supporters to vote some other candidate out of disappointment. That is why it seems the PCC president wanted to pass a missive to supporters,” said an observer. Earlier on Friday, Choudhury, while talking to the media at the Murshidabad district Congress office in Behrampore, replied to whether the Congress would support Trinamul. “The (Left-Congress-ISF) alliance will come to power. There is no question of supporting Trinamul or anybody else… but if Mamata Banerjee, who is a former Congress leader, admits to her faults, her party can support us from outside,” he said. At the public meetings, the PCC president also scoffed at Trinamul and said the party might join hands with its “old ally,” the BJP. “We have information that some Trinamul leaders are in contact with the Congress high-command. But we feel that the moment Trinamul smells danger, it will surrender to BJP,” he said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Behrampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Missing Gorkha issue changes hill poll plot||Across the hills of Darjeeling, this poll season — the first where Gorkhaland is missing as a poll issue and regionalism has taken a back seat — comes with marked confusion and far-reaching implications. This marks a sharp contrast to past “routine” Bengal Assembly elections here. The hills elect only three of the 294 legislators in Bengal Assembly. One of the tallest political figures in the hills, Subash Ghisingh had once remarked that the job of hill MLAs was just to chew paan in Calcutta. Since 1986, when Gorkhaland agitation started, regional politics, with little influence from mainstream politics, has largely charted the political direction of the hills. However, this 2021 Bengal election is challenging regionalism and Gorkha identity politics. The fight is not just for three MLA seats but about the fate of the regional parties and Darjeeling-centric issues. But in this all-important election, the permutation and combination before a hill voter are mind-boggling. Ghisingh’s party, the GNLF, now headed by his son Mann, had wanted the BJP to support their party in at least two of the three seats. Similar aspirations were aired by BJP ally, the CPRM. However, the BJP announced their candidates for the three seats and asked GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba to contest on a BJP symbol from Darjeeling. The other camp in the hills, led by Trinamul, has left the three hill seats for its “friends” — the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa duo. Both the factions have decided to contest against each other. To further complicate the situation, hill Trinamul leaders have decided to back Gurung instead of the Tamang-Thapa camp, which till recently was nominated by the Trinamul-ruled state government to head the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.  The state Trinamul leadership is mum on the support issue. The electoral complexities do not end here. The oldest party in the hills, the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), is now divided into three factions. One of the factions has decided to support BJP and the two other factions have fielded candidates against each other. The present political matrix in the hills has reached such a situation that Harka Bahadur Chhetri’s Jana Andolan Party (JAP) has decided not to contest this election. “We do not want to divide the votes further. We ideally would have wanted both the factions of Morcha to put up a united fight,” said Chhetri, aware of the futility of his wish. Issues The issues raised by political parties are also vague. The BJP and GNLF are talking about finding a “permanent political solution” for the region, whose definition is still unknown to the general public. The Gurung camp has started talking about a “state within a state”, a provision incorporated for Assam, while Tamang wants an All India Gorkha Assembly, a provision non-existent in the Constitution. The separate statehood demand of Gorkhaland, which would find mention even in hill civic elections, is missing in action in the Assembly elections for the first time in decades. GNLF president Mann Ghisingh said that the decision to support BJP was an attempt to rise beyond party-based politics. “We have risen above the party in taking this decision (to support BJP). It is for our future generations.” Everyone knows that the real fight among the hill parties is to stamp their dominance in hill politics. “But in this process the lurking question is whether regionalism has gone for a toss,” said a hill voter. In the past, hill parties did have tacit understanding with mainstream parties but “now the regional parties are fully dependent on them,” a voter said, refusing to be named for fear of being identified. Earlier, the dominant hill party would sail through Assembly elections but this time all parties are slogging for their existence. The two Morcha factions and the GNLF have been forced to walk on crutches provided by mainstream parties, a situation “unthinkable” earlier. Gurung, who came out in the open after being on the run for three-and-half-years, is desperate to prove he still commands the support of the hill people. A loss in this election would mean an irreparable damage to his party. Tamang-Thapa have lost past two elections despite being in charge of the hills after their nomination at the GTA. “A third straight loss would be a disaster now that two of their rivals are with Trinamul and BJP,” said an observer. The GNLF has also been out of power for 14 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Gautam Deb's remarks take BJP to poll officer door||District Trinamul leaders on Friday tried to control the “damage” caused by certain purported remarks of state tourism minister Gautam Deb made on Thursday as the saffron camp walked into the office of the chief electoral officer (CEO) in Calcutta to complain against the minister, accusing him of intimidating people during his campaign. Deb, contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari, a seat that covers certain areas of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of Jalpaiguri district, lost his cool in Thakurnagar in the northeast end of Siliguri. Approaching a government plot where a temporary structure of an ashram has come up, he approached the monk who runs the facility and told him that he would face eviction if he does not support Trinamul and backs the BJP instead. A delegation of the state BJP went to the CEO’s office and filed a written complaint against Deb. “The minister is openly intimidating people and asking them to vote for him, or else get ready for dire consequences. The election commission must act on it,” said a state BJP leader. Jalpaiguri district administration served a notice to Deb for his Thursday’s remarks and he replied to it, said sources. Deb’s remarks on Thursday had drawn flak from various quarters. Sikha Chatterjee, the BJP candidate from the seat, was among the first to react. “It is the Trinamul leaders who helped people settle on government land against money and now they are threatening to evict them,” she had said. On Friday, Trinamul leaders campaigning for Deb, tried to put the pressure on Chatterjee. “She (Chatterjee) was a Trinamul member of Rajganj panchayat samiti and was also party’s president in Dabgram. If such anomalies had occurred, she can’t evade responsibility. She and her party are now trying to reap political dividend out of a non-issue,” said Debasish Pramanik, the Trinamul president of Dabgram-Fulbari unit and a member of Jalpaiguri Zilla Parishad. The minister, however, dodged the issue and instead, accused the BJP of tearing down Trinamul party flags, festoons and banners in some places of his constituency. “This is something on which the election commission and the police should act and take steps against those doing such unethical activities. Siliguri has never seen such discourtesy in politics,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Glare on land rights in hills after cinchona order||An order from the Directorate of Cinchona and Other Medicinal Plants asking “staffs and officers” to vacate quarters and other articles upon their retirement threatens to revive the issue of displacement of people from their “own” land in the hills. The order, sources said, was issued on March 23, 2021. Such kind of orders are routine at any workplace, but not in the largest public sector undertaking in the Darjeeling hills. The directorate’s order says in the past, retiring dues of staff and officers under the directorate are “being forwarded for clearance to Account General, West Bengal and concerned Treasuries, without following Government norms such as vacating the staff quarter, handing over of files and any articles, items provided by the department…..” The order further says henceforth, “without the approval non (sic) of the terminal benefits of both officer or the staff should be finalised at any cost”. A senior official of the directorate confirmed the order to The Telegraph and agreed that the “ramifications” could be serious. The plantation — spread over 26,000 hectares — was first set up in 1862 at Mungpoo, about 35km from Darjeeling, followed by Munsong (1900), Rongo (1938) and Latpanchar in 1943. Around 70 per cent of the nearly 8.75 lakh hill people live in tea gardens and cinchona plantations. Tea gardens’ land is leased out by the state government to individuals or companies and the lease has to be renewed every 30 years. The state is the owner of the tea gardens’ land. However, the workers and their families who have been residing in tea plantations for generations since the 1850s do not have land rights. Like in tea gardens, the workers of cinchona plantations have no land rights. Old timers in the plantation said workers had been brought in from other places in the hills and elsewhere. The British provided “model” houses to labourers and housing quarters to “staffs” (read clerical employees) and officers. When a labourer retires, his job is passed on to the next of the kin, which is called “badli” in local parlance and hence, retains the house. Jobs of “staffs and officers” are not transferable. “There are examples of many families who have worked in the plantation for generations. Some of these labour families have members who are now “staffs”. Will this mean that after having spent generations in the plantation, these “staffs” have to leave after retirement?” an employee asked. A cinchona plantation official said a list of “staffs and officers” quarters was drawn up according to the directive from higher officials. “Our understanding is that some cases regarding housing quarters in the state have come under legal scanner. None of the cases is related to cinchona plantation but the government is looking at all housing quarters-related issues across the state,” the official said. “Ultimately, one has to follow court’s directives.” The housing issue in the cinchona plantation is further complicated by the fact that many have built their own houses on the directorate’s land. While some employees have constructed “private residences”, others — many of whom are not workers but trace their family history to the plantation — have come up with commercial spaces. “An effort was being made to draw up a list of such commercial spaces but it was never completed,” said an official at the directorate. “If ‘staffs’ are to leave the quarters on retirement, how can a different stand be taken on private houses and commercial spaces?” wondered a former employee of the plantation. Officials at the directorate don’t have an answer. “Hopefully, the government will come up with the answer,” the official said. “The order is not for labourers or private houses or commercial spaces. It is specific to staff quarters,” the official underlined. The directorate employs more than 5,000 people, of whom nearly 300 are “staffs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Tireless icon | Panchanan Barma||Panchanan Barma, the most revered reformer of the Rajbanshi community, had almost a century ago taken up the task of socio-economic development of the community that dwells in north Bengal and in the contiguous areas of Assam. Known for his initiatives on women’s empowerment, he inculcated a new philosophy of life among the community by establishing the Kshatriya Samiti, an association that was instrumental in consolidating the Rajbanshis of the region. Born as Panchanan Sarkar in Khalisamari village, which is in the Mathabhanga sub-division of Cooch Behar district, in 1866, he became a graduate from Bangabasi College in Calcutta in 1893. In 1900, he graduated in law from Ripon College, now Surendranath College. Barma then started practising law at Rangpur court. It was an event here that changed his life. An upper caste lawyer refused to wear a “toga” (lawyers’ gown) used by Barma. Social discrimination and economic exploitation of the Rajbanshis moved Barma to form the Kshatriya Samiti in 1910 to organise the community and promote education among them. He established the rural agricultural bank that offered benefits to farmers and their families. Barma adopted the concept of micro-finance to empower farmers. The reformer, who came to be known as Roy Saheb Thakur Panchanan Barma, also developed a regiment of Rajbanshi youths, including both men and women. To implement his vision, he trained men and women in various parts of north Bengal and adjoining areas of Assam. When World War I broke out in Europe in 1914, he sent a battalion of young Rajbanshi men to the battlefield. Barma also worked for the improvement of the education standards of Rajbanshis and set up schools and hostels to encourage poor and backward students to continue their studies. In the 19th century, Raja Rammohan Roy and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar had stressed the need to empower women through education and social reforms. Barma took up the task of encouraging women to pursue education and constituted the Nari Raksha Samiti in 1923 to make them self-reliant. He got elected to the Bengal Legislative Council thrice and was one of the proponents of the amendment to the Tenancy Act. It was because of him that important laws like the Bengal Money Lenders’ Act and the Bengal Agricultural Debtors’ Act were passed to provide adequate protection to farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How identity politics  is influencing voting  patterns||Sridam Burman had just finished his lunch at a roadside eatery on NH27 and was waiting to board the bus that he and 60 other day labourers had hired from Dalkhola to return to their village in Sitalkuchi, Cooch Behar. “We all work in a brick kiln in Dalkhola. We are returning home to vote,” said Sridam, a stocky, middle-aged man from the Rajbanshi community. Around 2.3 lakh people in Sitalkuchi, set along the Bangladesh border, will vote on Saturday when 44 constituencies — 14 of them in north Bengal — go to the polls in the fourth of Bengal’s eight electoral phases. North Bengal, home to 54 constituencies that will vote from the fourth to the eighth phase, is witnessing a high-pitched battle with Trinamul desperate to regain ground lost to the BJP over the past couple of years. Sridam wouldn’t reveal his choice. “Let me return to the village and speak to others in my family and community. I will then decide who to vote for,” he said. The Scheduled Caste Rajbanshis —  known as bhumiputras (sons of the soil) and spread across Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Darjeeling and North and South Dinajpur — make up about a fourth of north Bengal’s 2.5 crore people. The community holds the key to at least 25 of the region’s 54 constituencies and is being wooed by all the major parties, especially Trinamul and the BJP. The campaigners have been focusing on the Rajbanshi identity. This election has also witnessed all-out attempts by the political parties to reach out to the two other major groups in the region, the Gorkhas and the tribal communities. The 15 lakh-odd Gorkhas are significant to a dozen-odd constituencies in the hills and the plains while the tribals, making up around 11 per cent of the population, can influence the outcomes in 16 to 18 seats. All these three statistically significant communities have brought identity politics to the heart of this election in north Bengal. “Identity politics always had a role in north Bengal. It was important even during Left rule but the Left had ruthlessly suppressed it. Mamata Banerjee was the first to use identity politics here to expand her support base after coming to power, but no electoral contest before this witnessed such overt assertions of identities,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. A brief conversation with Sridam made it clear how deeply identity politics had made an impact in the region, where development has eluded most people. “We want an exercise like the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Bengal so that all those who came from Bangladesh can be driven out. We are the original sons of the soil but we have remained deprived,” said Sridam, an illiterate labourer who earns about Rs 300 a day at a brick kiln 300km from his home. Sridam had not plucked the demand out of thin air. In the run-up to the 2019 general election, scores of BJP leaders from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to state BJP president Dilip Ghosh had repeatedly spoken about an NRC-like exercise to identify illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. It had raised the hopes of those like Sridam who blame the immigrants for their plight. The NRC narrative — and its corollary, the Citizenship Amendment Act — has been missing from the BJP’s campaign this summer. Sources in the BJP suggest that Mamata’s stiff resistance to the new citizenship matrix has forced their party to put the issue on the backburner. The BJP had bagged seven of north Bengal’s eight seats in the 2019 general election, securing leads from 37 of the 54 Assembly segments, riding on the support from the Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and tribal communities. A Trinamul source said Bengal’s ruling party was confident of a better showing in north Bengal this time, claiming the region’s voters had appreciated its stand on the citizenship issue. The Rajbanshis, however, can’t seem to forget the promise made in 2019. “We had voted for the BJP thinking they would drive out the illegal immigrants. It’s high time they delivered on the promise,” said Chandra Kumar Burman, Sridam’s co-passenger. In the hills, the demand for a permanent political solution to the Gorkha identity could play a crucial role in the polls. There is also a longstanding demand for Scheduled Tribe status for the 11 hill communities. Mamata has stressed multiple times that the state government has made the necessary recommendation but the Centre has not acted on it. “BJP leaders, including the MPs we elected two years ago, keep repeating the assurance. Even Union home minister Amit Shah recently referred to the demand in a speech in Cooch Behar, and the BJP mentioned it in its manifesto,” a veteran observer of hill politics said. “But the reality is that it still remains just an assurance; there has been no initiative on this.” Mamata, trying to recover after the 2019 setback, has won over some of the prominent leaders of the Rajbanshi, Gorkha and tribal communities from the saffron camp. “She has Rajesh Lakra, a prominent tribal leader, to woo the community in Terai and Dooars. She has Bangshibadan Burman and Atul Roy to court the Rajbanshis, and Bimal Gurung to try and win the Gorkhas’ support in the hills,” a Trinamul source said. Another key issue in north Bengal is about the region receiving due importance in state politics. North Bengal’s eight districts together account for just 54 seats when South and North 24-Parganas together have 64 seats. Old-timers in the state administration recall the days when north Bengal’s “relevance” to Bengal politics was limited to then chief minister Jyoti Basu’s annual vacations at Holong at the Jaldapara Wildlife Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district (now the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district). Such was the region’s disconnect with the state capital during Left rule that even CPM leaders in Siliguri would poke fun at argumentative comrades, calling them “Calcutta-type” leaders. Mamata’s promise of a better deal for north Bengal had won her 17 seats in the 2011 Assembly polls. Her repeated visits to the region as chief minister and her focus on identity politics — in the form of development boards for the various communities — helped raise her tally to 24 in the 2016 elections. But the BJP’s stellar show in the 2019 general election changed the region’s political profile. “Once we could prove that it was our region, our national leaders began according more importance to north Bengal. That’s how the region began receiving attention from Delhi,” a senior state BJP leader said. That north Bengal's profile had changed became clear when Shah repeatedly accused the Mamata government of neglecting the region at a news conference. He rolled out a list of initiatives the BJP had in mind for the region, most of them mentioned in the poll manifesto. Among these were the fulfilment of two demands by the Gorkhas (political solution and ST status), a separate development board for north Bengal, an increase in daily tea wages to Rs 350, an AIIMS in the region, a statue to Panchanan Barma — the revered Rajbanshi statesman — a cultural museum in Cooch Behar and the development of tourism circuits. With these promises, the BJP hopes to attract support from the various ethnic communities as well as from people associated with tea and tourism, industries that employ around 10 lakh people in the region. A BJP source said north Bengal’s political importance had grown also with the realisation among the party leadership that its “Mission Bengal” hinged critically on its ability to convince the rest of the state that a part of Bengal had already “accepted” the party. “To prove that we can rule Bengal, we started mentioning how north Bengal had accepted the BJP in the 2018 panchayat polls (when the party won several gram panchayats and panchayat samitis apart from zilla parishad seats) and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” the source said. With the BJP upping the ante, Mamata too has intensified her focus on the region. In the past two years, she has come up with a slew of measures, including schemes like “Cha Sundari” (a free housing scheme for tea workers) and the decisions to recognise Rajbanshi-medium schools, facilitate revision of the daily tea wage to Rs 202 and install a statue of Panchanan Barma at the university named after him in Cooch Behar and declare a holiday on his birth anniversary. “Mamata Banerjee has also taken up the task of improving the tourism sector and is encouraging the opening of homestays, giving rural families in the hills and foothills a new avenue to earn money,” a Siliguri hotelier said. “Her decision to develop destinations like ‘Bhorer Alo’ (25km from Siliguri on the Teesta’s right bank) and Lamahatta (in the Darjeeling hills) has increased tourist inflow to the region.” Over the past three weeks, Modi has held two rallies in the region while senior ministers like Shah, Rajnath Singh, Smriti Irani and Prahlad Singh Patel have paid multiple visits. Mamata has addressed seven rallies in north Bengal so far. The high-profile visits have raised the political heat in north Bengal and led to Bagdogra airport logging the highest number of private jet and chopper landings in its history. Most political observers, however, believe that the BJP still holds the edge it had acquired in the Lok Sabha polls, and that Trinamul faces a stiff challenge in recovering lost ground. “We have been doing well in the region for over three years. This time we’ll do even better and win more than 45 of the 54 seats,” Ghosh, the state BJP president, said. The Trinamul leadership is expressing equal confidence. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, the most prominent Trinamul leader from north Bengal, claims that those who had voted BJP in 2019 had now realised that they had got nothing in the past two years. “The promises made by BJP leaders and Union ministers have proved hollow. During the Covid outbreak and lockdown, none of these (seven) MPs were found in the field,” Deb said. “Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, continued carrying out infrastructural development, announced and implemented new social schemes, formed development boards for the different communities in the region, and worked to improve the tea and tourism sectors. People have understood the difference between empty promises and delivery, and will stand by us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Urban bastion that has voted Trinamul and resisted BJP||The Trinamul Congress is looking at 11 diverse seats in Calcutta and South 24-Parganas that vote on Saturday to boost its chances in the Assembly elections, the party’s citadel having staved off the BJP even during its 2019 high noon. The assortment of urban seats includes areas such as Bhangar and Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas and Jadavpur and Tollygunge in the core of Calcutta. The 11 Assembly seats are part of three Lok Sabha constituencies — Jadavpur, Calcutta South and Diamond Harbour — that have, for years, been Trinamul bastions. Many key leaders of the party, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, live in this area. “It is a really diverse, cosmopolitan set, with one thing in common — support for us and opposition to the BJP and its polarisation tactics. That is unlikely to change,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, referring to the Sonarpur South, Sonarpur North, Bhangar, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Kasba, Behala East, Behala West, Maheshtala, Budge Budge and Metiabruz Assembly seats. Trinamul had in 2016 won 10 of the 11 seats, with the Left, aided by the Congress, having bagged Jadavpur. The challenge for the ruling party this time is to ensure it is able to hold sway over this cluster of strength. Even in 2019, when a saffron surge had swept the country and the BJP had pocketed an unprecedented 18 seats in Bengal, the party had not been able to penetrate this Trinamul bastion. “Unless something goes horribly wrong, like a massive pro-BJP wave that we do not foresee, the BJP will be a distant third in all 11 constituencies, with the Sanyukta Morcha candidates coming second,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member, preferring anonymity. “The BJP is dead scared of the drubbing it is likely to receive in all 31 seats in South 24-Paraganas. Voting here has been split into an unprecedented three phases, which allows ample time to heavyweights such as Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to campaign extensively,” he added. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had enjoyed handsome leads in all 11 Assembly segments, wresting the advantage back from the Left in Jadavpur. A Bengal BJP source said on the condition of anonymity that his party expected no miracles from these 11 seats. “Six of them have a substantial minority population…. In four-five others, there is a concentration of the urban elite, the intellectuals and the liberals who will still vote for anybody but us,” he said. “Despite that, maybe we can scrape through with Babul Supriyo in Tollygunge (pitted against incumbent Aroop Biswas). Indranil Khan might put up a good fight in Kasba (against incumbent Javed Khan). The two actors (Srabanti Chatterjee in Behala West and Payal Sarkar in Behala East) are a gamble,” added the state unit functionary. He conceded that the BJP did not have high hopes from South 24-Parganas as a whole, either. “In the absence of a wave, which nobody can accurately predict, we will not be able to considerably dent Trinamul in South 24-Parganas. North 24-Parganas, where we secured leads in 11 (out of 33 Assembly segments) in 2019 and made considerable gains since, will be a much better story for us,” the BJP leader said. The third key player in the contest, perhaps more important than the BJP in these 11 seats, is the Left-Congress-ISF Sanyukta Morcha, which has set its sights on “at least three” constituencies. “We are certainly winning Jadavpur and Bhangar. We are quite confident about Kasba as well. Don’t rule us out in Budge Budge and Metiabruz,” said a CPM state secretariat member. “That’s a pragmatic view. The official view would be we are winning all 11,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Probe after ‘poll officers were spotted  with ballots’ ||The Cachar district administration in Assam on Friday said it will conduct an inquiry into media reports that a few “election officers” were spotted with ballot papers here at night. A preliminary investigation revealed that no official engaged in the polling process was involved in the reported incident, Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli told PTI. According to the media reports, the “polling officers were seen with ballot papers on Thursday night”. “Election officers do not discharge their duties at night. Since a section of media reported that a few election officers were spotted with ballot papers last night, we will order an inquiry into it,” she said. Silchar constituency voted in the second phase of the Assembly elections on April 1. There have been some confusing reports by the media in connection with the issuance of postal ballots twice to a voter, the district administration said in a statement. After a proper investigation into the incident, it was found that a teacher of a government school, Sumitra Das, who is a resident of Vivekananda Road area in the town, applied for a postal ballot and the postman delivered it to another Sumitra Das, who also resides in the same locality and is engaged in private tuition, the statement quoted the deputy commissioner as saying. “This is what has come to the surface after our thorough investigation. It is my earnest request to media houses not to sensationalise fake news and at least let the administration enquire into any allegation before publishing it,” Jalli said. Violence had broken out in Karimganj district on April 1 after a crowd spotted a BJP candidate’s vehicle being used to transport a polled EVM to the strong room, forcing the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The incident snowballed into a huge controversy with the Opposition Congress and AIUDF alleging that the EVM was being “stolen”, prompting the Election Commission to suspended four poll officials and order a repoll at the booth as a video of the fiasco was shared widely on social media. Elections to the 126 Assembly constituencies in Assam were held in three phases between March 27 and April 6. The counting of votes will be on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
10-04-2021||North East||Assam notifies Covid norms for Bohag Bihu and other festivals||The Assam health and family welfare department on Friday notified Covid-appropriate guidelines for the upcoming Bohag Bihu and other festivals in the state in view of the fresh spike of coronavirus cases in many parts of the country. The notification said the event organisers are to seek permission from the district administration concerned for organising any event resulting in public gathering. It said all programmes /festival /events should conclude by 11pm and all the organisers and volunteers involved in the organisation of functions and festivals must test themselves for Covid-19 three days prior to and after the event. It said every participant is to be screened for fever using thermal scanners and anyone with higher temperature than normal may be advised to report to the nearest health facility for testing and should not be allowed to enter the event area. Use of mask and hand sanitiser has been made compulsory for visitors/organisers, besides keeping hand sanitiser at the entry gate and other areas, including parking lot. The guidelines also included sanitising the event area twice daily — once before the crowd gathers and again after they leave the venue. The guidelines also mandated that the organisers mention the number of people likely to gather at the proposed event to avoid crowding at all cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
10-04-2021||Opinion||Take note: Toxic impact of pesticides on bees||Sir — New research has found that the toxic impact of pesticides on bees and other pollinators has doubled in spite of a drop in the amount of chemicals used. This is shameful. The study — based on the use and toxicity of 380 pesticides from 1992 to 2016 — shows that even if used in less quantities, pesticides can have a high level of toxicity. This indicates that efforts to reduce the harmful impact of pesticides on the environment have not been enough. Scientists have emphasized the importance of bees to human survival as they pollinate food crops. Any further fall in their numbers will destroy the delicate balance of the Earth’s ecosystem and affect global food supplies. Ria Sarkar,Calcutta Proud moment Sir — As a veteran actor with a long and illustrious career, Rajinikanth rightly deserves the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award (“Dadasaheb Phalke for Rajini just before polls”, April 2). For over four decades, Rajinikanth has been one of the most prominent figures in Indian cinema whose cult status remains unmatched. The contrast between Rajini’s on-screen characters — with their outlandish antics and style statement — and his simplicity and modesty in real life has endeared him to the masses. It was a wonderful gesture on the part of the superstar to dedicate the award to his bus driver friend, Raj Bahadur, who recognized his talent for acting and supported him during his struggling days. People like him are few and far between. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The decision of the government to confer the Dadasaheb Phalke award on the superstar, Rajinikanth — his distinct body of work spans decades — must be supported. Few in the field of Indian cinema have endeared themselves to the masses the way Rajinikanth has. While there is no doubt that the award is well-deserved, the Centre’s timing is indeed questionable. The announcement came days before the Tamil Nadu polls. Given that he has a strong — almost fanatic — fan base in the state, the decision had the potential to tilt public opinion in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party, giving it an unfair advantage. Had the timing been right, it would have been a moment of unbridled joy and celebration. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — There is no question that Rajinikanth should have been honoured with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award. However, the timing of the announcement is suspicious. Nevertheless, this is a moment of pride for the Tamil film industry. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Safety measures Sir — It was wonderful to learn that researchers at the Birla Institute of Technology,  Mesra have developed a filtration system for eliminating arsenic from groundwater. People in several states, particularly Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal, are vulnerable to the health problems caused by a high level of arsenic in water. Access to clean water is a human right. Hopefully, this low cost system will soon become widely available to the masses. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — There is little point in institutes coming up with cost-effective technology if governments do not make it widely available to people. This includes not just a financial commitment but also a significant amount of ground work. Roshni Sen,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — The ace sailor, Nethra Kumanan, must be congratulated for becoming the first Indian woman sailor to qualify for the Olympics (“Nethra does a first”, April 8). The 23-year-old had a 21-point advantage over her nearest rival — another Indian athlete, Ramya Saravanan — in the Laser Radial Class event. It is hoped that Kumanan will perform to the best of her abilities in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. This is a proud moment for India as a nation. The sports ministry must extend its full support to Kumanan. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||Bristled beauties||Sukumar Ray may have got it wrong: whiskers — the gnof — may not have been the correct cipher for a shared solidarity. That honour, if New, Brave, Modern India is any indication, belongs to the moustache’s bushier cousin: the beard. That the beard has clipped whiskers’ wings and entered the hall of fame of culture and haute couture can be deduced from a glance at the gallery of India’s Most Wanted Men at the moment. The prime minister sports a handsome beard, ignoring jibes that his growing beard is inversely proportional to the nation’s shrinking economy. In the regimental party that he leads, the prime minister’s lieutenants have started sneering, in a manner of speaking, at lather and razor. When Narendra Modi was returned to power, one estimate found that as many as 18 of Mr Modi’s colleagues admired the beard — trimmed or long. Since cricket and politics mix well in the country, it was only apt that an almost entirely bearded Indian cricket team journeyed to play a World Cup. Of course, there has never been anything facile about facial hair when it comes to men. Charles Darwin believed that bearded men got the best women in primitive societies but modernity has weaponized the beard by embellishing it with other kinds of potency. Long hair and beard have, for long, served as emblems of asceticism: indeed, the sagely visage of the prime minister may not be a coincidence. Only a sage’s wisdom can help India crawl out of the deep hole that it finds itself in. The other virtue of the bearded is, apparently, their masculinity. Be it on the political minefield or the cricketing arena, India needs to be shepherded by Men and not Boys: the latter, unfortunately, do not have the beard on their side. Such ingredients as aggression, dominance and virility — represented by the beard — are being used to cook up the broth of a hyper-masculinity to quench the thirst of the country. There is, then, a case to argue that the Bearded Man is threatening the extinction of his Metrosexual brother who had, some years ago, taken the post-industrial order by storm by embracing a neat, mellow, even androgynous self. Does the latter’s demise signal a broader cultural shift away from civility, orderliness, decorum, inclusiveness — the elements that were integral to a quieter, peaceful world? Perhaps the ‘bushymen’ ought to think about this — stroking their facial locks to come up with a rebuttal. Curiously, the popularity of the beard — 55 per cent of men in the world are said to have one — has not made it democratic. It remains distinctly discriminatory, much like some of the grizzled political leaders. In an increasingly polarized India, beards of some communities are codes to unleash vilification and violence. And the sight of a bearded woman is, usually, a hair-raising experience across lands and cultures. Can the beard, if not the country, be made representative at least?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||A different welcome: Easter celebrated in America||Easter was celebrated on Sunday in America and around the world. Typically, parades and public Easter egg hunts mark the celebration, but this Easter and the last one were anything but typical. While vaccinations are increasing, the United States of America is still grappling with the coronavirus. Yet, Sunday saw the sun shining and flowers blooming, seeming to finally welcome spring. During the White House press briefing, as the press secretary, Jen Psaki, concluded with the reporters, a life-sized Easter bunny with a mask on popped into the room and handed out Easter candy to reporters. The White House’s traditional Easter Egg Roll was cancelled again owing to the pandemic, but President Joe Biden delivered some public remarks on the holiday, with the Easter bunny making another appearance. On the other hand, the former president, Donald Trump, welcomed Easter by issuing a statement about the “Radical Left CRAZIES who rigged our Presidential Election, and want to destroy our Country!” Easter is one of the biggest Christian holidays. However, churches are still feeling the effects of the pandemic. They have had to broadcast their services or resort to Zoom. On April 3, the Empire State Building sparkled and lit up like an Easter egg with the colours of spring. Americans spent almost $3 billion on Easter this year with a lot of the money going towards gifts and candy. Spring blossoms While Easter signals the start of spring, so does the bloom of cherry blossom trees across the nation, especially in Washington DC. In Kyoto, Japan, their flowers reached what is known as “peak bloom” on March 26: the earliest reported bloom since the year 812. It all started in 1912 when 3,000 cherry blossom trees were gifted to the US by the Japanese — these line the Potomac River in Maryland. As a result, every year the National Cherry Blossom Festival celebrating Japanese culture is held. “We continue to celebrate the roots of that and honour the culture and history of Japan and that is really important to us,” the president of the National Cherry Blossom Festival, Diana Mayhew, told The National. The festival usually draws in over a million people but Covid-19 has dampened the turnout these past two seasons. The Tidal Basin in DC is typically lined with trees, and this year saw clusters of people gathered around. However, the celebrations expand into the surrounding streets and restaurants with art shows, special deals and now 26 cherry blossom sculptures. The festival also hosts a design competition for artists. Even though celebrations were muted this year, a 3D cherry blossom-themed light projection was cast on the side of a building in northeast DC. You can see the trees grow, and its leaves and flowers blossom and then fall to the ground.Art exchange Greenpoint, a small neighbourhood in Brooklyn, New York, has recently become the art hub that will also take you on a treasure hunt. Steve Wasterval, a local artist, has been hiding miniature paintings he has made of the local scenery around the city in plastic Easter eggs while handing out hints to those who want to embark on this unique Easter egg hunt. Each painting is 2x1.5 inches big and depicts local, public areas like parks and cafes. Wasterval’s usually large paintings sell for $2,000-$3,000. But those would be tough to hide in the crevice of a telephone pole or a bus stand. Wasterval told NY Post that people have been asking him if they can just buy the miniature paintings instead. “I just happily tell them ‘No, you’ve got to find one,’” he said. “They’re special in that way. You can only find them.” He kicks off the painting hunt on Instagram by posting a photo of the painting near its hiding spot to give people a head start. He began this unique game three years ago but it has gained huge popularity recently, making it easier to find the treasures. On the other hand, in Greenpoint one may have easier access to free artwork. NBK Little Gallery is a free, tiny public art gallery in Greenpoint that runs completely based on trust and exchange of art similar to the ‘free books’ stands in some residential neighbourhoods. It is maintained by volunteers but essentially curated by strangers among the public. The artworks are kept in an abandoned ATM box. People can leave what they want and take what they want.Pop the question One of the big questions on people’s minds is, when can I kiss a stranger again? Dating during the pandemic was difficult; now, with the vaccine rollout, how do people ask their date if they have been vaccinated or not? Unsurprisingly, people are updating their online dating profiles to reflect whether or not they have received the vaccine, including which one. According to The New York Times, there has been a 258 per cent increase in the mention of vaccines on profiles on an online dating app. The San Francisco-based dating app, Coffee Meets Bagel, now has a feature that lets singles declare whether they are fully vaccinated, waiting for an additional dose, planning to get vaccinated, not getting vaccinated, or prefer not to say. The app’s co-founder, Dawoon Kang, said the app has been surveying people’s attitude towards dating and vaccination; for 78 per cent, it is a deal-breaker if their date does not take Covid-19 seriously. Kang added that 43 per cent of users have mentioned that if they come across a profile that says the person has been vaccinated, they are more likely to like the profile. Another report stated that profiles with a ‘yes’ to the question, “Will you get the Covid-19 vaccine?”, on the dating app, OkCupid, were getting liked at a rate of 25 per cent higher than those that answered ‘no’. Seeing someone’s vaccination status or even their anti-vaccination stance enables an app user to make an informed choice. This is a unique scenario that few would have thought of pre-pandemic.Footnote In a small town in North Carolina, a stray dog was caught trying to enter a Dollar General store. It was discovered that he just wanted to take the store’s purple unicorn plush toy. He attempted this thievery not once, but five times. The store called animal control, but instead of a punishment they ended up buying the toy for the little, furry robber. The dog, Sisu, and his unicorn were quickly adopted a day later, according to the animal services’ post on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||Shadow lengthens||I have been reading a new book on the Gujarat riots of 2002 titled Undercover: My Journey Into the Darkness of Hindutva. It is written by Ashish Khetan, who did some excellent reporting on the aftermath of the riots, particularly on the process by which the perpetrators went unpunished. Undercover is an important resource for scholars seeking to understand a bloody pogrom that occurred two decades ago. However, it also speaks directly to the present, since the regime that ruled in that state then is now in power at the Centre. “In Modi’s Gujarat,” writes Khetan, “if a bureaucrat or a police officer wanted to rise up the ranks, he had to implicate himself fully in the system’s deceit.” With Narendra Modi as prime minister and Amit Shah as home minister, this has become true of the Central government as well. And not just of bureaucrats and police officers either. Before 2014, official economic statistics issued by the Government of India were admired the world over for their reliability. Now, scholars don’t trust them anymore. In every sector, whether economics or health or education or electoral funding, deceit and dissembling, rather than truth and transparency, characterize the behaviour of this government. Another consequence of the Gujarat Model being adopted countrywide has been the shrinkage of space for debate and dissent. To quote Khetan again: “Tools honed and deployed over twelve years in Gujarat are now being used on a national scale to subvert, harass and demonise dissent, with critics of Modi characterised, and often jailed, as opponents of and threats to the nation.” To suppress peaceful dissent, the Modi-Shah regime has resorted to the arbitrary and excessive use of State power. The police and the intelligence agencies have been set to work to arrest individuals without notice, haul them off to jail, and — once they are safely behind bars — to begin assembling ‘evidence’ against them. Last year, the Delhi Police used the pretext of the February riots to come down with a savage hand on student leaders and feminist activists who had nothing to do with the riots, while refusing even to file FIRs against top BJP leaders who had openly called for violence. Of the police’s partisan handling of the riot cases, Julio Ribeiro wrote: “The patent injustice of Delhi Police’s approach is what riles the conscience of this old policeman.” The malign intent of the State is manifest in, among other things, the proclivity of the police to make arrests on weekends, when courts are closed and lawyers not at hand. It is also manifest in the regular recourse to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, an extraordinary harsh piece of legislation whose offence provisions are (as one legal analyst writes) “criminally overbroad, excessively vague, and nothing short of a legislative carte blanche to state-sponsored violations of fundamental rights.” The partisanship of the police, at the Centre and in the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, is demonstrated by the differential treatment of citizens according to their political affiliation. A climate activist tweeting in support of non-violent farmers is sent to jail for sedition; a politician calling for dissenters to be shot keeps his cabinet post. In town after town, the police indulgently look on as rowdy young men go from locality to locality, demanding that citizens donate money for a cause that is not their own. Vigilantism in support of the BJP is encouraged by the State even as peaceful expression by independent voices is met with imprisonment. Senior police officers taking orders from politicians in power is, of course, an old phenomenon in India. And it occurs in states not ruled by the BJP too, as the case of Maharashtra most recently shows. However, what is especially disturbing in the Modi-Shah regime is the communalization of the police force. Again, this is not entirely new — as far back as the 1980s, the police in several states of northern India were seen to be softer on trouble-makers from the majority community than on trouble-makers from the minority community. Now this majoritarian bias seems to have become more naked and explicit. In an article in The Indian Express, Vibhuti Narain Rai, a retired police officer whose integrity matches that of Julio Ribeiro, writes of a recent series of attacks by Hindutva mobs on Muslim homes in Madhya Pradesh. A video of these attacks caught an “unusual visual of a police inspector, his head hung in shame with two Hindutva zealots carrying saffron flags and a trident”. The inspector was embarrassed and ashamed, writes Rai, because “he and his colleagues were forced to watch hooligans plundering houses, beating hapless men and women and flaunting flags — all before the ashen faces of a large contingent of policemen.” The visual shocked Rai, who, like Ribeiro, always wore his own khaki uniform with honour, seeking to prevent violence before it occurred regardless of the consequences to his own professional future. Tragically, there are ever fewer officers of such courage and calibre in service anymore. And so, as Rai sadly writes, “a new unwritten Madhya Pradesh Police manual has emerged, where the police are not supposed to resist the lawbreakers. Rather, it facilitates the thugs by making sufferers leave their houses to take refuge.” In his book, Ashish Khetan writes of Gujarat under Modi that “[n]o government institution, no organ of the state was untouched by communal bias. The Gujarat police fabricated evidence...” The communalism of State agencies at the Central level has intensified since May 2014; and so have bribery and coercion in politics. Money and control of the State apparatus have always had a role in Indian politics; but never, before 2014, such a defining and determining role. The Election Commission’s scheduling of polls in different states is alleged to be influenced by the campaigning preferences of the ruling party. The misuse of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to harass political opponents was not unknown in Congress times, but the BJP has taken it to a different level altogether. The tiny Union territory of Puducherry was only the latest in a series of states and UTs where Opposition governments were made to fall by the threat of State power and the deep pockets of the BJP working in combination. And as this column was being drafted, the family of a leading Opposition politician in Tamil Nadu was raided, while in Assam a BJP minister threatened a political rival that the National Investigation Agency would be let loose on him. That both states are now witnessing assembly elections is not at all a coincidence. In their quest for total power in Gujarat, Modi and Shah had three sets of allies: a committed civil service and police force, a pliant and propagandist media, and a submissive judiciary. (Of the courts of Gujarat, Khetan writes of how he experienced at first hand “the nadir of our criminal justice system, a subversion of what justice means and should mean to ordinary citizens”.) In their quest for total power in India, Modi and Shah have taken recourse to the same methods. They have had slightly less success, so far, for three reasons: first, several major states are not ruled by the BJP; second, although the major Hindi newspapers and most English and Hindi TV channels cravenly follow the party line, a few English newspapers and websites are still independent; third, although the courts have been timid and weak (especially on such matters as granting bail), there is the occasional judge standing up for individual rights and freedom of expression. However, the overall direction of what Modi and Shah want, and where India is currently headed, is clear. To quote Ashish Khetan one last time: “Majoritarian rule untrammelled by law; the veneer of democracy minus the substance of constitutionalism... the constant undermining of minorities, particularly Muslims; the impunity for Hindu right-wing rioters as opposed to the harsh treatment, including unjustified arrests and imprisonment, meted out to those deemed to be on the opposing ideological side; the persecution of activists and human rights organisations; the misuse and abuse of institutional and judicial processes to target political opponents and dissidents—the systematic manner in which Modi exploits the power of the state to crush any opposition, the sheer scale of state persecution... is without precedent in India.” A society in which one fears rather than trusts the police, where one cannot always expect judges to act fearlessly and without favour, where one’s innocence or guilt can be determined by what religion you belong to or which political party you vote for or fund — such are the consequences of the ‘Gujarat Model’ going national. We are, in institutional terms, farther away from the ideals of the Constitution than at any time since the Emergency of 1975-77 and, in social and moral terms, farther away than any time since the adoption of the Constitution on January 26, 1950 itself. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Ramgarh police arrest wife of murdered lawyer||Hazaribagh: Ramgarh police on Saturday arrested the wife lawyer Ajay Kumar Mahto in his murder case. On April 3, Ajay's body was found with his throat slit. The murder had sparked widespread anger in the district with lawyers demanding the arrest of the culprits. Superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said Ajay's wife Virajo Kumari and cousin, Hemant Kumar were allegedly involved in an affair. On April.2, he strangulated Ajay and slit his throat. He informed Kumari and escaped. Ajay’s wife and cousin admitted to their crime following police interrogation. Both have been reprimanded in judicial custody. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chouparan BDO Premchand Sinha on Saturday confirmed testing positive for Covid despite taking both the shots of the vaccine. Sinha said he took the first dose of the jab on February.5 and second on March.5. On March.7, he went to the office of the rural development department in Ranchi for official work. Soon after, he noticed symptoms and tested positive on Saturday. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Four members of a family died and one seriously injured after their car overturned at Grand Trunk Road near 20 Mile area of Giridih. The injured victim has been referred to the RIMS, Ranchi. The bodies of the deceased have been sent to Sadar Hospital for post-mortem. All were residents of Kudar village of Bagodar police station area. Preliminary investigation indicates that the car the family was travelling in, lost control after its front tyre burst and it overturned on the roadside. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Police bust notorious gang in Jamshedpur||In a major breakthrough, the city police busted a criminal racket and arrested 14 people from different police station areas on Saturday. While making the arrests, the police seized as many as 22 firearms, 76 live cartridges, one car, two scooters and 11 cell phones. The arrested criminals are members of the notorious Amarnaath Singh gang. The gang is synonymous with murder, dacoity, extortion and other crimes in and around the steel city. Those arrested were identified as Ranjit Singh, Amarjeet Prashad, Ganesh Sahu, Budhu Saini, Pradeep Singh, Sarabjeet Singh, Kunal Goswami, Amar Thakur, Akash Mahto, Saurabh Sharma, Monu Mishra, Arjun Karmkar and Biplab Bose. "On April 5, some criminals had shot at and injured a scrap-iron dealer Moti Chand at Ulidih thana area of Mango. Ever since that incident, the police were trying to detect the case. Incidentally, the police got a tip off that a gang of criminals was hatching a conspiracy to commit some crime by assembling at a place in Gadra under Parsudih thana on Friday night. Acting on the tip off, a police party raided the place and arrested eight criminals. It was after these arrests were made that the police interrogated those arrested and made further arrests in Govindpur and Mango during which a total 14 criminals were arrested, " said Senior SP, M.Tamil Vanan. Vanan said the arrested criminals did not only shoot at the scrap-iron dealer for extortion, but also murdered a 30-year-old youth, Anil Jena in Jadugora on March 20, 2021 and Bablu Sharma at Sidhgora market on March 26, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students test Covid positive, quarantined on campus||Forty-six students of XLRI's Jamshedpur campus have tested positive for Covid-19. The students who tested positive have been isolated and quarantined within the campus and kept under observation by the resident doctor. "We have been strictly adhering to all the Covid-19 directives and guidelines of the state government and complying with all the necessary precautionary steps and protective measures. To contain the infection, contact tracing has been initiated, and all contact staff members and students will undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test. All the campus facilities, including the library, the computer lab, will remain closed until further notice, "said a spokesperson of XLRI. The B-school spokesperson said the administration has undertaken all required precautionary measures, and all hostels, offices are being sanitized to contain the spread. However, the online classes will continue without any disruption. Vaccines arrive amid rising cases and deaths A consignment of 85,800 doses of Covishield reached Jamshedpur from Ranchi on Friday giving a boost to the staggering vaccination drive in the steel city. There has been a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum district, especially in the steel city in the past 24 hours. Nine people died in two city-based hospitals. Around 256 new cases were detected in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) of 3,110 samples carried out by the health department, taking the total number to 20,164 in the district. While news of three Covid deaths till Friday late night was officially confirmed, but the six deaths that have taken place on Saturday are yet to be confirmed. "Six Covid patients have died at Tata Main Hospital since the wee hours on Saturday. As there a process is followed before declaring a death officially, the health department is expected to declare about the six deaths late in the night only," said a senior official posted at Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, to The Telegraph Online. The official on condition of anonymity pointed out that as the JNAC does carry out the work of disposal of Covid-infected bodies they get the information about a Covid death soon after it takes place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||State appoints officers to monitor and curb rising Covid cases||The state disaster management authority under the home department has appointed 12 senior IAS officers as nodal officers of 24 districts for daily coordination and monitoring of the Covid-19 situation. The move, according to officials in the disaster management department, is aimed for better surveillance, monitoring and helping local district administrations to work in tandem to curb the unprecedented rise of Covid cases in the state. On Friday, Jharkhand witnessed its biggest single day spike and casualties since the outbreak of the virus with 1925 new infections and 17 fatalities. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday night formally issued the notification naming the bureaucrats as nodal officers for the assigned districts. According to the notification, state urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey has been made the nodal officer of Ranchi district, while his counterpart in food and civil supplies department, Himani Pande is tasked with taking care of East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Secretary of department of planning and finance Ajoy Kumar Singh is in-charge of Dhanbad and Deoghar, secretary of commercial taxes, Vandana Dadel will take care of Koderma and Ramgarh districts. Rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik is tasked for Latehar and Lohardaga whereas Rahul Sharma, finance secretary will be handling Khunti and West Singhbhum. Road construction department secretary Sunil Kumar is nodal officer for Bokaro and Giridih, Puja Singhal (industries department) will handle Hazaribagh and Chatra, Rajesh Sharma (school education) Pakur and Sahebganj, AB Siddique (agriculture) Palamau and Garhwa, Praveen Toppo (labour department) Gumla and Simdega and Prashant Kumar (water resources) is the nodal officer for Jamtara, Dumka and Godda. “All the nodal officers are mandated to act as observers for their assigned districts to ensure proper testing, tracking, treatment, vaccination and all other Covid tackling workers in coordination with respective deputy commissioners to control the emerging situation. All nodal officers are also required to give appropriate directions to the district administrations to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour is followed and implemented properly besides working out plans to curb the transmission,” read the order signed by the chief secretary, adding that nodal officers are also entrusted with powers to take decisions/actions as required from time to time for implementation of central and state government orders and advisories for tackling Covid-19. Since mid-March, the state has been witnessing a steady rise in infections with daily caseload breaking previous year records. Since the start of April, the spikes have skyrocketed with the state reporting over 1000 cases on an average for the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi accounts for half of Jharkhand's Covid deaths in 2nd wave||Ranchi has reported exactly half of the 82 Covid deaths that occurred in Jharkhand since March 10, indicating that the state capital was accounting for more casualties during the second wave of Covid-19 in comparison with East Singhbhum, which reported the highest number of fatalties during the first wave last year. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounts for 41 of the 82 Covid casualties reported in the state in the past one month. On the other hand, East Singhbhum, which continues to top among Jharkhand districts in terms of Covid casualties, has reported only seven Covid fatalities since March 10, reveals NHM data. While health experts attribute the higher count of casualties in Ranchi to the high number of cases here, government figures highlight that Ranchi reported the highest number of Covid cases last year as well, but fewer casualties as compared to East Singhbhum. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), warned that the second wave of Covid-19 was more lethal than the first one as the virus was mutated and may behave in mysterious ways. The higher number of deaths in Ranchi, he said, could also be attributed to the fact that most of the severely-ill patients came to the state capital for treatment. “Firstly, the second wave of a mutated virus was more lethal than the first one. Secondly, Ranchi was more likely to get exposed to the mutated virus due to high inflow of severely-ill patients and connectivity with almost all cities in India,” said Singh. Not only has Ranchi reported the highest number of Covid deaths during the second wave, but also the highest count of cases. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 7,017 of the 14,279 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand since March 10. In totality, the district accounts for 40,407 of the 1,34,715 Covid cases reported in Jharkhand so far. The figures indicate that Ranchi has reported 49 per cent of cases in the past one month and only 29 per cent of the total cases reported in Jharkhand so far. As per government data, Ranchi accounts for 290 of the 1,175 Covid casualties, about 24 per cent, in Jharkhand so far. However, in the past one month, the state capital reported 50 per cent of the casualties. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, accounts for 363 Covid deaths, which is the highest among the 24 districts in the state, and is about 30 per cent of the total Covid casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
10-04-2021||Jharkhand||No Sarhul, Ram Navami processions in Jharkhand for the second consecutive year||The annual processions for Sarhul and Ram Navami will not be brought out in Jharkhand for the second consecutive year this time because of rising cases of Covid-19 infection. While the organisers of such processions in Jharkhand capital Ranchi have assured they would follow the guidelines issued by the state government and not bring out any such procession this year, those in other places in the state are also likely to follow it soon. Both Sarhul and Ram Navami processions were also not brought out last year because of the lockdown while the Jharkhand government has prohibited religious congregations this time. Every year, different sarna samitis bring out processions from their respective localities that converge at the main sarna sthal at Seromtoli near Ranchi railway station that attracts a huge gathering. Similarly, processions carrying Mahavir jhandas are brought out from various akhras from across the capital city that culminate at Tapovan Mandir at Nivaranpur in Doranda where a mela (fair) is also organised every year. After a meeting with Ranchi deputy commissioner on Thursday, both Kendriya Sarna Samiti president Phoolchand Tirkey and Adivasi Sanjukt Morcha convener Antu Tirkey announced that no Sarhul procession would be brought out on April 14. The administration, however, allowed that five members from each of the Sarna samitis could go to the main Sarna sthal at Seromtoli and perform pujas by turn. A section of the local Mahavir Mandal led by Jai Singh Yadav has also declared no Ram Navami procession would be brought out on April 21 while another section led by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra demanded some concessions. The administration may allow performing rituals both at the akhras and also at Tapovan Mandir by small groups that day but any other concession is unlikely to be given under the present Covid situation, most believe. Meanwhile, Covid infection has considerably gone up in the state, particularly in Ranchi, during the past fortnight. On March 24,Jharkhand had 969 Covid positive cases with 194 new cases detected that day. Ranchi alone had 451 cases that comprised of 46.54 per cent of the total cases in the state. With 1,882 new cases detected on Thursday, the number of total positive cases in the state went up to 9,249, over 9.5 times after a fortnight. Ranchi alone had 858 new positive cases that day and the total number of such cases rose to 4,721 that accounted for 51.04 per cent of the state’s total cases. As the number of positive cases increased, the recovery rate that was 98.39 per cent in the state on March 25 also slipped to 92.16 per cent on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-86
