11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Covid protocol goes for a toss||Systems were in place across all polling stations on Saturday but the Covid protocols were not adhered to in almost all of them. Voters stood shoulder to shoulder in queues and merrily discarded their gloves on the premises of the polling stations or on the road outside though yellow bins had been kept to dispose of the gloves after voting. All voters were given hand sanitisers and a glove for one hand with which they would press the EVM button to cast their vote. There were personnel deployed to give these to every voter before they entered the polling booth. The personnel also checked the body temperature of voters with a thermal gun. “No one told me that I have to drop my gloves in a bin inside the polling station,” said a man who had come out wearing the gloves from the Bapujinagar Madhyamik Balika Vidyalaya in Jadavpur. There were piles of gloves lying on the roadside outside the centre. It was a similar picture in many places. Almost everywhere, some voters came out with the glove in one hand and then took it off. They did not pause before dropping the glove on the road. Outside Kasba’s Ram Narayan Singh Memorial High School, there were piles of gloves on the floor and on the road outside. The entire school premises were littered with gloves. People also stood at barely 1ft distance from each other in the queue. “There are nine booths in this school. It is very difficult to make people following social distancing rules,” said a paramilitary jawan, who was managing queues. At the Sammilani Teachers Training College in Mukundapur or Santoshpur Vidyamandir for Girls High School too many voters had discarded their gloves on the road outside. But most voters wore masks while entering the polling station. A few youths were seen standing in the queue at Sammilani Teachers Training College in Mukundapur with masks on their chins. At this centre, too, there was no social distancing and neither the policemen nor the central forces asked the voters to stand 6ft apart from each other. The Covid protocol says that people should sanitise or wash their hands frequently, wear masks and maintain at least 6ft distance from each other in a public place. The Election Commission had made it mandatory for voters to wear gloves while casting their votes. A doctor said that this was done to ensure that the buttons were not infected. “If someone who is unknowingly carrying the virus on their fingers touched the buttons on the EVM, another person could pick up the virus from there. If the second person touched their nose or eyes with that finger, he/she could get infected with Covid-19,” said a doctor. While the personnel at some centres were telling voters to drop their gloves in the yellow bins, such instructions were not given in other places. There was no large signage or banner to inform the voters that they should drop their gloves in the yellow bins before they leave the polling station. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has hired an agency to clear the bio-medical waste from the yellow bins. “We started cleaning the bins around 6.30pm. There are 725 polling stations in six constituencies: Jadavpur, Kasba, Metiabruz, Tollygunge, Behala East and Behala West,” said an official of GreenTech Environ, a waste management company tasked with cleaning the bins. But an official of the agency said they were not told to pick up the gloves dropped on the floor of the polling stations or on the road outside. These have to be cleared by road cleaners of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Young voters’ concern— the lack of jobs||Across the constituencies that went to polls on Saturday, many young voters who stepped out said one issue determined their voting preference — the lack of jobs. Some of them were engineers “forced” to move out of Bengal for work. Some of them were students who were worried about their future prospects in the state. Aspiring teachers and young bank employees also told this newspaper that the lack of enough employment opportunities was hurting them and many of them thought a change of guard was welcome if it could ensure more jobs in the state. Sohom Banerjee, 23, and Sourajit Chakraborty, 31, had come together to a polling booth in the Bansdroni area, under Tollygunge Assembly constituency, on Saturday. “Jobs, or the lack of jobs, is the most important issue for me while voting. I will vote for a party that brings enough jobs to Bengal,” said Sohom, a BTech from a private institute, who has been working with an IT services multinational. “I had to crack an all-India entrance test to get this job. Our institute’s campus placement was dismal. Hardly any company visited the campus,” said Sohom. Sourajit, who came to the city over a week ago to cast his vote, works with a French consulting and technology services company in Hyderabad. “Recruiters don’t look beyond certain top level engineering colleges in Bengal,” he said. He studied engineering from an institute in Nagpur and got campus placement. “For jobs, you need industry. I hope the next government pays enough attention to bringing industries to Bengal,” he added. Paromita Pandey, with her two-year old child cradled in her arm, came to cast her vote in a booth set up at the Future Foundation School at Netajinagar, also under Tollygunge Assembly constituency. Asked what were the issues uppermost in her mind as she cast her vote, Paromita said: “I have done my masters’ in education and completed BEd and therefore looking forward to teachers’ recruitment tests like TET being held regularly so that we could be gainfully employed. We don’t want to sit idle after completing studies. There is not enough job opportunity for meritorious students.” Kalyani Roy, 26, who works with a private bank, also demanded more jobs. Kalyani said there were very few jobs beyond a certain level in Calcutta. “Most jobs here are very low-paying. Only more job opportunities can change that,” the Jadavpur voter said. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, have been relentless in targeting the weakest links in the Trinamul’s armour, the lack of industry and employment opportunities in Bengal. But the Modi government’s own track record in creating jobs is nothing great. Independent agencies have painted a dismal picture of job losses across the country. Back in May 2018, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had released the report of the National Sample Survey Office, which showed that the unemployment rate in India had touched 6.1 per cent —– a 45-year high. The report was ready for release in December 2018 but the Modi government refused to make it public, afraid that it could wreck its chances in the April-May 2019 general election. This point was highlighted by Sirsha Sengupta Roy, a fresh economics graduate from Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia, and a voter in Naktala. “It is difficult to choose between parties when it comes to bringing jobs to Bengal. The BJP is promising to usher in real change but the country’s economy tells a different story,” he said. Anushka Mishra, 21, who is doing her BTech from a college in Bhubaneswar, rued that most youths from Calcutta had to leave their home after they graduated. “Job scarcity is the biggest problem in our state and in our city. I want that to change. I want that the new government creates enough jobs for people that are worth their education,” said Anu-shka, a first-time voter in Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Choice overlooks grievances||In Kathalberia village, about 35km from the heart of Calcutta, a family has grievances galore against the Mamata Banerjee government. Rahiman Bibi can even rattle off a list of promises that have remained unfulfilled. But when it came to choosing the candidate on Saturday, the 67-year-old said she “voted for Didi”. Rahiman said she feared any other party in power would disrupt the peace that she has been enjoying for decades in the small hamlet off Hatishala, hemmed by farmlands, ponds and sprawling green fields under Bhangar Assembly constituency. She spoke of the “joy of living fearlessly with Hindu families”, of sharing Durga Puja’s prasad and shimui er payesh during Id or cooking vegetarian dishes with drumsticks gifted by neighbours. “Amra ekhane sabai ek thalaye boshe khaai (Out here we share food from the same plate),” Rahiman said sitting on the steps of her modest house, pulling the pallu lower on her face. “The mornings begin with neighbours gathering in our courtyard for a round of tea. That is how we have been living for decades now. Eta paalte jete debo na  (Won’t allow this to change).” Rahiman and her family are among six who are surrounded by Hindu families in the interiors of Kathalberia in Bhangar. Her son Taslim Molla, a Class VIII dropout, is a labourer with a contractor in adjoining Rajarhat. Taslim’s wife Minara Bibi is the mother of two sons and the eldest is a Class XI student at Hatishala Junior High Madrasha. The Trinamul Congress has fielded Rezaul Karim and sidelined Arabul Islam, the local party strongman, amid allegations of corruption against him. Pitted against Karim is Naushad Siddiqui, the candidate from the Indian Secular Front, which many believe aims to effect a split in Muslim votes in Bhangar. BJP’s Soumi Hati has primarily campaigned in the Hindu pockets across the Assembly. Trinamul’s Abdur Rezzak Mollah had won the seat in 2016 by a margin of around 18,000. On Saturday, as the conversation rolls on, Swapan Sardar, Taslim’s mate from his school days, joins the family. Early in the afternoon, all of them cast their votes in a booth nearby. “I learnt to read and write Arabic with Swapan during our days in the high madrasa. People now talk of all sorts of things on religious lines but we never felt any difference since our growing up days,” Taslim said setting besides his mother. “Pujor chanda ditey toh kokhono kichhu mone hoy ni. Ora-o toh Holi te rang niye aashey (We have never felt anything while paying for puja subscription. Even they visit us during Holi with colours)”, Taslim said. “I am not that well read but we have decided to stay with this government. We don’t want things to change suddenly.” Minara, Taslim’s wife leaves the conversation to join a few workers who have been busy building a makeshift hutment adjoining the house with bamboos and tiles. A few days back she has received the Swasthya Sathi card, she said. Other benefits have not reached the family, she said. “The shimuyi er payesh during the Id has a different taste altogether,” Swapan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Devout does not mean diabolic||An old woman stopped by a temple on Diamond Harbour Road, opposite Behala police station, on her way to the polling booth on Saturday. She bowed her head and uttered a brief prayer, her palm touching her chest and forehead multiple times, before resuming her walk towards the booth. “I am a devout Hindu and pray three times a day. But I am against seeking votes in the name of a temple,” Aparajita Chatterjee, 76, told this newspaper after coming out of the booth around 10.20am. The temple, dedicated to Shiva, is one of the oldest in Behala. Chatterjee has been a regular visitor to the temple since 1960, when she came to the Behala neighbourhood after marriage. Chatterjee is now a widow and lives alone. Her two daughters are married. At home, Chatterjee watches news channels regularly. She is aware of the emergence of a new brand of Hinduism in Bengal, she said. “Bhishon chinta hoy (I am extremely worried),” she said. “There is an aggressiveness in this so-called Hindutva —  whether in slogans or in political speeches. Baying for blood is not there in my religion. My religion does not tell its followers to kill people for food they eat or clothes they wear,” she said. Chatterjee voted in Behala West where Trinamul heavyweight Partha Chatterjee is pitted against the BJP’s Srabanti Chatterjee and CPM’s Nihar Bhakta. Metro met her around 10.15pm, when there were not more than a dozen voters in the queue. Behala, once a Left bastion, is now considered a Trinamul stronghold. The party had a lead from the Assembly segment — which falls under the south Calcutta Lok Sabha seat — even during the BJP surge in the 2019 general elections. But local residents are also familiar with the Jai Shri Ram cry as the BJP has been organising rallies and street corner meetings in Behala neighbourhoods. Three days ago, Union home minister Amit Shah took part in a road show in Behala. Despite her age, Chatterjee walks straight. On Saturday, she politely refused an offer by a jawan posted at the gates to lead her inside. Most people at the booth greeted her. A middle-aged man, who came up to enquire about her health outside the temple, was “admonished” by the septuagenarian for not wearing a mask. Chatterjee also had two sons — one of them died in an accident and the other “left home one day many years ago, never to return again”. “I know what losing her children means for a mother. Not a single woman should suffer that fate. I pray so that no more lives are lost in the name of religion,” said Chatterjee. Chatterjee’s maternal home used to be in Bowbazar. She never went to school but was taught by a tutor at home. “My father was very conservative. But my in-laws were very progressive and encouraged me to read, write and listen to the radio,” said Chatterjee. “I don’t have degrees. But I understand that keeping the communal pot boiling deflects attention from real issues like lack of employment and price rise,” she said before heading home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Voters voice||As voting reached Calcutta and some of its suburbs on Saturday, The Telegraph spoke to voters on issues that concerned them. Here’s what some of them had to say Uma Dutta Chowdhury, 62, was sitting with a group of senior citizens at Surjya Sen Nagar, a Tollygunge pocket after casting her vote on Saturday. A pensioner who lives alone, Dutta Chowdhury said she was struggling to make ends meet because of the sliding interest rates at banks and rising prices of essential commodities.She gets the family pension of her late father. “This central government wants to change everything. A day is not far when one has to pay the bank for keeping money with it,” said Dutta Chowdhury.Other members of the group nodded their heads in agreement as she spoke.“I just pray that I don’t have to financially depend on others at this stage of my life,” said Dutta Chowdhury. Purbasha Roy, an actor, had come to cast her vote at the Future Foundation School in the Tollygunge seat. The 25-year-old said she was “aghast” at the “unsavoury comments" made recently at a TV debate by a political leader addressing a “woman colleague”. “A society should be judged by the way it treats women. Their abuse shows the mentality of such political leaders. They have a problem with any woman who speaks her mind,” said Purbasha. Days later, she heard the same leader threatening artistes with “rogre debo”. “Oder vote diye rogre dewa uchit (They should be taught a lesson with ballots),” she said. Sreshtha Banerjee, another first-time voter at the same booth, said the derogatory language used by vote seekers has made politics “an object of aversion” for many young people. “This problems cuts across political parties. The discourse has stooped to such a level that it devalues humanity,” she said. Patralekha and Kakali Mukherjee, daughter and mother, came out of a booth in Behala West around 10am on Saturday. Patralekha, who studies nutrition in Vidyasagar College, voted for the first time in her life. “Women's safety and education are the two most important issues for me,” said the 19-year-old.Kakali, who teaches history at a city school, said she was disturbed by the “attempts by some elements to distort the secular history of India”. “The politics of Bengal has also become communal. It is starkly visible in the poll campaigns. All parties are to blame for this,” she said. “The rise in fuel prices should be the discourse, not Hindu-Muslim rivalry,” she said. Anwesha Dasgupta, 21, had applied for a voting card much before the 2019 general elections. The card was delayed and she missed voting. This time, she was determined not to let the chance go because she wanted to be “counted in the fight against communal polarisation and politics of hatred”. On Saturday, Anwesha and her mother were one of the early voters at a booth on Biren Roy Road west in Behala West Assembly seat. “After waiting for around 10 minutes, I entered the voting compartment. I paused for a few seconds and the pressed the button. It felt as if I had asserted my stake in the affairs of my land," said Anwesha, a student of multimedia and animation at St Xavier's College. “My vote was my way of saying no to division and hatred,” she said. Dasgupta had to do several rounds of Bhavani Bhavan to get her voting card to sort out some documentation problems. “I am happy my labour was fruitful,” she said. Ghennamoni Naskar had not voted the last time. This time, the mother of three did. “Every vote matters,” said the woman who finds it difficult to stand because of arthritis. At Naskarpara in Bhangar, she said: “If you stop to hear leaders of some prominent political parties there is no word on development. It’s all about religion.” The woman was thankful to voters in the queue who made way for her so that she could leave early. "It is wrong to divide people,” she said while waiting for a van rickshaw that would drop her home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Concern over citizenship a talking point among the elderly||The fear of implementation of the citizenship matrix, one of the poll planks of BJP, weighed heavily on the minds of voters in different assembly constituencies spread across parts of Calcutta as they went to cast their votes on Saturday. Be it in Suryanagar, a colony that consists of 1200-odd residents under Tollyunge assembly seat, Patuli in the southern fringes that is part of Jadavpur assembly constituency or Behala that consists of pockets of settlers whose forefathers had come during the partition, several voters said issues like CAA, NRC and NPR were important. The fact that  the BJP on March 21 while unveiling its manifesto for the Bengal elections, promised to clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting of the new government, has further stoked fear among residents who had settled from places like Khulna, Barishal from the then East Pakistan. A resident of Suryanagar, Abhash Majumder whose forefathers came from Khulna, wondered how could they prove that they were religiously persecuted to be able to come under the ambit of CAA and reclaim citizenship. The “Statement of Objects and Reasons’’ for introducing the CAA, 2019 says that the constitutions of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh provide for a specific state religion. As a result, many persons belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities have faced persecution on grounds of religion in those countries. So, under the proposed act migrants from these communities entering India from Afghanistan, Pakistan or Bangladesh without valid documents would now have the eligibility for Indian Citizenship. “Who would testify as to whether we were persecuted or not? Our forefathers are not alive to offer their versions. What if we are asked to reclaim our citizenship through the route of CAA,” asked Abhash, who is a businessman by profession. Abhash along with a group of residents of the colony were sharing their concerns after casting their votes. They were forming a huddle in the lane whose walls on either side were replete with posters of Trinamul candidate from Tollygunge, Aroop Biswas, that read: “Jibon thakte CAA, NRC and NPR kichutey hote debo na (As long we are alive, under no circumstance we will allow implementation of CAA ,NRC and NPR)”. Locals said that TMC may not have been vocal about the issue, but has carried out a subdued campaign in Suryanagar that was developed in 1950. Another resident of the colony, Sankar Bhattacharya, 71, said his forefathers came from Dhaka to Suryanagar during the partion in 1947. He wondered how could a government that has been elected by its citizens ask them to prove whether they are citizens. “Even if I vote against the incumbent government, I am a citizen. How can you ask for more proof? We have seen what happened in Assam? Incase of NRC, we have to come up with legacy documents? How could we do that? Incase of CAA we have to prove we had been religiously persecuted? Again how could we do that? What has happened in Assam has been a lesson for all of us,” he said. As many as 14 lakhs Hindus lost their citizenship while NRC was carried out in Assam. Subir Dey, 53, said some of them were born at government hospitals. “But those from the previous generations were delivered by midwives. How can we get certificates for them? The BJP has no organisation in these colony areas. They did not dare to campaign here but we know their agenda,” said Dey even as he headed to one of the two booths to cast his vote. After CAA was passed in December 2019, a protest was launched at the Park Circus ground and it went for months. Kasturi Basu, a Patuli resident thatv falls under Jadavpur assembly seat, said: “The  issue of CAA, NRC and NPR has been weighing heavily on my mind over the past two years. This has caused anxiety among scores of people, who I believe will not vote for BJP.” She cast her vote in the morning. “Issues like CAA, NRA are a ploy to deny the countrymen their citizenship. These are ploy to shift the focus from real issues and divide the country on religious lines,” said Bhasar Gupta, a professor of Jadavpur University and a resident of Jadavpur said. “The instance of Assam has taught us how bad it could be. We can not support the proponents of such acts,” said a resident of Sarsuna that falls under Behala West Assembly constituency. He did not want to be identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Business||Covid-19: Sri Lanka resumes flights under air bubble agreement||The government has finalised an air bubble agreement with Sri Lanka, which will allow all eligible passengers to travel between the two countries, the ministry of civil aviation said on Saturday. “This is the sixth such arrangement in (the) Saarc region and the 28th globally,” the ministry said in a tweet. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. Under a bilateral air bubble, flights are allowed between two nations with certain preconditions. India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. The Indian government recently extended the ban on international commercial flights till April 30. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has estimated that the aviation industry would continue to experience a contraction and the cash burn in 2021 would balloon to about $75-95 billion from the previously anticipated $48 billion. “With governments having tightened border restrictions, 2021 is shaping up to be a much tougher year than previously expected,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director-general and CEO. Meanwhile, the appointments committee of the cabinet has extended the tenure of Arun Kumar, chief of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, by six months beyond April 20, or until further notice, whichever is earlier. Kumar, a 1989 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Haryana cadre, was appointed as DGCA chief in July 2019. He had held additional charge of the post between May and July 2019 with the retirement of BS Bhullar.  Prior to his DGCA post, Kumar was an additional secretary at the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Covid cloud over business||The spurt in Covid-19 cases and restrictions announced by different states have resulted in a 30 per cent business loss in one week. Consumer footfall in retail markets have also reduced to 50 per cent, a traders’ body said on Saturday. The imposition of night curfew, a partial lockdown and other preventive steps by various state governments have lead to a panic among consumers across the country, said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT). He said because of the night curfew, the transportation of goods from one state to another has also been badly affected. Footfall of consumers in retail markets has come down by 50 per cent because of several restrictions. Khandelwal said “a closer analysis of the Covid statistics over the last one week show that the restrictions have failed to bring down the caseload”. Since the beginning of the second wave of Covid in the country, CAIT has emphasised that night curfews or lock-downs are not the only solution to curb Covid. To deal with the pandemic, CAIT has maintained that the government should formulate a well thought out strategy in which responsibility should be given to each stakeholder. CAIT has already assured the support of several trade associations, representing about eight crore traders, to help the Centre fight the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||India needs to grow faster to make up for contraction during Covid-19 pandemic: IMF||India, which is projected to grow at an impressive rate of 12.5 per cent this year, needs to grow at a much faster pace to make up for the unprecedented contraction of 8 per cent clocked during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, according to a senior IMF official. The International Monetary Fund’s deputy chief economist Petya Koeva Brooks also made a strong case for an additional economic stimulus to address the impact of the pandemic on the country’s economy. “When it comes to India there was a major collapse of output last fiscal. So, we are very glad to see the strong rebound this year with a projected growth of 12.5 for 2021-22. We are also seeing high frequency indicators, including PMI (Purchasing Managers' Index), and trade and more mobility indicators which give us a sense that there is continued recovery in the first quarter of this year,” she said. “On the recovery itself, we are expecting the level of output to return to the pre-crisis one. That is what we have in our projections,’’ she said. However, the recent localised lockdowns are seen as one of the threats to this recovery, she noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Shriram Properties files draft papers with Sebi to launch Rs 800 crore IPO||Bangalore-based Shriram Properties has filed a draft document with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to raise up to Rs 800 crore through an initial public offer (IPO). The proposed IPO comprises of a fresh issue aggregating up to Rs 250 crore and an offer for sale of up to Rs 550 crore. Shriram Properties has proposed partial exits for its four existing investors — TPG Capital, Tata Capital, Walton Street Capital and Starwood Capital — which own around 58 per cent of the company. The company proposes to utilise the net proceeds from the fresh issue towards repayment or pre-payment, in full or part, of certain borrowings availed by it and by certain subsidiaries apart from using them for general corporate purposes, subject to applicable laws. Axis Capital, ICICI Securities and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd are the book running lead managers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Balrampur Chini board approves higher investment of Rs 425 crore for new distillery plant||Sugar firm Balrampur Chini Mills on Saturday said its board has approved a higher investment of Rs 425 crore for a new distillery plant of 320 kilolitres per day (KLPD), which is expected to commence by December 2022. The board meeting held on Saturday approved the “revised capex (capital expenditure) of Rs 425 crore for the 320 KLPD distillery plant”, the company said in a regulatory filing. Balarampur Chini said its board on November 4, 2020, had approved a Rs 320-crore investment for the new plant. “The increase in capex to the tune of Rs 105 crore is mainly owing to the inclusion of a 20 KLPD unit of extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), a higher storage capacity for raw material and finished goods, a sharp rise in steel prices and a change in designs of equipment to bring in more efficiency and embrace automation,” it added. The company said it plans to borrow Rs 220 crore from banks under the scheme to extend financial assistance to enhance ethanol capacity as announced by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||India||Covid: Fault in measures in three states; positivity rate up 3.5 times||The share of coronavirus tests that are coming back positive has jumped more than 3.5 times in four weeks, the Health Ministry's data showed on Sunday, highlighting the massing Covid-19 surge that have pushed India's daily cases to all-time highs. The country added 1,52,879 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, setting another one-day record as the country's Covid tally reached over 1.33 crore cases. 839 deaths in the last 24 hour pushed the total death count to 1.69 lakh. Sunday was the fifth consecutive day that India has recorded more than 1 lakh cases in a day. Central teams that were deployed to 50 districts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have reported non-adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in almost all of the affected districts, the Union health ministry said, advising these states to more strictly enforce norms to prevent spread of the coronavirus. On the basis of feedback received from the teams, the ministry has written to the states highlighting the areas of concern, including sub-optimal containment operations and contact tracing, skewed testing and shortage of health workers. Authorities need to work in these areas, said the directive. Of the 50 districts most affected, 30 are in Maharashtra, 11 in Chhattisgarh and nine in Punjab. In a letter to the states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan maintained that the Centre has also taken note of issues related to vaccine availability, and required action to augment supplies will be taken based on available stock. He said a brief summary of key performance indicators related to testing, hospital infrastructure and vaccination, as reported by the teams, has been shared for suitable corrective actions by state or district administrations. Thirty central teams have been deployed for the most-affected districts in Maharashtra, Bhushan said. Amid the rapid surge, Modi in his recent interaction with chief ministers had proposed a four-day 'tika utsav' starting from the birth anniversary of social reformer Jyotiba Phule and ending on the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar. "In these four days, we have to make every effort to achieve our goals at the individual level, at the society level and at the administration level," the prime minister said. He expressed confidence that India will once again be able to control the virus with people's participation and discharge of their responsibility while remaining alert. With inputs from NDTV||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
11-04-2021||India||Slain Bihar police officer’s mother die out of shock||Mother of the Bihar police officer who was allegedly beaten to death by a mob during a raid in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district the previous day, died due to shock Sunday, family and police sources said. The mother could not bear the loss of her son and died at home in Abhyaram Chakla panchayat under Jankinagar police station area of Kishanganj district this morning. Both were cremated during the day in the village amid protest by the fellow villagers. Meanwhile, on the instruction of Deputy Inspector General of Police, Purnea range, Suresh Chaudhary, seven policemen who had gone to the West Bengal village with the slain policeman in connection with a motocycle theft case but ran away when attacked, have been suspended. Superintendent of police Kumar Ashish ordered their suspension on the DIG instruction for dereliction of duty. The dastardly incident had happened in Pantapada village in the Goalpokhar police station area of Uttar Dinajpur district of West Bengal after Friday midnight when Ashwini Kumar, the Station House Officer of Kishanganj police station in Bihar, was leading a raid in connection with a motorcycle theft case. Kumar was in the village with a police team to apprehend the accused in the case that was registered in the Kishanganj police station, officials said. However, he was surrounded by a mob and allegedly thrashed, they said. Later, a team of police personnel from the Panjipara outpost rescued him and took him to the Islampur Sadar Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, they said. The West Bengal Police has arrested three persons in connection with the incident - Firoze Alam, Abuzar Alam and Sahinur Khatoon. Uttar Dinajpur in West Bengal and Kishanganj in Bihar share a border. Kumar had joined Bihar Police in 1994 and was transferred to Kishanganj a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Appropriate decision on lockdown in Maha after April 14: Tope||Mahrashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday announced that an appropriate decision regarding imposing a lockdown in Maharashtra will be taken after April 14. He was speaking to reporters after a virtual meeting of the COVID-19 task force chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss measures, including imposition of a lockdown in the state, to break the virus chain. “Duration of the lockdown and how to handle its economic fallout was discussed during today’s meeting. The task force is of the view that the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state is such that a lockdown is required,” the minister said. A tweet from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said, “In a meeting with the State Task Force, the chief minister discussed the availability of oxygen & beds, use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, increase in capacity of facilities, imposition of restrictions & fines for violating COVID protocols.” Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh, state Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and others took part in the meeting. Thackeray is scheduled to hold consultations with the finance and other state departments on Monday and discussion will also take place in the cabinet meeting later this week. Tope also said that setting up of an oxygen generation plant in the state was also discussed during the task force meeting. Thackeray had on Saturday indicated the imposition of a strict lockdown in the state given the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases. He had held an all-party meeting held virtually to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the state. Last Sunday, the state government had announced a slew of restrictions, including a weekend lockdown, night curfew and prohibitory orders for the day time. These restrictions will continue till April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Communal violence in Baran district of Rajasthan||Following the stabbing of two youths in in Chhabra town of Baran district, Rajasthan, dozens of vehicles and shops were torched and vandalised by mobs as communal violence broke out on Sunday, forcing authorities to clamp curfew and suspend internet. Police used tear gas to disperse the violent crowds but members of two communities, armed with sticks, iron rods and weapons, continued the rampage late in the evening, even setting ablaze a fire tender and damaging public property including police and government vehicles. “The situation is very tense. Violence by the mobs has been continuing and we are trying to control the situation,” Superintendent of Police, Baran, Vineet Bansal, who was on the site, said. There was no immediate official word on any casualties. Officials said additional forces have been called in and senior officials including Kota range DIG Ravi Gour have rushed to the area. According to sources, two youths of the Gujjar community identified as Kamal Gurjar (32) Dhakad (21) were injured in an attack by 4-5 youths of another community at Dharnawada circle on Saturday evening. The youths were admitted to a hospital. The families of the injured and community members staged a dharna at Dharnawada circle on Saturday night demanding immediate arrest of the five accused. While the police nabbed three of the accused late Saturday night, the key accused was not arrested. The group resumed their protest on Sunday morning and called for a closure of shops. Violence erupted when a group was marching through markets asking traders to close shops in Aliganj and Ajaj Nagar, and soon spread to other areas, the sources said Around 10-12 shops in Dharnawda Circle, Station Road, Ajaj Nagar and Aliganj area were set ablaze and a fire tender was torched along with a private passenger bus, cars and other vehicles in the evening, the sources said. Baran District Collector ordered a curfew in the municipal periphery of Chhabra town from 4 PM on Sunday. Internet has been suspended in the district till 4 PM on April 13, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Central team finds fault in Covid measures of 3 states||Central teams that were deployed to 50 districts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have reported non-adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in almost all of the most-affected districts, the Union health ministry said, advising these states to more strictly enforce norms to prevent spread of the coronavirus. On the basis of feedback received from the teams, the ministry has written to the states highlighting the areas of concern, including sub-optimal containment operations and contact tracing, skewed testing and shortage of health workers. Authorities need to work in these areas, said the directive. Of the 50 districts most affected by Covid-19, 30 are in Maharashtra, 11 in Chhattisgarh and nine in Punjab. In a letter to the states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan maintained that the Centre has also taken note of issues related to vaccine availability, and required action to augment supplies will be taken based on available stock. He said a brief summary of key performance indicators related to testing, hospital infrastructure and vaccination, as reported by the teams, has been shared for suitable corrective actions by state or district administrations. Thirty central teams have been deployed for the most-affected districts in Maharashtra, Bhushan said. The ministry has written to the state highlighting that containment operations were found to be sub-optimal in Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, with less than satisfactory perimeter control and lack of active surveillance for influenza like illness cases. Surveillance and contact tracing were sub-optimal in Buldhana, Satara, Aurgangabad and Nanded, mostly due to limited manpower, Bhushan said in a letter to the Maharashtra health secretary on Saturday. In Bhandara district most cases are being reported from outside containment zones. This requires increasing the area of such zones or notifying new ones, the letter said. Testing capacity in Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravwati, Jalna and Latur is already overwhelmed, resulting in delay in test results, it said. Teams from Nanded and Buldana have reported skewed RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing ratio. Community resistance to Covid testing has been reported from Bhandara, the letter said. It said a large percentage of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation in Bhandara and Satara. This requires rigorous follow up to minimise mortality and it is not happening, the letter said. “lt was observed that delayed reporting by patients to definitive treatment centres in Satara is leading to large number of deaths within first 72 hours of hospital admission,” it said. Occupancy rates of available hospital bed capacity are very high in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar while medical oxygen supply was found to be an issue in Bhandara, Palghar, Osmanabad and Pune. Malfunctioning of ventilators has been reported from Satara and Latur, and acute shortage of health workers from some other districts, the ministry said. It suggested expediting rostering of health workers and hiring of contractual health workers. “Adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour was found to be lacking by almost all central teams that visited the districts. This would require greater enforcement effort,” the ministry said. For Chhattisgarh, the team from Raipur and Jashpur districts reported lack of perimeter control in containment zones. “There appears to be no restriction on movement of people inside containment zones. Hence, containment zones, including micro-containment zones, need to be strictly implemented,” a letter addressed to the state's additional chief secretary (health) said. Contact tracing needs to be reinforced in Korba. Resistance, even attacks on health workers, to containment activities and testing was reported from Dhaneli in Raipur. This needs to be addressed, it said. Lack or shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities was reported from some districts. The ministry suggested the state to deploy mobile labs for RT-PCR testing. Ambulance services also need to be strengthened in Durg and teams have noted that hospital bed occupancy rates are high in Balod, Raipur, Durg and Mahasamund, it said. District administrations need to ramp up hospital infrastructure and other logistic requirement to meet demand arising from surge in COVID-19 cases. Shortage of Remdesivir and low molecular weight Heparin needs urgent attention in Korba, the ministry said. Limited oxygen availability and oxygen wastage were reported from Raipur and shortage of health workers from few districts. "There appears to be a need for refresher training of surveillance teams and vaccinators in Balod and Korba districts respectively," it said. Overcrowding and no physical distancing was observed at a vaccination centre in Rajnandangaon, the ministry said. In Punjab, there is a need to enhance focus on contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana. Contact tracing and surveillance in SAS Nagar are being hampered due to shortage of manpower and additional workforce must be deployed, Bhushan said in his letter to the Punjab health secretary. Low rates of testing were reported from Patiala and there is no RT-PCR testing lab in Rupnagar. These need to be addressed, the letter said. There is no dedicated COVID hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar, and patients are being referred to neighbouring districts or Chandigarh, it said. Hospital bed occupancy rates in some districts are high and arrangements must be made by authorities to deal with surge in cases, the letter said. Teams have reported issues with procurement of ventilators in SBS Nagar. ln Rupnagar, though ventilators are available, they are not being optimally used due to shortage of workforce, particularly doctors and nurses. Contractual hiring of health workers can address the problem, the letter said. Shortage in workforce has been reported from Patiala, SAS Nagar and Rupnagar also. Patiala and Ludhiana have reported slow pace of COVID vaccination among people above 45 years with co-morbidities and those above 60 years, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||India needs to vaccinate 5 million people daily to slow spread of Covid||Here’s the good news: India has vaccinated 100 million people against Covid-19. What’s more, we’re vaccinating 3.5 million people daily and even touched 4 million on one day. That’s more than any country globally, except China. But the bad news is pretty bad. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases spiked to a record high of 145,384 on Saturday. That’s up from 47,262 three weeks ago on March 23 and 103,000 just a week ago on April 4. Maharashtra is still the epicentre of the second wave, registering the most new cases in 24 hours -- 55,411. It's followed by Chhattisgarh with over 11,000 cases and Uttar Pradesh with nearly 10,000 fresh infections. As the cases surge, the knives are coming out with the Centre and the state governments flinging charges and accusing each other of messing up the anti-Covid battle. The state governments say they’re running short of vaccines and being forced to close vaccination delivery centres. The Centre accuses states like Maharashtra of letting vaccine doses go to waste. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, trying to turn attention away from the vaccine supply issue, has told the states to focus on test-and-trace if they want to bring the runaway second Covid-19 wave to a halt. Epidemiologists, though, say the need of the hour is vaccines. They say we should be directing all our attention to vaccinating at high speed, pointing to the experience in Israel and the UK. Public health experts in Israel and the UK say pandemic infection growth numbers slowed down when about 25 per cent of the population had been vaccinated. In India, 25 per cent of our population is around 350 million people. Other epidemiologists reckon 40 per cent of the population needs to be vaccinated for the pandemic to slow. That would be around 560 million. Those may look like extraordinary ambitious numbers, far beyond our reach to hit in the short term. But it’s not as impossible as it might appear. If we just push up vaccination numbers and reach 5 million daily, we could hit the key 25 per cent of the population mark in slightly over two months and 40 per cent in just under four months. We’ve already administered 100 million vaccines (about 10 million have received their second dose). The government originally announced it would vaccinate 300 million people by June-July but then pushed this target to July-August. (It’s estimated that up to 10 per cent of dosages get lost in wastage). And aside from the vaccinations, there’s already a large chunk of the country has already been infected by Covid-19. Serological studies across the country indicate that 25 per cent to one-third of the population has already been infected, though these figures vary sharply in different regions. Viruses are tricky By that calculation we should be very close to herd immunity. But viruses are tricky creatures and it doesn’t always work that way. Consider what happened in Covid-ravaged Brazil, specifically Manaus city which was devastated by the first coronavirus wave in March 2020. The infection ripped through the Amazon city of 2 million and experts calculated that 76 per of the population had been infected and achieved “herd immunity.” People discarded mask-wearing and other public health measures and life went back to pre-pandemic normal. But in December 2020, another, more devastating new Covid P1, or Brazil, variant hit the city that was at last twice as infectious as its parent strain. The doctors concluded Manaus had dropped its guard way too soon and that protection or “herd immunity” could only be achieved through vaccination, not by infection. The one-dose Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine proved 85 per cent more effective in preventing severe disease in Brazilian trials, the same level as trials showed in the US. The behaviour of the strains depends on how humans behave. “More gatherings will stimulate the virus to spread faster. It’s a cascade: the more gatherings, the more the virus replicates. The more it replicates, the more abundant it becomes,” explains genetics expert Renato Aguiar, a professor at Brazil’s Federal University of Minas Gerais. This is of particular relevance to India right now. India now has all three coronavirus fast-spreading variants that are worrying the global medical community -- B117, first detected in the UK; B1351, now dominant in South Africa; and Brazil’s P1. And now a “double-mutant” variant found in India. Because of a severe lack of genome-sequencing labs, we have little idea of how fast and to what extent these variants are spreading across the country, though the government has said it will step up its genome-sequencing testing to get a better idea. Vaccine targets But why is India falling short of its targets? Currently, Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing about 60 million doses monthly and Bharat Biotech makes another 10 million. Both are struggling to expand capacity. Bharat Biotech has asked the Department of Biotechnology for a grant of Rs 1.5 billion rupees to expand its facilities at Bangalore and Hyderabad. Similarly, SII wants a Rs 3,000 crore grant to enable it to “boost vaccine capacity beyond 100 million per month”. Indian pharmaceutical companies like Dr Reddy’s have signed deals with Russia to produce 800 million doses of the Sputnik V and it is about to start production here. Other companies including Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson have approached the government to produce vaccines here. Sputnik V and Johnson & Johnson have been asked for further data and possibly to conduct local trials in India. Johnson & Johnson is reportedly about to start bridging trials here. Johnson & Johnson has an added advantage because it is a single-shot vaccine. And Sputnik V is particularly easy to store and deliver. Dr Reddy’s can commence production of Sputnik V quickly but other vaccines will need three-to-four months at the very least to commence production in this country. The Israel experience The Israeli experience is the one that’s giving medical experts cause for hope. Oxford Economics points out: “Since the beginning of March, the number of cases (in Israel) has fallen from over 400 per million to just under 40 per million. Hospitalisations have plunged too. Over the same period, most restrictions have been lifted and there has reportedly been little enforcement of any remaining rules, suggesting that the drop in the number of cases reflects the effects of the mass vaccination rollout, rather than other factors such as tight restrictions.” In an effort to bump up domestic supplies, the government has effectively forbidden SII from exporting vaccines until the domestic supply situation improves. This puts SII in a legal bind. It’s received a legal notice from AstraZeneca because it’s committed to delivering 200 million doses at $3 per dose in 2021. In fact, it’s received two grants of $150 million from the Bill Gates Foundation via Gavi, the global vaccine alliance to up production. Gavi is insisting that its agreement with SII is “legally binding: and that it is obliged to ship its coronavirus vaccine to the global vaccine-sharing facility Covax.  Covax had believed that SII would ship it 100 million doses between February and May but has so far been sent just 18.2 million. Also, India has received 10 million doses that it was scheduled to receive from Gavi. Nepal, too, has been hit by India’s ban on exports. It had signed an agreement with SII for 2 million doses, half of which were used for the first round of vaccinations. Now it’s worrying people will have to wait more than six weeks for the second round of injections. India also gifted Nepal 1 million doses of Covishield. Iran seeks Covaxin consignment Meanwhile, Iran, which is in lockdown amid its fourth pandemic wave, has also demanded it be sent Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for which it’s already paid. On Twitter, the embassy said: “In talks with Indian authorities to expedite the pending consignment of Covaxin which has already been paid for.” The Ministry of External Affairs spokesman has denied there’s a formal ban on exports. However, he admitted that India is keeping in mind its “domestic requirement”. Said the spokesman: “We have always said supply of made-in-India vaccines abroad would continue, taking into account our domestic requirements.” India is particularly popular as a country to supply vaccines because it has globally recognised pharmaceutical prowess. India currently has 58,494 sites conducting vaccinations according to the government’s CoWin website. However, 52,120 are government-run sites and only 6,374 are privately run. More private jab sites needed Medical professionals believe the government should expand the number of private sites delivering the vaccines to sharply increase the number of people getting vaccinated though that may not be necessary. It's reckoned that each centre should administer 100-to-200 jabs a day. Even 100 a day at 50,000 centres would add up to 5 million daily. Currently, most centres are doing fewer than this number of injections. What’s more important now? Do we need to focus on vaccinating or should we keep our focus on test-and-trace to control infections, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged? Test-and-trace is still important in micro-situations. However, the type of test-and-trace effort that we launched soon after the pandemic began may be less relevant now. Says virologist Shahid Jameel: “Random testing makes sense to understand the growth rates of new infections. It allows us to test the positivity rate. A high rate is indicative of community transmission.” But Jameel adds: “Tracing on the other hand is futile now. However, what’s becoming very important is post-vaccination infection analysis. We want to know if reinfection is caused by waning immunity or emerging mutants.” Another expert notes that: “Testing on a mass-scale does not serve as much purpose as before. But the spread is not geographically uniform. There are differences between urban and rural areas. Testing helps understand the penetration of the virus.” Need to shift focus Yet others believe the focus has to shift sharply. Says one research scientist: “I am convinced Covid is close to being endemic and all focus should be on saving the very sick. We need widespread CCUs (critical care units) and to protecting the people vulnerable to getting very sick (through vaccines).” Viruses are only able to thrive because of the speed with which they mutate, say experts. Ultimately, the most important and effective measure to avoid new coronavirus strains from evolving resistance to vaccines is effective vaccination, scientists believe. “Ideally, we would need vaccination as fast and as wide as possible to stop the virus from mutating and to avoid trouble with new variants in the future,” says Fernando Spilki, a virology professor at Feevale University and coordinator of Brazil’s science ministry Corona-omics Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Centre bans export of remdesivir as demand for drug increases amid Covid surge||In view of increased demand for remdesivir due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday said the export of the antiviral injection and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) has been banned till the situation improves. In addition, to ensure easy access of the drug, which is used in treatment of coronavirus, to hospitals and patients, all domestic manufacturers of remdesivir have been advised to display on their website details of their stockists and distributors, the Union Health Ministry said. Drugs inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks, check malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing. State health secretaries will review this along with drug inspectors of the respective states and UTs, it said. "India is witnessing a recent surge in Covid cases. As on April 11, there are 11.08 lakh active cases and they are steadily increasing. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for remdesivir injection used in treatment of Covid patients," the ministry said. There is a potential for further increase in this demand in the coming days, it stated. Seven Indian companies are producing the injection under voluntary licensing agreement with M/s. Gilead Sciences, USA. They have an installed capacity of about 38.80 lakh units per month, the ministry said. "In light of the above, Government of India has prohibited the exports of remdesivir injection and remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves," it said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals has been in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the drug's production, it added. The Government of India has also advised states that the extant 'National Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19', which is based on evidence, has been developed after many interactions by a committee of experts and it is the guiding document for treatment of Covid-19 patients. In the protocol, remdesivir is listed as an investigational therapy, i.e. where informed and shared decision making is essential, besides taking note of contra indications mentioned in the detailed guidelines, the ministry said. States and UTs have been advised that these steps should again be communicated to all hospitals, both in public and private sectors, and compliance monitored, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Two children die in major fire at Noida slum, 150 shanties gutted||A major fire broke out in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday, leaving two children dead and destroying around 150 shanties, police said. Both the kids were three years old and their bodies have been recovered, NDTV reported quoting a police official. The fire broke out around 1 pm in the JJ cluster near Behlolpur village under Phase 3 police station limits, according to officials. "Around a dozen fire tenders were deployed at the sight to control the blaze. The fire has been controlled now but due to wind there is still smoke left," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said. "Around 150 shanties got destroyed in the fire and the bodies of two children have been recovered. The exact cause of the fire is being ascertained," he said. Police and fire safety officials were at the spot overseeing the operation, he added. According to a post shared on the Twitter handle of the Police Commissionerate Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida Police), the reason for this massive fire was unknown. “The slums/huts located in Bahlolpur village under the Noida police station 3 area caught fire due to unknown reasons. An attempt is being made by the police and fire brigade to extinguish the fire,” it said. Other details were awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi urges Ramesh Pokhriyal to cancel CBSE board exams||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Sunday seeking cancellation of the CBSE Board exams, saying it will be impossible to ensure safety of students at crowded exam centres. In her letter to the minister, she said by forcing children to sit for these exams during a raging pandemic, the Government and the CBSE board will be held responsible if any exam centre becomes a hotspot with a large number of children becoming infected with the disease. "The Government and the CBSE board might want to consider whether they are prepared to own the legal liability for students or others who might be severely affected by the disease in this manner," she said. She said with over one lakh cases of Covid-19 being reported across the country, lakhs of children and parents have expressed fear and apprehension about assembling at exam centres to sit for the exams in the middle of the second wave of Covid-19. Vadra said the apprehensions of students are well founded, as giving exams under the spectre of a deadly disease will cause unnecessary anxiety to children and impact their ability to perform as well. "They are rightfully requesting that the exams be cancelled under the prevailing circumstances. "I do hope that the Government will engage in a dialogue with schools, students and their parents so that a safer way for them to fulfil their educational obligations can be found. Rather than forcing them into a potentially dangerous situation, it would be in the fitness of things for them to be given the support, encouragement and protection that is due to them at this very trying time," Vadra said in her letter. She also pointed out that it is our responsibility as political leaders to protect and guide the young. As state after state issues guidelines preventing the assembly of large numbers of people in public places, what moral grounds can we stand on, while forcing young children to do exactly that, she asked. According to the revised date sheet for CBSE board exams 2021, the Class 10 exams would be held between May 4 and June 7 and those for Class 12 would be held between May 4 and June 15. CBSE officials have said that exam centres across the country have been increased by 40-50 per cent to ensure social distancing among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||BJP withdraws candidature of Kuldip Singh Sengar’s wife||The BJP on Sunday withdrew the candidature of former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar's wife from the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls. The BJP had made Sangeeta Sengar a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward No. 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by it earlier. "The candidature of Sangeeta Sengar, the wife of former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who is a convict in the 2018 Unnao rape case, has been cancelled," State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told PTI. Singh said the Unnao party president has now been asked to submit three fresh names for finalising a candidate. He, however, exuded confidence that the BJP will emerge victorious in the four-phase panchayat elections, beginning April 15. Unnao will go to the polls on April 26. Kuldeep Sengar was awarded life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019 for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao. After his conviction, Sengar's membership as an MLA was cancelled. Sangeeta had earlier held the post of the district panchayat chairperson. Earlier, BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava had said names of all candidates were recommended by the district unit and were forwarded to the party headquarters through the regional unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||No control over coronavirus, Congress blames Modi’s ‘incompetence’||The Congress on Sunday attacked the Centre over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, alleging that Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc on Indian lives and economy due to the Modi government's "arrogance and incompetence". The Opposition party also alleged that every section of the society was troubled due to the policies of the government. In an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "No control over coronavirus, not enough vaccines, no employment, labourers and farmers not being given a hearing, no protection for MSMEs, nor the middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat 'aam' (mango), but should have at least spared 'aam aadmi (common person)'!" The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, also slammed the government over the situation in the country. "One year on, Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc upon Indian lives & the Indian Economy, all thanks to Modi govt and its arrogance & incompetence," the party lashed out in a tweet. In another tweet in Hindi, the party claimed that every section of the society in the country is troubled due to the policies of the government. "Coronavirus is spreading unchecked, there is a shortage of vaccines, farmers-labourers are troubled, the economy is collapsing, small businesses are closing down and the middle class is also a worried lot," the party said. The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in effectively dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-218
11-04-2021||India||Do not go out unless absolutely necessary, urges Kejriwal as Covid cases rise||The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "very serious" with 10,732 fresh cases of infection being reported in the last 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He asked people not to go out of their homes unless it is urgent, and use face masks and sanitisers and maintain social distance. The chief minister said his government does not want to impose lockdown. "I believe lockdown is not a solution to deal with Covid-19. It should only be imposed if the hospital system collapses," he said. He, however, asked people to remain in home isolation if infected with the virus instead of rushing to hospitals. "The hospital beds should be left vacant for serious patients. It should not be so that people rush to hospitals and all beds are occupied and then lockdown is to be imposed," he said in a press conference. Kejriwal asked all political parties to work together to fight the coronavirus spread, saying it was not time to do politics and point fingers. Prohibition of all types of gatherings, reduced size of weddings and funerals, running of public transport at half seating capacity and scaled down presence in government offices were some of the restrictions imposed by the Delhi government on Saturday. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic , cultural or religious, festival related and other gatherings and congregations will be prohibited, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. It said all swimming pools, except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international events, will be closed. Funerals will be allowed to be attended by 20 persons only while gatherings for marriages will have an upper limit of 50 persons. Previously, up to 200 and 100 persons were allowed in open and closed venues, respectively, for wedding ceremonies. Up to 50 persons were allowed at funeral gatherings. Restaurants and bars are allowed up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, stated the order. The Delhi Metro will run at 50 per cent of coach capacity. The DTC and Cluster buses too will run at half their capacity, stated the order. Currently, public buses are allowed to run with full seating capacity although passengers beyond the number of seats are not allowed. In metro trains passengers can sit on alternate seats only. Stadiums can organise sports events but spectators will not be allowed.Cinemas, theaters, multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, the order said. All Delhi government offices will function with 50 per cent employee strength, except Grade-I officers. The remaining staff will work from home, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Modi asks citizens to keep four things in mind as ‘Tika Utsav’ kicks off||Asserting that the 'Tika Utsav', a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, marks the beginning of the second big war on Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several suggestions to people on tackling the virus and urged them to focus on personal and social hygiene. In a statement, he urged people to keep four things in mind, including "each one, vaccinate one", "each one, treat one" and "each one, save one". Elderly people or those who may not be much educated should be helped in getting the vaccine, he said, and also asked people to help those Covid-19 patients in getting treatment who may lack resources or information. By wearing masks, people can save themselves and others, Modi added. He also asked families and members of the society to take lead in setting up micro containment zones in case of anyone getting the infectious disease, saying this is an important way to fight the disease in a densely populated country like India. "Our success will be decided by how aware we are about micro containment zones. Our success will be decided by us not stepping outside homes when not needed. Our success will be decided by those eligible for the vaccine. Our success will be decided by how much we adhere to wearing masks and following other protocols," he said. "Anyone eligible for the vaccine should get the jab, and for this the society and administration have to make full efforts," he added. Pitching for "zero vaccine waste", he said it has to be ensured that not a single jab is wasted. "We have to move towards optimum utilisation of the country's vaccination capacity. This is a way to augment our capacity," he said. In these four days of the vaccination drive, targets have to be set at personal, societal and administration's level, all efforts be made to meet them, Modi said. "I have full confidence that with this people's participation, awareness and fulfilling our responsibility, we will again be successful in containing coronavirus," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||India logs 1,52,879 Covid-19 cases, highest ever spike||Hitting another record daily high of 1,52,879 new coronavirus infections, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,33,58,805, while the active cases breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,69,275 with 839 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 32nd day in row, the active cases increased to 11,08,087 comprising 8.29 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 90.44 per cent, the ministry said. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,20,81,443, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.27 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,66,26,850 samples have been tested up to April 10 with 14,12,047 samples being tested on Saturday.  The 839 new fatalities include 309 from Maharashtra, 123 from Chhattisgarh, 58 from Punjab, 49 from Gujarat, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 39 from Delhi, 36 from Karnataka, 24 from Madhya Pradesh, 23 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Rajasthan, 17 each from Kerala and Jharkhand, 12 each from Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal and 11 from Haryana. A total of 1,69,275 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 57,638 from Maharashtra, 12,886 from Tamil Nadu, 12,849 from Karnataka, 11,235 from Delhi, 10,390 from West Bengal, 9,085 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,448 from Punjab and 7,291 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Central universities to give equal weightage to common entrance test and board exam marks||Central universities will give equal weightage to the scores of the proposed common entrance test and the board exam marks while admitting students from this academic year if the government accepts the recommendations of an expert committee. The panel of academics headed by Central University of Punjab vice-chancellor R.P. Tiwari and set up by the University Grants Commission (UGC) has recommended a Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for the selection of students to undergraduate and postgraduate courses from the 2021-22 academic session. The National Testing Agency (NTA) will be given the responsibility of holding the exam. The entrance test will assess the general aptitude of the students and domain knowledge for the course they want to pursue. The university should give 50 per cent weightage to the CUCET and another 50 per cent to the board exam score, the committee has proposed. The NTA will normalise the board marks to bring parity among boards. As per the proposal, there will be a single application form for all central universities, which will save time and expenses. The committee has also suggested that the PhD courses in the central universities admit students through the National Eligibility Test (NET), which is conducted to select candidates for the posts of assistant professors and junior research fellows. The NTA conducts the NET twice a year on behalf of the UGC. The panel, which the UGC set up under instructions from the education ministry, will forward its proposals to the education ministry for the final decision, two officials told this newspaper. The National Education Policy has suggested a common entrance test for admission to universities. Currently, the central universities have different admission policies. Some of the new central universities conduct a common entrance test for admission to their master’s courses. Leading institutions such as Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Delhi University take in students through their own entrance tests conducted by the NTA. For undergraduate courses, DU gives more weightage to board marks. For PhD courses, each university holds its own entrance test. “The report has been received by the UGC. It will be sent to the education ministry for the final decision,” one of the two officials said. The members of the committee include the vice-chancellors of the Central University of Punjab, Mizoram University, Central University of South Bihar, Delhi University and Banaras Hindu University and the director-general of the NTA. Higher education secretary Amit Khare has said during several webinars that the common admission tests will be implemented from the 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Dance video of two college mates becomes latest target of Right wing||An uninhibited and carefree dance video of two college mates in Kerala has become the latest target of the Right wing, which has chosen to sully the fluid movements with its pet smear weapon of “love jihad”. The 30-second dance video featuring Janaki Omkumar and Naveen K. Razak had set the Internet on fire with lakhs of shares and likes. The scrub-wearing students of the Government Medical College in Thrissur dance in an empty house surgeons’ corridor and room to the tune of the 1978 Boney M hit Rasputin. Lawyer Krishna Raj, whose Hindu Right wing leanings are evident from his social media pages, has spied in the dance a communal angle. Unhindered by the diatribe, Janaki and Naveen have performed another dance during a radio show and uploaded the video on social media, and also chosen to take into account the thousands of comments decrying Raj and supporting them. Sharing a still from the Rasputin video on Thursday, Raj commented on Facebook: “Smell something fishy. Would be good if Janaki’s parents take note of this. Didn’t Nimisha’s mother prove that one doesn’t need to be sad if one is cautious? We can pray for Janaki’s father Omkumar and (her) mother.” Nimisha, now Fathima, was reported missing in 2016 and was found with surrendered Islamic State members in Afghanistan two years later. Although Raj did not mention “love jihad”, he left scant room for doubt that he was referring to the Right wing allegation of Muslim men luring Hindu women into marriage to indoctrinate and radicalise them. Several BJP-ruled states have introduced laws against the so-called love jihad. Speaking to the newspaper later, Raj ended up alleging “love jihad” although he had moments before pointed out that he had not used the words in his social media post. While Janaki is a third-year MBBS student, Naveen is in the final year. Both are members of the medical college’s dance group, Vikings. Janaki told The Telegraph on Friday: “We look at the brighter side of this and don’t really care about what a few people have been commenting. There are so many positive comments, so we are not worried about what a few might want to say.” “We have complete support from our parents and families,” Janaki, who hails from a state that is often lauded for its syncretic and progressive culture, said. She said the video had so far clocked close to 10 million views going by the different pages where it had been posted. While the original post on YouTube had registered more than 2.2 lakh views by Friday evening, other videos of the dance uploaded by admirers had been viewed more than half a million times. “It’s being posted by so many people. So we don’t really care about some nasty comments,” Janaki said.To send a message to the likes of Raj, the Government Medical College students’ union has got 12 dancers from the Vikings team to kick off a “Rasputin challenge”. The Aikya College Union on Friday posted a video with the 12 dancers, including Janaki and Naveen. All of them, wearing scrubs, jive to Rasputin. Suraj, a house surgeon who handles the union’s Facebook page told this newspaper that it was their way of taking on the lawyer’s hate messages. The video was posted with the comment: “If your intention is to hate, our decision is to resist.” The union also shared the names of the 12 students, along with those of two others who had filmed and edited the video, with the footnote that haters could get some more reason to spew venom on social media if they searched for the “heads and tails” — caste and religious names — of the students in the new video. Raj was skewered on social media while support poured in from all quarters for Janaki and Naveen. The Kerala unit of the IMA-Medical Students’ Network called for a drastic change in the perspective of viewing camaraderie between students, many of whom excel in dance and music. “Discussing the artistes’ religion instead of the art itself points at a very warped atmosphere in the society that needs to change immediately,” it said. The Rasputin video of Janaki and Naveen, posted on April 1, had taken time to catch the imagination of viewers outside the medical college campus. But once it did, the duo were pitchforked into the limelight. At a recent radio show, the two students broke into an impromptu jig on a hip-hop remix of Paadi, a hit song from the 1997 Malayalam blockbuster Aaram Thampuran. They told the radio station that they were active members of the college’s Vikings dance group and performed quite regularly. The Rasputin video had been filmed by a college mate on a mobile phone. Janaki and Naveen told the radio channel that they were good friends. “We are studying together. We often go to have food together. So we danced together. That’s all. We will continue to dance together,” they said in a statement to the station. Janaki is the only daughter of a doctor mother and scientist father who works at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre of Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram. Naveen’s parents are business people from Mananthavady in Wayanad. His elder brother and sister-in-law are civil engineers based in Hyderabad. Raj, the lawyer, justified his remarks and pointed out that he had not mentioned “love jihad”. He, however, hinted at the allegation while speaking to this newspaper. Raj suggested that it could be interpreted as a word of caution against the students injuring themselves while doing fast-paced dance moves. “I never mentioned ‘love jihad,’ but only said the girl’s parents better take care. My comments can also be interpreted as a caution again twisting their backs with such dance moves,” Raj told this newspaper on Friday, claiming he was not a member of any political party. “I never said they are involved in ‘love jihad,’ mentioned their religion or said anything that can be construed as libellous,” he insisted. Asked why he had made such distasteful comments on two youngsters, Raj retorted that he had filed about 4,000 habeas corpus petitions on behalf of parents seeking to know the whereabouts of their missing daughters. “That is my justification for the comments and what I saw (in the video) is a typical ‘love jihad’ experiment,” he said. Raj pointed out that Kerala High Court judge K.T. Sankaran had in December 2009 asked the government to enact a law against forcible conversions in the name of “love”. But the Lok Sabha had in a question from Congress MP from Kerala Benny Behanan clarified there was no instance of “love jihad” in Kerala. “The term ‘love jihad’ is not defined under the extant laws. No such case of ‘love jihad’ has been reported by any of the central agencies,” junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy had said in reply to Behanan in February 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||11th round of talks between India and China remain inconclusive||The 11th round of military talks between India and China remained inconclusive amid growing frustration in the security establishment at Beijing’s go-slow on disengagement from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. After more than 13 hours of talks ended at midnight on Friday, India’s defence ministry said on Saturday evening that the two countries had agreed to “maintain stability on the ground” and “resolve the outstanding issues”. True to form, the statement desisted from naming the Depsang Plains or the other remaining friction points, Gogra and Hot Springs. It was silent also on any demand for restoration of the status quo to what it was in April 2020 before the Chinese intrusion — a continuing omission in recent statements that military veterans see as a sign of Indian capitulation. A defence ministry official said India had pressed for disengagement from the remaining friction points but the Chinese again set preconditions and refused to disengage if their demands were not met. A security official attached to the Intelligence Bureau said the Chinese again insisted that the occupied zones on the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and asked Indian troops to move further back within India-claimed territory. “They want buffer zones at the remaining friction points similar to the demilitarised zone within India-claimed territory on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks,” the official said. India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks in eastern Ladakh under the disengagement process that began on February 10. Military veterans have expressed concern at India’s “concession” in agreeing to a 10-kilometre-wide demilitarised zone within India-claimed territory as part of that disengagement deal. They have also asked why India is not insisting on China restoring status quo ante by giving up the entire territory it has occupied since May last year. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ceding Indian land to the Chinese. “The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols,” the Indian statement said. “In this context it was highlighted also that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations.” It added: “The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest. “They also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and jointly maintain peace in the border areas.” The Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. They have continued to cut off the Indian army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. Last July, the Chinese had agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but have since gone back on their word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Modi govt using Covid vaccination drive as PR exercise: Sonia Gandhi ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government used the Covid-19 vaccination drive as a PR exercise and created shortages in India by exporting vaccines. Echoing the sentiment expressed by Rahul Gandhi in his letter to Modi, Sonia said: “Covid is surging. As the principal Opposition party, it’s our responsibility to raise issues and push the government to move away from PR tactics and act in the interest of the people. The Modi government has mismanaged the situation — exported vaccine and allowed a shortage to be created in India.” Sonia was speaking at a videoconference with Congress chief ministers and health ministers of states where the party is in power. Without talking of a ban on exports, she said: “We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries.” Rahul had demanded a moratorium on the export of Covid-19 vaccines. On Saturday, Rahul tweeted: “What India needs? Jobs & Jabs. What BJP Government gives? Jumlas & Jibes.” The Congress said the export of Covid-19 vaccines was aimed at refurbishing the Prime Minister’s image abroad and objected to Modi’s photograph on the vaccination certificate. During Saturday’s meeting, Sonia raised several questions: “Is there enough vaccine available? Has the central government been cooperative? What are our states doing to ensure availability of the oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows? What is your view on lockdown? What about the economic fallout? How bad is the situation in your state? Should not public gatherings, including election rallies, be cancelled?” While the chief ministers and health ministers said the vaccination crisis was real, they also favoured strict social-distancing norms and financial assistance to the poor. Sonia’s emphasis on cancelling poll rallies and other gatherings is interesting as the Congress too ran crowded campaigns in states where it had high stakes. Sonia said: “Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own.” Though it is for the central government and the Election Commission to decide how the campaigns should be conducted or whether the elections should be held at all, even as an Opposition party the demand for cancellation of rallies has come a bit late. Sonia also asked for transparency, arguing that the governments must reveal the actual number of infections and deaths across states, whether Congress-ruled or otherwise. “Cooperation with states respecting federalism and, in turn, for us to be constructive and cooperate with the government in its efforts to fight the pandemic is equally important. We are all united in this fight,” she added. Rahul, who was also present at the meeting, expressed deep concern over the second Covid wave and warned governments against complacency and premature victories. He also sought financial support, advocating a scheme that guarantees basic income for the poor. While chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Punjab — Bhupesh Baghel and Amarinder Singh — said their states would run out of vaccine stocks in three days, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the shortage was real and the Centre must not treat states like adversaries as they were stakeholders in the fight against Covid. Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat said the state had the capacity to vaccinate five lakh people in a day provided the Centre supplied enough doses. He also complained of shortage of ventilators and medicine, arguing that no state had the wherewithal to tackle this extraordinary situation without central help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Centre sends 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Odisha||The Centre has sent 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Odisha on Saturday following consistent pressure by the state government to send fresh supplies after vaccine shortage. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had raised the issue with the Prime Minister during the latter’s interaction with chief ministers to review the corona situation in the country. “Our health minister and additional chief secretary had written to the Centre about this. However, our chief minister’s personal equations with the Prime Minister also helped. We are assured of getting more vaccines in the coming days,” said a senior official of the state government. Fresh supply of vaccines has come just a day ahead of the state’s celebration of Tika Utsava (Vaccine Festival) on Sunday with the aim to inoculate the maximum number of eligible people in the state. Director family and health welfare Bijay Panigrahi said: “All the vaccines will be sent to the districts by this evening and administration of vaccines will continue from Monday.” Additional chief secretary and head of health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph, “We have already administered vaccines to 40 lakh people. We need more vaccines. We have asked for 25 lakh doses. It’s our genuine demand. We are hopeful that more vaccines will reach the state soon.” Even though the state has stepped up its fight against the coronavirus the number of deaths have been increasing with each passing day. Odisha has reported two deaths in the last 24 hours. These Covid patients died while undergoing treatment. With this the total casualty figure in the corona pandemic in the state has gone up to 1,926. Police have also stepped up the Mask Abhiyana after Naveen launched the drive on Friday. The Odisha government has increased the amount of penalty for not wearing masks  in public places from Rs 1000 to Rs 2000. As per the notification issued by the government the violators will have to pay Rs 2000 for first two violations and Rs 5,000 for subsequent offences. “We have also deployed plain cloth police personnel to spot the violators and enforce the mask wearing regulations strictly,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP-Security) Nirmal Satpathy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||India||Bihar police officer lynched in North Dinajpur village||A Bihar police officer was allegedly lynched by a mob in a village in North Dinajpur district of Bengal on Friday night where he had gone probe a theft case, police said. Three persons were arrested by Bengal police on Saturday in connection with the incident. Raids were going on to apprehend others involved in the incident. Kishanganj station house officer Ashwini Kumar, 50, had gone with his team to neighbouring Panthapara village in connection with a case of motorcycle theft registered at his police station. “Our Kishanganj SHO Ashwini Kumar had gone to Panthapara to conduct a raid in connection with a case of motorcycle theft in his area. A mob lynched him there,” Purnea range inspector-general of police Suresh Prasad told reporters. Asked whether Bengal police were also present at the spot, Prasad said: “They were also coming. They arrived there. We do not have complete information. We will see what has happened.” However, a media release by the Bihar police headquarters said that Ashwini had gone with the force from his police station and other police stations to the village to question an accused. “The local villagers attacked the police team during the questioning in which SHO Ashwini Kumar was martyred. An FIR under proper sections is being registered against the accused,” the release said. The arrested persons have been identified as Firoz Alam, Abuzar Alam and Sahinur Khatoon. Prasad and Kishanganj superintendent of police are camping at the spot. “The Bengal director-general of police has assured Bihar DGP of full cooperation in the case,” the release said. Ashwini’s body was taken to Islampur sub-divisional hospital in Bengal for post-mortem and then brought to Kishanganj where senior police officers and his colleagues paid tributes. His body will be later taken to his native village Panchu Mandal Tola under Janaki Nagar police station in Purnea district. Ashwini’s wife and three children live in Patna. Asked about the number of police personnel in the team that went with Ashwini, additional director-general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told The Telegraph that he did not have the exact figure. Asked whether the police personnel who had gone with the SHO were also injured, he said: “The team members have received minor injuries — nothing that could be called worrisome.” However, the incident raises several questions like the reason for the police team to decide to go and question an accused at midnight, the efforts made by the policemen accompanying Ashwini in saving him and whether Bengal police provided the desired cooperation. “These things will come out in the course of investigation. I have talked about the incident. I have nothing to more to say beyond whatever is given in the media release,” Jitendra told this newspaper. However, sources said the entire operation was botched up as the police team had not anticipated that the villagers would get aggressive. The armed police personnel who had gone with Ashwini allegedly fled, they said. Bihar Policemen’s Association president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh alleged: “Our inspector was killed due to the non-cooperation of Bengal police. He had asked them for back-up force, but it was not provided. There is no law and order left in Bengal. We are requesting the Union home ministry to intervene in the matter and take strict action against those responsible for the death of Ashwini.” Bihar police have started the process to provide grants and benefits to the kin of the deceased officer. A member of his family will be provided a government job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-219
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Killings: Ready to resign if people of Bengal ask, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday, while addressing a public meeting in Basirhat said that he is ready to resign from the Home Minister’s post, but only if the people of West Bengal ask him to do so. The senior BJP leader, however, used the opportunity to assert that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will have to quit on May 2 as the Trinamool Congress will lose the ongoing assembly elections. The TMC chief has demanded Shah’s resignation over the killing of four people in firing by CISF personnel during the fourth phase of voting in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on Saturday. “Didi has been asking for my resignation. If the people of West Bengal demand that I put down my papers, I am ready to do so with my head bowed. But Mamata will have to quit the CM’s post on May 2,” Shah said, while addressing a rally in Basirhat in North 24 Parganas district. Votes polled during the eight-phase elections to 294 assembly seats in West Bengal will be counted on May 2. Training his guns on Banerjee, Shah alleged that she is opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to appease illegal immigrants, who he claimed take benefits of welfare schemes but indulge in riots. “What is Didi’s problem if Matuas get citizenship? Her problem is that illegal immigrants will be displeased. Such people don’t have the right to rule the state any longer. Illegal immigrants take benefits of welfare schemes like free ration but indulge in riots,” he said. Shah said that the BJP will completely stop illegal immigration from Bangladesh and withdraw a resolution passed in the assembly against CAA after forming the government in the state. He promised to introduce a ‘Chief Minister’s Refugee Welfare Fund’ to give annual assistance of Rs 10,000 to the beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||I have footage of BJP leaders supporting CISF men after firing, alleges Mamata||Urging people not to vote for "trigger-happy BJP", Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that the tragedy in Cooch Behar was the "result of a conspiracy" hatched by the saffron party to intimidate voters. Amid polling for the fourth phase of elections on Saturday, four persons died in Sitalkuchi area of Cooch Behar when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", the police had said. The TMC supremo, who addressed three rallies in Jalpaiguri district during the day, also stated that BJP leaders, who have come out in support of the central forces, should sit back and reflect if they would have had the same stance if someone in their families met with a similar fate. "I have video footage that shows some BJP leaders are speaking in favour of the central forces after the firing incident. You (BJP leaders) don't feel sad if sons die in other families. What if it had happened to someone in your family," Mamata said in Rajganj. Hitting out at the accused CISF personnel, she said, "If you think someone is causing nuisance, speak to him, you also have lathis. How can you suddenly point your gun at the torso and neck of voters?" Describing the incident as "murder of democracy", Mamata pointed out that the EC has stopped her and other politicians from visiting Sitalkuchi for 72 hours at the "behest of the BJP". "You can stop me from visiting Sitalkuchi or for that matter any other place, but I will find a way out to be on the side of the distressed people." She asserted that "for every bullet, reply will be given in votes". "Come out in larger numbers to cast your vote, exercise your democratic rights to defeat the trigger-happy BJP. The Cooch Behar incident was a result of a conspiracy hatched by the saffron camp," the chief minister said during her address in Nagrakota. Accusing the BJP of failing to deliver on its promise to re-open tea gardens that had to shut shop due to paucity of funds, Mamata said the saffron party has always deceived common people. "In sharp contrast, the TMC dispensation has undertaken many development projects in Jalpaiguri to boost its agriculture and tourism sectors. It has built a stadium in the district, and ensured that the social welfare schemes launched by the government benefits everyone in the region," she inisited. Mamata, who wore a black scarf to condemn the Cooch Behar incident, paid floral tribute to those killed in the firing at a makeshift memorial built next to the stage in Nagrakota. At Chalsa, she promised ration and Rs 500 for every household and Rs 1,000 monthly allowance for the backward caste families. She further said that the TMC, if re-elected to power, will launch a state-sponsored credit card scheme for students willing to pursue higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s advice to gherao central forces provoked Sitalkuchi voters, alleges Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched a scathing attack against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that her advice to gherao central forces had instigated people to attack CISF in Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi that led to four deaths in firing by security personnel. He also accused the TMC supremo of doing appeasement politics even in case of deaths. "Mamata Banerjee had advised people to gherao central forces. Is that not responsible for the deaths in Sitalkuchi? Her advice had instigated the people to attack the CISF," Shah told reporters after a roadshow at Santipur in Nadia district. Apart from the four deaths in what the CISF described as a "self-defence action", a BJP worker was also shot dead by unidentified persons in the same Sitalkuchi assembly constituency during the fourth phase of voting on Saturday. Shah alleged that Mamata did appeasement politics by paying tributes to the people killed in the CISF firing but did not condole the death of the BJP worker, identified as Anand Barman, as he was from the Rajbongshi community who are not her vote bank. "Attempts are being made to politicise the Sitalkuchi killings. Mamata Banerjee had paid tributes to four persons who were killed in the CISF firing but did not condole the death of Anand Barman as he is a Rajbongshi and is not fit for her vote bank. It is very unfortunate to see appeasement politics even in case of deaths," he said. Noting that polling in the first three phases was by and large peaceful, Shah appealed to all the political parties to abide by the Election Commission rules in the next four phases. Mamata, while addressing a rally at Baneswar in Cooch Behar district on April 7, had alleged that CRPF personnel were harassing and killing people at Shah's behest. She had advised people to "form groups to gherao central forces and keep them busy by talking to them", while others will quickly go to polling stations and cast their votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||There was genocide at Sitalkuchi, says Mamata after talking to victims' families||The Election Commission of India’s diktat not to allow any political leader in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi, where five young men were killed during Saturday’s voting, could not stop Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from reaching out to the family members of the deceased. “I will see that justice is delivered,” Mamata is understood to have told them during a video conference with the grieving families in the Cooch Behar village from her hotel in Siliguri. According to Trinamul sources, the families of the victims told the chief minister that those killed were waiting in the queue outside the booth to cast their vote when they fell to the bullets. Some of them were day-labourers who had come to the village to cast their votes. The TMC chief also spoke to the brother of one of the deceased during the video call, held in the midst of addresing the media. She promised all help to the bereaved family. The man, on his part, was heard saying that the jawans had opened fire on the voters. "He (one of the four killed in firing) was standing in a queue when the jawans opened fire. His wife is pregnant. They also have a three-year-old child. Our parents are shocked and devastated," the man told the CM. Mamata asked a local TMC leader, who made arrangements for the video chat from Sitalkuchi, to send her a copy of the FIR filed in connection with the incident. Four villagers of Sitalkuchi --- Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haq (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) --- fell to bullets of the central forces. All have been identified as Trinamul supporters. The fifth person who died was Anand Burman (18), killed during clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters on Saturday. The police have said that the four persons died on Saturday when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles". "I will be addressing election meetings today (Sunday), but with a heavy heart. The episode keeps haunting me," the CM said, adding that party workers will stage protests against the incident across the state. Describing the incident of firing in Cooch Behar as a "genocide", Mamata said the Election Commission of India (ECI) had restricted entry of politicians in the district for 72 hours as it seeks to "suppress facts". She told the media the the central forces "sprayed bullets aiming at the torso of the victims" at Sitalkuchi while the fourth phase of polling was underway. "There was genocide at Sitalkuchi. I would like to visit Sitalkuchi by April 14. The EC is trying to suppress facts by restricting entry in Cooch Behar. We have an incompetent home minister and an incompetent central government," Mamata said. She said the CISF "doesn't know" how to handle situations. "Since the first phase of elections, I had been saying that a section of the central forces are committing atrocities on people. I had flagged the issue in Nandigram, but none paid attention to my words," she stated. Mamata, who was campaigning in South Bengal left for Siliguri on Saturday evening, announcing her intent to visit the grief-stricken families. Some hours later, the ECI issued orders barring politicians from the trouble spot. Mamata’s decision to visit Sitalkuchi was a throwback to her days in the Opposition when she would rush to meet families of victims of  natural disasters, police excesses at the behest of her political rivals. This time, too, she did not allow the EC order could not come in the way of  reaching out to the families of those killed on Saturday. “The EC should rename MCC (Model Code of Conduct) as Modi Code of Conduct! The BJP can use all its might but NOTHING in this world can stop me from being with my people & sharing their pain. They can restrict me from visiting my brothers & sisters in Cooch Behar for 3 days but I WILL be there on the 4th day,” Mamata tweeted Sunday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Migrant breadwinners among firing victims||Jorpatki had been a joyous place in the morning, its families eager to vote and happy to see their outstation breadwinners back to cast their ballot, when the sound of firing shattered the peace. By afternoon, stunned neighbours had joined bereaved families in mourning the death of four of the village’s sons, felled by CISF firing at Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra. Most of the dead — two migrant workers, a first-time voter and a mason — were their families’ main breadwinners. Nur Alam Mian, 20, one of the victims, had returned from Bihar with his parents only a couple of days ago to vote. “All three worked in a brick kiln in Bihar. Nur has a sister who lives in the village with her uncle. Everything was fine till a little after 10am, when we suddenly heard gunshots,” said Safiuddin Mian, Jorpatki resident and a voter registered with Booth 5/126. “We found that four youths from our village were dead. We had never imagined such an election.” Laila Biwi, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian, 28, kept fainting off and on after travelling 15km to the sub-divisional hospital in Mathabhanga where the bodies had been brought. Whenever she regained consciousness, the mother of a one-and-a-half-month-old daughter wept bitterly. “They had got married a year and a half ago. Maniruzzaman works in Sikkim under a labour contractor and had come home to vote,” said Majibul Haque, an uncle of the victim. “We have no idea how it happened. He has elderly parents at home and was his family’s principal earner.” Absar Ali, a man in his late 50s, gave a blank stare on being asked about his 21-year-old son Samiul Haque, who had died of his bullet wounds. Samiul, whom villagers described as a friendly young man and first-time voter, had recently opened an Internet café at Jorpatki. “He would help the villagers get their documents corrected and draft applications for them. He was always ready to help anyone. I don’t know what to do,” Ali said. The firing also killed Hamidul Mian, a 31-year-old mason and father of a three-year-old daughter. “We don’t know how to tell his wife and daughter,” said Mofia Bibi, Hamidul’s mother-in-law. Residents said around 950 voters were enrolled with Booth 5/126, of whom about 750 were from the minority community. “We had never thought our youths would lose their lives on polling day,” said Ershad Hossain, a resident of the Kazir More area in Jorpatki. “Even in the morning there was a festive mood here. But by afternoon, a pall had descended.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Answer bullet with vote, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday contested the claim that the central forces had fired in self-defence and asked why Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t visit the families of the voters felled by CISF bullets in Cooch Behar despite being in north Bengal. “This happens in the morning, and the Prime Minister, standing in Siliguri, claims they (the central forces) did it in self-defence? Is that done? Defence from what? What happened to whom, who got injured?” Mamata asked at a media conference in Siliguri in the evening. Mamata had cut short her electoral programmes and rushed to Siliguri to be with the bereaved families in Sitalkuchi on Sunday, but the Election Commission late in the night banned political visits to Cooch Behar for 72 hours. “He (Modi) was in Siliguri, with three helicopters in tow. Such a huge incident took place. Did he go there even once? The Prime Minister gets every advantage. He should have sacrificed meetings to go to the families first, to the bodies first. But he didn’t,” Mamata added. Earlier in the day, Modi had told a rally at Kawakhali on the outskirts of Siliguri, less than 200km from Sitalkuchi, that he was saddened by the Cooch Behar firing. But he had appeared to blame Mamata by referring to some of her recent speeches in which she had urged people to “gherao” the central forces. Although Modi did not use the word “self-defence”, the Election Commission and the state police establishment did, the official line being the forces had to fire to protect themselves, their weapons and the EVMs from a mob. Mamata questioned the claim. “An attempt is being made to create an impression that the central forces were attacked.… But why isn’t there any footage?” the chief minister asked. At the focus of the chief minister’s attack were Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Mamata demanded that Shah resign. “Planning like this, then murdering people, then giving clean chits, who is giving clean chits to whom?” Mamata asked. Sources close to her said she would try to be somewhere closer to Cooch Behar on Sunday to challenge the Election Commission’s decision. She is believed to have told her aides that this was another instance of the poll panel’s partisan behaviour. In her half-hour interaction with the media, Mamata poured her heart out against the commission and the central forces and accused the BJP-led central government, and Shah in particular, of using them to further the BJP’s electoral prospects in Bengal. “Four civilians died because of firing by the central forces, who report to the Union home ministry.… The home minister should resign,” Mamata said. She said the BJP had realised it would lose the Assembly elections and was trying to win by using brute force. She claimed the situation in the state resembled an informal President’s rule. “Everything about the conduct of this election is unprecedented. It’s almost as though they are formally working here on the basis of an informally ordered Article 356…. I condemn the attitude of the Centre and whoever is supporting it,” Mamata said. She urged the chief ministers of all non-BJP states and all non-BJP politicians from across the country to note how the BJP was ensuring the conduct of the elections in an undemocratic manner. Sources close to Mamata said she was beginning to view the Cooch Behar firing as an inflection point, similar to the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta in 2019 during a rally by Shah ahead of the final phase of the Lok Sabha polls. As many as 159 of the state’s 294 Assembly seats have yet to vote. Mamata repeatedly said that she “firmly” believed that the untoward incidents occurring in the state since the administration came under the control of the Election Commission had been “planned”. She criticised the poll panel for the numerous “unilateral” transfers of IAS and IPS officers in Bengal it had effected since assuming charge of the administration. “Anything the BJP requests today is carried out tomorrow,” she said. “Even in Cooch Behar, you know very well.... He’s a BJP-appointed SP…. I’m ashamed of the statement he has issued,” Mamata said, referring to district police chief Debashis Dhar who had defended the central forces’ action. Mamata also condemned the commission for appointing retired officials such as Vivek Dube, whom she has accused of a pro-BJP bias, as special observer for Bengal. She accused Modi and Shah of disrespecting their posts by regularly insulting and threatening her during their campaign. “I think they (know that they) will lose the election, that’s why this vendetta…. Trying to scare the people. For every bullet, answer with votes…. We are winning this. I doubt if the BJP will cross even 70 (seats),” she said. Mamata said she had figured out the Centre’s plan while she was in the field during the second phase of polling when her constituency, Nandigram, voted. “Every phase, from 48 hours before that, they are terrorising the area, the central forces. Even women are not being spared. I saw this very closely, from the ground…. Their conduct in Nandigram opened my eyes. Before that, even I had not realised they were that dangerous,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Central forces gun down four in Cooch Behar||Four young men were killed in CISF firing at a Cooch Behar booth on Saturday, bloodying the fourth phase of the Bengal polls and raising uncomfortable questions for the Election Commission that has deployed 77,000 central force personnel and 35,000 state police to ensure peaceful voting. The four dead men from Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi constituency — Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haque (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) — belonged to poor families and were described as Trinamul supporters by neighbours. The administration, which is functioning under the Election Commission now, said the personnel of the CISF, a central armed police force that reports to the Union home ministry, were forced to fire after being attacked by a mob. But villagers alleged unprovoked caning and firing by the forces. The CISF is mainly used for airport security and guarding industrial installations. Whether such an armed force, usually not familiar with crowd control and management, should be deployed for polling that draws a large number of civilians is a question that the Election Commission needs to answer. Language is also a barrier, and often directives from the central forces on the ground come across as rude commands. In the evening, the Election Commission prohibited political leaders from entering Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours. The silence period for the fifth phase of polling on April 17 has been extended from 48 hours to 72 hours, which means campaigning for these seats will end on April 14. Safiuddin Mian, a Jorpatki resident and farmer, said that polling was going on peacefully at Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra when the central forces suddenly turned violent. “Around 10am, a group of 20 to 25 central force personnel who had not been posted at the booth arrived and began beating up people, many of whom had gathered to vote. They did not spare even a 15-year-old boy, Mrinal Haque, who had come to watch the voting process from a distance,” Safiuddin said. “When the boy got injured, people started protesting. The forces carried out another baton-charge and then suddenly started firing. I was waiting in the queue to vote, but I ran for my life after hearing the gunshots.” Several Trinamul leaders corroborated Safiuddin’s account, among them Rabindranath Ghosh, north Bengal development minister and former Cooch Behar district unit president. A villager who asked not to be identified said: “This booth had 950 voters, of whom more than 750 are Muslim. It’s clear that the central forces targeted this booth to prevent us voting for Trinamul.” The authorities claimed the incident was a fallout of rumour mongering that had prompted a mob attack on the central forces, who had to fire to save themselves and government property such as the electronic voting machines (EVMs). This was stated in a note prepared by the poll panel-appointed special police observer, Vivek Dube, which was sent to Nirvachan Sadan and released to the media in the evening. Annappa E, deputy inspector-general of police, Jalpaiguri range, had provided a similar account earlier in the day. “A local boy, Mrinal Haque, fell sick in the morning. Sector officers attended to the boy and even offered to take him to hospital. But soon a rumour spread that the forces had beaten the boy up,” he said. “Villagers then arrived with sticks and cooking utensils and attacked the booth, the presiding officer and a woman polling official. The EVM was damaged too.” Dube’s note said a few personnel were injured after the mob attacked the forces. “They (the forces) immediately sought for reinforcement and the QRT (Quick Reaction Team of the central forces) standing near the booth rushed to the spot for their help. The QRT vehicle was also attacked by the unruly mob and it was damaged,” Dube wrote. “On being attacked, CISF personnel fired in open air to disperse the crowd. However, it did not deter the mob. Faced with no other alternative, to save their lives and government property like EVM and other polling materials, the CISF personnel opened fire.” It wasn’t clear whether those who fired were posted at the booth or were from the QRT. District police chief Debasish Dhar told The Telegraph that “300 to 350 villagers including women” had gathered around the booth. District police sources said the villagers had tried to snatch away rifles from Shyamal Pal, a home guard, and constable Babulal Roy of the state police. Efforts to obtain the phone numbers of Pal and Roy and seek their version of events bore no results. Officials evaded the question whether the forces could have used batons and tear gas instead of bullets. “We are investigating how the events unfolded,” Annappa said. The villagers dismissed the police version. “Some of us filmed the events on our cellphones, but the forces snatched the phones and deleted what we had recorded,” a villager said, asking not to be named. The pall of grief that had descended on Jorpatki in the morning was replaced by a sense of fear in the evening as more security forces were sent to the Muslim-majority village. A villager said the residents were afraid that they might be arrested for attacking the forces. He said many youths had already fled the village. Most of the dead were their families’ main breadwinners. Nur and Maniruzzaman were migrant workers who had come home to vote, and Samiul was a first-time voter. Maniruzzaman leaves behind a month-and-a-half-old daughter and Hamidul a three-year-old daughter. “It’s sad that four young men from our village lost their lives like this. And now there is fear,” a villager said. The poll panel has announced re-polling at the booth but not set a date yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Low voter turnout, glare on violence||The fourth phase of Assembly polls in Bengal was marked by widespread violence with five persons losing their lives in two separate incidents in north Bengal, while scuffles with candidates and complaints of electoral malpractices were reported from elsewhere on Saturday. The most violent phase of the polls also witnessed a lower voting percentage compared to the previous three phases. A total of 44 Assembly segments spread across five districts went to the polls on Saturday. The day started with the death of Ananda Barman, an 18-year-old first-time voter. Barman died on the spot soon after casting his vote in the morning at a booth (5/285) in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi after some unknown goons had opened fire. Four persons — Noor Alam Mian, 20, Manirujjaman Mian, 25, Samiul Haque, 21, and Hamidul Mian, 31, — were killed when central forces opened fire near booth number 5/126 in Sitalkuchi’s Amtali. The Trinamul Congress sent a memorandum demanding proper action against the central force jawans claiming the Sitalkuchi firing to be a classical instance of excess by them during the polls. Amal Das, who is claimed to be a BJP supporter, was found hanging in Patlakhawa in Cooch Behar. Although the BJP claimed he had first been murdered and then hanged by Trinamul-backed goons, district authorities said the matter was being probed and no direct link was established between the death and the elections. Besides, BJP’s Kasba candidate Indranil Khan was injured when a group of people heckled him in front of a booth. The BJP candidate from Chinsurah, Locket Chatterjee, was also heckled by a group of people allegedly backed by the Trinamul. During the scuffle, the car of the candidate was damaged. Locket alleged that some people deployed to distribute hand sanitisers and gloves to the voters were influencing voters inside the booth to vote for the Trinamul Congress. The car of another BJP candidate, Payel Sarkar, from Behala (East) was also ransacked at Haridevpur when she visited a booth. A car in the convoy of BJP’s Bally candidate, Baishali Dalmia, was ransacked near a booth in Liluah in Howrah. There were complaints of electoral malpractices. A voter in the Jadavpur Assembly segment had to cast tender vote after he found that his had been cast in the morning. At Kasba, the BJP and the CPM alleged that their election agents were driven out of some booths by Trinamul-backed goons. The Indian Secular Front also alleged that its polling agents were prevented from entering the booths in some areas of Bhangar in South 24-Parganas. In Howrah’s Domjur, BJP candidate Rajib Banerjee alleged that one of his polling agents had been driven out of the booth. CPM’s Jadavpur candidate Sujan Chakraborty accused Trinamul of trying to disrupt the voting by threatening and throwing out polling agents of the CPM and other parties. “At a booth in Jadavpur, Trinamul workers threw chilli powder in the eyes of our polling agent. They tried to provoke us but we kept our cool and ensured that polling agents stayed put till the end. We had complained about the incident to the Election Commission but they did nothing,” Chakraborty said. The car of another CPM candidate, Mohd Salim, was attacked by alleged Trinamul goons at Chanditala in Hooghly. Salim was on his way to visit a polling station in his constituency when a group of Trinamul supporters rushed towards his car and slammed on its body, said a CPM leader in Hooghly. The leader added that Salim had escaped unhurt. Amid the violent incidents throughout the day, the polling percentage seemed to have taken a hit in the fourth phase of the polls. Till 5pm, 75.9 per cent polling was recorded, which was relatively lower compared to the previous phases. In the first three phases of the polls, on an average, 80 per cent polling was recorded till 5pm. “Although elections would continue till 6.30pm, it does not appear polling percentage would not touch 85 per cent mark, which was a common feature in the first three phases. Violent incidents could have left a mark on the voter turnout today (Saturday),” said a source. Another official said as a number of Assembly segments where elections were held on Saturday are located in urban areas, the polling percentage was expected to go down. “It had been seen in the past that polling percentage remains low in the urban areas. The violent incidents might have played a role, but the urban area factor should also be kept in mind while we say the voting percentage is lower in the current s phase,” added the official. Sources in the Election Commission said more than 150 complaints were lodged by political parties during the day and all of those attended and required steps were initiated within 30 minutes in majority of the cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Voting fuels closed Dunlop plant’s hopes||Sarbik Ghosh, 60, a retired employee of the closed Dunlop factory, and a leader of the Citu (the CPM’s labour arm), spent over 12 hours inside a booth as a polling agent without a reliever on Saturday. Nirmal Singh, 61, another retired employee and a Trinamul Congress trade union leader, had no time to leave the chair of a camp office of his party. Such faces of veterans were seen representing their parties with a singular dream, that of a new industry on the land of the ghost of the Dunlop tyre factory at Sahaganj, closed permanently in 2016, preceding liquidation. The old school buildings, damaged quarters and small roads amid long shrubbery turned colourful for now, as all political parties have decorated the area with campaign material. Sources said the election on the factory premises turned colourful this year after Dunlop apparently was priorities by both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in their back-to-back rallies in Sahaganj, with promises of re-industrialisation of the state. Modi had visited the Dunlop ground on February 22, while Mamata was at the same venue two days later. In the rare show of such urgency, retired and sacked employees found inspiration for optimism. “Modi and Mamata both visited this time, but we have no difference. Here we don’t fight against each other over politics, but we are united with our demands for our dues and a new factory here, where newer generations will get jobs,” said Rameswar Singh, who was sitting with at least a dozen Dunlop employees in a Trinamul camp. They said around the year, very few outsiders step on the premises. Leaders said there were around 2,000 voters spread across three polling stations, all located on the 229-acre premises that have been around since 1936. Most of the vast area has turned forest-like, with dense bushes and big trees, besides debris of old buildings. Ghosh, the Citu veteran, said he took the responsibility of the polling station as an agent after none else was found available. “With the ravages of time, the once glittering Dunlop factory is all but deserted. No youth volunteered to be a polling agent here and so I put my hand up. Yes, without any reliever for over 12 hours. I found some of the joy of the good old days in it,” said Ghosh. “I had no reliever and so both Trinamul and the BJP offered me food they brought for their own agents. Dunlop used to carry this tradition and it is alive today…. I don’t know whether the Prime Minister or the chief minister will do something for us, but we have to live and fight for our demand” said Ghosh. Sharma Dubey , 64, another retired employee, said there were three political camps among the employees, but the demands would be the same, before whoever wins. “I have dues of Rs 8.5 lakh. I am sitting in Trinamul’s camp, but my friends and former colleagues are with other parties. Whichever the winning camp is, will fight for our dues, for everyone,” he said. Ankur Keshri, a youth, was an exception, seen guarding the lone BJP camp. “My father used to run a shop inside the factory. We used to run our home from the earnings of the shop. I am here with the BJP, hoping for better days for all of us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Complaint and compliment mix on day bullets took lives in state||Sujata Mallik had been appointed by the Election Commission to help voters with the polling process but her work was hampered as central forces allegedly threw her out of the polling premises at Chandernagore in Hooghly on Saturday. Mallik was manning a voters’ assistance booth at the Bindubasini Gana Vidyalaya  in Chandernagore when central forces deployed at the polling station asked her to leave, she said. The Telegraph came across Mallik, in her early thirties, sitting under the blazing sun on the staircase of a private house with a bundle of electoral rolls and a pen. Asked why she was there instead of at the polling station, Mallik said: “I was posted at Bindubasini Gana Vidyalaya, where polling for Chandernagore Assembly constituency is taking place, to help voters. I was initially allowed to sit inside the polling station but suddenly a central force person came and asked me to leave the premises.” Mallik is not a representative of a political party and was deployed by the poll panel to help voters if they did not find their names on the electoral list or did not wish to go to camps of political parties. Asked if she protested against the high-handedness of central forces, Mallik said: “I did not protest but sat in front of the polling station where there was shade. The owner of the house objected. The central forces did not support me but asked me to shift to another place. So I came here and sat on a staircase. A resident gave me water and you can see me sitting under the blazing sun.” A commission official clarified the role of people like Mallik in the poll process. This official said the deployment of voters’ assistants was mandatory at every booth. Though they are not allowed inside booths, they should be present on the premises alongside personnel deployed to maintain Covid-19 protocols, the official said. The official agreed it was wrong of the central force jawan to force out Mallik from the booth premises. “She had an identity proof around her neck and her designation was clearly written. It was unnecessary proactiveness on the part of the central forces,” the official said. Debarati Sarkar, the sub-divisional official of Chandernagore, acknowledged Mallik and many like her had been posted by the administration and said she was unaware about the incident involving Mallik. “Yes, they are allowed inside polling stations but not booths. But it should not have happened to her,” said Sarkar. On a day of firing by the CISF in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi, the conduct of the  central forces was increasingly coming under the scanner. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee has been raising questions about the high-handedness of central forces and alleged that jawans were working under orders of Union home minister Amit Shah. In other instances of alleged high-handedness by the  central forces, jawans lathi-charged Trinamul supporters at Panchla’s booth no. 185 and at Bandel’s Mahatma Gandhi Hindi Vidyalaya. While several such incidents were reported from the 44 Assembly constituencies that went to polls on Saturday, the central forces were also praised  by some voters for their help. At Shree Krishna Hindi MCFP School in Howrah North Assembly seat, a man in his late sixties praised the jawans for their help. “I was standing at the end of the queue. I’m an orthopaedic patient and can’t stand for long. The good gentleman from the force came up to me and asked if I would like to move forward. He took me ahead of others,” the voter, who had come alone, said. The Telegraph asked a group of people chatting near a booth in Howrah Central if they faced any harassment at the hands of the central forces. They answered in the negative. “We just cast our vote and came out. The central forces were very cooperative and  helped us maintain social distancing,” said Ramen Nath, a member of the group. The forces were also mostly complimented by the voters  of Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Kasba constituencies. Sources said that the Sitalkuchi incident had been communicated to all the jawans posted on poll duty and the “proactiveness” of the morning gradually went missing as the day passed. “We have been alerted by our seniors to be careful about how to handle voters. We have been asked to manage the voters and not to allow gathering within 100 metres of polling stations,” said a central force personnel in Chinsurah. “Our task is to ensure a free and fair poll,” a central force jawan was heard saying to a colleague in Howrah’s Domjur shortly after the firing incident in Sitalkuchi. However, stray resentment continued. Some voters complained of “language gap”. A couple of jawans were seen taking the help of local police to communicate with the voters. “I was asking the central force personnel in Bengali to direct me to my booth. He couldn’t understand me and made me wait while he called a local cop and asked me to speak to him, which he should’ve done earlier,” a lady in Jadavpur said. At most booths, voters were not allowed inside polling stations with their phones, which a section of voters thought was tantamount to harassment. “As soon as I stood in the queue, a central force personnel came and asked me to switch off the phone. I could not understand the reason but had to switch off my phone,” said a voter who voted at Singur Mahamaya High School in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Bullet in booth fells first-time voter||An 18-year-old first-time voter died of bullet wounds in a booth of Sitalkuchi Assembly seat during a BJP-Trinamul clash on Saturday morning. Sources said Ananda Burman, the first-time voter from Pathantuli village, had walked up to his booth (5/285) in Golenaohati. “It was peaceful at the booth then but suddenly Trinamul and BJP supporters attacked each other with guns and bombs. Ananda somehow came in between the rival groups and was hit by a bullet in his back. Rushed to a local block health centre, he later died,” said a district administration source. Sanjay Chakraborty, a district BJP leader, claimed Ananda was their supporter. “Jagadish Burman, his father, is a carpenter and an old supporter of our party. For the past few days, Trinamul supporters had been intimidating them,” said Chakraborty. Partha Pratim Roy, Trinamul’s Sitalkuchi candidate, denied the charges of intimidation. Police have detained two persons in the incident. In another incident, Amal Das, 35, a BJP worker in Palakhawa area under Cooch Behar North Assembly seat, was found dead and hanging in a bamboo plantation on Saturday morning. Amal was missing since Friday night. The BJP alleged Amal was killed and hanged, and demanded a thorough probe into the incident. Police said they started a probe. “We are waiting for his post-mortem report,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC prohibits entry of political leader in Cooch Behar for next 72 hours||The Election Commission on Saturday evening passed an order prohibiting the entry of any political leader in Cooch Behar district of Bengal for the next 72 hours, following the violence in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency. It also extended the “silence period” for the fifth phase of polling on April 17 from 48 to 72 hours, which will end the campaigning for the remaining seats in Cooch Behar on April 14. An interim report by general observer Sharad Laxman Ahire and police observer Madireddy Pratap from the spot at 12.36pm said the CISF personnel had killed four persons and injured an equal number when a mob attacked the polling station at Amtali Madhyamik Shiksha Kendra. Special observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube had sent their report to the EC at 5.12pm without the reports of the district administration and police. The order from EC secretary Rakesh Kumar says: “The joint report of the two special observers has been received at 5.12pm wherein they interalia stated that recourse to open fire by the CISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save the lives of the voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel and their own lives as the mob had attempted snatching their weapons... “Whereas, it has also been stated by the special observers that report of the district magistrate, Cooch Behar, and superintendent of police, Cooch Behar, had not been received by them so far, that is, till 5.12pm although the electronic media from 3pm onwards started showing statement of Shri Debashish Dhar, SP Cooch Behar, wherein it was stated that firing was done by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) purely in self-defence, etc…” The order added: “… it has been brought to the notice of the Commission that the last rites of the four deceased persons had still not been completed and that some political leaders may visit this area with the ostensible purpose of condoling with the families of bereaved which, however, has the portent to cause a law and order problem of major proportions in this place as well as the adjoining places.” The directions given by the EC are: “1. In Cooch Behar district comprising of 9 ACs (Assembly constituencies 1 to 9) where voting shall be over by today, no political leader from any national, state or other party should be allowed to enter the geographical boundaries of the district for the next 72 hours. This comes into force with immediate effect; 2. Chief secretary, West Bengal, and director-general of police, West Bengal, as also district magistrate and superintendent of police of Cooch Behar are hereby tasked for taking all steps necessary including visiting themselves, deputising senior officers, reinforcement of central/state forces, etc, to ensure the strict compliance of the directions of the Commission in letter as well as in spirit; 3. Special general observer Shri Ajay Nayak and special police observer Shri Vivek Dube, as well as chief electoral officer, West Bengal, shall keep the Commission informed on a real time basis about the developments in Cooch Behar for the next 72 hours in the context of aforementioned directions of the Commission; 4. The Election Commission of India further directs that the silence period for phase 5 (that is for polls scheduled on April 17, 2021) shall be extended to 72 hours and no campaigning shall be permitted during 72 hours before the close of the poll in order to ensure the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections. The respective district election officers and superintendents of police/commissioners of police shall be personally responsible for its compliance...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM calls Deb threat ‘hooliganism’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday termed as hooliganism Bengal minister Gautam Deb’s alleged threat to a monk that he would be evicted if he didn’t vote for the Trinamul Congress and said the incident was the fallout of Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule. Addressing an election rally at Kawakhali here, Modi said he had seen a video clip that showed “one of the close associates of Didi” threatening people. “The minister was telling somebody that if he did not vote for Trinamul, he would be evicted. Do you think this can be done in a democracy? Even as the Prime Minister of this country, I can’t afford to speak to any of our citizens in such a way because democracy and law are here. This is complete hooliganism and is the fallout of Didi’s 10-year-long regime,” the Prime Minister said. Political observers said it was interesting that the Prime Minister referred to a local issue. “The saffron camp seems to be picking up any issue that can be used against Trinamul in the election campaign,” said an observer. Deb is considered the tallest leader of Mamata Banerjee’s party in north Bengal and is contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat. On Thursday, he was found telling a monk of his constituency to support Trinamul or else, face eviction. Sudhakrishna Das Goswami, the monk, raised an ashram on a government plot and according to the tourism minister, the RSS and the BJP use the property for training and meetings. The district administration of Jalpaiguri (where the seat is located) showcaused Deb on Friday. Deb said on Saturday that he had replied to the showcause and Modi’s comments only betrayed the BJP’s desperation. “I have never indulged in hooliganism and have always abided by law. The Prime Minister should have collected some details about me before making such remarks. People of north Bengal and the state as a whole will never buy what he has said about me,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Chidambaram puts EC in dock for firing||The Congress on Saturday blamed the Election Commission for the death of four persons in firing by paramilitary personnel during the fourth phase of polls in Bengal. “I cannot recall in recent years any case of police firing on voting day during elections resulting in four deaths. It is a case of a failure of leadership and management of the deployment of security personnel. Who should bear responsibility? The Election Commission should be held responsible because it has made largescale transfers and postings of senior police officers in Bengal,” said senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram in a series of tweets. Chidambaram also tweeted: “The polarisation of society that is taking place in Bengal, thanks to the BJP, is the gravest tragedy that has befallen that state. I cannot believe that the land of Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, Raja Ram Mohun Roy, Ishwar Chander Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose Satyajit Ray and Dr B C Roy can fall prey to the virus of communalism. Anyone who claims the legacy of these great leaders — as I proudly do — should shun and fight communalism.” Referring to the firing, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also wondered when the Election Commission would wake up. Yashwant Sinha, who joined the Trinamul Congress, a few weeks ago, said: “My condolences to the family of those killed in police firing in Bengal today. Our worst fears about the conduct of central forces under instruction from home minister have come true.” He also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s language was getting more and more aggressive and ugly as the BJP’s losses were mounting in phase after phase of Bengal polls. “Will he be able to look at Mamata Banerjee in her eyes after she becomes the chief minister again, which is as certain as the sun rising from the east?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM blames CM for Cooch Behar firing deaths||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Saturday that he was saddened by four deaths because of firing by the central forces, but sticking to his campaign theme this poll season, blamed Mamata Banerjee for the loss of lives in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi and criticised her brand of “appeasement politics”. “What happened in Cooch Behar was really sad....My condolences are to their families,” said Modi at rally in Kawakhali in Siliguri, around 180km from where the incident took place during the fourth of the eight-phase Bengal elections. But even before his message condoling the Cooch Behar deaths could trickle down to the large crowd — police estimated around 50,000 and the BJP over a lakh — that had gathered at the venue, the Prime Minister launched a scathing attack on the Bengal chief minister. “The huge public support in favour of BJP has rattled Didi. Realising that she is losing her chair, she has stooped to a new low,” said Modi, trying to link Mamata’s recent tirade against the central forces with Saturday’s tragic incident. The contents of Modi’s address made it clear that he was ready with a narrative to turn the tables on Mamata, and also use the incident, in which four Muslim youths lost their lives, to further the party’s polarisation agenda in Bengal. “Didi’s goons can’t do chappa vote the way they did in the (2018) panchayat polls...Didi, this violence and the instigation by you to stall the poll process will not save you,” said Modi. “She is giving training to her chappa vote gang in rallies on how to gherao the central forces, how to beat them up, how to carry out attacks on booths...Do you know of any chief minister doing such things?” he asked. By posing this question, Modi tried to argue that the central forces could have opened fire after people, instigated by Mamata, attacked them. Modi rose to address the gathering in Siliguri around two-and-a-half hours after the incident. The Cooch Behar incident during the poll process, multiple BJP leaders said, became a cause of concern for the saffron ecosystem as this is the first time in recent memory that people have lost their lives from firing by the central forces that report to the Union ministry of home affairs. Later, a note that special police observer Vivek Dube sent to the Nirvachan Sadan (the Election Commission office) also argued that the central forces opened fire only after they were attacked by a mob that didn’t disperse even when the forces had fired in the air. “I urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those behind this incident,” Modi said in the rally. But that plea to the poll panel was also followed by his claims that the BJP was set to sweep the polls in Bengal and that would bring an end to Mamata’s “appeasement politics”. “Didi, you will go, and along with your departure, appeasement politics will also come to an end in Bengal. This appeasement politics has done such damage to the region,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||The peto diet||Four phases of elections are already done in West Bengal, and the past few weeks have been punctuated with reports of crude bombs — confiscations, explosions. Even before the election dates were declared, a peto, or crude bomb, had been lobbed at minister Jakir Hossain while he waiting at the Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district; he lost a finger to it. One of his companions, who bore the brunt of the bomb, lost an arm and a leg. A peto is death and destruction wrapped in yards of jute rope. The tying of it is an art and is something of a cottage industry in Bengal. Explosives are wrapped in paper and then the splinters — bits of metal, shards of glass — are added. The whole thing is cocooned in layers of paper and finished off with lashes of sutli dori. “The pressure you apply as you wind the rope around it has to be exactly right — too little and the bomb will not explode on impact, too much and it will burst right in your hands,” says a man who is knowledgeable about such things and who, of course, refuses to be identified. Peto makers are usually men. Apparently, while making petos, a person has to tie a sari around the waist and dip the free end of it in a bucket of water. If a bomb happens to slide out of the hand — it will either be caught in the sari or slide down it into the bucket of water and get defused. If a peto hits the ground, it explodes. In rural areas, where petos are more common, they are kept in protective layers of tuush — the discards after rice grain is winnowed — in paper cartons or wooden boxes or even tins, says a man who is long past his days of carrying petos when he went out on “operations”. In urban areas, they are stored amidst crumpled paper. When embarking on an “operation”, each person carries a single peto because if, god forbid, two petos brush against each other they will explode. In the period immediately after Independence, there was no such thing as a peto. What was available in 1948-49 were firecrackers called bhuipatka. Made of mom chaal (aluminium powder), gandhak (sulphur) and potash (potassium chloride), those contraptions had to be hurled to the ground to make them explode. Bhui means ground and patka means cracker. The petos of today are possibly based on this prototype. Violence has been a part of politics in Bengal from pre-Independence times. Post-Independence, in the 50s and 60s too, there was gostidwandho or tiff, shall we say, between groups of different-minded people. When words turned to blows, their weapon of choice was the fist, followed by the lathi and, sometimes, the soda bottle. Such was the destruction it caused that, sometime in the mid-60s, the soda bottle disappeared from shop shelves of Bengal. They are yet to make a comeback. In 1967, Bengal witnessed the violent peasant revolt in the village of Naxalbari in Siliguri district that gave the Naxalite movement its name. With charismatic leaders like Charu Majumdar and dreams of a better world, it attracted idealistic young minds in hordes. The movement also believed in revolutionary warfare, and not only in rural areas. Naxals required arms and explosives, which were expensive. But while money was in short supply, brilliance was not. Young Naxals came up with formulae to create bombs from inexpensive and easily available materials. The various formulae were fine-tuned and you had the most effective weapon of destruction — the peto. The octogenarian who tells this story has perhaps a simplistic view of things but he is adamant that truth lies at the core of his tale. Not everyone involved in the Naxalite movement was there for the ideology, he continues, some were there for the power. And it was these “antisocial” elements, he says, that carried forward the knowhow to make cheap bombs and spread it among their ilk. The initial petos used scrap iron — nails and sharp little bits of metal — as splinters because they were easily available. The bombs had to be hurled within three feet of the target for maximum effect. They rarely killed outright but always incapacitated the victim and often claimed a body part. But there were occasions when the peto failed to explode. Like everything else, the peto too has evolved in the last five decades. Its knowhow has spread from political musclemen to petty antisocials and also dacoits. Eventually, some petos were made without splinters. Called dhnuyo peto, these spread more smoke and fear in their wake. The latest entrant in the house of peto is called ajanta palish. It is supposed to have made its debut during these Assembly elections and apparently has the firepower to flatten people within a 30-metre radius. And that will not be its only avatar, warns the peto maker. Stay tuned, the tumult across Bengal may have just begun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP frowns at Englishbazar||Leaders of the saffron camp playing the polarisation card in Malda, a district with 12 Assembly seats and minority population of over 50 per cent, hinted on Saturday that they wanted the name Englishbazar — the district headquarters — changed because it smacks of a colonial legacy. The new name of the district headquarters, BJP leaders said, should keep in mind the rich heritage and history of the Gauda or Gour kingdom founded by Shashanka, one of the prominent Bengali kings. District BJP president Gobinda Mondal said that some 20 years back, as then deputy chief of Englishbazar Municipality, he had raised this name-change demand. In Malda, the civic body, the police station at the district headquarters and the sub-division, all bear the name Englishbazar. “We believe that the name bears the memory of colonial days. Those days were brutal and weavers had to pay dearly under tyrant British traders. There is no glory in carrying the name ahead. Gour or Gauda is our very own and has had a long history. It was also the capital of undivided Bengal. Hence, Englishbazar should be renamed keeping the connection with Gour in mind,” said Mondal, adding that if BJP was voted to power, they would take up the issue with the state government. The saffron camp has always shown an inclination to rename towns and railway stations after icons they are favourably inclined towards, which is believed to be a strategy of polarisation. The two most prominent examples of name change are Mughalsarai station, now renamed Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction, and Allahabad now called Prayagraj. Researchers, asked how the area came to know as Englishbazar, said British traders had found the place suitable for trading indigo and silk. “Since the 17th century, Malda was known for its production of high-quality silk. Gradually, British traders started exploring the district and found Englishbazar suitable as the centre of their business. Neel Kuthi, a structure for indigo trade, was also set up. The British traders preferred Englishbazar as it was well connected through riverways. As it gradually became their trading hub, it initially got the name Angrezabad and later became Englishbazar,” said Radhagobinda Ghosh, a researcher. Satya Ranjan Choudhury, a retired college teacher and history enthusiast, said Malda was one of the most preferred trade centres for the East India Company. “While Rs 1.69 lakh was invested for Calcutta and Rs 1.68 lakh for Shantipur in early 18th century, the investment of the company for Malda was nearly double, at Rs 3.52 lakh,” he said. It was in 1813 when Englishbazar became the headquarters of Malda district. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, the BJP candidate contesting from Englishbazar Assembly seat, supported Mondal. “We plan to organise citizens’ conventions and seek peoples’ opinions on the issue. There is no need for any abrupt move as we believe those who honour the rich heritage and history of Gour will undoubtedly welcome the name change and suggest a suitable alternative,” she said. The Assembly segments of Malda district go to polls on April 26 and 29, the last two phases of Bengal elections, with Englishbazar set to vote on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||The king’s men, the king’s promises||A battalion in the name of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar in the central paramilitary forces, a Rs 500-crore cultural centre, a Rs 250-crore statue of social reformer Panchanan Barma. These were some of the things promised to the Rajbanshis by the Union home minister, Amit Shah. Trinamul boss and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the creation of a Narayani Battalion in the state police recently, constituted a development board for Nashya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims with eight members, announced several crores of grants for the Rajbanshi Language Academy, the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board and a second campus of the Panchanan Barma University. The rollout goes on and on. The Rajbanshi identity is a many-layered thing. Ajit Adhikari, a schoolteacher in Cooch Behar, says, “The community has been divided into several groups at different points of time. Before Independence, the Rajbanshis lived in the princely state of Greater Cooch Behar. It comprised present-day Cooch Behar, parts of Rangpur (now in Bangladesh), parts of Assam, Bihar and Nepal.” When India became independent, Cooch Behar wanted to join the Indian territory, not as a part of the state of West Bengal, but as a C-category state that would be directly under the central government. Says Adhikari, “That is mentioned in the chukti patra or condition of ascension to the Indian state. But that did not happen.” The Rajbanshis are an indigenous people, Adivasis; they were also financially backward at the time of Independence. In the early 20th century, Panchanan Barma, one of the social reformers and intellectuals from within the community, led a social drive. Schoolteacher-cum-social activist Ratan Barma narrates how Panchanan Barma, his postgraduate degree in Sanskrit and an LLB notwithstanding, faced discrimination in British India. He was deliberately overlooked for the post of a sub-divisional administrative officer. Says Barma, “So he came up with his own theory that the Rajbanshis were actually ‘bratya Kshatriyas’ meaning Kshatriyas who had been intentionally kept aside by society. He asked people to adopt the sacred thread and take the position of Kshatriyas, who are believed to be right after Brahmins in the Hindu caste hierarchy.” Panchanan Barma is to the Rajbanshis what Hari Chand and Guru Chand Thakur are to the Matuas. It was his continuous efforts that led to the Rajbanshis being listed under the Scheduled Caste (SC) list in 1976. “It divided us in more ways,” says Adhikari. It seems a section of people wanted to be listed as Scheduled Tribes (ST). So today, when community leaders Ananta Ray Maharaja and Bangshibadan Burman want themselves to be declared STs, the followers of Panchanan Barma do not like it. And a third category, those who got themselves an education and have earned a position in society, do not want to be listed as SCs or STs. Cooch Behar went to the polls yesterday — 21 seats in all. Despite promises aplenty, successive governments in Bengal did little for the Rajbanshis. Says Barma, “During the Congress era, many schools and colleges came up. It was not a government initiative though. Educated Rajbanshis donated land and so on, later the government took over these schools. But other than this, the four things that we Rajbanshis hold dear — bhasha, itihas, sanskriti, sahitya (language, history, culture and literature) — nothing noticeable happened in these fields during the Congress rule.” Dipak Ray, who is the dean, faculty of arts, commerce and law of Raiganj University in North Dinajpur, talks about the Rajbanshis during the Left rule. He says, “Rajbanshis are chiefly farmers and their livelihood comes from the land. This was something that was not taken into consideration by the Left Front government.” He continues, “They have deprived us of many things. The Barga andolon or fight for land rights that was led by the CPI(M) did not address the natives of Cooch Behar.” The Communist era was punctuated with people’s protests in the region. Says Barma, “It started with Hitasadhani Sabha, chiefly a civilians’ group that led a demand for good administration in the 1960s. It did not last long. In the 1970s, the Uttarkhanda andolan started. There was a demand for a separate state. Then in the 1990s, the Kamatapuri andolan was born. The demand for a separate state grew stronger, and this time 15 districts of Assam were also included. And in 1998-99, people like Ananta Maharaja and Bangshibadan Burman led the Greater Coochbehar Andolan. This is still going on.” According to Ray, the ultimate proof of the CPI(M)’s indifference was the distribution of harmoniums among the tribal people of north Bengal in 2010. The harmonium was distributed among Garos, Oraons, Mundas, Malpaharias, and also the Rajbanshis. Ray says, “They are not aware of the culture of the tribes of Bengal. Rabhas and Bodos play the kham sandhrung, a kind of drum. And we, Rajbanshis, play the dotara, sarinda and byana.” The Rajbanshis are also very proud of their language. Panchanan Barma was the first person to insist that Rajbanshi is a language distinct from Bengali. But most of the literature of the Rajbanshis was oral. “We have to document it and for that we need funds, we need patronage. We are trying hard to include Rajbanshi language under the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution,” says Barma. Ray informs that when Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, she did open a university in the name of Panchanan Barma and also started two language academies — first came the Rajbanshi Bhasha Academy, next came the Kamatapuri Bhasha Academy — she has also announced the setting up of 200 Rajbanshi schools. “But,” says Barma, “Here too, there is a controversy. Kamatapuri and Rajbanshi are one and the same language. Many believe that a separate academy for Kamatapuri was not required.” If the Trinamul did all this, the common grouse is also that it pandered to the local Muslim community so much that the Rajbanshis began to feel sidelined in their own land. “Be it land issues or employment, Muslims have been getting preferential treatment,” says Barma. And then, given its location on the Bangladesh border, Rajbanshis continue to face the consequence of a continuous process of infiltration. Once again, the ground opinion is that the Trinamul government did nothing to arrest this. The BJP’s interest in the Rajbanshi community is relatively new. In 2019, addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Didi is scared and frustrated. She backs anti-nationals. You trusted her too much but she betrayed your trust.” In all likelihood, a tangential reference to the infiltration issue. It has been two years and five Lok Sabha seat wins since then, and now once again home minister Amit Shah has promised to act on the old resolve. But what is that realistic and basic demand Rajbanshis would hold one and all political parties to? Says Ratan Barma, “We want that the children of the soil should be given priority when it comes to employment. There should be 70 per cent reservation in government jobs for the original or indigenous people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
11-04-2021||North East||Tipra wins Tripura council polls||The Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (Tipra), floated by royal scion Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma about four months ago, has scripted a stunning electoral debut by winning a majority in the 28-member Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council elections along with its ally Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra. The result not only ended the Left Front’s 15-year rule of the council but also sent a wake-up call to the ruling BJP-Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura alliance for the next Assembly polls in 2023. State election commission sources said the Debbarma-led party won 16 seats while its ally INPT bagged two in the polls held on Tuesday. The BJP finished with nine seats while its ally IPFT drew a blank. The CPM-led Left Front (ruling the council since 2005 after ousting the IPFT) and the Congress, which had contested all the seats, won none. One seat went to an Independent. Elections to the council, constituted in 1982 under the Sixth Schedule, were scheduled for May 17, but had to be postponed twice because of the pandemic. The polls finally held on April 6 registered a turnout of 85.14 per cent. The BJP had contested 14 seats, IPFT 17, Tipra 23 and the INPT 5. While 28 members of the council are elected, two are nominated by the governor. The council covers almost 70 per cent of the state’s area and one-third of its population. Twenty of the 60 Assembly seats fall in the council area which has a voter count of 8,65,041. Tipra’s victory will be particularly satisfying for the royal scion who had to leave the Congress soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was the president of the state Congress which has been in freefall since before the Assembly polls. Instead of joining the ruling BJP like most of his former Congress colleagues, he concentrated on mobilising the tribal populace and parties to join hands for the council polls. Tipra chairman Debbarma, 42, started turning heads when the Tipraland State Party and the IPFT Tipraha faction merged with his party in February while the Tripura People’s Front extended support. BJP ally IPFT too had joined hands to contest the polls but walked out after a few days following differences over seat sharing. By then Tipra and Pradyot had made considerable progress, especially because of its Greater Tipraland poll plank, an extension of the IPFT’s separate state demand, where the interest of both tribals and non-tribals living in and outside Tripura, would be taken care of. The BJP-IPFT alliance which has had a strained existence since winning power in 2018, was also not working on the ground. Moreover, political observers said, the inability of the BJP-IPFT alliance to upgrade the ADC to a territorial council with more powers, to include the Kokborok language in the Eighth Schedule and to improve basic amenities in council areas in the past three years were also reasons for voters preferring the Tipra. Bengali and Kokborok are the official languages of Tripura which has a population of about 42 lakh. “The IPFT is the biggest loser of the polls along with the Left Front. Tipra has made a huge dent in the IPFT vote share, something which can help the royal scion become a key factor in the Assembly elections,” one of them said. Pradyot won from Takarjala, 30km from Agartala, on his electoral debut. Soon after he appealed to his supporters to maintain peace and convey that those who have won and those who lost are his own people. “We want to change the (poll) culture. I don’t want any kind disturbance. The best way to celebrate a victory is by sharing the joy of winning,” he said while offering “commiseration” to his opponents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
11-04-2021||North East||Tea warning linked to ‘downsizing’ Guwahati office||The proscribed Ulfa (Independent) asking Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited (APPL), the country’s second largest tea producer, to immediately relocate all its administrative offices to Assam and also recruit indigenous people could be linked to reports about the company’s plans to “downsize” its Guwahati office. The outfit in a notice to the APPL on Thursday also warned that officials of the company will not be allowed to travel in Assam “for business” and that it may also force closure of their tea gardens if the twin demands were not met. APPL chief executive officer V.S. Gulia told The Telegraph on Thursday night that he had also heard about the out-of-the-blue notice and was looking into the development. The APPL on Saturday evening said it will seek the “intervention” of appropriate authorities to “protect the interests of our employees and facilities in Assam” while reiterating that it remains firmly committed to Assam. However, industry sources said the Ulfa (I) notice could have been prompted by the APPL’s decision to “transfer” some Guwahati corporate office staffers to its Calcutta headquarters. Another source said the “restructuring” has also impacted its garden managers in Assam — issues mostly connected with their retirement and replacement. The company, which was carved out of the erstwhile Tata Tea Ltd in 2007, has 21 gardens in Assam and four in Bengal. Former Tata Tea general manager Bolin Bordoloi, who was instrumental in setting up the Tata Tea office here in the nineties, told this newspaper that there is a move to downsize the APPL Guwahati office and a few senior staffers have been transferred to Calcutta. “This is upsetting. Whatever they do (APPL), they should not shift the whole office out of Assam because it will hurt local sentiments,” Bordoloi said. Tea Board chairman Prabhat Kamal Bezbaruah told this newspaper that he was “against any kind of coercion but would like the tea companies/gardens to employ as many local people as possible”. The notice was a topic of discussion in industry and government circles because the tea sector forms the backbone of the state’s economy along with oil. Any disturbance/unrest hurts the economy of Assam which contributes over 50 per cent of the country’s total tea output. The state government too is looking into the matter. Chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said: “We are looking into it (the Ulfa threat letter) and will provide necessary help wherever required.” Government and industry sources, however, said it is not yet clear whether Ulfa (I) delivered the notice to the APPL management/gardens, or only mailed it to media houses on Thursday. While downsizing has emerged as a possible reason for the Ulfa (I) notice, a section also feels the outfit was trying to “whip up local sentiments” by espousing the jobs for locals cause. They pointed out that it was the second instance since March that the outfit has raised this pitch. It had set a rider to release two abducted employees of the private oil company Quippo — create employment for 5,000 youths of Assam. “Then too, they had put jobs for locals as one of their key demands. This time too they are harping on employing local people. There is no other demand in the Ulfa (I) notice. This could be an attempt to whip up local sentiments. The timing of the notice too has to be taken into account given the post-poll fluid political situation,” one of the sources said. Responding to various media enquiries and reports, the APPL reiterated that it remains firmly committed to Assam. “The majority of our employees, 12,000 of whom are shareholders of our company, are from Assam. We continue to maintain our main operating office in Guwahati and have 21 tea estates/operating units across Assam, employing almost 50,000 people (including seasonal workers). We have invested substantially in two tea processing units at Hattigor and Lattakoojan tea estates and in a spice processing centre near Misa,” it said. The APPL also added: “In addition to business investments and employment opportunities, we run various community welfare initiatives for livelihood, education, skill development and healthcare, that have positively impacted the lives of about 2.5 lakh people in the state over the last 5 years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
11-04-2021||Opinion||Why give Romeo a bad name?||Who would have thought that a Shakespearean character, a young romantic tragic figure, would reach the pinnacles of infamy in India — in campaign speeches of all things — nearly 500 years after he was imagined? At the time of the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the BJP had promised that if it came to power it would set up “anti-Romeo squads” to “ensure the safety of college-going girls” and “check eve-teasing”. And now, when the Bengal elections are underway, the “star campaigner” of the BJP, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, has promised the same for this state. For a moment if we were to suspend discussion about women’s safety in UP post the BJP’s big win, and all debate about women’s situation in Bengal as also any comparison with UP, and simply accept Adityanath’s views as right honourable, the question still remains — why give Romeo a bad name? Why give Romeo a bad name? Besides being the prescription of a chauvinistic, moralistic, baton-wielding regimen, the term anti-Romeo is flawed. Shakespeare’s Romeo was a painfully young man, immature and overreaching. When he first appears on scene, he is moping having been rejected by the object of his affections, Rosaline — not Juliet. He woos Juliet passionately, but from a distance. Sample this: “O, that I were a glove upon that hand,/That I might touch that cheek!”. It is Juliet, who is more rooted in realities. In the balcony scene, the 13-year-old says, “I have no joy of this contract to-night;/It is too rash, too unadvis'd, too sudden.” That is fiction. Now for fact. Why not just call eve-teasers, eve-teasers? Why not call the squad, anti-eve-teasing squad or Nari Suraksha Bal or some such? Why not talk about teaching the men some tehzeeb, or going beyond beti bachao and facilitating beti empowerment — compulsory karate lessons from primary school, boxing, judo, taekwondo? Why give poor Romeo a bad name? We in India have loved Romeo for the longest time, though in our interpretation, he will always be less than Devdas. In the 1987 film Dance Dance, Cobra…sorry, Mithunda rolls his bedroom eyes at Mandakini as she sways and sings ‑ Romeo o Romeo/ Janeman tu number one. In Mr Romeo (1996), Prabhu Deva twists his India rubber frame as he sings “Romeo teri kismat hasate gaate khul jaaye/Juliet jaisi pyaari ek haseena mil jaaye.” And in Roop Ki Rani Choron Ka Raja (1993), Anil Kapoor displays much swag as he gives lip to the song Romeo naam mera, chori hai kaam mera. Around the same time, Bengal was discovering Anjan Dutt’s Ranjana Ami Aar Asbo Na. A song about a Muslim schoolboy who has been ticked off and threatened with a beating by Ranjana’s brothers. The whole tragi-comic song is part exhortation and part commentary on society. It is also part promise ‑ Ranjana, ami aar asbo na.../Parbo na hotey ami Romeo/Tai duper bela tumi ghumiyo…” No, Dutta did not impute any blame unto Romeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||I am the bear and I am Polar||Bear with me, will you please. Because if you choose not to, you know what might happen. I might have to do my own thing. Polar things. I am a Polar bear. I do polar things, which means I separate ends, take things apart this way and that way. That is who I am. That is what I do. It is nothing I can help, I am a consequence of who I am, Polar; and I do polarity. And I do what comes from doing polarity. I stretch it, I pull it till things come apart, this way or that, upper jaw or lower jaw. Can you not see that from the accompanying representation of who I am? At my very best? Things pulled apart? Upper jaw or lower jaw? And can you not see everything or anything between does not exist, as in it has been gulped down the abyss of my limitless hunger? Well. Now you know. Now you know what polarity means because you know polars, or polar bears. Grrrrrrr! Here I come, prepare yourselves, get ready for what I am about to do to you. You are about to taste polarity. You are about to be driven into being a being of this side or that side, you are about to be pulled apart, yanked if yanking is what it would require. I will tell you, in Shakespearean mien, pardon my pomposity, what differences mean and how fundamental and essential differences are. There is this side. There is that side. There is a separation in between. I occupy that separation, I am the Czar of Fractured Things, I break the world into this and that and I create spaces between them, and that space is my empire. I shall sift and separate. I shall be the arbiter of good and bad, acceptable and unacceptable, kosher and sinful, legitimate and illicit, and I shall bring down upon you the consequences of the scheme as I understand it. And as I want it put forth and effected. I am not the first one. I am, most likely, not the last; in fact I can assure you I am not the last of the breed, of the grammarians of polarisation. We are the breed that decrees upon our collective selves the singular essence of differences and what they should mean and require. It requires a bit of pain and the practice of prejudice and the shedding, quite often, of blood but it is an essential thing. Polarity. Polarisation. If we are not polarised, how are we to know one from another? Good from Bad. Pious from Evil? Ours from Theirs? How are we to decide what or who is with us, and who and what is not? We need distinctions. We need differences. We need the dialectic that will prevent us from cosying into the comfort of Oneness, that asinine thing that never got anyone anywhere. Oneness! Folks brag of it as if it were the greatest virtue. But consider how unthinking such bragging is. Oneness. Where would we ever have gotten with Oneness? We would have been a village, a global sprawl of a village. Satisfied. No longer ambitious. Like frogs in a well, croaking oneness and believing that croaking to be the beginning and end of things. Where would we have gotten with Oneness? Nowhere. Where are here because we tore at things, at each other, at each other’s possessions — territory, riches, palaces, provinces of people, women. We came at each other like poles come to poles, with polarity, polarised. That is how some of us became better and other lesser: that is how the world is, better and less. That is the polarity for us here — coursing, convulsing between who would be better and who would prove the other lesser. We did not arrive here from embrace, we arrived here from the emboss of the better upon the lesser, from polarity, whose consequence is polarisation. Polarisation, the word. Where might it come from? Understand, that it comes from bearing fangs, and fangs that tear, from this pole to that. That is why polar. And that is why polarity. Oh, but whatever do I wear Please, I warn thee be ware And get not beyond care Please know, I am a bear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Catfights over crowns||Beauty with brains — this is the mantra that beauty pageants across the world have repeated ad nauseam to counter allegations of objectifying women. But the organizers of the Mrs Sri Lanka event may need to tweak this to ‘beauty with brawns’. The latest winner of the title, Pushpika de Silva, will vouch for this. Minutes after she was declared Mrs Sri Lanka, the former holder of the title, Caroline Jurie, yanked the crown off Ms de Silva’s head, accusing her of being a divorcee, and thus ineligible for the title. Happily, things were set straight later with the title being returned to the rightful owner — who put out a statement saying she is separated — and Ms Jurie was arrested. Around the same time in Papua New Guinea, another beauty queen was being stripped of her title because she uploaded a video of herself dancing rather provocatively. Over the years, a variety of gratuitous reasons have been cited to snatch away titles from winners of pageants — these range from hidden marriages and secret pregnancies to leaked nude photographs. One winner of Miss Universe became crownless for being too busy with her school to keep up with the rigorous travel schedule she was required to comply with. The reasons speak for themselves. For years, pageants barred women who had abortions, and in certain cases, they still mandate that entrants be single and childless. These policies do not reflect a healthy attitude towards personal choice and liberty of women contestants. Rather, they perpetuate societal reservations regarding women’s agency. Beauty pageants serve as a reminder that notions of beauty of the body are to be restricted by the measuring tape and the judge’s assessment and approval of their physical appeal. The evolution of pageantry swimsuit contests from a one-piece bathing suit, to a two-piece bathing suit, to a bikini is a perfect example of how society continues to expose and objectify women’s bodies. The woman’s body is the focal point rather than her identity, skills and intelligence. Yet, pageants, if conceived imaginatively, can also serve as a symbol of empowerment. In the 1910s, women’s rights activists staged elaborate pageants depicting powerful women throughout history and highlighting the various traits and careers women could aspire to by having participants wear white sashes emblazoned with words such as “Writer” and “Courage”. Suffrage pageants helped popularize the presence of women in the public sphere and made women more comfortable thinking of themselves as agents of change. In recent times, pageants have provided visibility to marginalized communities, including transgender men and women or people of colour. Instead of being critical of these events, perhaps there is a case for using their potential and popularity to challenge and, ultimately, purge deeply entrenched biases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Shah, the oracle, is sure about Bengal polls; but is he?||When the oracle speaks, there is little room for doubt. In the corridors of power in New Delhi, the only thing on the mind of each and every leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party is West Bengal. Party leaders are obsessed with this eastern state even though assembly elections have taken place in four other places. Many of them have even been heard repeatedly trying to speak in broken Bengali. Talk to anyone in the BJP office and they seem certain of wresting the state when the votes are counted on May 2. The confidence — overconfidence? — has been instilled by none other than the home minister, Amit Shah. The buzz in party corridors is that Shah is absolutely sure of winning Bengal. “When Amitbhai is sure then everybody feels there is no room for any doubt,” one BJP leader revealed. This leader, however, conceded that Shah had exuded similar certainty during the 2015 Bihar polls that the BJP lost badly when the results came in. Some old-timers in the BJP feel that Shah was only trying to demoralize the BJP’s opponent by claiming that the party would win more than 200 seats in Bengal. They fear that a Bihar-like outcome could be awaiting the over-excited party on May 2. Only time will tell if the oracle got it right. Revenge is a dish best served cold. They say that the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, is a believer of this ideology. This was evident when Rajkumar Singh, the lone member of legislative assembly from Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party, joined the Janata Dal (United). Earlier, many top LJP functionaries had joined Kumar’s party. Senior politicians in the state point out that the chief minister is still nursing the humiliating wounds of the JD(U) being relegated to the third place in the Bihar assembly elections last year and holds Paswan responsible for it. He had openly opposed Kumar and put up National Democratic Alliance rebels as candidates in constituencies where the JD(U) was contesting to hurt its poll prospects. Is Kumar satisfied now? A senior JD(U) leader suggested that the game is not over — after all, the LJP has six Lok Sabha members. Both the Congress and the BJP deployed leaders from Karnataka in large numbers in neighbouring Kerala for the just-concluded assembly polls there. There was nothing wrong with the idea since proximity to each other’s politics could well make these leaders better equipped to handle the situation on the ground during campaigns. But there was something else that perplexed observers. The question that did the rounds in Karnataka was about how the BJP government led by BS Yediyurappa operated for over three weeks when quite a number of its ministers criss-crossed between the two neighbouring states. The joke in Congress circles is that at least Yediyurappa did not have to hold his cabinet meeting in Kerala. Politicians keep fanning the fire of caste in Bihar to bake their bread. They are one of the reasons behind the state’s inability to shed the ignominiously divisive system. Five people were shot dead in Madhubani district on the day of Holi —  they were Rajputs, an influential caste known for its muscle power. The accused were from diverse castes. But several political parties termed it a caste war and tried to prove it. One political party sent a delegation of Rajput leaders to the village where the murders took place; they left no stone unturned to give it the desired colour. A former governor from another party from the same caste rushed there to meet the victims. The Opposition went hammer and tongs at the ruling combine to assert that the killings were part of a caste war. Many Rajput legislators from the ruling parties, too, started portraying the incident in a similar light. It seemed that caste friction would boil over. But the Bihar police arrested some of the top accused in the incident and averted all the attempts to revive the spectre of caste conflict looming over the state. The men in khaki made it clear that enmity over fish cultivation had resulted in the crime. The defection of the Tamulpur candidate of the Bodoland People’s Front, Rangja Khungur Basumatary, to the BJP just days before the third phase of assembly elections was one of the biggest developments of the recently-concluded polls in Assam because of its unprecedented and bizarre nature. This raised a lot of questions about the candidate, the parties involved, the poll process and the legality of such a move. But it was particularly hard for the voters with BPF chief, Hagrama Mohilary, campaigning in Tamulpur seeking votes for the nangal (plough), the BPF’s symbol. The party felt that since there was little time for course correction it was better to seek votes for the party. More so when the Election Commission turned down its plea to put off the polls owing to the defection. The pre-poll defection has fuelled fears within the Opposition rank about this practice becoming a norm in the future, leading to losing polls even before votes are cast. They feel it is a good case study for the EC to come up with a preventive mechanism. Optimism is an appreciable quality. But ‘Metro Man’, E Sreedharan, who contested on a BJP ticket from Palakkad in the Kerala assembly polls, renting an office and residence in the city is something quite unusual, especially with three weeks to go for the counting on May 2. The technocrat who audaciously declared that the BJP’s fortunes changed for the better with his entry is sure of winning. His party is not that confident since he is pitted against a popular Congress youth leader, Shafi Parambil. The question on even BJP supporters’ lips is what would he do with the properties if he loses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Noose tightens||Democracy dies in darkness. One of the European Union's most fragile democracies, Poland, now faces the spectre of the night that falls when public service media have become propaganda organs for a ruling party while private, independent media are suffocated. In the end, light is cast no more on the failings and abuses of those in power, because there are no more torches to shine that light. Hungary – which is no longer a democracy – has almost reached that twilight moment, with the extinction of its last major independent radio station. Poland is still a long way from dusk, but the threat is real. In the World Press Freedom index, the country has sunk from 18th in 2015, ahead of Britain and France, to 62nd last year. (Hungary is down at 89th.). If you only watched Polish state television news over the last fortnight, you would have no idea that Poland is currently among the countries doing worst with Covid. According to Bloomberg's Covid resilience ranking,  Poland has fallen to 50th place among the world's 53 largest economies, with only Brazil, the Czech Republic and Mexico doing worse. But switch on the official news and, after brief mention of the latest Covid figures, there are long items about how the government is speeding up the vaccination campaign, with the help of the wonderful army, and how terrible the opposition's record was on public health when it was in power. In other 'news', you learn how brilliant Poland's relations are with the US, especially in defence; how much money the government is pumping into the railways and local government; how Christians are being persecuted all over the world; and how a grave was recently uncovered showing more victims of wartime German occupation. The propaganda is more extreme, but also more skilful, than that on Polish state television in the last decade of communist rule. Only when you turn to the independent TVN24 news do you see footage of long queues of ambulances waiting outside hospitals, because there are no more intensive care beds, and hear doctors explaining how terrible the public health situation really is. TVN24 is not BBC-impartial, but it does serious journalism and gives you the other side of the story. The same 'two realities' experience can be had switching from state to private radio, or from government-supporting papers to independent or opposition ones. Such a hyperpolarised public sphere is already bad enough, as we see in the US but now the ruling Law and Justice party has launched a systematic attack on independent media. The methods are straight out of Viktor Orbán's Hungarian playbook. Public sector advertising  and subscriptions are withdrawn from independent media. All sorts of regulatory chicanery are used against them.Billions of public money are pumped into state  television and radio. A 'pandemic' tax is proposed on advertising revenue. A projected law on the 're-Polonisation' of media would target foreign owners of the biggest independent outlets. A state-owned petrol company, Orlen, whose boss is a Law and Justice party crony, buys both a major press distributor, Ruch, and the largest network of regional newspapers, Polska Press. The most critical papers are bombarded with lawsuits. Gazeta Wyborcza counts more than 60 lawsuits, including one from the justice minister in person. And, as European legal authorities have repeatedly determined, the independence of Polish courts has been so far eroded thatyou can no longer rely on a fair trial. This is that old Hungarian speciality, salami tactics. With every slice, the next one becomes slightly easier for the butcher to take. Polish media and civil society are resisting strongly, but they need a little help from their friends. The United States matters enormously here. The Law and Justice government and president Andrzej Duda make much of their special relationship with Washington. But they were strong supporters of Donald Trump, who in return gave Duda electoral assistance last summer. The administration of Joe Biden owes them no favours, and  it has an agenda strong on democracy and human rights. As well as standing up for TVN, which is owned by the American Discovery company, Washington should now highlight independent media as the frontline of defending democracy in Poland. Britain counts for less than it once did in Warsaw, because of Brexit, but along with other liberal democracies, such as Canada and Australia, it can help turn the spotlight on this issue. Germany is of the first importance, and a German-Swiss group, Ringier Axel Springer, owns one of the most important Polish online platforms, Onet.pl, the tabloid Fakt and a leading weekly, Newsweek Polska. The Polish government tries to intimidate Berlin by constantly bringing up the Nazi past, but the proper lesson from that past is not 'Germany must be particularly reticent on these issues'. It is 'precisely because of that terrible past, Germany should be the first to speak up for freedom and human rights in Poland'. Most important, and most problematic, is the EU. One of the most depressing discoveries of the last few years is that the EU, which spends so much time talking about democracy, is pathetically ineffective when it comes to defending democracy inside its own member states. Now it is going to hand out many more billions of Euros to those states, both from the post-Covid recovery fund (nearly €60 billion to Poland by the end of 2023) and from the Union's new seven-year budget (more than €100 billion to Poland). These huge sums will go directly to the populist nationalist governments in Warsaw and Budapest, with only minimal conditions attached. Most of those great investments trumpeted on state television news are done with the help of EU money. At the very least, the EU should make it crystal clear that, under single market rules, foreign media owners may on no account be discriminated against. It should distribute a significant chunk of the new money directly through local government – as suggested by the mayors of Warsaw and Budapest. And it should create a substantial EU fund for the defence of media freedom across the continent. Last week, the leadership of Poland's Law and Justice party began talks with Viktor Orbán of Hungary and Matteo Salvini of Italy about forming a new populist nationalist political grouping in the EU. It is not just democracy in Poland that is at stake here; it is democracy in Europe as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
11-04-2021||Opinion||Brand ambassador||Sir — The editorial, “Bristled beauties” (April 10), was amusing and informative. It reminded me of something that I once saw on a visit to the United States of America. At a mall in Detroit, Michigan, I stumbled upon a wax for mustaches and beards. Lo and behold, the brand was named after Veerappan, one of the most notorious poachers of south India. There he was, one of India’s most infamous brigands, in all his hirsute glory on the lid of the company Lush Cosmetics’ round jar of Moustache Wax. Our ‘bristled beauties’ may need a similar product to stay in style.  H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore Sir — It is hard to believe that the United States of America is not sending India a message by carrying out naval exercises in Indian waters close to the Lakshadweep Islands. More so, since the US has confirmed that such exercises will continue. It is clear that America has violated international conventions. In view of this, India definitely needs to rethink its ties with the US. We may be on the friendliest of terms with America, but that is in the interests of both countries and not just India. This is one reason why India needs to keep its relations with Russia on an even keel. That is one way of restricting America’s bullying tendencies. One cannot help but recall the Soviet Union’s help during the Bangladesh war when the US tried to intimidate India by sending Task Force 74 of the Seventh Fleet to the Bay of Bengal. America needs to understand that our relationship with it should be on a par. New Delhi needs to send out an appropriate message.Melville X. D’Souza, Mumbai Sir — April 11 to 14 has been declared as ‘Vaccine Utsav’. This is indeed a great step to encourage people to get vaccinated. But the question is, are the authorities really ready to vaccinate people? With reports of three women being inoculated with the rabies vaccine instead of the one for coronavirus, the seriousness and the efficiency of the authorities are under question. State governments are also complaining of not having enough doses of the life saving shot. We cannot expect two companies to produce all the vaccines needed to inoculate the world’s second largest population and cater to the demand to send vaccines to other countries as well. The second wave of the virus has hit India hard. Vaccination is the only way out.  Kavya Shah, Ujjain Sir — It is not surprising that the former Bollywood starlet and Hindutva hardliner, Payal Rohatgi, made some outrageous observations about Raja Rammohan Roy, the man who ushered in the Bengal Renaissance. Rohatgi said: “No he was a chamcha to Britishers who used him to defame the Sati tradition. Sati tradition was not compulsory but was introduced to prevent the prostitution of Hindu wives at the hands of Mughal invaders. It was the woman’s choice. #FeministsofIndia Sati was not regressive…” Indeed we should thank Rohatgi for reminding us of the regressive, misogynist mindset of the powers that are trying to conquer Bengal — the land of enlightened humanitarians like Roy. If this is the mindset of Hindutvavadis, it is no wonder that the incidents in Unnao, Hathras and Budaun are signatures of a state helmed by the Bharatiya Janata Party. It also makes sense then that BJP leaders marched on the streets of Jammu with the tricolour in hand to defend the accused in the spine-chilling Kathua gangrape and murder case and anti-Romeo squads are being promised by Yogi Adityanath to save the women of Bengal. One hopes the women of Bengal would rise to the occasion and vote wisely by resisting the forces that wish to erase Bengal’s unique inclusive history.  Kajal Chatterjee, Calcutta Sir — Each gaffe made by the BJP is an indication to the people of Bengal to use their precious vote well.  Sohini Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ineffective monitoring of asymptomatic patients adding on to Covid count||Ineffective monitoring of Covid patients in home isolation has been contributing towards the rise of cases in steel city. Inadequate man-power and non-payment of Rs 3 crore by the district administration has led to the present situation in the healthcare system. Every day on an average, 2,500 people have been tested for Covid since March this year. Asymptomatic patients are being asked to remain confined in their respective homes until the test report comes. Unfortunately, most of them are not adhering to the prescribed norm. With no system in place to monitor those in home isolation is thereby making it easier for the infection to spread. Additional district magistrate (ADM), East Singhbhum, Nand Kishore Lal claimed the administration is monitoring the asymptomatic patients over the phone this time. “Physical monitoring of asymptomatic patients is not possible now as we do not have the required man-power like last year. The district administration spent over Rs 3 crore for the pandemic last year, but did not get even a single rupee as of now. Then how can we engage extra man-power for the monitoring the asymptomatic patients,” quipped Lal while talking to The Telegraph Online. The ADM added that the district administration spent money in providing food, bringing the migrant labourers back home, buying testing machines and hiring additional man-power for managing the containment zones last year. In the last 24 hours, 303 more Covid cases have been detected, thereby, taking the total count to 20,467 in the district. The total number of deaths reported during this period stands at six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Woman dies after giving birth, medical team flees hospital||A 27-year-old woman died after giving birth to a boy at a private hospital here early on Sunday amid allegations of medical negligence after which doctors and staff of the facility fled. An FIR was lodged at Dhanbad police station against the operator of Raj Clinic, Dr Savita Shukla Das, her husband, Dr U. S. Prasad, and other staff members of the hospital. DSP Sarita Murmu, accompanied by a posse of policemen, sent the body of the woman, Kritika Tiwary, for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College. Murmu pacified Kritika's family and angry relatives and assured them of action against the guilty after conducting a thorough probe. An FIR has been lodged in Dhanbad police station against the hospital operator, Dr Savita Shukla Das, her Pediatrics husband, Dr US Prasad and other staff members of the clinic. “At around 2am I was informed by Dr Savita Shukla Das and other staff of the hospital that my wife developed some medical complications due to rupture of one vein during delivery and asked me to arrange for one unit of blood,” said Bhola Tiwari. “I immediately brought the blood from the blood bank and but soon after returning I was informed by the hospital staff that one more unit of blood is required and I again went outside the hospital to bring the blood from the blood bank,” explained Tiwari. While procuring the second unit of blood, he was informed by his sister-in-law that his wife had passed and the medical team was missing. “I will be compelled to immolate myself in hospital if I don’t get justice and want immediate action on the guilty,” said Tiwari. DSP Sarita Mumu said due course of action will be taken after the arrival of the post mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Third Nor'wester brings light showers and strong winds||The season's third Nor'wester hit several parts of Jharkhand on Sunday afternoon. Originating from the Chhotanagpur Plateau region, the Nor'wester covered several districts including Ranchi, Khunti, Ramgarh, Seraikela- Kharsawan, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Simdega. IMD'S Ranchi Met Centre had issued a nowcast (short-term forecast) of bad weather in central and southern Jharkhand. In Jamshedpur, the Nor'wester swept across with a wind speed of 45 kmph while Ranchi ,Khunti and other places recorded a wind speed of 40 kmph. "The Nor'wester was accompanied by lightning and thunder. Some places in Khunti, Simdega and Seraikela - Kharsawan witnessed light showers while other places including Jamshedpur and Ranchi experienced strong winds, "said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said a prevailing trough and a cyclonic circulation over southwest Madhya Pradesh extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level helped in triggering the Nor'wester. Met data revealed that dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand in the last 24 hours with Daltonganj recording the highest maximum temperature of 39.4°C . The Met office forecasts suggest a partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain and thunderstorm at isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand in the next two days. There won't be any change in maximum temperature during the next two days and thereafter a rise of 2-3°C is expected .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Agri varsity herbal cocktail for cough and cold gets patent ||A herbal medicine formulation named BAU Birsin developed by Kaushal Kumar, Birsa Agriculture University’s scientist of the forestry department, has been granted patent rights by the Indian Patent Office in Calcutta earlier this week. The patent will now enable it for commercial production, the varsity’s officials have informed in a statement. Hailing the developments amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, BAU’s vice chancellor Omkar Nath Singh said that the success is a result of persistent work done by Kumar for the last 10 years to get the patent. “The medicine once developed could be highly useful for treatment of cough, cold, body aches and fever,” read the statement from BAU. Kaushal informed that they are in the process of signing a formal agreement with National Biodiversity Authority in Chennai for commercial production of the medicine. About the herbal formulation, he said, “The formulation has been developed using the the leaves and bark of Vitex peduncularis plant, popularly known as Charigorwa that is abundantly found in the forested regions of Jharkhand, specially in the Chhotanagpur and Santhal Pargana regions that are tribal dominated. In 1921, a research paper was also published in the British Medical Journal in this regard by the then Civil Surgeon of Ranchi. Using inferences from the available researches and based on my field visits, I began working on the herbal medicinal formulation using Charigorwa elements.” Kaushal was earlier the head of herbal wing of Yoga exponent Baba Ramdev led Patanjali Yogpeeth headquartered in Haridwar. “Experiences and knowledge of identifying and dealing with forestry products having medicinal values came handy while developing this formulation,” he said, adding that once commercially developed, this medicine can be of great use for common people as the herbal medicine market for treating all kinds of ailments is still not fully explored. “We have maintained high standards of scientific parameters while developing this formulation and the product can have an effective life span up to two years if kept under the prescribed conditions,” he said, adding that the commercial production would also lead to increasing income of the farmers in the state as they can take up growing this plant for commercial sale in coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Educational aids for underprivileged children in Dhanbad||Around 105 underprivileged children, majority of whose parents work as coal pickers, received NCERT books, stationery and school uniforms at Bhaga Basti based Pathshala on Sunday. BCCL officer, Dev Kumar Verma, has been running the school for six years after renovating a single-storey house of his own. The educational aids were handed over to the beneficiaries by chief guest Madan Mohan Mishra, principal of Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Sinidih in the presence of Verma and others during a programme held at the school campus. “We are running three schools at different parts of Katras including, Bhaga Basti (established December 2018), Prem Nagar (August 2018) and Katras Bazar (March 2015) having a cumulative strength of around 400 students and today provided the educational help to 105 students of Bhaga Basti school and will gradually provide the same to students of other two schools,” said Verma to The Telegraph Online. “All the educational materials worth around Rs 1 lakh were provided with the financial help of around 70 person including my friends and well wishers,” he said. “During the pandemic as the economic condition of everyone including my own deteriorated, I started finding it difficult to manage the expense of three schools where free of charge education is imparted to these children belonging to families lying on the fringe of society and thus made an appeal to my friends and well wishers over social media platforms and 70 people came forward with the help,” said Verma, an area manager of BCCL in Barora area. Ram Pravesh Verma, father of a class VII student of Bhaga Basti based school, who received the educational material said, “With the meager income of around Rs 4000 per month, earned through book binding work, it was not possible for us to bear the fee of my son nor can I purchase the books and stationery and today our tension for managing books and stationeries have been relieved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid reports delayed as Ranchi labs flooded with swab samples||In the wake of the sudden rise in demand for Covid tests, private labs in Ranchi are flooded with swab samples causing a delay of 48 hours or more in the final report. RT PCR test reports were earlier handed to people within four hours. “We usually collected about 200 samples every day in mid-March. However, in April, the count of samples collected on a daily basis has gone up to 1000,” said a swab collection staff at city-based J. Sharan Laboratory. “We have so many swab samples for testing that delivering the test report on the same day has become almost impossible,” he added. The health department has directed private labs to prioritise those with comorbid conditions and symptoms while conducting tests. Health secretary K.K. Soan, at a meeting with private laboratories, asked the labs to provide test results to people with comorbid conditions and Covid symptoms as early as possible. According to government records, around 7000 swab samples are collected for Covid test in Ranchi every day. In the wake of the growing cases of infection in the state capital, the government has set up new testing centres in urban as well as rural areas of the district. From Monday onward, Covid testing booths will be set up at Marwari Bhavan, Kokar Industrial Area, Morhabadi OP, Doranda, Station Road, Health Centre Dhurwa, Risaldar, CMPDI and Hatia, a press communique from the health department stated. So far, free Covid tests were conducted at Sadar Hospital, Ranchi Railway Station, Hatia Railway Station, ITI Bus Stand, Khadgada Bus Stand, Zila School and Sainik Market on MG Road. Besides increasing the number of Covid testing booths in the city, the health department has also directed the Ranchi district administration to send Covid testing teams to areas with a high-positivity rate and set up free Covid testing camps there. Ranchi accounts for almost half of the over 12,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand according to government data. The district, as per data with NHM, has 5,927 active cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts in the state. The district has also reported 46 of the 99 Covid deaths in Jharkhand during the past one month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 2,373 cases take active caseload above 12,000||At least 2,373 cases of Covid-19 infection took the active caseload above 12,000 in Jharkhand on Saturday, while the Covid toll jumped to 1,192 as the state reported 17 casualties in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Ranchi and East Singhbhum – the districts with high urban population – reported the bulk of the cases and fatalities on the day. While Ranchi reported 904 cases and five deaths, East Singhbhum reported 303 cases and four deaths on Saturday, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. As per government data, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh also reported a triple digit spike for the first time in 2021 on Saturday. As many as 148 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 167 Hazaribag residents tested positive for Covid-19 on the day. The state reported 667 Covid recoveries on the day, including 201 in East Singhbhum and 194 in Ranchi. With only 194 recoveries against the over 900 cases, the active caseload in Ranchi reached 5,927 on Saturday, the highest among the 24 Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, the active caseload in East Singhbhum was 1344, while that in Dhanbad was 487 by the end of Saturday. As many as 435 people were battling the viral infection in Hazaribagh. Bokaro in Dhanbad reported two Covid casualties each on the day, while Dumka, Giridih, Pakur and West Singhbhum reported one casualty each. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 367 Covid deaths, while Ranchi accounts for 295 of the 1,192 Covid fatalities in the state so far. The growth rate of infection reached 1.07 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.69 per cent, while the doubling rate dropped down to 65.12 days against the national average of 101.42 days. The figures indicate that it would take only 65-odd days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 1,37,088 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 90.16 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate has dropped from close to 99 per cent in mid-March, while the doubling rate in the state has dropped drastically from over 2,500 days in mid-March to less than 100 days in April. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 90,243 people, thereby achieving 75 per cent of the target for the day. The second dose was administered to only 6,613 people, hardly 3 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Virtual convocation ceremony at XLRI on April 24||XLRI will hold its 65th annual convocation on a virtual mode on April 24. The convocation ceremony will be held for the 2019-21 batch. During the convocation function, 509 students of the B-school will receive their graduating diploma including 178 and 181 students of postgraduate programmes - Business Management and Human Resource Management (HRM); 101 students of 15-months Post Graduate Diploma in  Management  ; six students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  43 students of the 2018 - 2021 batch of  Post Graduate Diploma in Management (Evening). Fr. P Christie, director of XLRI, said, "Convocation is a significant milestone event in the academic journey of every student, faculty and staff as it is the culmination of all the efforts put in by an individual during their time at the XLRI campus. The event will take place online because of the pandemic." T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of Tata Steel  said, "For over seven decades, XLRI has steadfastly held on to its mission of proffering world-class education across various management-centric programs. XLRI diligently strives to create a value-based and ethics-driven teaching and learning environment while underscoring the need for all-round development. This emphasis on inculcating important core- values is what sets XLRI apart from other B-schools in the country." This year XLRI would confer the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace to Sandeep Kataria, global CEO of Bata. He will also deliver the convocation address to the graduating students at the event. Kataria is the first Indian to hold the position in the company's 126-year history.  He had 24 years of experience at Unilever, Yum Brands, and Vodafone in India and Europe before joining Bata India as CEO in 2017. Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honor of the Late Jehangir Ghandy, former chairman of the Board of Governors- XLRI is awarded to those who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organisations and the nation in a significant way. Some of the recipients of the medal includes eminent business leaders like N.R. Narayana Murthy, chairman emeritus and chief mentor, Infosys Technologies Ltd,  Shiv Nadar, founder and chairman, HCL and Shiv Nadar Foundation and Sunil Kant Munjal, joint managing director of Hero MotoCorp and chairman, Hero Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd and Adi Godrej, chairman, The Godrej Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
11-04-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals in Bokaro provide vaccine, refuse treatment||The district health department and residents are disappointed with the self-serving role of private hospitals at a time when the Covid-19 active caseload crossed the 350-mark in the district. Covid positive patients have to depend only on BSL’s run Bokaro General Hospital for treatment. BGH is a dedicated Covid hospital of the district. The health workers and staff are struggling for the past year with no alternative arrangements to share its load. Private hospitals and nursing homes which are participating in the vaccination drive are not admitting or treating Covid patients. About two dozen private hospitals are providing Covid-19 vaccination to the residents in the district. Around 250 positive patients are in home isolation. Executive director, BGH, Dr A.K. Singh said that there are 70 Covid patients admitted at present but seeing the situation, they were forced to come up with 70 more beds to accommodate patients. There are more than 50 private hospitals and nursing homes in the district. Most of them are functional in Bokaro Township. The doctors at private hospitals who see patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) symptoms send them to Sadar Hospital. At present, BGH will only admit those non-BSL corona patients who are serious and referred by Sadar Hospital. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said, “Last week we had conducted a meeting with the owners and representatives of the private hospitals asking them to come forward providing treatment to Covid-19 patients, but none of them has turned up yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-85
