12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Metro commuters flout mask mandate||A woman who boarded a Metro train at Sovabazar on Friday saw two teenagers put on their masks after being prodded by a Railway Protection Force jawan on the platform but removed them as soon as the train started moving. A senior citizen who boarded a train at Tollygunge on Sunday afternoon saw a fellow passenger with his mask on the chin. When the elderly man asked him to wear the mask properly, he said it felt “suffocating”. Many passengers in the city’s transport lifeline are travelling unmasked despite regular awareness campaigns by the carrier, said officials and RPF personnel. “The number of unmasked passengers was much more last month. The renewed surge in Covid numbers has triggered some caution but many are still without masks. Most offenders have been found to carry a mask but not wearing it properly,” said an RPF officer. The Metro authorities had announced a few days ago that passengers without masks would be fined Rs 200. But the penalisation drive is yet to pick up speed. “Less than 10 passengers have been fined on the entire north-south corridor for not wearing masks in the past week,” said an RPF officer. On the Rabindra Sadan-Rabindra Sarobar stretch, only two passengers have been fined in the past two days, said another RPF officer. Similarly, on the Dum Dum-MG Road stretch, the number has been “less than five in the past week”. “Many offenders are young passengers, including teenagers,” he said. The average daily Metro passenger count has been over 2.5 lakh per day for some time now. Saradiya Sengupta Bhattacharya, who commutes regularly between Dum Dum and Rabindra Sadan, said: “Almost every day, I see passengers masked while entering the station. But they remove the masks when the train starts moving.” Metro officials said the stress was on creating awareness. “We are building awareness through the ‘No Mask, No Metro’ campaign. Audio-visual campaigns are going on regularly across stations. Traffic inspectors are visiting stations to ensure implementation of the Covid-19 protocols,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Two-tier security for EVMs||The mandate of the seven Assembly constituencies in and around Calcutta that voted on Saturday is lying sealed in 2,000-odd electronic voting machines (EVMs) that are in safe custody in strongrooms across the city. The EVMs will be opened three weeks later, on May 2. Till then, the seven strongrooms will remain under 24X7 CCTV coverage and guarded by state and the central forces. More than 2,300 EVMs were in use in Kasba, Jadavpur, Behala, Metiabruz, Tollygunge and Bhangar on Saturday. They are kept in strongrooms located inside Geetanjali Stadium on Rajdanga Main Road, Bratachari Bidyashram Higher Secondary School in Joka, Vivekananda College on Diamond Harbour Road, Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia, State Institute of Physical Education for Women in Hastings House complex on Judges Court Road, Sister Nivedita Government General Degree College for Girls in Hastings House complex and Sonarpur Mahabidyalaya in Rajpur, officers of the city police said. Officers said security at the strongrooms had been stepped up this year because the elections in the city are being held in phases, making it possible to deploy more cops for safe keeping of the voting machines. “No one other than polling officials, and candidates and their agents are being allowed anywhere close to the strong rooms. The buildings are clearly demarcated so that people can stay away from them,” said a senior officer in Calcutta police. According to the Election Commission of India’s guidelines, the area just outside a strongroom has to be guarded by 24 armed men of central forces and the “outer perimeter” has to be manned by 16 cops from the state force. The state police squad includes members of the armed police, a sergeant and two assistant sub-inspectors. It is led by an inspector-rank officer. A log book is maintained at the entrance of the building housing a strongroom to record details of every person visiting the place. Polling officials are allowed inside the building to check whether the locks on the strongrooms are in place, Candidates and their chief election agents are allowed till outside the strongroom so they could check the security. “The arrangement has been made so that no candidate later alleges that EVMs and strongrooms were not well protected,” said a police officer. The number of strongrooms will increase many times after the seventh phase of elections on April 27. The locks on the strongrooms will be broken on May 2, in the presence of polling officials and observers, and the EVMs will be taken to the counting centres. “The entire procedure is video-recorded,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Sector V authorities plan to upgrade eight-storey car parking lot||The Sector V authorities will soon set up car service centres, auto-spare shops and tyre outlets on at least two levels of the eight-storey parking lot in Sector V, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The parking lot — located in AQ Block, near the Technopolis building — has space for at least 600 cars. The official said such shops would make the parking lot more popular as motorists will be able to get their cars serviced or washed, or get a tyre replaced while they go about their regular business in Sector V. “We will soon set up these shops. People can park their vehicles here and also get them serviced and washed. We will also have eateries there,” said Debashis Sen, the chairman of NDITA, which looks after the civic amenities of the tech hub. Many people who have offices in Sector V now commute in personal vehicles to ensure physical distancing, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19. The parking lot is yet to get traction and operate at its optimum capacity. The Sector V authorities want to popularise it so that streets and roads of the IT hub remain free of parked cars.Parking on roads is rampant in Sector V. The multi-storey car park became operational last week. The top floor has a solar-top banquet hall. The building has two elevators. Vehicles can be driven through ramps to the 8th floor. The NDITA is also going to set up dedicated spaces for two-wheelers and a bicycle stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Reverend Paritosh Canning unveils Brian Grey’s 'My Forty Pieces of Silver'||My Forty Pieces of Silver, a motivational book, by Brian Grey was launched by Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, at St Stephen’s Church, Kidderpore, on Sunday evening. The book is dedicated to the author’s mother whom he lost when he was 15. The book contains 40 stories that talk about moral values. “The book contains what a mother should teach her child. The book will also teach children the importance of spending time with parents,” said Grey. “This book is enriched with human values, love and respect for everybody’s mother. Unfortunately, at present these values are eroding from our society. This book will help the new generation revive those values. King Wajid Ali Shah during his time paid much emphasis to uplift these values in society,” said Sahebzada Shaheryaar Ali Mirza, the great great grandson of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, the king of Awadh. Shaheryaar had helped with the printing of the book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Jaya Bachchan takes part in a roadshow for TMC’s Jorasanko candidate Vivek Gupta||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, who has been campaigning for the Trinamul Congress in the state polls, on Sunday took part in a road show for the party’s Jorasanko candidate, Vivek Gupta. Jorasanko votes on April 29. Gupta is up against the BJP’s Meena Devi Purohit and Ajmal Khan of the Sanyukta Morcha. The 500-strong procession, led by Gupta and Bachchan, started from College Square around 4.30pm and passed through Vivekananda Road and Amherst Street. Hundreds of people flocked to their balconies to see Bachchan, who waved at them. “I want to say do not hijack my religion from me. Do not. Never. Do not hijack my democracy and my democratic right from me. And when I say, me, I represent all the people. And that is why I’m here because Mamata Banerjee is fighting, struggling, a single lady, to preserve democratic rights of every individual of Bengal,” Bachchan had said at a news meet at the Trinamul headquarters on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Amphan-hit student gets help||A school teacher who lost her brother three years back has started a scholarship for students from financially deprived homes in his name. The scholarship, Joydeep Roy Memorial Award, was handed over to 14-year-old Sudipa Kar, a student of Naoda Nayan Chandra Vidyapith in Howrah, on Sunday evening. The Class IX student’s father, a farmer involved in betel leaf cultivation, suffered huge losses during Cyclone Amphan, which had struck south Bengal in May last year. The family had to survive on doles from organisations for months. Sudipa will appear for Madhyamik next year and the scholarship will help her buy books and stationery. Joydeep Roy passed away in April 2018 in Chamba in Uttarakhand, where he had shifted for work. He would have turned 33 on Sunday. Roy’s mother Mitra Roy handed over the scholarship on his birthday. “He completed MTech but was not getting a permanent job in Calcutta, so he had to move to Uttarakhand where he was teaching computer science in senior classes. He was a good student and the idea of giving scholarship is that students should not steer away from education because of lack of funds. I have the resources to help one student every year in my small way,” said sister Joeeta Basu, a teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Basu started the scholarship in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bed information under wraps||A crisis of Covid beds is already being felt in hospitals in the city and adding to the problem is the alleged failure of the state health department to post on its website updated information on availability of such beds. The absence of latest data on Covid beds has triggered fears of a rerun of last year when families of patients had to run from one hospital to another in search of a bed. The state health department had last year started posting on its website daily updated information on availability of Covid beds for the benefit of patients and their families. But a look at the website on Sunday showed the data had not been updated for a while. The number of Covid beds at several private hospitals, as told by their officials, did not match the data on the health department’s website. A hospital in south-east Calcutta had 40 Covid beds on Sunday. Only two were vacant. But the health department’s website stated the hospital had 129 Covid beds, of which 95 were vacant. An official of the hospital said the numbers were from last year. The number of Covid beds in a central Calcutta hospital was more than what was mentioned on the website on Sunday. The website stated that the figures were current as of April 9, a claim denied by hospital officials. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said the department had not been collecting data on Covid bed availability from them for a long time. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told Metro on Sunday that the department would start updating the status daily from next week. “We are working on it. We are expecting to update the data daily from next week,” Chakraborty said. But the crisis of Covid beds has started to be felt, following a steep rise since last month in the number of people testing positive for the disease. A teacher at a north Calcutta school said a friend’s brother was taken to several hospitals but was denied admission because of unavailability of Covid beds. He was finally admitted to a south Calcutta hospital. An official of Belle Vue Clinic said the hospital was receiving calls from multiple people seeking admission for their known ones but all their Covid beds were occupied. “We have 116 beds and all are occupied. Twenty of the beds are in the critical care unit. We will add 20 more critical care beds in a week,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 74 of the 82 Covid beds were occupied on Sunday. The hospital has 25 critical care beds, four of which were vacant on Sunday. “We had 21 patients last Sunday and today we have 74 patients,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head, east, Narayana Health, which owns the hospital. AMRI Hospitals had only one Covid bed vacant at its three units. “One general bed in the Dhakuria unit was vacant on Sunday afternoon,” said an official of the group. The Dhakuria hospital has 86 Covid beds, 24 of which are critical care beds. The Mukundapur unit of the group has 33 Covid beds, 17 of which are critical care beds, while all 24 Covid beds in the Salt Lake unit are critical care beds. Even when the health department’s website was updating the vacant bed status daily last year, there were allegations that the numbers were not accurate. Many hospitals had then said the numbers were not being updated real time. Which means if a hospital had some vacant beds in the morning – when the status was uploaded in the website – these were filled by afternoon or evening on many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Fresh doses on way but too few, says state health dept||The Centre has promised four lakh doses of Covid vaccines to Bengal but state health department officials said that would be too few to continue the inoculation drive uninterrupted. A number of Covid vaccination centres in the city did not administer jabs or gave them to fewer people on Sunday because of lack of or shortage of doses.Several centres had suspended vaccination on Saturday, too, because they had exhausted their stock and fresh supply did not arrive. Health department officials said the Centre had promised to send four lakh doses on Monday evening. “That will be just enough for a day or two. It’s not clear what will happen once the doses are exhausted,” an official said. Officials of the department were also uncertain whether vaccination could be done from all centres in the state on Monday. Supply constraints have forced the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to stop vaccination in about 30 clinics on Sunday, a senior CMC official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, had to shut down 10 vaccination centres on Sunday because of lack of supply. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told Metro that the department had 3 lakh doses in stock on Sunday afternoon. “We may not have problems today but we would not be able to vaccinate from all centres on Monday. The Centre has promised 4 lakh doses on Monday evening as an emergency supply,” he said. “We are supposed to get 20 lakh doses but it is difficult to say when those will come.” Among the private hospitals that had to stop Covid vaccination on Sunday was Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital, which has been vaccinating between 350 and 450 people on an average every day, could give the shot to only 100 people on Saturday. “We suspended Covid vaccination on Sunday as we did not get vaccine supply. I do not know whether we can resume vaccination on Monday,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences in Mukundapur, too, had to suspend vaccination on Saturday. Many people who had arrived for the jab were told that the hospital did not have enough doses and they would have to come back later for the shot. “We kept the vaccination centre at our hospital closed on Saturday because we were told we would get fewer vials. We expected a low turnout on Saturday because of polls in the part of the city where our hospital is located,” said an official. The hospital got 20 vials on Sunday and vaccinated about 200 people. AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake could not vaccinate anyone on Saturday and Sunday. The hospital had put up a notice announcing that it had run out of doses. “We are not sure when the Salt Lake hospital will get fresh supply,” said an official. The Dhakuria and Mukundapur units of the group together vaccinated 543 people on Sunday. The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar were also forced to curtail its vaccination programme on Sunday. “We were vaccinating from 80 clinics. Ten of them were taken over for the polls. On Sunday, we had to suspend vaccination at 30 clinics. We could vaccinate from 40 clinics on Sunday. At some clinics, which vaccinated 250 to 300 people every day, only 100 got the shot on Sunday,” a CMC official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation shut down 10 Covid-19 vaccination centres on Sunday, an official of the civic body said. The couple of BMC centres that administered the shot during the day are at Deshbandhunagar Hospital in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matri Sadan. The ones where the vaccination was suspended include Aswininagar Health Centre in Baguiati, Saradapalli Primary Health Care Centre (PHC), Kestopur PHC, Jyotinagar PHC and Duttabad PHC. Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital in Salt Lake on Sunday administered jabs to polling personnel, senior citizens and those above 45. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,615 to 23,981 on Sunday. The state recorded 4,398 new infections and 1,773 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: 55 IIM Calcutta students test positive||As many as 55 students of IIM Calcutta have tested positive and are being quarantined at a special facility on the campus, an official of the B-school said on Sunday. Most of the students are from the two-year MBA programme and the rest are from the one-year executive course. “They have been lodged in Tata Hall and are under observation. No one has yet been hospitalised,” said the official, who is part of the Joka institute’s Covid response team. Although classes are being held online because of the pandemic, students have been brought back to the campus in phases so they could use the institute’s internet connectivity to attend academic proceedings. The students had to be brought back because many of them complained that they could not attend online classes from home because of poor Net connectivity. While the students were returning to the campus, the institute authorities had said that they would be put up in hostels in strict adherence to the physical distancing norms and other Covid protocols. “We suspect some students had dropped guard during Holi and contracted Covid,” the official said. The infected students on the campus totalled 15 on April 2. By April 11, the number rose to 55. “These students will leave the campus after serving the quarantine period. The institute had drawn up a standard operating procedure to be followed amid the pandemic in June last year following the guidelines of the Centre,” the official said. Once the infected students leave, the official said, the hostels will be sanitised. “The classes for the next academic session, too, are likely to be held online but students will stay on the campus to use the institute Net facilities,” the teacher said. “Particularly, those living in tier-II and tier-III cities will have to stay on the campus.” The teacher, however, said bringing students back to the campus would depend on how the Covid-situation was unfolding. “If the travel restrictions are imposed again to contain the renewed surge of cases, then bringing students to the campus would become uncertain,” he said. The B-school has already decided to hold the convocation on May 15 on online mode to avoid any assembly of students and guardians. As many as 61 teachers had in September last year written to the institute’s board of governors wondering whether it was prudent to call students to the campus amid the Covid pandemic. The 61 teachers — the Joka B-school’s current faculty strength is 82 — had expressed the fear that the students’ journey to and presence on the campus could trigger grave health consequences. “Contrary to the apprehension, the situation was well under control till late March. The festival of colours seems to have undone everything,” said an IIM official. Detection of Covid cases on the campus and the nationwide surge have forced IIEST Shibpur last week to announce the scrapping of the decision to bring students to the campus to write the supplementary tests and attend practicals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
12-04-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 1,708 points amid massive selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,708 points on Monday following an across-the-board selloff as spiking COVID-19 cases in the country spooked investors. The 30-share BSE index sank 1,707.94 points or 3.44 per cent to end at 47,883.38. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 524.05 points or 3.53 per cent to finish at 14,310.80. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 8 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, ONGC, Titan, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. Dr Reddy's was the sole gainer, climbing over 4 per cent. "Domestic equities reminded the bloodbath of March 2020 as record rise in COVID-19 cases in the country and possibility of lockdowns in several states dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns of possible reversal in economic momentum and earnings recovery made investors risk-averse and huge selloff led to the erosion of nearly Rs 9 lakh crore in investor wealth, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red, while Seoul ended with mild gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.57 per cent higher at USD 63.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 1,400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted over 1,400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries as spiking COVID-19 cases in the country spooked investors amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 1,427 points or 2.88 per cent lower at 48,164.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 431.90 points or 2.91 per cent to 14,402.95. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking around 8 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Titan, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Maruti. On the other hand, Infosys was the sole gainer. In the previous session, Sensex had settled 154.89 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,591.32, and Nifty slipped 38.95 points or 0.26 per cent to 14,834.85. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 653.51 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Since the second wave of the pandemic is turning out worse than expected, there is profound uncertainty about its impact on the economy and markets, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The situation is the worst in economically significant Maharashtra. This can impact the market's assumption of around 11 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with mild gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent higher at USD 62.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Fresh lockdowns to hit MFI collections in many states||The collections of microfinance institutions may be impacted by the fresh lockdowns in many states because of the resurgence of the coronavirus. India’s largest state by state domestic product — Maharashtra — has announced mini-lockdowns till the end of the month. Many others have announced night curfews and weekend lockdowns. According to a Crisil report, Maharashtra is among the top five states in microfinance loans with assets under management of around Rs 16,700 crore as on December 2020, which are around 7 per cent of all microfinance loans. The share of non-banking finance company microfinanciers (NBFC-MFIs) is 40 per cent or around Rs 6,700 crore. Collection efficiency in the state has been relatively lower at 85-90 per cent even before the latest curbs compared with the all-India average of 90-94 per cent in December 2020. “The sector’s collection efficiency has stalled at 90-94 per cent in the past few months compared with the pre-pandemic level of 98-99 per cent. These mini-lockdowns can restrict improvement in the coming months,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director & deputy chief ratings officer, Crisil Ratings. “However, NBFC-MFIs have been allowed to continue operations in Maharashtra unlike during the most stringent lockdown phase early last fiscal. Since microfinance requires high personal connect, this comes as a big relief,” he said. In terms of asset quality, the sector’s portfolio at risk — loans unpaid for more than a month — stood at around 11 per cent from 2.5 per cent a year back, reflecting the impact on the borrower segment because of the economic challenges faced last fiscal. PAR was slightly higher at 13 per cent in Maharashtra. “If more states follow Maharashtra and impose mini-lockdowns of their own to curb the pandemic, and these continue for an extended period, PAR recovery would be affected,’’ the rating agency cautioned. Unlike the last fiscal, the disruptions in economic activity are expected to be relatively moderate. Many borrowers of MFIs cater to essential services that continue to operate as usual, and their cash flows could be curbed to some extent. Analysts said they were monitoring the asset quality and the collections of the NBFC-MFIs, though they are better prepared to deal with the situation because of their experience of the last lockdown. Most lenders have already made provisions of 2-5 per cent of their loan books during the nine months ended December 2020. However, Crisil said current situation may need higher provisioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Start-up corpus swells 23% in the January-March quarter of 2020-21 ||Start-ups have raised an aggregate of $4.17 billion in the January-March quarter of 2020-21 up 23.37 per cent compared with $3.38 billion in the corresponding quarter of previous year. The number of funding rounds during the quarter at 288 was less compared with  414 in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Data compiled by Bangalore-based tracker Tracxn shows that March was a busy month with a cumulative investment of $2 billion from 105 funding rounds. The top five funding rounds for the month are $457 million raised by edtech firm Byju’s, $400 million by fantasy sports app Dream11, $300 million by finance and accounting tech firm High Radius. Insurance aggregator Policybazaar raised $75 million and online credit platform KreditBee, $70 million. B Capital Group, TCV, Tiger Global, Falcon Edge Capital, Newquest Capital Partners were among the marquee investors in March. Bangalore was the leading city in terms of attracting investors. Start-ups from the city raised $641 million from 35 rounds. Mumbai raised $581 million from 15 rounds, Delhi $130 million from 15 rounds and Gurgaon where start-ups raised from 13 rounds, $235 million. There were two initial public offers during March with travel booking platform EaseMyTrip and mobile game publisher Nazara listing on the bourses. Industry observers said the growth trend in investment was  sustainable despite the continuing trend of cash burn by the startups. “There is a heightened interest among global investors and private equity and venture funds in Indian startups as they are looking for better rates of return. The transactions are increasing and the number will only grow and this growth is sustainable,” said Leenesh Singh, founder, 10000StartupsIndia. “We are also seeing a pattern where investors are putting in money again and again in multiple rounds. This means that the startups are reliable despite cash burn.” The platform which offers virtual incubations, acceleration, mentorship and advisory has seen a rising interest among investors to reach out to start-up founders virtually during the Covid period and identify investment opportunities. “We have seen the kind of impact Covid has had on every sector. So, everyone including the founders and the investors are more confident now,” Singh said. Clean energy, logistics and transportation, pharma are among the emerging sectors that are attracting investor interest, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Govt may hike FDI limit in the pension sector to 74%||The government may hike the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the pension sector to 74 per cent and a Bill in this regard is expected to be tabled in the next Parliament session, according to sources. Last month, Parliament approved a bill to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. The Insurance Act, 1938 was last amended in 2015 which raised the FDI limit to 49 per cent, resulting in foreign capital inflow of Rs 26,000 crore in the last five years. Amendment to Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, seeking to raise the FDI limit in the pension sector may come in the monsoon session or winter session depending on various approvals, sources said. At present, FDI in the pension fund is capped at 49 per cent. Besides, sources said, the amendment bill may contain separation of NPS Trust from the PFRDA. The powers, functions and duties of the NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under the PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable trust or the Companies Act, they said. The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and a managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government as they, including the states, are the biggest contributor to the corpus. The PFRDA was established to promote and ensure orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record-keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members. The National Pension System (NPS) was introduced by the Government of India to replace the defined benefit pension system. NPS was made mandatory for all new recruits to the central government service from January 1, 2004, (except the armed forces in the first stage) and has also been rolled out for all citizens with effect from May 1, 2009, on voluntary basis. The government had made a conscious move to shift from the defined benefit, pay-as-you-go pension scheme to defined contribution pension scheme, NPS, due to rising and unsustainable pension bill. The transition aimed at freeing the limited resources of the government for more productive and socio-economic sectoral development. The Centre, meanwhile, has said additional payout under the Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995 can only be possible if there is budgetary support as otherwise the scheme will be unviable. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar has stressed the importance of government support to increase the payout in a written reply to the  Lok Sabha last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||UK’s Cairn Energy offers to forego $500 million||The UK’s Cairn Energy Plc has offered to forego $500 million and invest the sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by the Indian government if New Delhi agrees to honour an international arbitration award and returns the value of loss it incurred because of being taxed retrospectively, sources said. The Scottish firm invested in the oil and gas sector in India in 1994 and a decade later it made a huge oil discovery in Rajasthan. In 2006-07, it listed its Indian assets on the BSE. Five years later, the government passed a retroactive tax law and billed Cairn Rs 10,247 crore plus interest and penalty for the reorganisation tied to the flotation. The state then expropriated and liquidated Cairn’s remaining shares in the Indian entity, seized dividends and withheld tax refunds to recover a part of the demand. Cairn challenged the move before an arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which in December awarded it $1.2 billion (over Rs 8,800 crore) plus costs and interest, which totals $1.725 million (Rs 12,600 crore) as of December 2020. The company has in talks with finance ministry officials offered to forego the interest and cost, totalling over $500 million and invest that sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by Indian government if the principal of $1.2 billion due to it is paid, three sources with knowledge of the matter said. The Indian government, which appointed one of the three arbitrators on The Hague panel and fully participated in the arbitration proceedings since 2015, wanted Cairn to settle the issue through its now-closed tax dispute resolution scheme, Vivad se Vishwas. The Vivad se Vishwas scheme, which closed on March 31, provided for dropping of the tax case if 50 per cent of the demand was paid, which the company rejected, they said. Even if it were to have agreed to the scheme, the Indian government had to refund about Rs 2,500 crore to the British firm, they said adding the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld totalled to over Rs 7,600 crore which was more than 50 per cent of the Rs 10,247 crore principal tax demand raised. “The company has a tribunal ruling which says India breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and that compensation in form of return of the value of shares seized and sold, tax refund withheld and dividend confiscated was due. Instead, you are asking it to pay half of the tax amount raised, levying short-term capital gains tax, is something that the company’s marquee shareholders will never agree to,” one of them said. While Cairn declined to comment on the story, finance ministry officials could not be immediately reached for comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Infosys board to consider a third share buyback||The Infosys board will meet on April 14 to consider a share buyback, the third by the company. India’s second largest IT services company  will also declare its results for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 on April 14 (Wednesday). The results season will kick off with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Monday as the market looks to find its mojo again after being battered by a wave of bearish sentiment with investors trying to pick their way through a minefield of conflicting data and overseas cues. In a buyback, a company buys its shares from the market, which are subsequently extinguished. Share buybacks generally improve earnings per share, support prices in poor market conditions and allows the return of surplus cash to shareholders. Bangalore-based Infosys had a free cash flow — which is cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditure — of Rs 5,683 crore at the end of March. In 2019, Infosys changed its capital allocation policy to return 85 per cent of its free cash flow back to shareholders cumulatively over a period of five years starting 2019-20. Earlier, the company was distributing up to 70 per cent of its free cash flow to the shareholders. This will be done through a combination of semi-annual dividends or buybacks. Infosys had come out with its first share re-purchase in 2017 of Rs 13,000 crore  followed by a Rs 8,260 crore programme two years later. The management in 2019 had said the company will not trim its capital allocation policy because of the 20 per cent tax that the Modi government has imposed on share buybacks by listed companies. The buyback comes at a time IT services companies are expected to report robust numbers for the January-March quarter and guide for a promising year ahead. The pandemic has seen companies reporting strong deal wins as clients across geographies and verticals have stepped up their technology spend. While announcing its third quarter earnings, Infosys had upped revenue guidance for 2020-21. It had projected revenue to grow 4.5-5 per cent in constant currency compared with its previous estimate of 2-3 per cent growth. The operating margin guidance was raised to 24-24.5 per cent against the earlier 23-24 per cent. Infosys is now expected to give out a double digit revenue growth guidance for the current fiscal. “We expect companies in our coverage universe to further accelerate year-on-year (YoY) revenue growth momentum on broad-based demand, strong deal wins, continued traction in digital and cloud, ramp-up of large deals and demand recovery in highly impacted verticals such as travel and hospitality,” analysts at Emkay Global said in a note. Emkay said the revenues of top IT companies were likely to grow 2.2-3.9 per cent quarter-on-quarter in constant currency terms. Cross currency movement is likely to aid reported dollar revenue by 80-110 basis points in the fourth quarter for the next tier of companies. “We expect Infosys and HCL Technologies to provide double-digit revenue growth guidance of 12-15 per cent and 11- 13 per cent YoY in constant currency terms, respectively.’’ The brokerage expects Infosys to report net profit of Rs 5,151 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, an increase of 19.2 per cent over the same period of the previous year while TCS is expected to post a profit of Rs 9,209 crore-a growth of 14.4 per cent as compared to the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Abhijit caveat on globalisation||Nobel prize winning economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Sunday said India had been a beneficiary of globalisation but the country needed to develop a mechanism to deal with the associated risks. Speaking virtually at an event organised by Bandhan- Konnagar, a Bengal-based NGO, Banerjee said that the risks associated with globalisation could be managed if resources came in with globalisation. “India has been a beneficiary of globalization. Exports have grown faster than most countries from the early 1990s till today,” Banerjee said. The Nobel laureate, however, added a globalised world means a lot of risks. “ One can deal with these risks if resources are coming with them,” said Banerjee. He said these risks are not necessarily concentrated among the poorest of the poor. Banerjee, an alumnus of Calcutta’s Presidency College, said “There is a need to build (measures for) mitigation. But less attention was paid towards mitigating mechanisms and was left mostly to NGOs till the time programmes like NREGA and other schemes were developed.” Meanwhile, Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, founder of Bandhan, on Sunday said plans are ongoing to set up a 200-bed hospital catering to the general requirements but focusing on diabetes. He was speaking on the occasion of celebration of 20 years of the organisation which started as an NGO on April 11, 2001.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust posts 26% surplus hike||Calcutta Port Trust (CPT) has recorded its highest ever net surplus in at least a decade in 2020-21, a year initially blighted by the unprecedented disruptions caused by the pandemic. Despite cargo traffic volume coming down 4.14 per cent, the port managed to log in a 7.3 per cent rise in revenue and a 26 per cent hike in surplus, backed by higher port charges, land revenue and new cargo and cost control measures. The iron and steel industry, which dots the hinterland of CPT — now called Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta — contributed most to the good tidings at the port, especially in the second half of the last fiscal. Import of cooking gas also brought in better business, while the movements of container and thermal coal were down. “We managed to keep our costs under check, despite providing for additional expenses to combat Covid-19, taking care of the workforce and keeping the operation going. The port also did well operationally and had it not been for the lack of thermal coal traffic, we would have ended the year with cargo growth,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta explained. Traffic handled by the 12 major ports, a barometer for the economy, were down 4.54 per cent to 672.6 million tonnes (mt) from 704.92mt a year ago. SMP, Calcutta handled 61.33mt cargo, down from 63.98mt in the previous year, standing at fifth place in terms of cargo movement. Mormugao in Goa and Paradip in Odisha were the only two major ports to post a rise in volume, while Deendayal (formerly Kandla) in Gujarat arrested the decline better than Calcutta. The port, split broadly between Haldia and a relatively smaller operation at Calcutta, earned Rs 2,622 crore in revenue and Rs 104 crore in net surplus compared with Rs 2,443 crore revenue and Rs 82-crore surplus in 2019-20. The buoyancy in the iron and steel sector lifted the port out of sloth from September onwards. The import of coking coal — a key raw material for blast furnace operation in the steel mills — went up significantly as demand came back. Export of iron ore also bounced back after a few years, keeping the berths busy. The port also exported over a million tonne of steel as the industry opted for overseas markets to beat the slackness in local demand. During the winter, the port handled seven capesize vessels, the highest so far, at sandheads which are located at the high sea, for lighterage operations. Taking advantage of the 50 metre of natural draft, ships could carry 160,000 tonnes of coal, which were unloaded to smaller vessels and brought up the river Hooghly to Haldia and Calcutta. The Haldia operation also benefited from the increase in LPG penetration in the eastern and northeastern states. The port handled about 5mt  cargo, making it a major import hub for cooking gas in India. However, the fall in thermal coal movement was a dampener for the port. Tamil Nadu, which procures coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd to generate electricity, hardly moved any cargo via Haldia as demand slacked due to the Covid-19 led slowdown, costing close to 3.5mt cargo to the port. The state has resumed operation from April this year. Container movement, which underlines high-value movement of cargo, were down, leading to a sharper fall in Calcutta Dock System near the city. A combination of cost control and revenue boost shored up the port’s finances, which follows the accounting practise of trusts. The port management cut down overtime expenses by 30 per cent, squeezing the wage bill. Simultaneously, it earned higher revenue from land banks, apart from generation escalation in port related charges. Steel exports were more remunerative for the port too. The port also reined in two major expenses — pension obligation to 30,000 employees and dredging costs to keep the navigational channel usable. After moving all pensioners under the age of 75 to LIC’s annuity scheme, the port’s annual pension obligation has fallen to Rs 80 crore from Rs 200 crore a few years back. The dredging cost also stood at about Rs 300 crore in the last fiscal, three-fourth of which was borne by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Cover Caution||The general insurance sector is closely linked to various sectors such as infrastructure, automobile, health and agriculture and, thus, plays a crucial role in supporting our economy. It’s an important social security tool which comes to your rescue in the case of any loss or damage. However, it’s disappointing to know that the penetration of general insurance is less than 1 per cent in our country which is certainly a cause of concern. Why is it that irrespective of its benefits people still shy away from buying insurance? Why is it that even after a combined ratio of over 100 per cent, which shows that the industry is bleeding by paying claims, people still perceive that the industry doesn’t pay claims? According to reports, the Indian insurance industry loses crores of rupees every year to frauds and this is one of the main reasons hampering its growth. These frauds affect both the industry and society as they act as a deterrent to delivering the benefits of insurance to the right people who are in need. Frauds drive up operational costs for insurers, drain their resources which may also lead to an increase in the prices that genuine customers may have to pay because of the fraudulent activities by a few. The main foundation of an insurance contract is trust and if a person has filed a claim, he or she should get it immediately within minutes. Only then will the perception about the industry change, which in turn will encourage more people to opt for insurance. Such frauds affect an insurer’s ability to deal with legitimate claims quickly. Insurers are certainly working hard to simplify the claim processes and upgrading their services, but all stakeholders need to come together to deal with this problem. An easy target for such fraudulent activities are the customers who are not cautious while buying an insurance policy. Hence, it’s important for them to be aware and verify the facts to avoid falling prey to such activities. Some of the steps a customer can take are: n Verify the authenticity of the policy: It’s important to understand the terms and conditions of the policy and check whether the policy you have bought is genuine or fake. One can immediately contact the insurer, share their policy number and verify its authenticity. Insurers today also have a facility of QR codes on their website where the customer can validate their policies. n Verify the channel: It is important to know whether you are buying a policy from an authentic insurance channel or not. For instance, if you are buying a policy online, check if the insurer’s website domain name is genuine as fraudsters come up with fake websites and dupe people. In case you are buying a policy from an agent, request for their valid ID and upon purchase validate the policy by checking with the insurance company. n Opt for a safe mode of payment: It’s advisable that you make the payment directly to the insurer through cheque, debit/credit card or other online modes of payment. This helps establish a proper trail of transaction, which is otherwise not possible in cash payments. While an alert customer can prevent many frauds, insurers too are leveraging forensic science, data analytics and technology to identify potential frauds and to also nab fraudsters in the case of fraud. The industry along with the government and the regulator are working towards curbing this menace. For instance, the General Insurance Council has enabled data sharing and experience sharing platforms, wherein insurers can list their fraudulent claims. This helps other insurers to be cautious in case they come across a similar fraud pattern while assessing the claims. More can be done to restrict the misuse of insurance by such malicious elements. A centralised digital KYC database can be developed, which can help insurers validate a customer’s authenticity. There’s some level of integration with institutions such as IIB, VAHAN. However, there can be further integration with UIDAI, RTO, CCTNS, court records and Medical Council, which will help insurers receive an early intimation of claims leading to faster claim settlement and fewer litigation. Standard medical protocols and treatment guidelines are also required that will reduce false line of treatment and exaggerations on claim amount. With some of these steps, we will be in a better position to tackle frauds together. Awareness and rapid action along with instant resolution against frauds will go a long way in not only enabling the growth of the industry, but also creating a better society at large. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra appointed next Chief Election Commissioner||Sushil Chandra was on Monday appointed as the next Chief Election Commissioner, the Law Ministry said. According to a notification issued by the Legislative Department of the ministry, Chandra will assume charge on April 13. Incumbent Sunil Arora demitted office on Monday. ”In pursuance of clause (2) of Article 324 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Sushil Chandra as the Chief Election Commissioner with effect from the 13th April, 2021,” the notification read. Chandra was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission (EC) would hold assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. New assemblies have to be constituted before their five year term ends. Chandra was the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes before he joined the EC. Followng the retirement of Arora, the three-member poll body as of now has a vacancy. While Chandra will be the new CEC from Tuesday, Rajiv Kumar is the other election commissioner. Chandra, an IIT graduate, is a 1980-batch officer of the Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax cadre). Since Chandra has expertise in taxation and investigation, he has helped the poll panel in election expenditure by political parties and candidates, a senior EC official said. Before Chandra, T S Krishnamurthy was the other IRS officer to be appointed as election commissioner. He went on to become the chief election commissioner in 2004.       Chandra completed his B.Tech from Roorkee University and LLB from Dehradun and joined IRS in 1980. He has served in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat and Mumbai and has worked in the areas of international taxation and investigation at various places. He was commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) International Taxation at Delhi. Before being appointed chairman of CBDT, he was member (Investigation) in the Board. Besides the last Lok Sabha polls, Chandra also was part of preparations in holding assembly elections in Delhi, Haryana and a few other states. He is also an ex-officio member of the Delimitation Commission tasked to redraw the assembly constituencies of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir has provision for a legislature. At present it is under central rule||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||Spike in Covid cases leave bodies piled up in Chhattisgarh||Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur has run out of space to store bodies as the number of cases continues to rise in the state. Far from freezers as is the procedure, they are now being kept pretty much anywhere with available space, reports NTDV. Hospital authorities plead helplessness and say the bodies of patients who are dying of COVID-19 are piling up at the mortuary faster than they can be cremated. The hospital's intensive care units and oxygen-equipped beds have been at almost 100 per cent occupancy for the past week. "No one could have guessed that there would be so many deaths all at once. We have enough freezers for the usual number of deaths. But we just can't understand how places with one to two deaths are reporting 10-20. If we prepare for 10-20, 50-60 people are dying. How can we arrange freezers for so many people at once? Even crematoriums are overwhelmed," said Raipur's chief medical and health officer Meera Baghel to NDTV. "We were close to winning against Covid in a way thanks to measures like home isolation. But we are not able to size up this new wave yet. We are seeing cases where even asymptomatic patients are deteriorating really fast and dying of heart attacks," she added. According to official sources, 55 bodies are being cremated in Raipur city on an average every day and most of them are coronavirus patients. Among the 10 states that have been worst hit by this ferocious second wave of coronavirus in India, Chhattisgarh on Sunday reported 10,521 new COVID-19 cases, taking its caseload to 4,43,297 while 122 fatalities pushed the number of deaths to 4,899. The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts - which are under lockdown - accounted for 2,833 and 1,650 new cases, respectively, during the day. While the total cases in Raipur have reached 91,311, including 1,203 deaths, Durg's caseload rose to 55,395, including 939 deaths. Rajnandgaon saw 759 fresh infections, Bilaspur 624 and Korba 455 among other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
12-04-2021||India||CBI calls former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning||The CBI has called former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning on Wednesday in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and suspended officer Sachin Waze, officials said. Waze, an assistant police inspector, is under investigation in the case of an explosive-laden SUV found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The notice calling Deshmukh to join the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe was issued on Monday morning, a day after his two aides Sanjeev Palande and Kundan recorded their statements before the agency, the officials said. The CBI is carrying out a preliminary inquiry into allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the coveted post of Mumbai Police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by Waze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the SUV case, they said. The Bombay High Court had last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh. In a letter, Singh had said that Deshmukh had asked Waze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Night curfew imposed in Haryana amid surge in cases||The Haryana government on Monday imposed night curfew in the state with immediate effect amid a surge in coronavirus cases. "Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders," Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told PTI. He said the decision has been taken in the wake of an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state recently. "The situation will be assessed after a few days after which a decision on continuation of night curfew will be taken," Vij said. However, there shall be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. Emergency and municipal services, people tasked with law and services, police, military and paramilitary personnel have been exempted from the curfew, according to an order. Vij said that additional chief secretaries of the home, health and urban local bodies departments have been instructed to ensure people wear masks and follow all other Covid-related guidelines. On Monday, Haryana reported a record spike of 3,818 cases, the highest in nearly five months, according to a health department bulletin. In the past several days, there has been a daily surge in the number of cases in the state, with many districts including Gugaon, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Faridabad reporting big spikes. The order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority said that the Centre and the Haryana government have issued various guidelines from time to time to prevent the spread of Covid-19. However, there has been a recent surge in number of cases and therefore, it is imperative to put in place strict measures of isolation and social distancing to contain the spread, it said. It was mentioned in the order that there has been a lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles during the night. There shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the restricted hours, according to the order. However, services and movement of persons related to law and order, emergencies and municipal duties have been exempted from the curfew, it said. Executive magistrates, police personnel, military, paramilitary personnel in uniform, health, electricity and fire personnel, media persons with accreditation, and the government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties will face no restrictions, the order said. Also, those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass by officers authorised on this behalf are exempted, it said, adding that there will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. All vehicle and persons in bonafide transit (inter-state or intra-state) shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination, the order said. Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will remain open round-the-clock. Pregnant women and patients going to get medical services and passengers going to or returning from airport or railway stations will be exempted. Those violating the orders will face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Meal services banned in domestic flights under 2 hours||Airlines are not permitted to serve meals in domestic flights that have a duration of less than two hours, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Monday, as coronavirus cases continue to spiral across the country. The ban will come into effect from Thursday, the ministry said in its order. When scheduled domestic flights were resumed on May 25 after coronavirus lockdown last year, the ministry had allowed the airlines to serve in-flight meals under certain conditions. Modifying the previous order, the ministry's fresh directive said: "The airlines, operating flights on domestic sectors, may provide meals services on board, where the in-flight duration is two hours or more." The ministry said it decided to review the on-board meal services in domestic flights due to the "the increasing threat of COVID-19 and its variants". Airlines are permitted to serve only pre-packed snacks, meals and pre-packed beverages on flights that have a duration of more than two hours,. The servicing of in-flight meals must be staggered "among the adjacent seats as far as possible", it added. The ministry said all three coronavirus variants of the UK, South Africa and Brazil demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization. India has surpassed Brazil to record the second-highest number of COVID-19 cases at 1,35,27,717, as a record 1,68,912 new infections were reported on Monday. The active cases have surpassed the 12-lakh mark, while the toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 more deaths, the highest since October 18. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since last May and under bilateral air-bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Sputnik V emergency use in India waits for final approval||An expert panel of India's central drug authority has recommended granting approval to Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for restricted emergency use with certain conditions, paving the way for a third vaccine to be available in the country, sources said on Monday. The Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on Monday deliberated upon the application of Dr Reddy's Laboratories seeking emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V. "After detailed deliberation for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations subject to various regulatory provisions," a source said. The recommendations have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. If approved, it will be the third Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, being manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. According to sources, around 10 crore doses of the vaccine (Sputnik V) is likely to be imported for emergency use in the country in the next six months. The vaccine is indicated for active immunisation to prevent Covid-19 in individuals aged 18 years and above and is to be administered intramuscularly in two doses of 0.5 ml each with an interval of 21 days. It has to be stored at -18 degrees Celsius. According to recommendations by the SEC, the firm has been asked to submit revised factsheets to CDSCO after incorporating the latest safety and efficacy data and other suggestions made during the meeting, another source said. Besides, the firm should submit the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials in India and Russia for review as and when available. The firm also has to submit safety data including the data on AEFI and AESI with due analysis every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter till the completion of the ongoing clinical trial in the country. The SEC earlier had reviewed the application by Dr Reddy's in two meetings earlier held on April 1 and February 24. The health ministry earlier had said three more Covid-19 vaccines by Zydus Cadila, Biological E and Gennova are also in the pipeline and are in advanced clinical trials in India. Global healthcare major Johnson and Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. In light of the SEC meeting held on April 1, Dr Reddy's on Monday presented the interim safety and immunogenicity data from phase 2/3 clinical trial including GMT titres for virus neutralising antibodies, comparative phase 3 immunogenicity data generated in Indian and Russian studies and unblinded data of serious adverse events and RT-PCR positive cases among others. In September last year, Dr Reddy's partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V and for its distribution rights in India. Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent in the interim analysis of phase 3 clinical trial, which included data on 19,866 volunteers in Russia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Several steps being taken to increase number of beds in Delhi hospitals, says Kejriwal||Several steps are being taken to increase the number of beds in both private and government hospitals in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday after a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the national capital. Some government and private hospitals will again be converted into fully COVID facilities, government officials said. The number of daily COVID-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the pandemic began on Sunday, with the chief Minister describing the situation as very serious and appealing to people not to step out unless it is urgent. In a tweet after the review meeting, Kejriwal appealed to people to follow COVID-19 protocols and avoid rushing to hospitals. "Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate. 1. Pl pl follow covid protocols. 2. Don't rush to hospital unless necessary 3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligible," he wrote on Twitter. The government is alert and taking all necessary steps in view of the growing numbers of COVID-19 patients, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Karnataka CM doesn't rule out another lockdown amid Covid spike||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't heed then we may have to take stringent measures. If required and if necessity arises, we will impose lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. Reacting to queries on the growing coronavirus cases in the state, which saw the numbers breaching 10,000 on Sunday, he said the Prime Minister had also spoken to him about the measures taken by his government. "(I told him) we have imposed night curfew in the districts where the coronavirus cases are rising," Yediyurappa said. He insisted that people should wear face masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't cooperate then we will initiate stringent measures, which people should not give scope for. I want people to cooperate with us," Yediyurappa said. To a question if the Technical Advisory Committee had recommended a lockdown, Yediyurappa reiterated that people have to understand and cooperate. Meanwhile in Bengaluru, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters that the government was not inclined for a lockdown and wanted people to cooperate. "Neither me nor the Chief Minister is saying that we will do it (lockdown). All we are saying is don't compel us to push to that extreme. Our government is not at all willing to impose lockdown," he clarified. He also said that if people cooperate the second wave of coronavirus can be defeated. The talk of lockdown came following reports that the Technical Advisory Committee has recommended lockdown for a brief period to contain the coronavirus. Sudhakar had on Sunday said that the cases may touch around 25,000 to 30,000 by the month-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||SC benches to sit one hour late from scheduled time as Covid cases keep rising||Supreme Court judges would hold court from their residences on Monday and the benches would sit one hour late from their schedule time in the morning as around 44 staffers have tested positive for coronavirus, sources said. On some media reports which suggested that around 50 per cent Supreme Court staffers have tested positive for COVID-19, an apex court official said only 44 employees got infected in the last one week. There are around 3,000 staffers working in the apex court. While some judges had been coming to the apex court premises to hold court, few others have been presiding over proceedings from their residences till now. Amid the rise in COVID-19 cases, the apex court has come out with two separate notifications. One of them said the benches, which used to assemble at 10.30 AM and 11 AM, would assemble one hour late from their schedule time on Monday. All judges would hear cases through video conferencing from their residences and in the meanwhile, entire court premises, including courtrooms, are being sanitised. The other notification suspended physical mentioning of cases for urgent hearing by advocates from Monday till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Active caseload surpasses 12-lakh mark as India records over 1.68 lakh fresh Covid cases||India hit a new coronavirus infection record with 1,68,912 new cases, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the total tally of cases to 1,35,27,717, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has fallen below 90 per cent. The active cases have surpassed the 12-lakh mark, while the death toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 33rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 12,01,009 comprising 8.88 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 89.86 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,21,56,529, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,78,06,986 samples have been tested up to April 11 with 11,80,136 samples being tested on Sunday. The 904 new fatalities include 349 from Maharashtra, 122 from Chhattisgarh, 67 from Uttar Pradesh, 59 from Punjab, 54from Gujarat, 48 from Delhi, 40 from Karnataka, 24 from Madhya Pradesh, 22 from Tamil Nadu, 21 from Jharkhand, 16 each from Kerala and Haryana and 10 each from Rajasthan and West Bengal. A total of 1,70,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 57,987 from Maharashtra, 12,908 from Tamil Nadu, 12,889 from Karnataka, 11,283 from Delhi, 10,400 from West Bengal, 9,152 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,507 from Punjab and 7,300 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||As Covid cases rise, ban on export of remdesivir ||India on Sunday banned the export of remdesivir, a key drug used in the treatment of patients hospitalised for severe Covid-19, amid a sharp spike in demand in parallel with the epidemic’s growth in multiple states. The Centre has also prohibited the export of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) used to produce remdesivir, a drug manufactured by seven Indian companies under voluntary licensing agreements with the US-based Gilead Sciences. India’s count of active patients on Sunday surged to 1.1 million. The Union health ministry said the epidemic’s resurgence over the past two months has led to a “sudden spike in demand” for remdesivir and requirements are expected to increase in the coming weeks. The seven companies have a collective installed capacity of about 3.8 million units per month. Critical care specialists say Covid-19 patients prescribed remdesivir typically need about six vials of 100mg each. The installed capacity would thus support up to 630,000 patients per month, or about 21,000 patients per day. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has increased from 69,000 on April 2 to 152,000 on Sunday. Doctors say whether this capacity is sufficient for India’s needs would depend on how fast the cases rise in the coming days and weeks. “The number of cases now is pretty large, but there may also be some indiscriminate use of this drug,” said Sumit Ray, head of critical care department at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. “It is no magic bullet, but may be useful in reducing the length of hospitalisation in a small subset of moderately-ill patients.” The health ministry said all domestic manufacturers have also been advised to display on their websites details of their stockists and distributors to facilitate access to the drug. The ministry has directed drug inspectors to verify stocks and check any malpractices and take other effective actions to curb hoarding or black marketing. The Centre has told states that the national treatment guidelines view remdesivir as an “investigational therapy” where informed and shared decision making with patients or their relatives is essential if patients are considered eligible to receive the drug.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Migrants leave from Delhi, to beat feared lockdown ||Durga Prasad, a loader in southeast Delhi’s Okhla Industrial Area, has seen many of his fellow migrant workers leave Delhi, spooked by fears of another lockdown amid the resurgence in Covid infections. He told The Telegraph he was staying put, at least for now, but would greatly welcome some sort of government assurance that the migrants would not be left in the lurch if a lockdown was indeed imposed. “I have four children in Delhi government schools but they’ve been closed for a week now (after the higher classes had reopened recently). I lost my job in a cable factory last year and have been a day labourer since. I’m struggling to repay the loans I took last year,” Prasad said. “My family in Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) is calling us back. If the government can just give us an assurance of some work if there’s a lockdown and promise us rations, we won’t have to leave. We don’t want to leave.” Not all of Prasad’s peers think like him. Although Delhi has not seen jam-packed outbound trains the way Covid-ravaged Mumbai has in recent days, a steady stream of working-class families has been making its way to the Anand Vihar bus terminus to head to their homes in the east. Anindita Adhikari of the Stranded Workers Action Network, a non-government body, said the current migration owed not to job losses but to fears of another lockdown like last year’s. A government assurance, therefore, could help ease the workers’ mind, she said. Delhi has recently imposed night curfews and reduced the volume of public transport amid a rise in the positivity rate of Covid tests from less than 1 per cent to around 10 per cent over the past few weeks. “The government should issue a statement that the workers will continue to receive wages and the industries will continue to operate,” Adhikari said. She conceded that the workers were “unlikely to take this at face value because of what they faced last time”. Still, she said, the government should “use its database of the phone numbers of the people who took special trains, used ration coupons and so on (last year) to send them messages that reassure but do not cause alarm”. Amid the flurry of notifications imposing more restrictions on gatherings and the enhancement of medical facilities, the Delhi government has been silent on migrant workers. A source in the ruling Aam Aadmi Party said its leaders were wary of spreading alarm, which might lead to rumour-mongering. “Last time, there were rumours that we were assisting migrants to leave as we allegedly wanted to withdraw their subsidised power meters and ration cards,” he said. “As of now, we don’t think that we should do anything, but food distribution will start immediately at 2,000 government schools if a lockdown is imposed. We have also learnt from Kerala, which successfully delivered food packets at doorsteps last year.” On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a webcast: “If you cooperate and the hospital facilities stay under control, we won’t have to impose a lockdown in Delhi. However, if the number of beds in hospitals starts falling short, we might have to impose a lockdown. I’m not in favour of a lockdown.” Chandan Kumar, national coordinator of the NGO Working People’s Charter, said that simple steps could prevent an exodus like last year’s. “Let the chief ministers of the industrialised states publicly request the workers not to leave and proactively register migrant workers for social security schemes. Right now, not one government is saying: ‘Don’t panic, come to your local government school and avail the benefits of the public distribution system’,” he said. “We found that 70 to 80 per cent of the migrant workers had returned (to their workplaces) after Chhath and Diwali last year but most did not bring their families along. Only a few are returning home right now as the rural economy cannot sustain them, but fears of a lockdown and uncertainty about daily-wage work is weighing on their minds as they know the State will do nothing.” The experience of Mohammed Guddu, who quit his tailor’s occupation in Delhi during last year’s lockdown and returned home to Darbhanga in Bihar, bears out both Kumar’s warning about an inhospitable rural economy back home and his plea for a government assurance to migrant workers. Guddu only occasionally finds work as a day labourer in Bihar, but has not returned to Delhi. “I suffered so much in Delhi (during last year’s lockdown) and had to stand in queues for free food. I have not returned as the tailoring unit I got orders (sub-contracts) from has not returned to full capacity, and at home at least I don’t have to beg for food,” he told this newspaper. “But it’s very hard to support my family as we are not receiving any support from the Bihar government, either. Boys from our village are returning in large numbers from Mumbai this time.” A special train from Mumbai reached Ranchi on Sunday with 25-odd passengers who returned home from the metropolis fearing another lockdown. The Ranchi division of the South Eastern Railway, said the 21-coach train with 12 general compartments was a “single-trip, superfast special train” and that there was no plan to run more such trains on the route. Besides the passengers who travelled to Ranchi, there were others who got off at stations along the way. Some migrant workers arrived in Ranchi after travelling to Dhanbad or Gomoh on other trains. “Mumbai ka sthiti bigad raha tha, fir lockdown hone se fas jate (The condition of Mumbai was worsening and we would get stranded if another lockdown was declared),” said one such worker, Sanghnu Bhagat of Basia (Gumla) who travelled back with his sister Shanti. Saghnu worked as a labourer and Shanti was a domestic help in Mumbai. Additional reporting by Achintya Ganguly Ahmedabad: Gujarat High Court on Sunday initiated a suo motu PIL on the coronavirus situation, observing that media reports indicate the state is heading towards a “health emergency of sorts”. Titled “Uncontrolled upsurge and serious management issues in Covid control”, this is the second such PIL registered by the high court on the coronavirus situation. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-216
12-04-2021||India||Congress: Don’t hold CBSE exam amid Covid surge ||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of pushing the country into crisis again by failing to prepare for a second wave of Covid infections and sought cancellation of the CBSE exams to protect young lives. “No check on corona, no adequate vaccines, no jobs, no paying heed to Kisan-Mazdoor’s grievances, no safety net for MSMEs & middle class… eating ‘aam’ was fine but at least ‘aam aadmi’ should have been spared,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. His post came amid reports from parts of the country about a lack of adequate hospital beds, medicine and ventilators as India led the global charts for new Covid cases. The Congress slammed Modi’s suggestion to celebrate a “tika utsav” (vaccine festival), saying Covid was a cause for concern, not celebration. The party alleged that Modi and home minister Amit Shah had in their obsession with state elections ignored the constant rise in cases since February. It provided a chart tracking the rise in active cases: “February 10 — 139,933; February 20 — 142,684; March 10 — 186,211; March 20 — 306,090; April 10 — 1,102,370.” Rahul tweeted: “In the light of the devastating corona second wave, conducting CBSE exams must be reconsidered. All stakeholders must be consulted before making sweeping decisions. On how many counts does Government of India intend to play with the future of India’s youth?” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded cancellation of the CBSE exams, describing as “shocking” the board’s decision to hold the exams in May amid the rising Covid cases. “Students prepare for these exams for months.... Yet lakhs of children and parents from all over India have been expressing their fears and apprehensions about assembling at exam centres... in the middle of the second wave of Covid-19,” she wrote to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Priyanka said it would be “practically impossible to ensure the safety of students at large and crowded exam centres”, and that the teachers, invigilators and students’ families would be at risk too. Besides, “by forcing the children to sit for these exams during a raging pandemic”, the government and the CBSE would have “legal liability” if some of the exam centres “prove to be hotspots where large numbers of children become infected”. “As state after state issues guidelines preventing the assembly of large numbers of people... what moral grounds can we stand on while forcing young children to do exactly that?” Priyanka wrote. She spoke also of the possible psychological impact on the children. “They already face the immense pressure of the exams; in addition, they will now be fearing the conditions in which they will be taking them,” Priyanka wrote. “Being forced to sit for exams donning masks, gloves and other protective gear under the spectre of a deadly disease will cause unnecessary anxiety to these children and impact their ability to perform as well.” She hoped the government would hold “a dialogue with schools, students and their parents so that a safer way for them to fulfil their educational obligations can be found”. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “What does one say when the government wants to call the vaccination drive an ‘utsav’? By no stretch of imagination can it be a festival. The vaccination drive is a crusade.” He added: “Having messed up the management of the production and supply sides of the vaccines, the government is covering up its massive failure through rhetoric and hyperbole. “We were the first to demand universal vaccination and get(ting) rid of the silly app and the need for pre-registration. Vaccination must be a walk-in programme. The government must immediately provide funds to ramp up production in India and increase supplies. “The government must also authorise the use of more approved vaccines and allow their manufacture or import. We have a duopoly of two vaccines, but they are hardly sufficient to vaccinate a nation of 138 crore people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Covid: In Uttar Pradesh, even dead have to queue up||Long lines of crammed ambulances, some carrying up to three dead patients, have formed before Lucknow’s two crematoriums since Thursday. Some of the ambulances are having to wait two days or even longer in the queue with the dead and their relatives. It’s not just costing the bereaved families tens of thousands of rupees in ambulance charges but causing an ambulance shortage in the city. At the root of the crisis, crematorium staff and relatives of the dead say, are two developments: n One of the two electric chambers at the Baikunth Dham crematorium and the only one at Gullala Ghat —each capable of incinerating a body in one hour — have developed snags and stopped functioning. n The recent Covid resurgence has increased the arrival of bodies. Manish Pandey told The Telegraph on Sunday morning he had been waiting in queue at Baikunth Dham since Friday night, sharing an ambulance with his father’s body and that of another dead patient. He said he would be lucky to be able to cremate his father by Sunday night. Employees at Baikunth Dham said the malfunctioning of one of the electric chambers since Thursday had brought the crematorium’s capacity to burn bodies from 48 a day to 24 while the number of arrivals had increased to 60 because of the Covid surge. They said Covid accounted for around half the dead. “My father died of Covid at King George’s Medical University on Friday night. I shared an ambulance with the family of another dead patient from the same hospital as this was the only option,” Pandey,  a resident of old Lucknow and a soldier posted in Punjab who is on leave, said on Sunday morning. “I have been waiting my turn since then. My father’s body is in the ambulance.” Even a static ambulance costs a client at least Rs 10,000 a day. A crematorium employee said the authorities had from Sunday revived pyre burning, a practice that had virtually stopped over the past few years. “Today, the local authority asked us to bring firewood. We have 10 (concrete) platforms for pyres, so this may help clear the backlog.” A pyre takes about 10 hours from cremation to the recovery of the remains, and firewood costs about double the incineration charge. “There’s one more person apart from me to cremate the bodies. We can burn a maximum of 24 bodies in 24 hours even if we work round the clock. But on average, 60 bodies are arriving every day since Thursday,” said Munna Kumar Singh, an employee at Baikunth Dham. “Covid patient or not, each body comes in a PPE kit. We are issuing tokens to the relatives and asking them to wait their turn.” Awadhesh Prasad had been queuing at Gullala Ghat with the body of his younger brother, who died after a cardiac arrest, since Saturday morning. “The only electric chamber here is not working. Only 19 of the 42 platforms for pyres are usable — the rest are damaged or too dirty,” he said. “Pyre burning takes 10 hours. Some 20 ambulances, most of them carrying multiple bodies, are queuing at the gate.” Prasad hit out at chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Uttar Pradesh mein hahakar macha hai aur mukhya mantriji chunavbaji mein lage hain (Uttar Pradesh is wailing in distress while the chief minister is busy electioneering),” he said. Adityanath is not only addressing rallies in poll-bound Bengal, he is busy holding meetings with BJP activists for the April 15-29 panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Amit Kumar, additional municipal commissioner of Lucknow, said: “We are trying our best to improve the situation.” A state health department report says 12,787 Covid patients were detected between Saturday noon and Sunday noon, of whom 4,059 were from Lucknow. It adds that 48 people died of Covid in the state during this 24-hour period, 23 of them in Lucknow. The death count should be higher, however, if crematorium staff are right about half the arrivals being dead Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Covid: Second wave threatens to sink healthcare services||India’s second Covid-19 wave has begun to overwhelm healthcare services at some places in the hardest-hit states of Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh amid reports of shortages of healthcare workers, including critical care specialists, as well as oxygen and ventilators. Public health teams have reported shortages of healthcare workers in at least eight districts in Maharashtra, three in Punjab and three in Chhattisgarh, oxygen supply concerns in four Maharashtra districts, and a dearth of ambulances in Chhattisgarh. The Centre has requested two states to send ventilators for Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and expressed concern that ventilators in Punjab’s Rupnagar district are not being used because of shortages of critical care specialists. Maharashtra is expected to receive 700 ventilators from Gujarat and 421 from Andhra Pradesh within three to four days, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a meeting with Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday. The Union health ministry, in letters sent to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh on Saturday, outlined the deficiencies observed by public health teams in the three states. The teams have reported limited oxygen supplies in Pune, Bhandara, Palghar and Osmanabad in Maharashtra and Raipur in Chhattisgarh, a dearth of ambulances in Durg, Chhattisgarh, shortages of critical care infrastructure in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, inadequate facilities for Covid-19 testing in Balod, Durg and Korba in Chhattisgarh, and malfunctioning ventilators in Latur and Satara in Maharashtra. They have reported shortages of healthcare workers in Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nandurbar, Palghar, Satara and Yawatmal in Maharashtra, Durg, Jashpur and Rajnandangaon in Chhattisgarh, and Patiala, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar in Punjab. Health and critical care specialists had predicted last year that an uncurbed growth of the epidemic would trigger shortages of intensive care unit beds, critical care staff and ventilators and necessitate inter-state transfer of human resources and equipment. India’s count of active patients on Sunday increased by over 61,000 to cross 1.1 million. Maharashtra alone accounted for over 538,000 patients, followed by Chhattisgarh (85,800), Karnataka (61,700), Uttar Pradesh (58,800) and Kerala (40,100). “It’s what we thought would happen without a lockdown — which is the situation we have now,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, founder and director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a health think tank with headquarters in Washington DC and New Delhi. The Union health ministry had said on Friday that 0.46 per cent of the active patients nationwide were on ventilator, 2.31 per cent in intensive care units and 4.51 per cent on oxygen support. Shortages of ventilators and critical care facilities would depend on how fast and where the caseloads increase in the coming days and whether areas with the fastest-rising caseloads have the required infrastructure, a senior critical care specialist said. India on Sunday recorded over 152,000 new Covid-19 cases with sharp surges in infections in multiple states, including the five most-populated states, threatening to push the epidemic’s second wave — already much beyond the previous peak — even higher. Maharashtra accounted for 36 per cent of the new cases recorded in the previous 24 hours, but the seven-day averages of daily new cases have increased 34-fold in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, nine-fold in Bengal and six-fold in Madhya Pradesh since mid-March. “As new cases emerge, the virus gets more opportunities to spread from person to person — especially when people aren’t taking precautions,” said a community medicine specialist. “The growth we’re seeing now suggests that the daily counts could rise to much higher levels than where we are now. I won’t be surprised if the daily new cases reach 200,000 within days.” India’s seven-day average of the daily new cases spiked from about 69,000 on April 2 to 124,000 on April 10. The health ministry has been urging the states to implement the standard public health measures of aggressively testing people, isolating positive cases, tracing and quarantining contacts, and ensuring that patients receive appropriate treatment early. But public health teams have also observed “pandemic fatigue”, a trend that some community medicine specialists had warned about last year. The guidelines require health staff to trace 20 to 30 contacts for each positive patient and ask them to quarantine themselves. Public health specialists say many Covid-19 patients across the country no longer receive knocks on their door from health staff seeking details about their contacts in the three days before they were detected. “The epidemic has become huge — all the focus should be on preventing deaths,” one expert said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Fire engulfs library built by day labourer in Mysore||Day labourer Syed Issaq, 62, had built a library of 11,000 books and stacks of newspapers to introduce the poor to a world of knowledge that had been shut to him as a child. After the library of his sweat and toil that contained thousands of copies of the Bhagvad Gita, the Quran and the Bible burnt down on Friday, he was shocked but determined not to let the suspected land sharks behind it destroy his life’s work. “I still have it in me to rebuild it all over again,” the father of three grown-up children told reporters on Saturday. “I never had the privilege of a proper education; so I want to provide access to books and newspapers to the underprivileged.” Well-wishers have pitched in, with an online fundraiser having already collected Rs 15.65 lakh by Sunday to help Issaq rebuild the library. A Facebook campaign for book donations that emphasises the “interfaith” character of Issaq’s library has received support from across the country. Issaq had used a portion of his income from cleaning drains and doing odd jobs to set up the library in a small tin-and-bamboo shed in Mysore city, 140km from here, in 2011. It stood on a patch of government land in the Rajiv Nagar Corporation Park slum near Ammar Mazjid, and was known simply as “Public Library”. Although he was occupying government land, the authorities did not disturb him since he was doing it for the public good. Opened with a small number of books and newspapers, the library grew quickly with books donated by the public. Among the charred books were “about 3,000 copies of the Bhagvad Gita, and another 1,000 copies of the Quran and the Bible, almost all donated by people”, Issaq said. More than 80 per cent of the destroyed books were in Kannada while the rest were in English, Urdu and Tamil. Issaq said the library attracted about 150 regular visitors each day, and most of them read the newspapers. He said he spent about Rs 6,000 each month on the library’s upkeep and on the eight daily newspapers in Kannada, Urdu, English and Tamil that it offered its readers. The library operated on trust: Issaq opened it every morning and went to work while visitors walked out with any book or newspaper they wanted and later returned them. There were no fees, deposits, records or library employees. Issaq returned to close it in the evening. “I was asleep at home (near the library) when a neighbour told me about the (pre-dawn) fire. But there wasn’t much I could do to save the books,” Issaq said. An FIR of “mischief by fire or explosive” has been registered on a complaint from Issaq. Police sources said they suspected local toughs who had at least twice tried to shut the library down. Issaq says the goons had asked him to move out since he was occupying government land. He believes they worked for the land mafia. “There were about 11,000 books, most of them donated by well-wishers. It will take a lot of time and effort to collect all the titles again,” Issaq said. Muzaffar Assadi, head of political science at the University of Mysore, has urged people to donate books to help rebuild the library. “This act of destroying a privately run library established by a poor man in a slum area for the purpose of interfaith dialogue and disseminate the value of knowledge is most condemnable,” Assadi wrote on his Facebook page on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar in hospital for gall bladder surgery||NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday admitted to a hospital here for the gall bladder surgery scheduled on Monday, party leader Nawab Malik said. “Sharad Pawar was advised to rest for seven days after he underwent a medical procedure (last month). It was then decided that the surgery for the removal of his gall bladder will be performed after 15 days. Accordingly, Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy hospital on Sunday,” he said. Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the Breach Candy hospital on March 30, a doctor had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Lynched Bihar cop’s mother dies of cardiac arrest||The mother of the Bihar police officer allegedly lynched by a mob at a village in North Dinajpur died of cardiac arrest on Sunday after knowing that her son was no more. Urmila Devi, 70, had not been keeping well for some time, and the arrival of the body of her eldest son, Ashwini Kumar, at their village in Jankinagar in Purnea district proved to be the last straw. Kumar, 50, had been posted as the Kishanganj station house officer (SHO), around 390km northeast of Patna. He was killed on Friday night at Panthapara village in North Dinajpur in neighbouring Bengal where he had gone with a police team to probe a motorcycle theft case. Three persons have been arrested in connection with the killing. The funerals of Kumar and Urmila were conducted together at the local cremation ground. People from the area, public representatives as well as senior administrative and police officers were present. “My father was an honest and brave police officer. We believe he has been killed as part of a conspiracy hatched by some police personnel and other people. The CBI should probe the incident because I do not have faith in the local police,” Kumar’s daughter Nancy told reporters. Purnea range inspector-general Suresh Chaudhary has suspended an inspector and six constables accompanying Kumar for dereliction of duty. They had been armed but allegedly fled, leaving Kumar at the mercy of the mob. Chaudhary announced that all police personnel posted in the Purnea range would contribute a day’s salary to Kumar’s family. The total amount is expected to be around Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Rafale: PIL seeks registration of cases of cheating and criminal conspiracy against Modi||A public interest petition in the Supreme Court has sought the registration of cases of cheating, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the alleged 1-million-euro kickbacks in the Rafale deal. Petitioner Manohar Lal Sharma has also sought the registration of the same cases against alleged Indian middleman Sushen Gupta, and requested a court-monitored CBI probe into the kickback charges. The petition was moved on April 6 but Sharma made it public only on Sunday. The petition is expected to be heard next week. Sharma has cited the April 5 claim by French anti-corruption body AFA that Rafale-maker Dassault Aviation had paid 1 million euros to Gupta. “That Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) which functions in a capacity similar to India’s comptroller and auditor general (CAG) was set up in 2017 with the aim of checking whether large companies implemented the anti-corruption procedures set out under Sapin 2, the French anti-corruption law,” the petition says. “However, unlike CAG, the AFA also audits private firms. AFA did audit and disclosed corruption of gift one million euro to the Indian middlemen in the Rafale deal given by Dassault.” In December 2018, a bench made up of then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and K.M. Joseph had refused to intervene in the Rafale deal or order a court-monitored probe. In November 2019, the apex court had dismissed a batch of petitions that had sought a review of the 2018 judgment on the ground that certain file notings relating to the deal had been concealed from the court during the earlier hearing. However, Justice Joseph had at the same time held that the judicial dismissal of the petitions would not be a constraint on the CBI, and that the agency was free to register an FIR for alleged corruption in the deal. The CBI did not register any such case. Sharma has sought the prosecution of Modi and Gupta under penal code sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, which entails jail for up to 10 years), 420 (cheating, punishable by jail for up to seven years) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). He has made Modi and Gupta respondents and impleaded Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited besides the Union government and the CBI. Sharma has claimed the alleged kickbacks ran foul of Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty), Article 13 (laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights) and Article 253 (legislation for giving effect to international agreements). He has raised several questions of law for the apex court to consider:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Over Rs 1 crore collected as Covid fine in four days in Odisha||Odisha police have collected more than Rs one crore as fine from people violating Covid-19 guidelines in the last four days. “Cumulatively, in four days, action has been taken against 44,846 violators of Covid protocols in the state and penal fines amounting to Rs 1,25,32,000 have been collected. Behave responsibly and follow the Covid-19 guidelines,” Odisha police tweeted on Sunday. The punitive action was taken against violators for not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The 10-day mask wearing drive was launched on Friday after chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked the people to put on masks to avoid a lock down. In order to enforce wearing masks in public places, the Odisha government has already enhanced the fine amount. The fine amount for not wearing the mask has been doubled from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 for the first and second offence. For subsequent offences the violator has to pay Rs 5,000. The state on Sunday reported 1,379 Covid-19 positive cases. With 339,603 recoveries, Odisha has now 7,979 active cases. The district administration of Ganjam, the home turf of Naveen that witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases last year because of large-scale return of migrant labourers to the district from other parts of the country, has asked government officials and teachers not to leave the district headquarters. The district administration has decided to register the names of all the migrants returning to the district. Meanwhile, the state government has stepped up its campaign to contain the spread of Covid-19 and assigned senior IAS officers the task of monitoring the situation in different districts. They will act as observers and give their feedback to the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||India||Parents die in bike accident on NH-16 in Odisha, daughter critical||A couple was killed and  their seven-year-old daughter critically injured on Sunday after a speeding truck hit the motorcycle carrying them near Neulpur on NH-16 in Odisha’s Jajpur district, police said. The incident occurred at 10 am when the couple along with their daughter was heading to their native village from Bhubaneswar. The deceased persons were identified as Laxmikanta Matia (29) and his wife Manjulata (25), the police said. The minor girl, Gayatri, who received multiple injuries, was initially rushed to Dharmasala Community Health Centre and later shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-217
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: EC bars Mamata from campaigning till Tuesday, 8pm||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was banned from campaigning in Bengal for 24 hours on Monday evening over speeches that the Election Commission (EC) said had religious overtones and violated rules. Sources said the ban till 8 pm on Tuesday - outgoing Election Commissioner Sunil Arora's final order -- was for Mamata's  comments on Muslim votes and for allegedly urging voters to revolt against central security forces, reported PTI. "Commission hereby condemns such statements potent with serious law and order problems across the state (s) and sternly warns Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," the order said, PTI reported. It said that the "commission also imposes a ban of 24 hours on Ms Mamata Banerjee from campaigning in any manner from 8.00 pm of April 12 till 8.00 pm of April 13". Mamata has tweeted that she will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti from 12, noon as a symbol of protest against the "unconstitutional order of the EC" that came half-way through the Bengal elections with four more rounds of voting left. Campaigning has been intense, pitting Mamata against a galaxy of BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. The Trinamool Congress blasted the Election Commission, dubbing it "Extremely Compromised" - not for the first time. Through Monday, the poll juggernaut in Bengal kept rolling under the shadow of five deaths in a tiny Cooch Behar village. The fifth phase of polling is to be held on April 17 in as many as 45 seats. A multi-phase polling allows campaigning even while polling is on in another part, and that has kept the blame-game alive on both sides. The threat of a repeat of Sitalkuchi has already been announced. Earlier on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee stepped up the ante in an effort to milk the issue for votes in the remaining 159 seats. Addressing his first election campaign meeting in Burdwan’s Talit, Modi claimed the BJP had already won 100 seats in the first four phases of polling. “The BJP has scored a century in the first four phases. Didi has lost. That is why she is angry and frustrated. Didi talked about playing games. Her game is over. Didi was clean bowled in Nandigram,” Modi said. About two hours later at Nadia’s Kalyani, Modi told an assembly of BJP supporters that the Cooch Behar incident was a part of Mamata’s masterplan to rig the polls. “Didi has sensed defeat and is hatching new conspiracies. A part of her plan is not to allow scheduled caste voters to cast their votes. Instead, her party workers will cast false votes. Trinamul workers will gherao central force personnel on the streets, while inside her goons carry out the dirty work. What happened in Cooch Behar was a part of this masterplan. “In the first four-phases of polling, Trinamul’s defeat has been ensured. Two days later is Poila Boisakh (Bengali New Year), the countdown of Didi’s government will start from that day,” Modi said. During the day, Mamata also campaigned in Nadia where she continued with her attacks on Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah. “BJP planned the whole thing (Sitalkuchi killings) with the district superintendent of police. I will probe this. I will find out the truth. Who attended the meeting, how they planned, how a woman was sent first. She was instructed to say her child had been stolen and then they opened fire, killed… BJP killed its own worker, the Rajbonshi brother (Anand Burman), who had died earlier in the day. They are shameless. I will help his family as well,” she said in Ranaghat. “I have got the names of those who fired from the CISF. I won’t spare anyone over this incident. There is no reason to think I am a fool. I have found out everything, I will dig more,” Mamata added. On Sunday night, the former BJP state president Rahul Sinha had commented that the central forces should have killed more in Sitalkuchi. “They should have killed eight. They must be served showcause notice to find out why only four were killed,” Sinha said in Habra in North 24-Parganas. Mamata latched on to Sinha’s statement to bolster her claim. “After the deaths, the BJP president (Dilip Ghosh of the Bengal unit) is saying, open fire. Someone says kill four, someone says kill 12. Aren’t they ashamed of instigating central forces? Amit Shah has made the entire plan,” she claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Shah accuses TMC of spreading lies about NRC||Seeking to allay fears created among the people of the hills by TMC's "lies", Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Monday that the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will have no impact on the Gorkhas. Shah, during an address after a roadshow in Kalimpong, said as long as the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is there at the Centre, no Gorkha will be harmed. "NRC has not yet been implemented, but whenever it is done, not a single Gorkha will be asked to leave," the senior BJP leader said. "The Trinamool Congress is lying about the possible fallout of NRC on the Gorkhas in order to create fear among them," he said. Noting that Darjeeling and Kalimpong have suffered atrocities for long, Shah claimed in 1986, over 1,200 Gorkhas lost their lives, but they did not get justice. The home minister also alleged that the Mamata Banerjee-government has also been responsible for the death of many Gorkhas in recent times. "We will form an SIT and send those responsible for the wrongdoings behind bars," Shah said amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Jai Gorkha'. Darjeeling and its adjoining areas were rocked by movements and protests, which at times turned violent, in favour of a separate Gorkhaland in 1986 and in 2017. Later, addressing a poll rally in Dhupguri assembly constituency, Shah declared that the BJP is ahead in 92 of the 135 seats that went to polls in the first four phases of the West Bengal assembly elections. He also asked people to give a grand farewell to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, ensuring that the saffron party wins over 200 seats. Mocking Banerjee for uttering his name more than that of Bengal in her speeches, Shah said had she talked more about the state, the CM could have had a chance to win the elections. Maintaining that he has a resignation letter ready in his pocket, the home minister asked the people at the rally whether they want him to quit in the wake of the death of four people in firing by the CISF during polling in the fourth phase. "If the people want, I will tender my resignation," he added. Dhupguri goes to polls in the fifth phase on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP to highlight TMC leader's 'insult' of scheduled castes||The BJP will launch major protests in West Bengal against the alleged disparaging comments of a TMC leader about scheduled castes, as the saffron party looks to step up its campaign in the remaining phases of the state assembly polls. A delegation of BJP's Dalit MPs, including party general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, Sunita Dughal, Hansraj Hans and its SC wing head Lal Singh Arya, submitted a memorandum to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, seeking action against TMC leader Sujata Mondal Khan. Khan had recently allegedly likened the scheduled castes in West Bengal to beggars for the community's support to the BJP in large numbers. Dubbing the TMC as "anti-Dalits", Gautam said the BJP will launch major protests against the state's ruling party. "What she (Khan) has said is deeply insulting. She said the scheduled castes are beggars by nature. The community is supporting the BJP due to our welfare policies. What she has said is reflective of the TMC's and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's mindset," Gautam told reporters. West Bengal does not even have an SC commission where Dalits can go for lodging their complaints, Gautam said, targeting Banerjee. The Modi government has worked for all sections of society without any discrimination, and that is what the BJP is receiving support for every community, he said. The party has demanded action against Khan. A party delegation had on Sunday lodged a similar complaint with the Election Commission. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also raised the issue in his poll speeches in the state. The BJP has been running a concerted campaign in its bid to end the TMC's 10-year rule in the state. Assembly polls in West Bengal are being held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata 'clean bowled' by people of Bengal, says Modi||Drawing a cricket analogy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the people of Bengal have hit so many fours and sixes in the first four phases of the assembly polls that the BJP has already completed its century and the TMC is on course to being wiped out. Modi, who is on a whirlwind election tour of the state addressed rallies in Bardhaman and Kalyani, where he came down hard on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of instigating people against central forces on election duty in the state. The prime Minister also launched a blistering attack on Banerjee, saying she did not care to express regret after a "leader very close to her" called Scheduled Castes "beggars". "People of Bengal hit so many fours and sixes that BJP has already completed a century (of seats) in the first 4 phases of assembly polls. They have wiped out the TMC in half the match (aadha mein poora saaf). "People of Bengal have clean bowled Didi in Nandigram and have asked her entire team to leave the field," he told an election rally in Bardhaman. Mocking TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's "Ma, Mati, Manush" slogan, the prime minister said, "Tormenting 'Ma', looting 'Mati' (motherland) and bloodshed of 'Manush' (people) is its reality." Alleging that Banerjee incited people against central forces, he referred to the killing of four in the firing by CISF personnel in Cooch Behar on April 10. "In the last 10 years Mamata Banerjee conspired to deny the scheduled castes, the poor and the deprived sections their rights through 'chappa vote' (rigging). "What happened in Cooch Behar was the consequence of this conspiracy. Victory and defeat are part of democracy but you will not be allowed to snatch away people's right to vote," he told another rally in Kalyani in Nadia district. He said Banerjee's policies have snuffed out the lives of children of countless mothers. In both the rallies, Modi castigated Banerjee over a TMC leader and candidate's comments against the Scheduled Castes equating them with beggars. "Didi calls herself a Royal Bengal Tiger. You tell me is it possible for someone to say such things without her permission? Such comments hurt the soul of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Such a seriously objectionable comment has been made but Didi hasn't condemned it or apologised for it. "You have committed the biggest mistake, the biggest sin by insulting Dalits, Didi," Modi said. Addressing a rally in Matua dominated Kalyani, Modi said Didi didn't like his visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh where the founder of the Matua sect and social reformer Harichand Thakur was born. "Didi did not like my going to Orakandi in Bangladesh, she raised questions over my visit...I have come to assure you today that all refugees will get all facilities due to them, they will get justice. For the BJP, providing justice to all refugees, Matua and Namasudra brothers, is also an emotional commitment," he said. Matuas, originally from Bangladesh, migrated to West Bengal in large numbers after Partition and later during the war for Bangladesh's freedom from Pakistan. Many of them have got Indian citizenship and many not. The TMC had objected to Modi's visit to Bangladesh in the middle of the election campaign claiming it was designed to influence voters in West Bengal. The prime minister alleged Banerjee's appeasement politics hurt Matua and Namsudra communities hard and they had to pay commission to "TMC's extortionists" even to obtain scheduled caste certificates. Accusing Benerjee of dividing people, Modi said "Jukto koro-Seva Koro" (uniting people and serving them) is his motto. "Didi knows Congress could not return to power once ousted, Left could not return once removed from power, you too will never be able to bounce back," he said. Mocking Banerjee, Modi said she had forgotten her party's motto 'Maa, Maati, Manush' and is only chanting his name at public meetings. She only created a mess in the name of governance, the prime minister said. Referring to the recent incident of lynching of a Bihar police officer in West Bengal and the death of his mother from shock which led to their funeral pyres being lit together, Modi said Mamata Banerjee's government does not respect anyone anymore, "not even mothers". "Didi, is that officer's mother not a mother for you? No mother in Bengal knew how cruel and ruthless you are," Modi said. He said Banerjee was getting angrier with each passing day because people of Bengal have decided to show her the exit door. "In democracy it's the people who begin the game and end it, people of Bengal have decreed your 'khela' (game) is up. Didi wanted to hand over the reins to 'Bhaipo' (nephew). People saw through the 'khela' and decided it should be over," Modi said, adding the countdown for her government's departure has begun. Top BJP leaders have often said Banerjee wanted to hand over the reins of the party and the TMC government to her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek. He promised to revive the industrial belt in Kalyani and said the BJP has presented a roadmap for it in its election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Survivor account and report sent to EC don’t match||Mrinal Haque writhed in his hospital bed, complaining to his mother. “Khub byatha korchhe amma (It’s hurting bad, mother),” the Class VIII student told Rahila Bibi, who has been at the hospital in Mathabhanga with husband Majid Mian since their son was admitted on Saturday afternoon. The 15-year-old boy is central to the narratives swirling around the Sitalkuchi tragedy in which four voters were gunned down by central forces on Saturday. The teenager’s name has travelled beyond Jorpatki village, courtesy a report on the firing that the administration has submitted to the Election Commission. The report sent by Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal by the Election Commission, to Nirvachan Sadan says the boy had fallen sick near a polling booth and some women were found taking care of him. When a group of CISF personnel approached them to ask whether they wanted to send him to hospital in a vehicle parked nearby, some onlookers mistakenly thought the jawans had beaten the boy and raised an outcry, the report says. This prompted 300 to 350 villagers to gather near the booth, it adds. The situation escalated thereafter, culminating in the fatal shootings. Records at the hospital, 10km from Mrinal’s home in Jorpatki, show that the boy had arrived with severe body ache and blunt injury marks in his buttocks, back and shoulder. Asked how he had suffered the injuries, Mrinal said in a weak voice on Sunday: “I was in the local market (in Jorpatki on Saturday morning) when a central force jawan grabbed me by the neck and hit me several times with his stick. I pleaded with him but he kept beating me. After some time, he stopped and I fell to the ground.” Several villagers had told this correspondent the unprovoked thrashing of Mrinal had prompted them to protest the central forces’ high-handedness, which led to the firing that killed the four voters in Jorpatki, part of Sitalkuchi constituency in Cooch Behar district. Rahila said she was told that after Mrinal slumped to the ground, a few people gave him first aid and water. “We got the news and hurried to the spot. Soon, a police team arrived and offered to take him to hospital. Seeing his condition, we agreed and headed for the Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital,” she said. It’s the only hospital serving the 3 lakh people of Cooch Behar's Mathabhanga sub-division, located along the India-Bangladesh border. Mrinal’s parents could not vote as they had to attend to their son. The parents said they could not have imagined that a jawan’s assault on the boy would set off such a spontaneous protest. The parents added that Mrinal had told them he had no idea why the jawan beat him. “Our house is about 70 metres from the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra (where the CISF had fired near the 5/126 booth) and adjacent to a local mosque,” father Majid, a farmer, said. “He was nowhere near the booth; he was in the local market, which is around 350 metres from the booth. We can’t understand why the forces beat him up.” Mrinal’s condition has shown no improvement and the doctors have advised a shift to the MJN Government Medical College and Hospital in Cooch Behar town, about 40km away. But the parents say they haven’t got the money to hire an ambulance. “We are already short of cash for his treatment --- we had brought along whatever little we had but it’s not enough,” Majid said. “I’m trying to get in touch with relatives and neighbours but they are busy with the last rites of the four youths we lost yesterday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: There’ll be Sitalkuchi everywhere, says Dilip Ghosh||BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday threatened a repeat of the Sitalkuchi firing everywhere if “naughty boys” did not behave themselves. “Gone are the days of the politics of fear. Stand in queue and cast your vote. The central forces will be present at the booth; we are here,” Ghosh told a rally at Baranagar on the northern fringes of the city. “Aar jodi barabari korey, Sitalkuchitey dekhechhen ki hoyechhe. Jaygaye jaygaye Sitalkuchi hobey (If they cross the limits, you’ve seen what happened in Sitalkuchi. There will be a Sitalkuchi everywhere).” Ghosh said those who had died in CISF firing in Sitalkuchi were “dushtu chhele (naughty boys)”. He claimed that women have been unable to step out of their homes under Trinamul’s rule. “If you complain, Didi will say they are naughty boys. Where have so many naughty boys come from? These naughty boys were shot in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi yesterday,” he said. “Sobey shuru hoyechhe. Jara bhebechhey kendriyo bahini bondukta dekhanor jonyo niye eshechhe, tara bujhe giyechhe oi gulir gorom kemon. Sara Banglaye eta hobey (It’s just a start. Those who thought the central forces had brought their guns only for show, they have realised how searing those bullets are. This will happen across Bengal).” Several BJP leaders said in private that Ghosh had made these comments to press ahead with the agenda of polarisation in the constituencies that are yet to vote. BJP leaders realise that it’s difficult for their party to win seats where Muslims make up more than 40 per cent of the population. Their objective is to consolidate the Hindu vote in the BJP’s favour in constituencies where the minority vote share is below 40 per cent. Responding to Ghosh’s speech, Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “It’s beneath humanity to speak like this.” Roy said his party would report Ghosh’s speech to the poll panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sitalkuchi voters were shot in chest and neck, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday alleged “genocide” in Sitalkuchi, saying the four voters killed in Saturday’s CISF firing were “sprayed with bullets in the chest and neck”. Her allegation came at an unscheduled news conference, called after her planned visit to Jorpatki village in Cooch Behar, where the deaths occurred, was thwarted by the Election Commission’s 72-hour ban from Saturday evening on politicians entering the district. Mamata, however, sprang a surprise at the Siliguri news conference, making a 10-minute video call to talk to the bereaved families in Cooch Behar. “This was genocide. It’s unprecedented. The central force just sprayed them with bullets,” Mamata had earlier told the reporters, adding that she had seen images of the bodies. “They should have fired below the waist, but the bullets were fired at the neck and the chest,” the chief minister added, a black stole wrapped around her neck as a mark of grief and protest. The dead voters — Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haq (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) — are said to have been Trinamul supporters. While the administration, functioning under the poll panel, has said the CISF personnel fired in self-defence after being attacked by a mob, local villagers have alleged unprovoked caning and firing by the forces. Mamata questioned the deployment of the CISF, which specialises in industrial security, to maintain law and order during an election. “Are they trained to control mobs? No. I want to know why bullets were fired like this. Why no tear gas? Why no water cannon?” she said. Mamata continued to question the claim by the administration and BJP politicians that the CISF personnel had been forced to fire to protect themselves, their weapons and polling material like the electronic voting machines from a violent mob. “Show me one (security force) person who was attacked and injured.... There is no basis to this self-defence theory,” Mamata said. She accused the Centre of using the central forces and the Election Commission to create unrest in Bengal during the polls. "It's an incompetent government, incompetent Prime Minister and incompetent home minister. They first kill people and then give a clean chit to those who killed them. I demand the home minister's resignation," the chief minister said. She added: "They killed the villagers and then this order was issued to prevent me going there so that they can suppress the facts. But see, I can reach the family members there." Mamata dialled the phone number of Partha Pratim Roy, Trinamul nominee from Sitalkuchi and president of the party's Cooch Behar unit. Roy was at the morgue in Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital where the families of the dead had come to collect the bodies after the post-mortems, whose reports have yet not been revealed. During the video call, Mamata spoke to the families of Maniruzzaman and Hamidul and promised all possible help. "You know that I wanted to come but they didn't let me. I shall come after three days, on April 14. I can't bring back those who lost their lives, but I shall do whatever I can for the families," Mamata told the grieving relatives. Under Mamata's instructions, Trinamul observed a "black day" across the state. Party sources said Trinamul would continue the protests, portraying the Cooch Behar killings as a planned assault on Bengal by outsiders. Union home minister Amit Shah, who attended multiple programmes in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, accused Mamata of using deaths to "pursue appeasement politics". "The deaths are unfortunate, but the chief minister hasn't said anything about the fifth death. Ananda Burman, a first-time voter, was killed but she didn't say a word about him. She is using deaths to pursue appeasement politics for electoral gain," Shah said. Mamata had, however, mentioned the death of 18-year-old Burman and said he was a Trinamul supporter. News reports said Burman had been shot dead outside his booth in Sitalkuchi, at a place 15km from Jorpatki, during a BJP-Trinamul clash. The two parties have blamed each other. Shah's allegation that Mamata had been silent on Burman was aimed at polarising the Hindu voters further, BJP sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: State seeks EC nod to give compensation to family of youths killed in CISF firing||The state government has asked Pawan Kadyan, the Cooch Behar district magistrate, to send a formal request to the Election Commission of India, seeking permission to give compensation to the family of the four youths killed during the central force firing in Sitalkuchi on Saturday. The DM has also been asked to seek permission to give compensation to the injured. “As the model code of conduct is in place, the government can’t announce compensation without an approval from the EC. The DM of Cooch Behar will seek permission to give Rs 5 lakh each to the family of the victims and Rs 2 lakh each to the injured,” said a senior government official. The state government is planning to get a nod from the EC to give compensation to the family members of Ananda Burman, the fifth youth killed in Cooch Behar. The 18-year-old died of a bullet injury during a BJP-Trinamul clash. Sources in the poll panel said that such permissions are usually granted on humanitarian grounds given that the issue is not used as a poll tool. “In this case too, the EC would not oppose the state government’s decision to give compensation, but there will be a precondition. It has to be ensured that no political leader will be involved in the process of giving compensation and the issue won’t be used in a political platform ahead of polls,” said a source. District authorities in Cooch Behar have said that they are yet to decide on when repolling will be held at booth  5/126 in Jorpatki village of Sitalkuchi where the firing took place. “Polling stopped immediately after the violence... The EC ordered repolling, but fresh dates are yet to be announced,” said Kadyan. After the incident, the CISF had lodged an FIR at Mathabhanga police station. The family members of the bereaved, however, did not file any complaint with the police till late Monday evening. “The chief minister had said that she would get the incident probed by the CID.... But as the family members haven’t yet formally lodged any complaint, the probe cannot be started,” said a source. In view of the tense situation at the village, the police intensified mobile patrolling in the village. The central force personnel, however, left the village last night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata leads candlelight march for slain voters||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday apparently revived a 2007-era slogan, made famous during the Nandigram’s anti-land acquisition movement in East Midnapore, with a call to respond to bullets with ballots a day after the Sitalkuchi firing incident. Mamata, who attended two rallies in north Bengal followed by a candle march in Burdwan on Sunday, highlighted the purported CISF “murders” at all her events. In Burdwan on Sunday evening, she participated in a road show on her wheelchair and covered a 6km stretch with a candle in hand, to show her solidarity for the four youths who were gunned down in Sitalkuchi. At a rally in Jalpaiguri’s Raiganj on Sunday afternoon, Mamata implored the crowd to avenge the Sitalkuchi deaths, from the central forces opening fire, with votes and not violence. The parallels to 2007 were obvious on Sunday, when Mamata refused to go on the back foot and instead rallied her supporters at a time of crisis. “Bengal will make Trinamul victorious with more votes and seats than it had earlier. It is a challenge...Don’t give them (the BJP) a single vote. You have to make us victorious with more votes than in the past. This is a challenge….My mothers and sisters, you will cast your vote for your brothers who were gunned down and remember their blood-stained faces,” she said. Trinamul sources said Mamata was both furious and impassioned by Saturday’s incident, and cast aside restraint over poll-time predictions by declaring that her party would win with more than the 211 seats that it had won in 2016. “Till now, she had only confidently declared she would win, but had been ambiguous about numbers, besides urging people to ensure victories in 200-plus seats. Now, she seems a lot more incensed, more confident…. The BJP-led Centre’s central forces committed a big mistake politically,” said a source. “She was quietly confident before this. But after Sitalkuchi, she’s back to her fiery old self… seething and supremely confident. She realises that the Sitalkuchi incident would be pivotal,” he added. Many Trinamul insiders recalled her movement in Nandigram, where she agitated relentlessly after 14 persons were killed in police firing during the Left regime, recounting how that show of support underpinned her rise to power. From her rally in Jalpaiguri on Sunday, Mamata revived the Nandigram-era slogan. “Bullet-eyr bawdla ballot-ey chai (Bullets must be avenged with ballots),” she said. Trinamul leaders pointed out the slogan was made famous during the Nandigram movement. “The CISF who are trained to handle miscreants killed our brothers who were in the queue of a polling booth. It was a planned murder and Union home minister Amit Shah is responsible. It is shameful that the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) tried to support genocide,” Mamata said at a rally. Apart from focusing on Sitalkuchi, Mamata also highlighted how her government had helped to develop the tea and tourism sectors, which are considered the lifeline of north Bengal’s economy. “We gave free dwellings for the tea garden workers. Our government had increased the wage of tea garden workers from Rs 67 to Rs 202. The BJP government assured you of opening tea gardens but they did not open a single one. While BJP gave false promises to the people here, our government opened seven tea gardens,” said Mamata from her first campaign rally in the Dooars, referencing her government’s efforts to develop the tourism sector after she came to power in 2011. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s focus on the tea sector was vital as tea workers are a deciding factor in 12 out of 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amid rage and tears, villagers bury four youths ||When she woke up on Saturday, Rahila Bibi, 23, of Jorpatki village had no inkling of what could happen in a few hours — she was simply excited about her Gangtok trip, starting Sunday, with her husband Maniruzzaman Mia, 28, and their one-and-a-half-month-old daughter. However, on Sunday, a devastated Rahila bade her final farewell to her young husband, one of the four men who fell to the CISF bullets at Jorpatki village in Sitalkuchi of Cooch Behar district on Saturday. Their daughter slept on in the lap of a relative, oblivious to the fact that she lost her father. The other three men who lost their lives are Nur Alam Mia, 20, Samiul Mia, 21, and Hamidul Mia, 31. “He had reached home from Gangtok (Maniruzzaman worked as a construction site labourer there) on Friday (a day ahead of the fourth phase of polls)…we had plans that today (Sunday), we would leave for his workplace and would spent some days there in the hills. Yesterday (Saturday), both of us went to vote and then suddenly…gunshots were fired and my life took a different turn,” said a wailing Rahila. Mamata Bibi, Maniruzzaman’s mother, was also inconsolable. Sitting in front of their house, she went on repeating why the CISF personnel did not charge at the voters with batons if there had been any problem at the booth. “They could have even shot them in the leg…. Our sons would have been injured but we would not have lost them like this,” Maniruzzaman’s mother said. “We want justice as it is evident that the bullets had been fired to kill them,” she added. On Sunday morning, Jorpatki, an otherwise quiet, nondescript hamlet in Cooch Behar that hit the headlines after the central forces posted in a local booth opened fire at the residents on Saturday — a rare incident in Bengal during the poll season — wore a bleak look. As the day rolled on, people started assembling near the houses of the four victims in ones and twos, trying to console the bereaved family members. Another group of villagers headed for the Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital to get bodies of the four youths back to the village for their burial. Late in the morning, the bodies were brought to the village. Hundreds of people assembled and raised slogans to seek justice for the deaths of the youths. The bodies were then taken to their respective houses, where traditional rituals were held. Then, the bodies were brought to a graveyard of Hamidul’s family, where the villagers paid the four youths their last respects before the burial. Absar Ali, Samiul’s father, sat near the graveyard for a long time, lamenting the loss of his son. Samiul, who used to run an internet café in the locality, was a first-time voter. “These Bengal elections have taken away my son from me…. I will never vote again in my life. We were standing in queue… both my sons were there. Suddenly, the security men present there started firing. I lost Samiul. We don’t know what made them take such a step,” said the sexagenarian. He said he was still dazed at the events of the last 24 hours. “My life has changed,” he added. The villagers, who had assembled in large numbers for the burial of the youths, sounded angry. “Why are the Election Commission and the administration silent? Why have the CISF personnel, who indiscriminately fired at our boys, not been taken into custody? We want answers,” said Ershad Hossain, a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah shifts onus on Didi, demands apology||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday tried to shift the responsibility of the Sitalkuchi incident to Mamata Banerjee, claiming that her allegedly inflammatory speech against the central forces had triggered the incident. Shah, who also tried to play the communal card on the chief minister’s alleged selective mourning for the deceased, demanded her apology for the deaths. Mamata has held Shah responsible for the incident and demanded his resignation. Shah on Sunday said the deaths were “very unfortunate” and asserted that Mamata had tarnished the “tradition and culture” of politics in Bengal. “A few days ago, Mamata didi delivered a speech in Sitalkuchi where she asked people to attack the CISF, the CAPF... I want to ask her a direct question... Wasn’t your speech responsible for the death of the four persons? Had you not delivered such a speech, the persons who died would not have dared to attack,” Shah said Nadia. “It is you who incited people that led to the firing. I hope you would apologise for the inflammatory speech,” he added. On April 8, Mamata had at a rally in Cooch Behar said that people should “gherao” the central forces personnel if they tried to foment trouble or work in favour of the BJP. The Election Commission had sought a report from the Cooch Behar district administration after the speech. The BJP also lodged a complaint with the commission, terming Mamata’s statement against the central force as “seditious” and “anti-national”. On Sunday, Shah blamed the Trinamul Congress chief for “politicising” the incident. “Some unidentified persons attacked a polling station yesterday (Saturday). They tried to snatch arms from the personnel. In self-defence, the personnel had to open fire in which four persons died. This is quite an unfortunate incident. But prior to that incident, a person was killed by miscreants in that booth. The motive was to stop polling there. The miscreants attacked the CISF there and tried to loot their arms as well,” Shah said in Nadia’s Santipur. He accused Mamata of “appeasement politics”, claiming that she wasn’t mourning the first death of a youth called Ananda Burman. “It is quite unfortunate that Mamata didi in her statement expressed condolence only for four persons. But she did not pay any homage to Ananda Burman. Even in death, she continues with her appeasement politics.” Trinamul’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy rubbished the allegations. “People in Bengal have heard what Mamata Banerjee had said about the loss of five lives, not four, in Sitalkuchi. She mentioned the names of all and expressed her condolence for all. She does not need to learn lessons on political culture from Amit Shah,” Roy said. He added that his party had demanded the arrest of BJP Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh for his saying that there would be more incidents like Sitalkuchi. He also said that till Sunday evening, 11,700 rallies had been organised by the TMC across the state, condemning the Sitalkuchi killings and demanding Shah's resignation. The Congress's Bengal unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanded immediate arrest of the central force personnel who opened fire in Sitalkuchi. “It is quite horrible, the way common people were shot. The Election Commission failed to maintain law and order. Now it should at least arrest the personnel who killed those people," Chowdhury said in Basirhat. Responding to Mamata’s demand for his resignation, Shah atrally in Basirhat South on Sunday said: ‘Didi, when people will ask me, I’ll resign. But you be prepared, on May 2 you’ll have to resign.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Gurung accuses Golay of routing funds for BJP||Bimal Gurung accused Sikkim chief minister P.S. Golay of routing funds for the BJP in the Darjeeling-Siliguri region to influence the ongoing elections purportedly to save his government in Sikkim that is indebted to the BJP. “BJP is about to gobble the Sikkim government and the Sikkim government in order to save his government is holding on to the dhoti of BJP and indulging in politics…how much funds have you send for Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Siliguri, Naxalbari, Khoribari? How many crores, have you sent?” Gurung questioned in a rally at Rangpo near the  Sikkim border on Saturday evening. This is the first time in recent memory that a Sikkim chief minister has been accused of funding elections in Bengal, a charge denied by Golay. Gurung, however, was also specific in his speech and said funds were being sent through contractors. “We have not and will never interfere in the politics of any other state. We have not done it in the past and will not do it in the future. We all know there is an election going on and we have nothing to comment on which leader says what about us,” said Golay. An observer said that Gurung’s allegation against Golay has to be seen in the backdrop of how he became the chief minister following the slender victory of his party, Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM), in the 2019 Sikkim Assembly election. SKM had won 17 seats against the Pawan Chamling-headed SDF’s 15 seats in the 32-member House. Golay, however, had not contested the elections since he was rendered ineligible after serving a year’s term in a corruption case. According to a section of the anti-corruption law, a person convicted of corruption cannot contest an election for six years from the date of his release from jail. Golay was freed after serving a year’s term on August 10, 2018 and the elections to the Sikkim Assembly were held in April 2019. Following SKM’s victory, Sikkim governor Ganga Prasad, an old BJP hand from Bihar, invited Golay to form the government. As demanded by law, since Golay was not a member of the Assembly, he had to get himself elected to the Assembly within six months of assuming office on May 27, 2019, which Golay did under extraordinary circumstances after the ECI reduced his disqualification period from six years to one-and-half years a day ahead of the last day for filing of nominations for the October 21, 2019 bypoll, and a day after the SKM had agreed to an alliance with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Malda Congress candidate Mottakin Alam attacked||Mottakin Alam, the Congress candidate contesting from the Manikchak Assembly seat in Malda, and district Congress president Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury were attacked and their vehicles were ransacked on Sunday while they were moving through a locality in Manikchak to campaign for the elections. District Congress leaders have blamed TMC-backed goons for the attack and filed complaints with the police and Election Commission. Sabitri Mitra, a former minister and the TMC candidate from Manikchak has refuted the allegation. Khan Choudhury, who is also the Congress MP from Malda South seat, said they were on their way to Fulbaria when the incident took place. “Alam’s car was ahead and my vehicle was following it. Suddenly, a group of people, many of whom were holding TMC flags, blocked the road. While some pelted stones on our vehicles, others tried to drag out Alam, who is the sitting MLA of Manikchak,” he said. Kalisadhan Roy, a septuagenarian and working president of Malda district Congress was also not spared, the Congress MP added. Alam, who is the sitting MLA of Manikchak, was equally critical of the ruling party. Some elected members of a local rural body where the Trinamul is in power had organised the attack, he alleged. “I was fortunate to escape with minor injuries. The attack exposes the frustrations of Trinamul leaders and their followers. We want the police and administration to take stern steps,” he said. Mitra, the TMC candidate however, distanced herself from the incident. In a video message that she circulated among the local media, Mitra claimed that she is under treatment. “Also, the head of Fulbaria panchayat has undergone a surgery and is under treatment. Those who had a tussle with the Congress leaders have no connection with our party. Congress is unnecessarily indulging in a blame game,” she said. Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for the TMC, said: “A section of Congress workers are miffed with Alam’s nomination from Manikchak for the second time. They might have demonstrated before the Congress leaders,” he said. After the incident, Congress and CPM supporters held joint protests at a number of places in the district on Sunday afternoon. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate and the district election officer, confirmed that they have received complaints from the Congress leaders. “We are looking into it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Voting at Tibetan Settlement Office in Darjeeling passes off peacefully||There were no central forces or polling agents, but voting at the Tibetan Settlement Office in Darjeeling passed off peacefully on Sunday in sharp contrast to the violence in the ongoing Bengal polls. Tibetans in Darjeeling joined nearly 83,000-odd voters in some 26 countries to elect their Sikyong (president) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) and 45 Chithue (parliamentarians) to the Tibetan Parliament in Exile (TPiE) on Sunday. “Voting started from 8am and ended at 5pm in Darjeeling as in the rest of the world. There were seven polling booths under our office (in Darjeeling),” said Tenzing, secretary, Tibetan Settlement Office, Darjeeling. The election is one of the most important exercises for Tibetans-in-exile as His Holiness Dalai Lama devolved his political leadership and transferred responsibilities to Sikyong of the CTA in 2011. Its importance is not lost on the younger generation born outside Tibet. Pelmo Thondup, 37, said: “The future of our people will be in the hands of the people who get elected in this election. In a sense we (in exile) are lucky but there is no freedom for our people in Tibet.” Pelmo is the granddaughter of Gyalo Thondup, the second-eldest brother of Dalai Lama. There are an estimated six million Tibetans living in Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR) in China. This election is held in two phases. During the first phase of polls on January 3, Tibetans across the world had to write names of people they want as president and members of parliament. Any Tibetan above 18 and with a “Green Book” — a registration with CTA — could vote. On Sunday, voters chose between the two candidates who had received the highest endorsement in the January 3, Penpa Tsering and Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, as the Sikyong of their choice. The elected Sikyong will then nominate seven Kalons (ministers) to his cabinet called Kashag. Also 93 candidates are in the fray for the 45 parliament seats. The parliamentarians represent three regions of Tibet, four schools of Tibetan Buddhism, a pre-Buddhist religion Bon and Tibetan communities in America- Europe and Australasia- Asia. Results are likely to be announced on May 14. Pasang Doma Bhutia, 61, a voter, cautioned the community. “We should not vote on lines of regions of Tibet or schools of religion but on an individual’s ability as we have to be united to fight for our people in Tibet,” said Pasang, whose father, a Tibetan soldier, was killed by Chinese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: How Mamata rehabilitated former KLO militants||Two decades ago, Milton Burma used to trot along the mountainous terrains of Bhutan in chequered fatigues, carrying an AK-series rifle on his shoulders. It was a part of his regular regime to keep himself fit like hundreds of other Rajbanshi youths who had walked out of their homes and joined the armed struggle over the demand for statehood under the banner of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO). The outfit wanted a separate Kamtapur state that would include six north Bengal districts and three contiguous districts in Assam. Today, Milton Burma — a name given to him by KLO leaders, his real name being Mihir Das — is equally fit. His morning routine has remained the same but the place and purpose have changed. Earlier, he was an armed rebel, now Mihir is a khaki-clad home guard in the Bengal police force. He is posted in Kumargram — his home block in Alipurduar that was once a hotbed of the KLO. In 2002 and 2003, when the Royal Bhutan Army launched Operation Flushout, most KLO militants had been nabbed from the training camps the outfit had set up in remote locations. Some others who could evade arrest later surrendered. The Left Front government then took the initiative to rehabilitate the former militants but the plan failed. Former rebels like Mihir and hundreds of others had to struggle for years to earn a living. “While a section of us started working on a daily-wage basis in agricultural fields, the others left to work at construction sites and stone quarries elsewhere,” said Bhupesh Das, another former militant. However, things started changing in 2019 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee took the initiative to induct them into the state police as special home guards. “It was our longstanding demand, which the chief minister met. It is because of Mamata Banerjee that we got a new lease of life. Most of us work as home guards now and earn around Rs 17,000 a month. It is like a dream come true,” Mihir said. According to sources, over 700 former militants and linkmen (untrained insurgents who used to work for the KLO) have been employed as home guards in different districts of north Bengal. Another 500-odd former militants are awaiting appointment, the sources said. Bhupesh, who was known as Kalia among KLO cadres and was famous for his expertise in traversing different terrains with firearms and ammunition, said it gave them a sense of pride wearing the khaki. He said that even after they returned to the mainstream, their neighbours had some reservations about them. “Some of us had to even confront unpleasant comments. But after we began working as home guards, the perception of the people has changed. It has also helped us to regain our confidence and self-respect,” Bhupesh said. The rehabilitation of the former KLO militants and linkmen could help Mamata to win the support of sections of the Rajbanshis, observers said. The observers said that even three-four years back, there had been indications that some of the former militants could embrace insurgency again to protest the “apathy” of the government. “The KLO disintegrated years ago but even today, Jeevan Singha (the outfit’s self-styled chief) and some others continue to elude the police. The chief minister’s initiative to induct former militants as home guards has helped to address the grievances of these people. It has also staved off the possibility of the KLO reorganising,” a retired police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Singur rues lost time, appeals to leaders for industry||A jackal scurries across a 12-feet-wide concrete road that connects Bajemelia-Gopalpur village with the Durgapur Expressway in Hooghly’s Singur. The jackal, undisturbed by the chatter of a motley group of villagers, makes a sudden appearance and equally quickly disappears into a stretch of wild bushy growth where over a decade ago stood the almost complete automobile factory from where the Tata Group had planned to roll out its dream car Nano. Since the Tatas left Bengal in September 2008, Singur has witnessed Assembly elections in 2011 and 2016; the first ending the 34-year Left rule and catapulting Mamata Banerjee to the chief minister’s chair. The second ensured a second term for the Trinamul Congress chief, whose rise to power is linked to the land movements she led in Singur and Nandigram. As Singur voted to elect its representative to the Assembly this Saturday, villagers of Bajemelia and Gopalpur admit that cars vrooming out of the automobile plant would have been a better sight to behold than that of jackals taking shelter in the dense bush on barren land. Looking back at his resistance to the Nano plant, Lakshikanta Ghosh, 56, an unwilling farmer who took part in the anti-land acquisition movement, feels the automobile plant should have come up and wants Mamata to take the initiative if she returns to power. Asked what made him change his mind, Ghosh says: “The returns from agriculture are diminishing every year while factories have the potential to provide large-scale employment to young people like my son and daughter.” “My acre of land now yields almost nothing as its fertility got destroyed because of the construction of the Nano plant,” says Ghosh, who sells vegetables in a local market. Aware of the problems of the farmers, Mamata had after coming to power in 2011 introduced a scheme for around 3,500 unwilling farmers who were part of the Singur movement. They now receive Rs 2,000 a month along with 16kg of rice. Swapan Majhi, 53, who was a willing farmer, had given up his nine-cottah land for the Nano factory. He believes that the factory would have brought jobs and a host of business opportunities to the region. “The project did not happen. Today I have to pull a van to survive as my land has turned barren. There is talk that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will bring a factory to Singur, but I don’t trust that,” Majhi says. After 15 years of the anti-land acquisition movement and sensing the mood of the people in Singur, Mamata has also changed her stand and spoken of building industry in the region. “We will set up an industry here. Primarily on a stretch of six acres of government land, we will set up agro-industries. Large-scale industries will also be set up,” the chief minister said during a campaign rally in Singur. Even Trinamul leaders who had been part of the land movement have had a change of heart. “We were never against industry. The movement was against forcible land acquisition. If anyone can set up industry, it will be none other than Mamata Banerjee,” says Dudh Kumar Dhara,  a face of the Singur movement and member of the Trinamul-run Singur panchayat samiti. Majhi, the farmer, feels that even though 15 years have passed, it is encouraging that political parties have understood the need for industry. “When political leaders have realised it, the first task they should embark on after forming the government is getting industry to Singur,” he says. The votaries of industry in the region, the CPM, feels the realisation of the people that Singur needs industry validates the Left Front government’s decision in 2006. “People of Singur now realise the need for industry. We will work for both agriculture and industry if voted to power,” the CPM’s young bet in Singur, Srijan Bhattacharya, says on the last day of campaign in Khasbheria villager. While Srijan is looking for support, the son of a CPM supporter, Surajit Santra, 34, till very recently felt that only the BJP could industrialise Singur. But Santra, who works as a mason, is now disillusioned with the BJP after the party decided to nominate Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya from the seat. Santra asks: “I believed if anyone could bring industry here, it would be Narendra Modi. But not anymore. How can one trust the same mastermoshai (teacher) who had led the movement against the Nano plant to bring industry to Singur?” The 89-year-old Bhattacharya is pitted against Mamata’s trusted lieutenant in Singur, Becharam Manna, and the CPM’s Srijan. BJP state committee member Subir Nag, however, disagrees with Santra. “People will vote for the BJP as they want industry. Their faith in the BJP was proved in the last Lok Sabha polls. The candidate does not matter as people have trust in Modiji,” he says. The Trinamul bastion of Singur was breached in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP’s Locket Chatterjee took a lead of 10,429 votes from the Assembly segment to win the Hooghly seat. Sources in Trinamul say Locket had managed to woo voters as she had assured people that industries would be set up in the region. Both Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have spoken about setting up industry in Singur in their poll campaigns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
12-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Focus on welfare||Name: Trishna Manger Occupation: Graphic designer at Yellow Box, a start-up Age: 25 Education: MA in mass communication Size of family: Four (father, mother and younger sister) Seat: Darjeeling Q: Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? A: I shall consider several issues accrued since the last elections. Q: Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? A: I shall be voting for the party that has been consistent in governance for general welfare. Q: Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? A: The introduction of the Swasthya Sathi health scheme, opening of fair-price medicine shops and a general all-round boost to the tourism sector. Q: Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. A: Mishandling of the 104-day strike in the Darjeeling hills, the inability to completely stem communal violence in the state and the fact that the number of beggars in Bengal is the highest in the country. Q: Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as a part of the elite? A: She has always been a leader of the masses and she seems concerned about the poor. Q: What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? A: I have not felt that she is pushing for a dynasty in her party. Q: Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. A: The Atmanirbhar Bharat plan and the Make in India scheme have swivelled the spotlight on local initiatives. The Swachh Bharat Mission is a much-needed idea for our nation. Boost to the MSME sector is also to be appreciated. Q: Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? A: The introduction of the CAA, the three farm laws that were passed ignoring the peasants’ movement and the mishandling of the migrant workers’ crisis. Q: Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? A: Various policies related to privatisation and disinvestment do give credence to accusations that Modi is colluding with the business elite. However, one cannot ignore the slew of social schemes of the Modi goverment.... Q: Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? A: The state government has failed to provide equitable development, especially across Bengal’s diverse geographical landscape. There are apprehensions among certain sections that they are being “ignored” due to socio-political considerations. Also, the state being at loggerheads with the Centre over implementing central schemes has given the impression that benefits have eluded Bengal because of political reasons. Q: What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? A: The Left is trying to resurrect itself in pockets but I feel they have not been able to enthuse the youths, women and especially the entrepreneurial class who view its ideological notions as an impediment to industrialisation. Q: Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? A: In my neighbourhood, yes. My society is secular. The presence of Hindus and Muslims as a single entity during various social and cultural events has allayed fears of people becoming victims of political vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
12-04-2021||North East||TIPRA wins Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council polls||The victory of the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (Tipra) in the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) elections has sent a strong message to regional parties of the Northeast: They can survive without compromising on their ideology and support of national parties. A day after spearheading the alliance to a comprehensive victory in the council polls held on April 6, Tipra chairman and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma told The Telegraph that the results declared on Saturday have proved that a regional party can survive independently. “Everyone in Assam says they should not become another Tripura but Tripura has sent a message to the entire Northeast, that if you are a regional party, you can stay independent and win elections provided you don’t compromise on your ideology and push your own independent local narrative. I am nobody to advice but they (regional parties in Assam) should also understand that there is no substitute for honesty and hardwork,” Debbarma said. Organisations, parties and intellectuals in Assam often cite the example of Tripura to highlight how demographic change reduced the indigenous people of that state to minority status. In fact, most oppose the imposition of the contentious CAA fearing they will meet the same fate as Tripura because the law will open the floodgates for influx from Bangladesh. Formed about four months ago, the Tipra (16 seats) along with its ally Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (2 seats) won 18 of the 28 seats, ending Left Front’s 15-year rule of the council and jolting the ruling BJP-Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura alliance. While the BJP won nine seats, IPFT drew a blank. The Left Front and the Congress too failed to open their account. The winning alliance impacted all the established parties. Debbarma mentioned the names of two regional parties in Assam — the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) to drive home his point about regional parties’ survival. The AGP has ruled Assam twice and is a partner in the current BJP-led coalition government while the BPF, part of the BJP-led government, had ruled the Bodoland Autonomous Council for 17 years before losing power to the BJP-UPPL in December. Despite being in power, both parties are struggling politically — the AGP leaning heavily on the BJP for survival while the BPF, after being dumped by the BJP, joining the Congress-led grand alliance to stay relevant. “AGP and BPF should have understood. Once people were with them but instead of taking political decisions they decided to stay with power. What has happened is that their footprint has dwindled. They didn’t take decisions politically, they took decisions to stay in power. “Had they worked, they could have pushed their own local narrative but they didn’t... I was also told there is no space for us against the BJP, Left and Congress but I persisted. I didn’t compromise on my ideology and the results are there for all to see... there is no substitute for honesty and hardwork,” Debbarma, who was the Tripura PCC president, before he decided to chart his own course. Debbarma was a vocal critic of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, an issue which led to his fallout with his former party (Congress), supported the rehabilitation of the Bru refugees in Tripura, stood by the people during the pandemic and actively pushed the demand for Greater Tipraland, a council-like body under the Central government to look after the interests of indigenous people within and outside Tripura. The royal scion also told The Telegraph that he does not believe in the politics of hate and revenge, a reason why he has decided to cancel the victory rallies to celebrate the alliance’s win. There were reports of post-result violence on Saturday night. “I want to stop this. In the name of Vijay rallies, I have seen, supporters of the winning party intimidate supporters of the losing parties, assault them, collect donation. They are also our own people. I want to end this politics of hate and revenge, which is very prominent in Tripura and Bengal. I have appealed to my supporters that they should not indulge in such activities or they will not only be suspended but will also face action as per law,” Debbarma said. The royal scion also said that his immediate priority would be to set up a “clean, transparent and responsive” governance model in the next 15 months. “2023 is far way. My focus will be to provide good governance to those who have reposed their faith in us,” he said, adding he is ready to do business with any party — BJP, Congress, Left — provided they give it in writing that they will help us in realising our goals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
12-04-2021||Opinion||Head first: Mental healthcare in India||The health of human beings is influenced by both mental and physiological well-being. And yet, this crucial tenet is often ignored in the larger public discourse. The weightage accorded to treating physical illness far exceeds that given to mental ailments. The National Mental Health Survey of India 2015-16 had revealed that nearly 150 million Indians need urgent mental healthcare support, with fewer than 30 million seeking such interventions. The imbalance between the two forms of ill-health has only been exacerbated by the pandemic. Studies from when the pandemic began had already indicated that people who have recovered from Covid-19 are at an increased risk of mood and anxiety disorders in the first three months after infection. Those fears have been consolidated further by the findings of a new study published in The Lancet which says that one in three Covid-19 survivors received a neurological or psychiatric diagnosis within six months of being infected with the coronavirus. For 13 per cent of the patients whose health records were examined, this was their first recorded neurological or psychiatric diagnosis. There is thus a strong case for recognizing the severe mental toll that serious physical illnesses — Covid-19 and otherwise — take not just on the patients but also on their families and caregivers. The burden is intensified when there are financial worries, especially since healthcare in India is unaffordable for many. Tackling the problem will be challenging. The mental healthcare network in India is over-stretched; the country has less than one psychiatrist for every 1,00,000 patients. Moreover, Indian society endorses a culture of shame around mental illness; the fear of public stigma discourages patients and their families from seeking help. While India’s Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provides citizens with the right to mental healthcare, it does not deal adequately with the question of stigma and social exclusion. The solution lies not just in sensitizing the public regarding the importance of recognizing and treating mental illness. The government — it has spent a paltry 0.05 per cent of its health budget annually on mental health over the last few years — must realize that investing properly in mental healthcare would benefit the economy. Mental health correlates positively with economic growth; the World Health Organization estimates that the loss to the Indian economy caused by a mental health crisis would be more than $1 trillion between 2012 and 2030. If the suffering of citizens does not spur the State on to act, might the fear of an economic fallout do the trick?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Romeo at risk: Yogi in Bengal||The message conveyed by electoral campaigns in India has undergone a sea change. Yogi Adityanath’s election speeches in West Bengal illustrate this best. As it is, campaign speeches, especially those of certain leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, contain almost as many implicit threats as promises. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, one of the party’s star campaigners, seems to believe that threats are promises. In one of his electoral speeches in Bengal, he flaunted the fact that posters of alleged ‘rioters’ were put up and their property confiscated after protests in UP against the citizenship laws. Since he was condemning the West Bengal chief minister’s so-called ‘appeasement’ politics that presumably allowed cow slaughter and cow smuggling to continue — Bengal has no law against cow slaughter — the purpose of polarizing two communities was perfectly clear. It seems that Mr Adityanath would like to do to Bengal what he has done in UP at the cost of democracy, equality and the law. In Mr Adityanath’s vision, religious discrimination meets gender oppression. Not only did he harp on the increase in Bengal of ‘love jihad’ against which UP now has a law — Parliament found the phenomenon non-existent — but he also promised an ‘anti-Romeo’ squad to ‘protect’ women like the one in UP. Predictably, young people and activists in Bengal are loudly critical of the threat to women’s autonomy, interference in relationships, encouragement to the forces of male domination and the invitation to harassment. These go to the heart of Mr Adityanath’s governance. Members of the anti-Romeo squad were accused of harassing couples, molesting women, even a child in one case, of extortion and, reportedly, a murder. The law against love jihad is being used against men of the minority community in inter-community unions even when the woman is a consenting adult. That UP ranked first in the country in crimes against women in 2019 according to the National Crime Records Bureau shows that the measures ‘promised’ by Mr Adityanath open up the primrose way to discrimination and crime, whether for agents of the State or for non-State actors under their patronage. Should his electoral promises be fulfilled, women and particular communities and castes — UP has an impressive record of crimes against Dalits — would become the favourite targets of oppression in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Faith breached: Love jihad laws||A lot has been written about the impact of the anti-conversion ordinances — the love jihad laws in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. This analysis focuses on the right to choose, the right to love and that of religion. Apart from the impact of State sanctioned violence on and the incarceration of couples, the implications of these laws for the social and civic status of Muslims needs to be considered. A recent empirical study of litigations on inter-faith marriages dispels the myth that there is a ‘Muslim conspiracy’ or ‘love jihad’. The study establishes that in “as many as 7 out of 10 cases”, the parents [of inter-faith couples] intervene illegitimately. The law, then, is a clear manifestation of vigilante mobilization that the historian, Charu Gupta, describes as “the campaigns [which] construct an image of the Muslim male as aggressive, and broadcast a series of stereotypes and repetitive motifs, creating a common ‘enemy’ — the Other. The luring of Hindu women by Muslim men is stated to demonstrate the ‘lack of character’ of the sexually charged, lustful Muslim men, violating the pure body of Hindu women.” In an opinion piece on the proposed laws, the political scientist, Christophe Jaffrelot, observed that “such a law would illustrate the transition from a de facto to a de jure Hindu Rashtra, something already evident from the Citizenship Amendment Act (2019).” These laws downgrade ‘the less than equal’ civic and social status of Muslim citizens. The legal scholar, Farrah Ahmed, has argued in the context of CAA that discriminatory laws demean a group of citizens, thereby constituting a ‘subordinating speech act’. She alludes to the racist ‘Jim Crow’ laws whose “implications for [Blacks’ social] status were impossible to miss”. Juxtaposed with “Articles 14, 15, 16 and 17 and the preambular commitment to ‘equality of status’”, giving “effect to an anti-subordination principle”, these laws are grossly unconstitutional. The two requirements for subordination are fulfilled in the case of the love jihad laws. First, the lawmaker has the power to subordinate. The US Commission on International Religious Freedom in its 2020 annual report flagged the fact that 10 states already have stringent anti-conversion laws “that can be interpreted as prohibiting consensual conversions”. It also took note of recently passed laws in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Jharkhand that mete out greater punishments and stricter restrictions. The report argues that “… Empowered by anti-conversion laws and often with the police’s complicity, Hindutva groups also conduct campaigns of harassment, social exclusion, and violence against Christians, Muslims, and other religious minorities across the country.” The arrest of Muslim men on the frivolous charge of engaging in ‘love jihad’ shows that the decision-making authority possesses sufficient power to lower the social standing of individuals belonging to religious minorities. The second condition of the subordination test is also fulfilled through a State narrative and a campaign by vigilantes to vilify Muslims. There is no evidence to justify the necessity of this law apart from such narratives. A Kafkaesque legal regime unjustly and disproportionately burdens interfaith couples with procedural and substantive obligations while putting them under the risk of criminalization on account of their religious identity. The ordinance’s impositions of disabilities on inter-faith couples are ‘contrary to the basic concept of our system that legal burdens should bear some relationship to individual responsibility or wrongdoing’. This denudation of a Constitutionally-guaranteed equal status should alert the citizenry about the Indian State’s ongoing transformation from a secular democracy to an ethno-majoritarian autocracy. As the debate on the legality of these laws continues, this testing time makes it incumbent on the people to re-affirm their faith in a secular democracy based on equal moral membership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Elections through young eyes||‘This is your first time. There’s still a lot to know.’ As a first-time voter, about to experience the reality of the electoral set-up, this sentiment questions every bit of knowledge I’ve managed to accrue over my formative years. The last six years of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has made me question several aspects of the present Indian reality. As a student, I would like to voice some of my opinions and concerns. Over the last two years, the raising of the collective voice against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the violence at Jamia drew immense support. We’ve also seen the State machinery’s crackdown against student voices in the crudest ways possible — it’s been over six months since Umar Khalid found himself behind bars. I don’t expect the history books to hold these incidents 20 years from now. The assembly election in West Bengal is expected to go down to the wire but that really isn’t the point. Bengal stands as one of the states to have prevented the BJP from winning power — but at what cost? Under the garb of progressiveness, Bengal’s student community has suffered the scourges of corruption, repression and thuggery. Privilege and apathy have prevented people here from acknowledging these problems and acting upon them. A study recently stated that India is now an elected autocracy. The Bharatiya Janata Party is offering Bengal ‘Ashol Poriborton’. On the other hand, only ‘Khela hobe’ seems to define the manifesto for the Trinamul Congress. We need to identify the lesser evil. But the lesser-evil leitmotif needs to be examined when it challenges the basic idea of the Constitution and of India as a nation. At a time when hypocrisy and centrism seek to govern middle-class sentiments, the lesser evil rhetoric can do nothing but enable repression and discrimination. The police brutality meted out to the student community and the oppressive State machinery that has  tried to gag the youth have been met with defiance. Defiance of State-sponsored oppression has always been the clarion call for change. This is what would make me speak, think and probe before casting my vote in the days to come. Is it fascism versus corruption this election season in Bengal then? This question has been rendered redundant for a large cross-section of the population. None of the contestants in Bengal’s electoral fray has been able to solve the challenges that confront education. The Central government has been in a relentless pursuit to demonize knowledge, alter syllabi, reduce research grants, cut educational expenditure and introduce ‘cow science’ into the curriculum. We have seen students being assaulted and incarcerated. The need of the hour is to educate and mobilize the people. The emancipation of communities cannot be achieved with the help of flimsy pamphlets. The student-voter identifies with the trends of the time and does not cower to point an accusing finger. The Left alliance has fielded young, dynamic candidates, citizens whom other students can look up to. The seduction of the powers that be cannot be challenged unless there are dynamic young agents who are ready to face the heat of the battle. The student-voter will relate to the parody of a popular song. He/she will relate to an imaginative meme. It is the student-voter who will herald change. When it comes to a choice between fascism and corruption, the student-voter does not have himself cocooned in nostalgia. He/she chooses to think and act in a dynamic manner —  walking into the booth to exercise a right not to choose a lesser evil but to take a stand. Binaries don’t bother the student-voter: the sight of students, minorities and the working class being subjugated and exploited does. I wish to make good use of the spine when it comes to casting my vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Familiar template||Against the backdrop of the Ganges in high tide at a riverside dhaba in Diamond Harbour, three Muslim residents were taking in the cool, strong wind and chatting about politics. I butted in to ask about voting preferences: one was loyal to the Trinamul Congress while the second supported the Mahajot; after Cyclone Amphan, his faith in the TMC was shaken and he wanted to back ‘Bhaijaan’ — the cleric, Abbas Siddiqui — of the Indian Secular Front. The third, Alauddin, kept munching jhalmuri and said nonchalantly that after due deliberation he had decided to vote for Narendra Modi who was the only individual who could save the country from the mess it was in and make India’s name known across the world. He was serious, his decision based on the desire to participate in the new big show in town and countryside. These Bengal residents, in the South 24 Parganas at least, did not show the alarm one may expect from a community in the eye of the BJP storm. Asked about vote division, they just smiled vaguely. The BJP, so far in their perception, was akin to a huge sound and light show that also offered money and short-term election employment and had a big star of the jatra called Narendra Modi. Naturally, the story varied elsewhere, such as in the complete Muslim consolidation for the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, after a vicious BJP campaign in Nandigram, but local subplots also reveal layers of this epic battle. There are multiple contradictions that emerge in the telling of these Bengal elections: on the one hand, there are cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, both as a protest slogan and a Hindutva clarion call in the hinterland, but in Kalighat, the epicentre of the Hindu faith in Calcutta, most pundits and shopkeepers declared themselves loyal to Didi. The BJP’s dramatic landfall in West Bengal has certainly upturned pre-conceived notions about the state. The novelty factor apart, there are actually familiar templates used by India’s pre-eminent party at work here. First, the cadre of the sangh parivar and the BJP work on new territories with a missionary zeal as elections per se are not an end but a means. Towards that goal, they use shock and awe that basically boils down to Modi, money, media (management), Muslim (profiling) and caste mobilization with a social engineering map in hand. As the BJP did in Uttar Pradesh, the template involves giving priority to non-dominant sections of society, be they Dalit, other backward classes or scheduled tribes. In its own perverse way, it’s the only radical thing happening to the social fabric of Bengal. The blitzkrieg is an expensive undertaking. One must follow the money to fully understand the scale of the onslaught ever since Modi swept the Hindi belt in the 2014 general election. That was India’s most expensive election, eclipsed only by the 2019 general election — according to annual audit reports filed with the Election Commission of India. Since then, the BJP has become the richest party in the nation’s history, monopolizing political finance often through untraceable means such as electoral bonds (On March 26, the Supreme Court refused to stay the release of fresh electoral bonds ahead of assembly polls in four states and a Union territory). Money talks as it did when the BJP managed to form a government in Madhya Pradesh in 2020 after a section of the ruling Congress defected just as in the preceding year members of the ruling Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress had crossed over in Karnataka. Electoral victory is, therefore, not necessary for eventual triumph. There is always on the table an offer to members of rival political parties, something that’s lured many members of the TMC in the pre-election season. Bengal’s is arguably the first election that takes place with the calculation that a narrow win may not ensure a five-year term for Mamata Banerjee. Unless the BJP is utterly defeated as it was in the Delhi elections a year ago, post-poll defections would have to be factored in. There are also traditional reasons for the groundswell of support for the national party. With the Bengal Opposition decimated in the 2016 assembly and 2018 panchayat polls, the BJP has filled a vacuum even as anti-incumbency grew in areas devastated by Cyclone Amphan that cut a path through TMC strongholds in May last year. People are divided between wanting change and still adoring Didi but not necessarily her party. In this flux, the BJP has been able to create a great hype that projects it as a possible winner. After all, in close state elections, people are more inclined to vote against ruling parties if they believe the opposing side can win the seat or the state. That would particularly apply to Bengal with its culture of political violence. No party understands the power of narratives as the BJP does, the reason why it has set up IT cells for each seat and made their controversial national IT cell chief the co-in-charge for West Bengal. That individual has been called out several times by fact-checking sites, but clearly the strategy is to create emotion and stoke communal prejudice, facts notwithstanding. After all, research on new media shows that sensational, divisive, fake news spreads faster than dull, factual news. Indeed, the BJP’s blundering journey in its search for historical Bengali icons was full of comic errors and apparent haste, but in the final reckoning does not seem to have damaged the reputation of the prime minister. He is being seen as a powerful figure among voters in town and countryside, and the idea of direct cash transfer, true or false, has appeal among the poor. Bengal is one of the states from which the largest numbers of migrants pour into other parts of India. They, too, were part of the suffering phalanx of humanity that made the reverse migration a year ago. If the BJP does well, it would suggest that Modi is soaring above the problems his decisions created in the earthly realm. We must then conclude that his image has somehow been disconnected from the dramatically announced but spectacularly bad calls such as demonetization on November 8, 2016 and the national lockdown (with four hours’ notice) on March 24, 2020. If Mamata Banerjee holds it together, then a realignment of Opposition forces could begin. But structurally, the TMC is a crowd around a leader, who emerged fighting one entrenched force and having vanquished old demons now wages battle against another arch-enemy. Whatever the outcome, she is the only woman chief minister in India, and unique for having fought so fiercely against both the Left and the Right. Bengal is a special place that’s given exceptional ideas to India. If it cannot thwart the BJP as a Tamil Nadu can, it would be because great ideas have not been matched by great transformations on the ground either in terms of incomes or subaltern caste assertion. There has, in hindsight, not been the empowering social change that the Dravidian movement brought about in Tamil Nadu followed by wealth generation through industrial growth and welfare schemes. Only a very small section of society can, therefore, relate to the idea of the Bengali identity being exceptional and immune to outsiders, while many are now discovering the room to negotiate with the political class through multiple caste assertions. The game is indeed afoot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 321 Bokaro schools declared tobacco-free||Bokaro: Around 321 schools in the district have been declared as tobacco-free educational institutions in 2020-21. “Bokaro was given a target to make 300 schools as tobacco-free educational institutions last year, but we so far declared 321 schools as tobacco-free institutions. Initiative is on to make more schools tobacco-free in coming days,” said Mohammad Aslam, district consultant officer. Counselling facilities are available at the Tobacco Drug Addiction Centre, Sadar Hospital Bokaro and B.G.H. Deputy Development Commissioner Jaikishor Prasad said a meeting will be held at the block level this month, where a task force will be formed to alert people on tobacco consumption. The DDC said that tobacco sellers, selling near a school will be arrested. (Our correspondent) Ramgarh: Two people were killed and one seriously injured in a road accident near Kushtegada village in Gola police station area on Monday night. The injured victim was sent to RIMS after first aid at the Gola Community Health Center. Police said that Tek Lal Yadav, Krishna Yadav and Bahadur Karmali, residents of Murpa village in the area, were returning home after work on a bike when a tractor coming from the opposite direction collided with their bike. Krishna Yadav and Teklal Yadav died on the spot. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Three members of family found killed at home in Jamshedpur||Two minor girls, their mother and a teacher were found murdered at their house on Tista Road under Kadma thana area on Monday evening. The father of the minors is the primary suspect in all four murders. The victims have been identified as Vina Kumari (35), Rinku Ghosh (22), Diya Kumari (15) and Sanvi Kumari (11). Deepak Kumar, 42, is suspected to have carried out the murder in the afternoon before fleeing his residence. Rinku Ghosh, a resident of Ramjanam Nagar in Kadma had come to teach the two girls at about 11am on Monday. Her family members had become anxious and went about looking for her after she did not return home till 1pm. Her scooter was still parked at Deepak’s residence. The doors of the house were locked. Rinku’s family members broke open the house door and found four mutilated bodies including that of Rinku lying on the floor near the kitchen. City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat arrived at the crime scene after Kadma thana OC, Manoj Kumar Thakur had started the probe. From the initial probe it was found that all four were killed with an iron dumbbell. Manoj Kumar Thakur said, "From the condition of the bodies, it appears that the killings must have taken place between noon and 2 pm." Thakur said Deepak Kumar who works in Tata Steel's Fire Brigade seemed to have absconded after the murders, adding that the reason behind the murders is yet to be established.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Traders frown at state tie-up with Flipkart||The small time traders and retailers reeling under the impact of Covid induced recession fear the state government’s pact with Flipkart will further affect trade prospects. The JMM government has signed an MoU in March with the online shopping site and FICCI for infrastructure and industrial development. Rajesh Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: “At a time when the trade is already declining due to the impact of Covid such a step would pose a strict competition to the small time traders, although the MOU is avowedly meant for infrastructure development.” “The small traders having lesser capital and resources can’t survive amidst the onslaught of these marketing giants having huge capitals as in order to attract the customers they purchase the article from us then supply the same at lesser price,” said Gupta. “The trade towns like Dhanbad still depend on the muhalla shops and thus the government should concentrate on strengthening these shops instead of posing competition to them through big online marketing giants,” he said. Echoing Gupta’s sentiments, Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Though the MoU can prove good for industries in procuring raw materials and supply of finished products but it may prove fatal for the small traders and retailers.” Surolia suggested a change in the marketing strategy for the small traders in view of bigger challenges posed by marketing giants and said that the small shopkeepers should also ensure usage of internet technology to take orders etc and ensure home delivery of products. “We are also planning to develop a mobile app for our shop in order to take orders from the customers and ensure home delivery of products etc,” said Surolia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks private hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients||The state health department has mandated that all private hospitals in Jharkhand must reserve 50 per cent beds exclusively for Covid care in the wake of rising cases, according to an order issued by health secretary K. K. Soan on Monday overriding the state government's earlier directive to reserve 25 pr cent hospital beds for Covid patients. State health minister Banna Gupta also chaired an emergent meeting at Nepal House in the afternoon to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. In a statement issued after  the meeting, he said, the government was working out plans to sort out issues of hopital bed availability to ensure timely treatment of Covid patients. “Earlier, we had asked private hospitals to reserve 25 per cent beds for Covid patients. But considering the surge in our state, we have now directed them to double the reservation,” Gupta said in his  statement, adding that all private hospitals must adhere to the directives of the government in the fight against Covid-19. As per the health department data, Ranchi currently has about 2,383 beds while active Covid cases are over 6,700 in the district. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said he had already ordered all incident commanders in districts to ensure compliance of the government's directive on reserving beds in private hospitals. “All incident commanders have been asked to immediately hold meetings with all private hospitals in their jurisdiction to ensure 50 per cent reservation of beds are followed from now. We are taking all necessary steps to increase the coverage of beds so that critical patients don’t suffer,” he said. Jharkhand received 1,500 doses of Remdesivir injections from the Centre on Monday after facing a  crisis for days while treating critical patients, according to a separate communiqué isued by the health minister's office. “All the freshly received doses have been dispatched directly to about 15 hospitals that were in need of Remdesivir injections,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases rising in Dhanbad, 910 hospital beds set aside||Covid is spreading fast in Dhanbad with the number of active cases in the district touching 485 on Monday in spite of the district administration's efforts to step up testing people at the railway station and bus stands, in addition to adhering to the test, isolate and treat regimen. In all, 446 Covid cases were detected in the last week _40  on April 11, 148 on April 10, 94 on April 9, 91 on April 8, 68 on April 7, 72 on April 6 and 24 on April 5.  As many as 182 Covid patients were released from varoius treatment centres during this time. But Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh claimed the distict administration was fully prepared to meet with any eventuality. He said in all,  910 beds had been set aside at various private (75) and government hospitals(835) for Covid patients. Government hospitals and health centres where Covid patients will be treated are Central Hospital, Dhanbad; SNMMCH, Cath lab; SNMMCH PG Block; Nirsa Polytechnic; Zonal Railway Training Centre, Bhuli; and Tata Central Hospital, Jamadoba. Five private hospitals are treating Covid patients. They are Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Hospital, Asharfi Hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, JIMS Hospital and Yashlok Hospital. “We have made sufficient arrangements of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines in all treatment centres including non-ICU treatment centres. There is no need to panic,” said Singh. The deputy commssioner said officials were conducting regular reviews of treatment centres. "Officials are unertaking inspections of each of centre as a result of which quality treatment is being ensured. As many as 128 patients have been cured and released from treatment centres in the last one week,” Singh said. He said two senior doctors deputed at the telemedicine centre, Dr P.P. Pandey and Dr M. Narayan, are attending to patients using teleconferencing facilities twice a day, offering treatment advice and counselling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela-Kharsawan police arrest three rebels||The Seraikela-Kharsawan police arrested three activists of outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist from Chandil thana area of the district about 25 kms away from here on Monday. The three rebels are active members of Maharaj Pramanik's group in the Chandil-Chowka-Ichagarh stretch in the Chandil sub-division and Kuchai as well as in Kharsawan region of the district. They were identified as Malindranath Majhi, 32, Sujit Munda, 24, and Chamburam Munda, 20. The three are residents of Seraikela-Kharsawan and were caught soon after extorting money from a businessman. Maharaj Pramanik’s capture carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh. Seraikela-Kharsawan district SP, Mohammed Arshi said that the police had information about rebels likely to visit a place at Urmal locality in Chandil thana area on Monday morning. "Having got the intelligence input, we set up a taskforce of OCs Chandil, Ichagarh and Kharsawan police stations and sub-divisional police officer, Chandil. A company of CRPF's 193 batata was also engaged in an operation at Urmal. Eventually, the taskforce succeeded in nabbing the insurgents," said Arshi at a press conference at Seraikela on Monday afternoon. "On being searched, the police recovered Rs 5,000, naxal literature and four cellphones from the trio’s possession. On being interrogated, the rebels confessed that they are active members in Maharaj Pramanik squad and had come to Urmal to collect extortion money from a businessman, "said the SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Eco-friendly crematorium to debut in April-end||An eco-friendly crematorium at Parvati ghat in Bistupur is set to be commissioned later this month. The project, executed by a Calcutta-based agency, is almost ready with all necessary equipment in place. “Only the flooring needs to be completed. Initial work related to flooring is underway. It would not take much time,” said Dipendra Bhatt, general secretary of the Parvati ghat management committee. Two furnaces are used at Parvati Ghat, located near Kharkai bridge. Apart from the furnaces, bodies are cremated by adopting traditional methods of using wooden logs on two separate platforms under a tin shed. On an average, 8 to 10 bodies come for cremation at the ghat. On the functioning of the burning unit, Bhatt said logs of wood inside the burning chamber would be compressed and a blower would assist in quick burning of the pyre. The remains will pass through the channel inside the chamber and only smoke will come out of the chimney. “The remains will settle down after passing through the water channel. There will be no scope for particles to get released in the air. The new unit will consume less quantity of wood and take less time to fully burn the bodies,” he added. Ghat committee members and well-wishers have contributed funds for the Rs 20 lakh unit. The cost of cremation at the eco-friendly unit has not been decided yet but the general secretary has assured it won’t be high. Plans are also afoot to add greenery to the crematorium once the new unit is functional.  For security purposes, the boundary walls will be made fully concrete with no gaping spaces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi health facilities stretched as Covid positivity rate shoots up||Facilities to battle Covid-19 crisis in Ranchi have started to crumble with several bodies of Covid victims awaiting cremation for over 24 hours and a shortage of life-saving drugs haunting patients and their relatives even if they manage to find berths in hospitals amid the acute shortage of beds. In the past 48 hours, Ranchi’s Covid positivity rate has been higher than 18 per cent, which is almost as bad as Mumbai and Delhi.  On Saturday, as many as 5,442 swab samples were tested in Ranchi and 904 of them, around 16.6 per cent, were found positive. On Sunday, the positivity rate further increased to over 20 per cent in the district as 1,076 of the 5,174 samples tested were found to be Covid positive. As per figures with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate in Delhi during the past 48 hours has been around 10 per cent, while the positivity rate in Mumbai was around 20 per cent during the same period. The positivity rate in Ranchi was higher than that in Delhi and a shade lower than what Mumbai reported. Even though the population and Covid tally in Ranchi is much lower than that in Mumbai and Delhi, two of the worst-affected cities in India, the high positivity rate here has brought to light the lack of readiness to tackle a possible Covid explosion in the near future, say experts. Many Covid patients, including some with comorbid conditions, had to struggle to get a bed in a hospital during the past two days. As per government data, there are 2,383 dedicated Covid beds in Ranchi for 6,701 patients, as reported on Sunday night. Nripendra Kumar, himself a Covid patient, could not find a bed in a private hospital for his Covid-positive father despite contacting all the renowned healthcare facilities in the city on Sunday. “There are no beds available in hospitals. Doctors have prescribed some life-saving injections, but those are also not available anywhere in Ranchi,” Kumar, five of whose family members are battling the viral infection, said referring to the unavailability of remdesivir,  an anti-viral injection administered to Covid patients with serious symptoms. Jharkhand received 1,500 doses of Remdesivir injections from the Centre on Monday, thanks to the efforts of state health minister Banna Gupta. “All the freshly received doses have been dispatched directly to about 15 hospitals that were in need of Remdesivir injections,” Gupta said after his office issued a special  communiqué. In fact, Gupta had recently spoken to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan over video conferencing and sought more remdesivir injections citing the acute crisis in Jharkhand. The second wave of Covid-19 has not only hit testing labs and hospitals in the city, but also affected cremation of Covid victims. The electric incinerator at Mukti Dham in Harmu, used only for cremation of Covid-infected bodies, broke down aparently  due to over-use on Sunday. Around a dozen Covid-positive bodies were in ambulances outside the crematorium for the entire day and were eventually moved to some other location. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), warned that the virus was spreading more rapidly during the second wave in Jharkhand cities, and a lack of caution may prove to be disastrous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs over 2000 fresh Covid cases, active caseload close to 7,000||Over a dozen Covid casualties reported in Ranchi on Sunday took the Covid toll in the district above 300, while over 1000 fresh cases of infection took the active caseload here close to 7000, figures released by the health department on Sunday night revealed. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 2,296 people, including 1076 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday. At least 635 Covid patients also recovered on the day, but the active caseload still jumped to 13,933, the NHM stated in the bulletin. The state reported 21 Covid casualties on the day, and at least 14 of these victims were residents of Ranchi. Sunday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 309 and that in Jharkhand to 1213, NHM data highlighted. East SInghbhum, which has reported the highest number of Covid casualties among the districts in Jharkhand, also reported four Covid deaths on the day, which took the toll there to 371. The active caseload in East Singhbhum crossed the 1500 mark on the day as the district reported 362 cases against 131 Covid recoveries in 24 hours. As per NHM data, as many as 1,571 East Singhbhum were battling a Covid-19 infection by the end of Sunday. The count of active patients in Ranchi, however, was much higher at 6,701, which is almost half of the total active cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, over 1.39 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 89,13 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection has increased to 1.19 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.74 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state has dropped to 58.73 days against the national doubling rate of 93.89 days. The state also sent 5901 swab samples to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Bhubaneshwar for RT PCR tests. These samples were collected from Khunti, Ranchi and Hazaribag. Meanwhile, the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 80,515 people on the day, while the second dose was administered to 6453 beneficiaries. Jharkhand achieved 58 per cent of its target for the first dose and only 3 per cent for the second dose on the day. So far, over 20 lakh Jharkhand residents have received the first jab of the vaccine and 3 lakh of them have got the second dose as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bihar police seizes truck supplying illegal liquor||Bokaro: Bihar police have found a liquor manufacturing unit in Balidih Industrial Area of Bokaro, allegedly involved in supplying liquor bottles of various whiskey brands illegally to several districts of Bihar. The liquor manufacturing unit is said to be of a prominent businessman, Anil Singh. Bihar has imposed complete ban on sale of liquors. A joint team of Jamui police and excise department led by DSP, Aditya Kumar with support of Bokaro administration and police team conducted a raid in Shree Om Bottlers and Blenders Private Limited on Saturday night. The team recovered more than 700 boxes of liquors bottles in a warehouse situated adjacent to the manufacturing unit. SP, Jamui, Pramod Kumar Mandal said, “The raid has been conducted in Bokaro liquor manufacturing unit, following the recovery of a huge stock of liquor bottles from a truck parked near a Dhaba at Panaut Moad in Malaypur area of Jamui.” “There were six persons arrested by the police and the truck has been seized. When interrogated, the driver of the truck revealed that he had loaded the liquor stock from the liquor factory in Bokaro,” added the SP. SDO said that the local administration will also investigate whether the permits and license of the manufacturing unit and brand being produced in it is valid or not. The local excise department is also investigating to verify the status and ownership of the warehouse situated adjacent to the factory where the liquor stocks were recovered. Dhanbad: The district administration sent around 35 people to a sensitisation camp for violating Covid protocols on Sunday. The camp has been developed at JAP-III center in Govindpur. The violators were caught for offences like not wearing masks at public places and not maintaining social distance. They underwent a Covid test at the camp and were later released after collecting a fine and submission of bond pledging they will not violate the norms in the future. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Residents of Katras More locality on Sunday have complained about an LPG supply distributor cheating on quantity per cylinder. Akhalaque Ahmad a local resident said, "We were noticing the lesser quanity of gas supply since a few months and caught the vehicle today and informed Jharia Police whose team came and took details from the gas distributor staff." Manohar Kuamr, an ASI of Jharia police who carried out the probe said, "We are looking into the complaint and will carry out a probe before initiating action." (Praduman Choubey) Bokaro: A 31-year-old woman hung herself on Sunday morning in Sector 6 / C area of the town. The deceased, Punita Devi, was the wife of a railway employee posted at Bokaro Railway. They have two-and-a-half-year-old twins. The police officer said that the incident took place between 5:30 am and 6:30 am. Punita Devi’s husband discovered her hanging from the fan. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. A police officer said, the investigation is being done from every angle, but till now the reason which prompted Devi to hang herself is yet to be ascertained. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Koderma police caught a youth on the Howrah-New Delhi Kalka Express who stole a fellow passenger’s bag. Umesh Kumar Das, a resident of Gohal under Jainagar police station, was caught after scanning CCTV cameras installed at Koderma station. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI professor’s book on Covid impact on workers’ rights||A new book by K.R. Shyam Sunder, labour economist and professor of human resources management at XLRI, Jamshedpur, which attempts to provide a critical and comprehensive analysis of policies, laws and rights concerning workers during the pandemic, was released virtually at the institute on Thursday. The book, Impact of Covid-19, Reforms, Poor Governance on Labour Rights in India, also discusses the responses and strategies followed by the trade unions during the most challenging period witnessed in the history of humanity. The book published by Synergy Books India not only critically analyses the contemporary developments but also provides valuable recommendations based on the people-centric approach of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). “The Covid-19 pandemic has wrought the worst possible havoc both on lives and livelihoods of people in all the countries. However, the adverse impact has landed far more severely on the vulnerably placed informal and unorganised workers, people below the poverty line and thereby exacerbating existing inequalities in the economic system. The ILO strongly  recommended a four-pillar approach which is a comprehensive and balanced approach arguing for designing policies and measures based on social dialogue to ensure employment generation, income and social protection and workers’ rights. But the tale of policy-making in India during the pandemic does not conform much to the healthy perspective of the ILO,” said Shyam Sunder during the book release. “My book is based on the fundamental premise that labour institutions and social dialogue are indispensable for promoting a sound labour market and industrial relation policies that would at once protect both employers’ and workers’ rights and concerns, especially during the crisis-ridden crucial time such as the one we are facing now,” he added. He has so far published over 75 articles and book reviews in research outlets and authored 12 books and edited  five in the field of industrial relations and labour economics. He further said: “Had the government consulted the social partners in not only designing a comprehensive policy architecture to provide relief and life-saving measures especially to the small enterprises and informal workers but also in their delivery, had the government and other agencies implemented even a fraction of the even conceptually defective labour laws concerning the unorganised and migrant workers, had the government consulted global organisations like the ILO, the UN and academics in tackling the workers’ woes, the play of pandemic in the lives of these millions of distraught workers would have been better.” He said the whole tragic story of workers’ rights is the shoddy or non-implementation of even the meagrely legislated rights. A comprehensive database of work and employment is essential for devising universal social protection which would help better implementation of the four new labour codes, he added. “Around 68.4 per cent of workers in the non-agricultural sector work in the informal sector, about 70 per cent lack written contracts and more than half of them don’t have paid leave or any social security (according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19). Given the extreme precarity of workforce in the non-agricultural sector which is unlikely to have reduced (in fact uncertainty would have been intensified thanks to Covid-19), the resurgence of Covid poses serious and grave concerns for the workers in particular and the society and economy in general,” the author said. The book was released by D. Narasimha Reddy, retired professor of economics, University of Hyderabad in the presence of Babu Mathew, professor, National Law School of India University, Praveen Jha, professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, JNU, New Delhi, Ramapriya Gopalakrishnan ILO consultant and leading labour advocate, Chennai, and Radhika Kapoor, senior fellow, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Forty-six students of XLRI have tested positive for Covid-19. The students have been isolated and quarantined within the campus and have been kept under observation by the in-house doctor. “XLRI has been strictly adhering to all the Covid-19 directives and guidelines of the state government and complying with all the necessary precautionary steps and protective measures. To contain the infection, contact tracing has been initiated, and all contact staff members and students will undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test. All the campus facilities, including the library, the computer lab, will remain closed until further notice,” said a communiqué issued by the B-school on Saturday. The XLRI administration has undertaken all required precautionary measures and all hostels and offices are being sanitised to contain the spread of infection. However, online classes will continue without any disruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
12-04-2021||Jharkhand||Special train from Mumbai to Ranchi with few workers||A special train from Mumbai reached Ranchi on Sunday that may be described as the first migrant special train. The Ranchi division of the South Eastern Railway, however, mentioned in a release that it was just a “single-trip, superfast special train” run “to tackle the excessive rush of passengers”. Leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus of Mumbai around midnight of Friday, the 21-coach train that had 12 general compartments reached Ranchi on Sunday afternoon via Itarsi, Mughalsarai and Gaya. “There is no plan to run any such special train right now,” informed Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi division, when asked if the railways would run more such trains from distant cities for facilitating movement of workers willing to return home from their places of work. A special train between Surat and Ranchi was likely to be introduced by next week that would run at regular intervals for over a month, he added. Not many workers, however, travelled to Ranchi by this special train from Mumbai. “There were only about 25-odd passengers who travelled up to the destination station, Ranchi, by this train,” Kumar informed, adding others must have got down at other stoppages earlier.  Besides those who travelled by this train, many other workers also reached Ranchi from other places by travelling up to either Dhanbad or Gomoh by some other trains and taking a connecting train for Ranchi. “Mumbai ka sthiti bigad raha tha, fir lockdown hone se fas jate (the condition of Mumbai was worsening and we would get stranded if another lockdown was declared),” said one such worker, Sanghnu Bhagat of Basia (Gumla) who travelled by this train along with his sister Shanti. They were too scared to stay back and to face the ordeals of another lockdown, said Saghnu who was working as a labourer in Mumbai while his sister also worked as a domestic help there. The authorities also took precautions so that those who returned home did not spread Covid-19 infection further if they were infected themselves. The workers who alighted from trains were subjected to a rapid antigen test at the station on Sunday and were allowed to go out only after they tested negative, Kumar informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-84
