13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIT Kharagpur defers plan to bring back students||IIT Kharagpur has put on hold its decision to call back 300 final-year undergraduate students and around 3,000 research scholars following detection of fresh Covid cases on the campus. The 300 final-year students, who need to attend in-person lab classes, were set to return to the campus from April 16. The research scholars have been coming back in batches since December. Registrar Tamal Nath said: “We are deferring the recall of BTech students for some time considering the circumstances. We will review the situation in early May and then take a call on the way forward. The return of the research scholars is also being deferred for some time. We will review the situation later and proceed.” The director had on March 17 announced that the fourth-year students would be brought back from April 16 and the recall of PhD students that was already underway would be expedited. An official of the institute said the situation had drastically changed after mid March. After a pause of several months, cases are being detected afresh on the campus. “Cases are rising sharply across the country, too. In this situation it would not be advisable to recall students. What if they catch the virus during transit?” the official said. Another reason that prompted the authorities to defer the plan to bring students back to the campus was insufficient medical facilities in the town. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus will not be able to deal with a rise in cases. The hospitals and safe houses outside the campus are all occupied,” the official said. NIT roster NIT Durgapur has announced that office attendance of the teachers and other staff members have been made optional till further notice, following “resurgence of Covid-19 incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation and private hospitals open safe home and satellite unit for Covid patients||The state government and private hospitals have started opening safe homes and satellite facilities for Covid patients as an alarming rise in the case count since March has resulted in a bed crisis in hospitals. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Monday opened a safe home at a building on the EM Bypass-Park Circus connector, opposite Science City, to accommodate Covid-19 patients who lack space at home to stay isolated. The CMC is also preparing to open similar facilities in other parts of Calcutta. Some of the private hospitals have started opening satellite facilities, which they had closed early this year following a sharp drop in the number of cases. The CMC facility, the first in the city since the beginning of the second wave of Covid in March, can accommodate 100 patients, officials said. “Elderly patients who can't afford a caregiver at home will be given priority while allotting beds at the safe home,” said a CMC official. “Those who will stay at the safe home will undergo regular monitoring.” The decision to reopen some of the safe homes in the city was taken at a recent meeting between officials of the CMC and the Bengal health department. “People have been gathering in large numbers to join political processions and meetings. The number of Covid positive patients could go up in the next few weeks and there is an immediate need to stay prepared,” a health department official said. “Apart from the CMC, we will request other civic bodies near Calcutta to make similar arrangements.” In the next few weeks, the CMC will acquire a few floors of a building at Anandapur, off EM Bypass, to accommodate close to 400 patients. A floor will be reserved for doctors and other health staff. “We also plan to accommodate patients at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur and Gitanjali Stadium in Kasba. Preliminary surveys have been completed and last minute arrangements are being finalised,” said a senior official of the CMC's health department. "A building in New Town will soon be acquired to set up a safe home." A few private hospitals have started exploring the possibility of opening satellite facilities for Covid-19 patients. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences reopened a 16-bed satellite facility last week. “The opening of the unit has enabled us to keep a few general beds for Covid patients free,” an official of the hospital said. “We had closed down the satellite facility in January. Off late we have been receiving calls from people who wanted to get admitted in the hospital. Initially we kept them in the wards but as numbers rose we opened the satellite facility,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east), of Narayana Health, the owners of RN Tagore hospital. “If the mild patients are shifted there, the beds can be kept free for moderate and severe patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Medical insurance policy for Covid-19 sees few renewals so far||A medical insurance policy for Covid-19 had many takers when it was launched in July last year but very few have renewed it till date, said officials of insurance companies. They said one of the main reasons for not renewing the Corona Kavach policy could be that people were no longer scared of Covid at least till February, when the number of fresh cases was very low. Financial problems caused by the pandemic was another reason for the lack of interest in renewing the policy, the officials said. Corona Kavach was launched on July 10 by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. National Insurance Company Ltd sold 75,000 policies across India, of which around 40 per cent were sold in Calcutta, said officials. Around 10 per cent of the policies bought by subscribers had renewals due in the first three-and-a-half to six-and-a-half months. Officials said the bulk of the policies were bought between July 10 and October. “Out of the 7,500-odd Corona Kavach policies which were to be renewed during this period, only around 400 were actually renewed. Thousands of renewals are due in April,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “One of the main reasons could be that the fear of Covid was diminishing in people's minds because the number of cases had started reducing. Since there is a surge again, there could be renewals by subscribers who had taken out the policy for nine-and-a-half months,” said Kariwala. Public health experts said there was complacency among most people about Covid. “Most people now are not concerned about Covid and the fear is gone. They are dropping guard. Many of those who have been vaccinated feel they are fully immune to the disease. That is one reason why people are not bothered to buy or renew the policy,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. In the middle of November, Bengal used to record around 3,500 new Covid cases every day. That came down to around 2,000 in the middle of December. By the middle of January, barely 600 new cases were reported daily and in February, the average daily count dropped below 150. However, the number of cases has started rising again since March. Many people had opted for the Corona Kavach policy because there were no cappings on expenses. In other health insurance policies, there were cappings on expenses in various categories such as bed charges and doctor’s consultation. So, many people bought Corona Kavach despite having a health insurance policy, officials of insurance companies said. Medical insurance agents said they had been calling up subscribers over the past few years for renewal but many had refused. “Today, I called up two clients who have their renewals due this month. Both said they are not interested in renewing the policy. The reasons are they are not so scared about the disease and also financial problems,” said Sandip Chakraborty, a health insurance agent. He said one of the clients had purchased the policy of sum assured of Rs 3 lakh in July. He is supposed to pay Rs 6,500 for renewal. “The man said he is undergoing financial constraints,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Rs 13-lakh cash haul in central Calcutta ||A man was caught with Rs 13 lakh at a busy crossing in central Calcutta on Monday evening. Police said he could not provide any information on the source or destination of the money. Nemai Bera, a resident of Haridevpur, was intercepted at the Sashi Bhushan Dey Street and BB Ganguli Street crossing by a police team that was conducting pre-election checking in the area, the police said. The area falls under the Chowringhee Assembly constituency that will vote in the final phase of the polls on April 29. Bera, along with the cash, was handed over to Muchipara police station from where the matter was conveyed to the income tax department. According to the Election Commission of India guidelines, although there is no upper limit in carrying cash or gold jewellery when the model code of conduct is on, any amount above Rs 50,000 has to be justified with documents stating the source and destination. Cash and gold changes hands before elections that are often ferried from one point to another through carriers who are either clueless about the origin of the money or have no ownership on the money. Several incidents where unaccounted cash is being caught while being transported through the city are being reported. Last week, a hawala operator was caught carrying cash Rs 50 lakh on Ganesh Chandra Avenue on the eve of the fourth phase of Assembly elections, in which parts of the city had voted. “In majority of the cases, the political affiliation never comes out as the person carrying the cash is never attached or aware of the origin of the money. The cash is handed over to the income tax department, which starts a probe that takes a year or so to wrap up,” said an officer of Calcutta police. According to the rule, if someone comes forward to claim the money, proportionate tax has to be deposited to regularise the money and claim it back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIM Calcutta tells students to vacate hostels||IIM Calcutta has asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels “due to developing Covid-19 situation in the country and Calcutta”. The arrival of the second batch of students of PGPEx-VLM programme that entails a four-month stay on the campus starting from April, has been deferred till further orders. Students of the one-year MBA executive programme and the second-year students of the two-year MBA programme have left the hostels on April 10 and 11 respectively after completing their exams. The students usually stay at the hostels for a period of 10 to15 days after the exams. A notice issued by the institute’s chief administrative officer, Alok Chandra, says that the first-year students of the two-year MBA programme must vacate the hostels by April 18 — a day after their exam gets over. As many as 70 students of IIM Calcutta have tested positive till Monday, said an official of the institute. “The students, who are quarantined (at a special facility on the campus), would return home once they recover after serving the isolation period. They are stable. We have decided to get the hotels vacated so that the others don’t come in contact with the affected ones.” Another official said the sanitisation drive was a must before the fresh batch of students returned to the campus from June after summer recess. “So, we have to sanitise the facilities,’’ said a member of the campus’s Covid task force committee. Although classes are being held online because of the pandemic, students had been brought back last year in phases so they could use the institute’s Internet to attend academic proceedings. The one-year postgraduate programme for executives for visionary leadership in manufacturing (PGPEx-VLM) full time residential program is conducted jointly by IIM-Calcutta, IIT Kanpur and IIT Madras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: North Calcutta TMC candidate releases election manifesto for his constituency||The Trinamul Congress candidate from Cossipore-Belgachhia, in north Calcutta, released an election manifesto for his constituency on Monday and said it was a “promise in writing” of the things he would deliver if elected. The candidate, Atin Ghosh, who was deputy mayor of Calcutta, said his experience as councillor for 35 years helped him identify the problems that still plagued the area. All political parties release manifestos containing a list of things they will do if voted to power. Individual candidates releasing manifestos ahead of an election is not common. Ghosh’s 13-page manifesto mentions that he will build an underground drainage system on either side of BT Road, between the Tallah bridge and Sinthee More. The 2.5km stretch of the road has open drains on both sides. Ghosh has also mentioned in his manifesto that he will convert other open drains in the constituency into underground ones. The manifesto mentions that he will build three footbridges at Chiria More, Sinthee More and at the intersection of Dum Dum Road and Raja Manindra Road. “I am giving in writing to the people what I will do for them if elected. This will be on record and with people for days to come,” said Ghosh. “I have been a councillor for 35 years and worked on civic issues. My background as councillor naturally drives me towards finding deficiencies in the development of a place. I have been going around in the Cossipore-Belgachhia constituency since March 4, immediately after my party nominated me as candidate,” Ghosh said while releasing the manifesto at his election office on Raja Manindra Road. While visiting various areas of the constituency, Ghosh said, he spotted pockets lagging behind in development. While speaking to residents of the areas, he found that they, too, thought on similar lines. He has also included in the manifesto demands raised by the people he called on after being nominated as candidate. Residents of the Belgachhia slum, for instance, have demanded a community hall. “People of the Belgachhia bustee told me that they face a lot of difficulty in organising wedding receptions and other family programmes. Despite being one Calcutta’s largest slums, there is no community hall in the area. I will build a community hall for them,” said Ghosh. “We will be accountable to the people of this constituency. They can question the candidate later if he fails to deliver on the promises made in the manifesto,” said Priyadarshini Ghosh, Atin’s daughter, who is his campaign manager. The Cossipore-Belgachhia seat has about 2.40 lakh voters, with a mix of Bengali, Hindi and Urdu-speaking population. Trinamul’s Mala Saha had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls. She had defeated the Left Front’s Kaninika Bose by 25, 810 votes. Cossipore-Belgachhia is part of the Calcutta North Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul’s Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who had won from Calcutta North, was ahead of the BJP’s Rahul Sinha in the Cossipore-Belgachhia segment by 13,592 votes. Ghosh admitted that there could be an anti-incumbency factor against him because his promises in the manifesto would give rise to allegations that the outgoing MLA - from his party –had failed to deliver. “She did a lot of development work, but these are some of things that are still left to be done,” he said. The BJP has fielded Shivaji Singha Roy, a former president of the party’s North Calcutta district, from the constituency. The Sanjukta Morcha candidate is Pratip Dasgupta from the CPM. Cossipore-Belgachhia will vote on April 29, in the last phase of the eight-phase Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Rally against Sitalkuchi killings||Hundreds of people from Calcutta and neighbouring districts joined a rally in the heart of the city to condemn the lives lost in the CISF firing in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Saturday. The “attempt to legitimise the killings” by BJP leaders was as heinous as the killings, said participants in the rally that started at College Street and culminated at Shyambazar. “This (Sitalkuchi) is a trailer of the asol paribartan (real change) that the BJP wants to herald in Bengal. As if the killings were not enough, now there is an attempt to justify the firing by using words like ‘polarisation’ and ‘self-defence’,” Malay Tewari, one of the organisers, said at the start of the rally. The rally drew students, teachers, doctors, activists and senior citizens. Hundreds of flags with pictures of Rabindranath Tagore, B.R. Ambedkar, Bhagat Singh and Pritilata Waddedar fluttered under the canopy of trees as the rally went along Bidhan Sarani. Debashis Dutta, 65, a retired bank employee, was walking at the centre of the rally. “Khomotaye modomotto hoye esob korchhe (Drunk on power, they are doing these things),” he said of the Narendra Modi regime. “They have influenced every level of the administration, including central institutions. These are obvious traits of fascism,” said Dutta, a resident of Taltala. Dutta is not part of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, which organised the rally. But he is a regular at Indian Coffee House on College Street, where a group of BJP supporters had allegedly torn and defiled posters of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. Taltala falls under the Chowringhee Assembly constituency, which votes on April 29. Like Dutta, many participants in Monday’s rally were not part of any political party or campaign. But they took to the streets because the Sitalkuchi killings had instilled “fear and rage” in them. Many of them said the BJP’s desperate bid to use the killings to polarise society showed that the party was growing “increasingly desperate” in Bengal. Sharannyo Banerjee, who has just completed his MPhil in sociology from the Institute of Development Studies in Salt Lake, had learnt about the rally from social media. “No BJP leader is questioning the role of the CISF. They are trying to normalise the brutality. Some of them are exploiting the killings to polarise society. This is not a stray incident but a sign of things to come if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal,” said Banerjee, who lives in Beleghata, which votes on April 29. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have tried to shift the blame for the Sitalkuchi deaths on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, claiming that her allegedly inflammatory speech against central forces had triggered the incident. On Sunday, BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh threatened a “repeat of Sitalkuchi everywhere” if “naughty boys” did not mend their ways. Banners that minced no words were the highlight of the rally. “We don’t want the festival of bulletocracy (gulitantra),” said one banner. The word “utsav (festival)” was spelt as “utshav”. In Bengali, shav means corpse. Many people from Howrah and Hooghly joined Monday’s march. Baidyanath Singh, a zari worker from Uluberia in Howrah, was one of them. Singh used to work in Rajasthan but lost his job after the Covid pandemic broke out. He has since been doing odd jobs to run his family. “Livelihood is a problem. On top of that, voters are being killed by men in uniform,” he rued. The rally went along Bidhan Sarani and Bhupen Bose Avenue, which are lined with hundreds of shops on both sides. The traders were spotted listening intently to speakers near the Shyambazar five-point intersection, where the rally culminated. Filmmaker Aniket Chattopadhyay, who is part of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, said the BJP leaders’ justification of the “Sitalkuchi killings reminded people of General Dyer (the British officer responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919)”. Kasturi Basu, a convener of the campaign, reminded the audience that the central forces “got salaries from taxes” paid by citizens. “How dare they train their guns on voters? The BJP is scared. The BJP has sensed a big defeat in Bengal and that is why the party is resorting to fear mongering,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Jab drive trips on supply shortfall||Covid vaccination could not be done at several centres in the city on Monday and many more had to briefly suspend inoculation or stop administering jabs before the scheduled time because of shortage of doses. The vaccination drive against Covid-19 has been severely disrupted since Saturday because of lack of enough doses. The urban primary health centre at Dattabad, run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had no vaccines on Monday. All those who turned up for the shot were asked to come back later. The vaccination staff at the centre said they had come to know around 10am that no doses would arrive during the day. AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake could not vaccinate people for the third day in a row on Monday. The Mukundapur hospital of the group could only vaccinate 12 people from one vial it had in stock. Belle Vue Clinic exhausted its stock by 2pm. Those who arrived after 2pm had to return without getting the shot. Late on Monday afternoon, the state received four lakh doses of vaccines, which could be just enough for a couple of days. “We received four lakh doses on Monday. Now, we have a stock of over 7 lakh doses. Hopefully this will suffice for two days. The Centre has promised to send another 3 lakh doses on Wednesday,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Senior officials of the state health department could not say what would happen when the 3 lakh doses expected on Wednesday were administered. A senior official said the state was supposed to get 20 lakh doses but the Centre has not been able to give a deadline by when the doses would arrive. At vaccination centres, the shortage meant many prospective recipients had to go away without taking the jab. Vaccination at Peerless Hospital was halted between 11am and 12.30pm as vaccines were not available. The hospital resumed vaccination after fresh stocks arrived. “If we are not assured of stable supply, then we cannot tell the recipients to come at a specific time. This becomes problematic because many of them (prospective recipients) think this is happening because of the inefficiency of the hospital. The reality is we are not getting enough doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Belle Vue Clinic received 200 doses on Monday and they were administered by 2pm. The hospital has been inoculating between 350 and 450 people daily. “Since we did not have doses, we had to turn away people who came after 2pm,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue. “We had to stop vaccination at two of our three hospitals because doses were not available. This is a matter of great concern,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. Doctors have been saying rapid vaccination was needed to bring the epidemic under control. But shortage of doses has cast doubt on plans to speed up inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
13-04-2021||Business||Centre begins process for inviting financial bids for Air India sale||The government has initiated the process for inviting financial bids for the sale of national carrier Air India and the deal is likely to conclude by September, sources said. Salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Group was among the "multiple" entities that had put in preliminary bids for buying loss-making Air India in December last year. The sources said that after analysing the preliminary bids, eligible bidders were given access to the Virtual Data Room (VDR) of Air India, following which investors' queries were answered. The transaction has now moved to the financial bids stage, the sources said, adding that the deal is expected to conclude by September. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India that has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The stake sale process got delayed due to the COVID pandemic and the government had extended five times the deadline to submit preliminary bids for the national carrier. The airline, which started as a mail carrier in 1932, will give a successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest, the government had this time sweetened the deal by giving freedom to potential suitors to decide how much of the airline's debt they want to take on as part of the transaction. Previously, the bidders were required to take over the entire Rs 60,074 crore debt. Last month, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the government will keep Air India running till it gets divested and there is no choice but to either "privatise or close" the debt-laden airline. "We are looking at another timeline now, what is called data room for prospective bidders to look at... that is opened up, 64 days for the financial bids to come in. After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline," Puri had said. "...There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 660 points to close above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 660 points on Tuesday, tracking strong gains in auto and financial stocks amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48,544.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to 14,504.80. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 8 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Maruti, Axis Bank, ONGC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, TCS, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and Nestle India were among the laggards. "Domestic equities witnessed brisk rebound towards the second half of session after investors took comfort from announcement that government is fast-tracking approvals for overseas COVID-19 vaccines to improve supply of jabs and speed-up vaccination process," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Financials and automobile were the biggest contributors in the rebound. However, IT and pharma stocks were key drags. Heavy profit booking was seen in IT stocks after the announcement of TCS results. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.90 per cent higher at USD 63.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC twins amid largely positive cues from Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 236.71 points or 0.49 per cent higher at 48,120.09. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.55 points or 0.48 per cent to 14,379.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, L&T, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, Dr Reddy's and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex sank 1,707.94 points or 3.44 per cent to end at 47,883.38, and Nifty plunged 524.05 points or 3.53 per cent to finish at 14,310.80. The benchmark index fell below the 48000-mark, causing investors to lose Rs 8.77 lakh crore in Monday’s session. Market experts warned that equities were likely to remain under pressure and there could be more corrections as there could be bad news on the virus front. They, however, added that investors should also look at nibbling quality stocks in such times as the progress in vaccine rollouts and peaking of the number of Covid-19 cases could bring back the rally during the next few weeks. “There is a growing worry that the rising number of Covid-19 cases will affect economic activity, putting speed breakers on the small growth that we saw during the third quarter. Investors are also concerned that more states may follow the Maharashtra route and go for a full lockdown. On the other hand, we have reports of vaccine shortage in various parts of the country,” an analyst from a foreign brokerage had said. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,746.43 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "While a sharp increase in COVID-19 daily cases in the country and possibility of larger economic restrictions has dented investors' sentiments, 4QFY21 earnings began on a strong note with TCS delivering strong earnings performance with encouraging management commentaries. "This should help IT stocks to remain in focus in the near term," he noted. US equities finished with moderate losses overnight ahead of March inflation data and quarterly earnings of key lenders. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent higher at USD 63.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business|| Steel makers set to raise prices of hot-rolled coils||Steel makers are set to raise the prices of hot-rolled coils which are trading at a discount of Rs 5,000 to the import parity price,  analysts said . “Indian mills have raised flat steel prices by Rs 3,500-4,000 per tonne in April 21, which has been absorbed by the market. We believe further hikes are in store in the next few weeks as the Indian HRC prices still trade at a discount of Rs 5,000 per tonne to import parity prices,” Motilal Oswal said in a research report. Indian spot steel spreads are at record highs and are Rs 1,600/Rs 3,700 per tonne higher than the levels during the fourth quarter of 2020-21 for rebar/HRC, implying a strong industry performance in the first quarter of 2021-11 as well. Domestic steel inventories continue to slide down which further bodes well for domestic prices. According to provisional data for March 21 reported by Steelmint, India’s crude steel production rose 7 per cent year on year and 2 per cent month on month to 9.98 mt. India’s steel consumption grew 41 per cent year on year (on a low base of -34 per cent). However, the same declined 6 per cent month on month to 8.74mt in March 21 as companies looked to exports to benefit from strong global steel prices. Cement costlier The cement industry has hiked prices again in April after the hikes in March. Prices have been raised by Rs 20-30 per bag month on month  in east India and by Rs 5-10 per bag in other regions. Demand remains strong, particularly in the East.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||ONGC invites bids for sale of initial 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) on Monday invited bids for the sale of the initial 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from its KG basin fields at a minimum price of $6.6 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). According to the tender document, ONGC intends to start natural gas sale from its KG-DWN-98/2 block, which sits next to the Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL)-BP Plc operated KG-D6 fields, from June-end. Initially, 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas has been offered for sale through an e-auction. ONGC has sought bids indexed to Brent crude oil. Bids have been sought at a minimum of 10.5 per cent of the three-month average Brent crude oil price. At the current Brent crude oil price of $63, the minimum price comes to $6.6 per mBtu. This price, however, will be subject to the ceiling or cap fixed by the government for deepsea fields every six months. The cap for six months beginning April 1 is $3.62 per mBtu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Automobile sales fall 13.05 per cent to 41,289, 28 units||Automobile sales fell 13.05 per cent to 41,289, 28 units because the pandemic severely eroded demand,  industry body Siam said on Monday. “A deep structural slowdown in the industry even before the pandemic, combined with the impact of Covid-19 in 2020-21, has pushed all vehicle segments back by many years,” Kenichi Ayukawa, president of Siam, said “Recovery from here will require time and efforts, by all stakeholders. There is uncertainty in the value chain owing to semiconductors, lockdowns and raw material. In an environment of uncertainty, instead of trying to predict the future, we will all work hard to create it,” he added. Data showed that passenger vehicle wholesales declined 2.24 per cent to 27,11,457 units against 27,73,519 units in 2019-20. Total two-wheeler dispatches to dealers declined 13.19 per cent to 1,51,19,387 units, compared with 1,74,16,432 units in 2019-20. Total commercial vehicles sales declined 20.77 per cent to 5,68,559 units last financial year against 7,17,593 units in 2019-20.  Commercial vehicle sales during January-March at 2.1 lakh were less than sales recorded during the same period three years ago. Dispatches of three-wheelers saw a drop of 66.06 per cent in the 2020-21 fiscal at 2,16,197 units, against 6,37,065 units in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Adani to set up one of country’s largest warehousing facility for Flipkart||Gautam Adani on Monday rode into India’s booming e-commerce industry by entering into a strategic partnership with Flipkart. The tie-up will see Adani Logistics set up one of the country’s largest warehousing facility for the Walmart controlled e-tailer. Adani Logistics is a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone. As part of this partnership, Adani Logistics Ltd will construct a massive 534,000 sq ft fulfilment centre at its upcoming logistics hub in Mumbai that will be leased to Flipkart. A joint press statement said that this centre will address the growing demand for e-commerce in Western India and support market access of several thousands of sellers and MSMEs in the region. The centre is expected to be operational in the third quarter of 2022 and will have the capacity to house 10 million units of sellers’ inventory at any point. In addition to strengthening Flipkart’s supply chain infrastructure to support MSMEs and sellers, the facility will enhance local employment and create around 2,500 direct jobs and thousands of indirect jobs, the companies added. Observers say that the partnership will help Flipkart to take the battle to key rivals such as Amazon and Reliance Retail. The other leg of the partnership will see Flipkart developing its third data centre at the AdaniConnecX Chennai facility as part of one of the largest private cloud deployments in the country, thereby strengthening its growing marketplace e-commerce business in India. The Adani group said that the data centre has been designed to meet the highest standards in reliability, security, and sustainability, which will capitalise on the  capability of the Adanis as the largest solar player in the country to generate and source green power. The AdaniConneX data centre is a new facility enabling Flipkart to mould  the data centre to its growing infrastructure needs with a significant focus on security and keeping data locally within India. “This broad-ranging partnership across our logistics and data centre businesses is a unique business model, and we see this as a great opportunity to serve Flipkart’s physical as well as digital infrastructure needs,” Karan Adani, CEO of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sebi slaps Rs 25 crore fine on Yes Bank||The market regulator has slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yes Bank Ltd for fraudulently selling additional tier-I bonds worth over Rs 8,400 crore to retail investors that were eventually written off when a State Bank of India-led consortium put together a rescue package in March last year for the failed bank. The Securities and Exchange Board of India passed the order on a batch of petitions filed by retail investors in these bonds who were hoping for some redress. Yes Bank said it would move  the Secutities Appellate tribunal against the verdict. AT-1 bonds are unsecured bonds with perpetual tenure and banks float them to shore up their core capital. The market regulator also imposed penalties on three officials of the bank at that time: Vivek Kanwar, who was the head of Yes Bank’s private wealth management team, and two other officers Ashish Nasa and Jasjit Singh Banga. The order imposes a penalty of Rs 1 crore on Kanwar and Rs 50 lakh each on Nasa and Banga. They have been directed to pay the penalty within 45 days of the receipt of the order. If they fail to do so, proceedings would be initiated against them to recover the penalty with interest thereon. The penalty amount will in all probability flow into the market regulator’s investor protection fund. The order does not provide any repayment relief to the investors who filed the petitions — a position that is consistent with the stand that the Reserve Bank of India has taken in several cases filed by other investors in the Bombay and Madras high courts as well as the Supreme Court. The RBI’s stand has been that AT-1 bonds carry an inherent risk and fall under the terms of the Basel-III regulations issued by the central bank in 2015. Under these rules, AT-1 bonds are required to absorb losses at specified trigger points and at the point of non-viability. Sold as super FDs Yes Bank, which was led at that time by the bank’s now-jailed promoter Rana Kapoor, had sold the AT-1 bonds between 2016 and 2019. Sebi said the proceedings against Kapoor “will be conducted separately”. The investors had claimed that these bonds had been mis-sold as super-fixed deposits (FDs) which carried a high rate of interest and virtually no risk. They had told investors that these bonds carried a credit rating of AA, which stands for high safety. The officials argued that they had sold the bonds on the instruction of Rana Kapoor and had not collected any fee from the investors. They also denied selling the bonds as super FDs to high net worth individuals. The officers said they could not have anticipated the collapse of the bank during their tenure or that the banking regulator would allow the writeoff of the bonds, which was unprecedented. The Sebi order rejected the argument by the officers and held them responsible for creating a verbal sales pitch document that regional branch managers used to push the sale of these bonds. It also said the term sheet documenting the risks were never shared with the investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Retail inflation rises to four-month high of 5.52 per cent in March||Retail inflation rose to a four-month high of 5.52 per cent in March, driven by higher fuel and food prices, while factory output contracted to a six-month low of 3.6 per cent in February because of the poor performance of the manufacturing and mining sectors. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation stood at 5.03 per cent in February. The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 4.94 per cent in March against 3.87 per cent in the preceding month, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Inflation in the fuel and light category was 4.50 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.53 per cent in February. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said, “With renewed pandemic restrictions across the country, elevated global prices across commodities and higher transportation and logistics cost, price pressures are likely to prevail in the coming months for most segments. At the same time, the headline inflation reading could benefit from the higher base of a year ago.” Output falters The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — declined 3.7 per cent in February 2021. The mining sector output declined 5.5 per cent in February 2021. However, power generation grew marginally by 0.1 per cent in the month under review. “On average, the IIP has risen by a marginal 0.1 per cent in September 2020-February 2021, highlighting that the recovery in industrial volumes lacks conviction,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services posts 14.87 per cent growth in net profits||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Monday began the earnings season on a positive note by posting a 14.87 per cent growth in net profits for the March quarter of 2021, which came in line with Street estimates. The strong numbers came as the country’s largest IT services firm reported a robust deal win of $9.2 billion as clients continued to spend on technology. The company’s board of directors has recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share. For the quarter, TCS posted a net profit of Rs 9,246 crore compared with Rs 8,049 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. It marked a sequential 6.26 per cent growth over the net profit in the preceding quarter. The quarter saw revenues at TCS rising to Rs 43,705 crore from Rs 39,946 crore in the year-ago period. In dollar terms, revenues came in at $5,989 million, a sequential growth of around 5 per cent from $5702 million in the preceding quarter. The order book of $9.2 billion in the quarter is the highest total contract value (TCV) in any quarter, TCS said. For the year as a whole, its order book at $31.6 billion saw a rise of 17 per cent over last year’s number. “Our investments over the last decade in building newer capabilities, and in research and innovation, position us well for the multi-year technology services opportunity ahead. “While we continue to dominate in our traditional areas of strength, we are making good progress in gaining share in the growth and transformation opportunity. Our focus going into 2021-22 will be to engage with clients in their growth agenda, propelled by innovation and leverage of collective knowledge,’’ Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director of TCS, said. The period also saw net margins rising by 1 per cent over the last year to 21.2 per cent. According to V. Ramakrishnan, chief financial officer, TCS’ performance in the fourth quarter caps three quarters of consistent robust performance in a pandemic year, and gives the company a strong exit from 2020-21. “Our fourth quarter margins are a validation of our strong belief that it is possible to win mega-deals, post industry-leading growth, continue to invest in our people and in newer capabilities, and still deliver industry-leading profitability. “ “All the investments that we have been making over the years position us strongly to expand our footprint in the large growth and transformation opportunity,’’ he added. On the performance of its various verticals, TCS said that all of them showed good sequential growth, though a couple continue to lag prior year level. While BFSI showed a growth of 7 per cent sequentially, the growth of retail came in at around four per cent, life sciences and healthcare at 3.8 per cent over the preceding quarter and manufacturing at 3.9 per cent growth. In terms of markets, the growth was led by major markets with Continental Europe showing a strong 8.5 per cent sequential growth, North America at 3.9 per cent and the UK at around 3.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||India Inc voices opposition to fresh lockdowns amid Covid surge||India Inc has voiced its opposition to fresh lockdowns amid a record spike in coronavirus cases. Rajiv Bajaj, the outspoken managing director of Bajaj Auto, on Monday warned a hard lockdown would lead to the absence of medical attention to the sick who are suffering from other ailments. Bajaj told television channels that 95 per cent of those testing positive are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Governments, therefore, should not impose lockdowns that affect the livelihood of thousands. Bajaj’s home state Maharashtra is on the verge of announcing a full lockdown for up to two weeks. The state has started night curfews and imposed a lockdown over the weekend. Bajaj said the impact on the two-wheeler industry has not been significant, though dealerships have been closed during the weekend lockdown. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations  has warned the growth momentum in car sales will be hampered. The rise in infections has already seen customers staying away from making big- ticket purchases, the dealers said. Meanwhile, an overwhelming 93 per cent of the country’s top CEOs in a poll among 710 by industry chamber CII prefer stricter safety rules to lockdowns, which will impact the movement of labour and goods, and affect production. CII president Uday Kotak said the government should do whatever it takes to ramp up the production and distribution of vaccines. Any measures to restrict social gatherings should not be extended to regular functioning of industry and commerce, T.V. Narendran, president-designate of CII, said. The worry is more among MSME circles. “The question of saving 1 per cent lives or 38 per cent of livelihoods will likely resurface with the impending lockdown in Maharashtra. MSMEs are currently in a state of chaos, unsure of supply, demand and payment schedules,’’ Kenny Ramanand, national secretary, All India Manufacturer’s Organisation (AIMO), said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Suvodeep Rakshit, vice-president and senior economist at Kotak Institutional Equities, said, if the lockdowns or restrictions continued to be limited to night curfews or other curbs without restraining manufacturing and construction, the impact will not be large. “There will be some supply chain frictions but much lower than what we had seen in the lockdowns of 2020. Obviously, this assumes that generalised lockdowns across large states are not the norm,’’ he added. There was also disappointing news on the jobs front. Latest data from the CMIE showed unemployment rate jumped to 8.6 per cent for the week ended April 11 from 6.7 per cent two weeks ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||Equities post their worst performance in over a month||Equities on Monday posted their worst performance in over a month with the Sensex nosediving 1708 points as a spike in Covid-19 cases in the country and the possibility of more restrictions or lockdowns led to apprehensions about its  impact on the economic recovery. The benchmark index fell below the 48000-mark, causing investors to lose Rs 8.77 lakh crore in Monday’s session. Market experts are warning that equities are likely to remain under pressure and there could be more corrections as there could be bad news on the virus front. They, however, add that investors should also look at nibbling quality stocks in such times as the progress in vaccine rollouts and peaking of the number of Covid-19 cases could bring back the rally during the next few weeks. The fresh worries came after India logged a record 168,912 Covid-19 infections overnight, data from the health ministry showed on Monday. The country thus overtook Brazil to become the second-most affected nation globally by the coronavirus. “There is a growing worry that the rising number of Covid-19 cases will affect economic activity, putting speed breakers on the small growth that we saw during the third quarter. Investors are also concerned that more states may follow the Maharashtra route and go for a full lockdown. On the other hand, we have reports of vaccine shortage in various parts of the country,” an analyst from a foreign brokerage said. The panic was evident since the beginning of the trading session as the 30-share Sensex opened at 48956.65 and hit an intra-day low of 47693.44. It, thereafter, sank 1707.94 points, or 3.44 per cent, to end at 47883.38 — the biggest fall since February 26. The broader NSE Nifty plunged 524.05 points, or 3.53 per cent, to finish at 14310.80. Rupee at 75.05 The rupee fell for the sixth straight session to mark its lowest level in nearly nine months at 75.05 against the dollar on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||India||Section 144 in Maharashtra for 15 days from April 14: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Government on Tuesday announced a 15-day long statewide curfew from April 14 amid the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The curfew, which excludes essential services, will come into effect from 8 pm on Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his address via social media to people of the state. Section 144 (prohibitory orders) of the Criminal Procedure Code will be in force till the "lockdown-like" restrictions are in place, Thackeray said. He refrained from terming the new curbs as a lockdown. There is a shortage of medical oxygen and beds and the demand for Remdesivir has increased in Maharashtra, he said, adding the Centre should help supply oxygen for coronavirus patients in the state by using Air Force planes. "The war against coronavirus has begun once again," he said. There is a severe strain on Maharashtra's health infrastructure due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, he added. The state government will provide three kg wheat and two kg rice free for the next one month to every poor and needy person while the coronavirus-induced restrictions are in place, Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
13-04-2021||India||Over 50 million Sputnik V doses to be made in India by this summer, says Russia||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday said it expects over 50 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine to be manufactured in India by this summer. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Monday registered the vaccine under the emergency use authorisation procedure, based on results of clinical trials in Russia, as well as positive data of additional Phase III local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr Reddy's Laboratories. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev in a virtual press conference said besides five drug companies that the Russian firm had ties ups with, they are looking for a couple of more firms for the possible production pacts. "We almost think Sputnik V is an Indian-Russian vaccine, because lots of production of Sputnik V will be done in India. We publicly announced five production partnerships in India with some of the largest Indian pharmaceutical companies," Dmitriev said. "We believe more than 50 million doses a month (to be manufactured) in the summer (in a couple of months). This is our plan. By summer we expect to manufacture 50 million doses or more of Sputnik V a month in India, he said. Replying to a query, he said some of the Indian firms have started production of the vaccine under the strict quality checks. In September 2020, Dr. Reddy’s and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the rights for distribution of the first 100 million doses in India. Later it was enhanced to 125 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Supply of vaccine not the problem, lack of planning is: Centre||Over 1.67 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that the problem is not of vaccine shortage but of better planning. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said so far states and UTs have received 13,10,90,370 vaccine doses, out of which the total consumption, including wastage, has been 11,43,69,677. "As per 11 am data, unutilised doses available with states and union territories for administration is 1,67,20,693. From now till April end, 2,01,22,960 doses are in the supply pipeline to states and UTs," he said. "This clearly shows that the problem is of lack of better planning, not of vaccine doses shortage. We have made available vaccine doses to states and UTs from time to time and as we told you earlier that to bigger states we give supply of four days at once and on fourth and fifth day we replenish the supply. For smaller states, at once we supply 7-8 days vaccine doses and on the seventh or eighth day their supply is replenished," he added. Bhushan said each state government needs to ascertain at cold chain points how many unutilised doses are lying and if necessary then from one cold chain point to another the doses have to be reappropriated based on the consumption patterns. "In any state, the case might be that in one district more consumption is taking place while in another there is less consumption. Our request to state governments to ascertain where the doses can be reappropriated from," he added. Bhushan also said Kerala has zero wastage of vaccine doses while on the other hand there are states which are registering 8-9 per cent wastage. Giving details of coronavirus situation in the country, Bhushan said the previous highest surge has already been crossed and the trend is going upward and that is a cause for worry and that is something they continuously share with the states and UTs and try to help them tackle the pandemic in a more effective manner. "The previous highest surge was 94,372 daily cases in September which is now 1,61,736 every day. There are 53 central teams which are camping in 53 districts of the country which are showing a surge in cases and these central teams are helping the district administration as well the state administration, particularly health department and revenue officials, in tackling the pandemic," he added. The daily deaths are also showing an increasing trend. But the previous surge was 1,104 and it is presently 879 deaths. He said Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Haryana and Gujarat are among states of concern. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said a serious situation is emerging. While the situation is worse in some states it is a countrywide problem and there has to be continued focus on test, track, trace and treat strategy and following Covid appropriate behaviour as well as embracing the vaccine, he said. "Everyone should wear a mask," he said. Amid reports of shortage of remdesivir, he said the drug is to be given only to hospitalised, serious patients and those on oxygen support, and there is no question of its use in home setting and it is not to be procured from chemist shops. "As shortage of remdesivir was reported in some areas, its export was banned. This medicine is now available in plenty. We appeal to physicians to do rational, judicious use of remdesivir in hospitalised patients," he said. Paul also stressed on embracing Ayush products for boosting immunity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||India speeds up approval of foreign-made jabs granted emergency access||With an aim to expand the basket of Covid-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The first 100 beneficiaries of such foreign vaccines shall be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out for further immunisation programmes within the country, the Union Health Ministry said. The Centre's decision came after an expert panel recommended that Covid-19 vaccines, which have been developed and are being manufactured in foreign countries and which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by authorities in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan, or which are listed in the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. The expert panel also mandated the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trials in place of conduct of local clinical trials. "This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India and would encourage imports including import of bulk drug material, optimal utilisation of domestic fill and finish capacity, etc., which will in turn provide a fillip to vaccine manufacturing capacity and total vaccine availability for domestic (use)," the ministry said. Currently, two vaccines -- Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Covishield by Serum Institute of India (SII) -- are being used for inoculation in India. India's drug regulator has also granted permission for the restricted emergency use of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V with certain conditions on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Sushil Chandra assumes charge as the Chief Election Commissioner of India||Sushil Chandra assumed charge as the 24th Chief Election Commissioner on Tuesday. Chandra was appointed as the CEC on Monday, the day Sunil Arora demitted office. He was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission (EC) will hold Assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab ends on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. Chandra belongs to the 1980 batch of the Indian Revenue Service. He is also an ex-officio member of the Delimitation Commission since February 18, 2020 looking after the process in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Having held several posts in the Income Tax Department for nearly 39 years, Chandra was appointed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman on November 1, 2016. He spent considerable time as Director of Investigation and Director General of Investigation, Mumbai and Gujarat, respectively followed by his stint as Member (Investigation), CBDT and thereafter assuming the post of Chairman of this apex body. "Transparency and purity of political finance are of vital importance for free and fair electoral process and the creation of a level playing field. Continuing the crusade that he started as CBDT Chairman against the menace of black money, Chandra was proactive as the erstwhile Election Commissioner in curbing the use of money power that vitiates the electoral process," the Commission said on Tuesday. He has constantly emphasised the concept of "inducement-free" elections and it has become an integral dimension of monitoring the electoral process in all ongoing and forthcoming elections, the EC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Kejriwal urges Centre to cancel board exams of class 10 and 12 amid Covid spurt||Delhi has reported over 13,500 cases in 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday and appealed to the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams and explore alternative methods, including online exams. Warning that conducting the exams may contribute to the large-scale spread of the virus, he said the centres could emerge as major hotspots. "Six lakh children in Delhi are going to write CBSE exams. Nearly one lakh teachers will be a part of it. These (the centres) can become major hotspots leading to large-scale spreading of corona. Children's lives and health are very important to us. I request the Centre to cancel the CBSE exams," he said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. The Central Board of Secondary Education can explore other methods, including online exams and promoting students on the basis of internal assessments, he said. "Several countries have done it, some states in India are doing it too. Some alternative methods could be thought of. Children can be promoted this time on the basis of either an online method or internal assessment. But the exams should be cancelled," he added. The CBSE Class 10 and 12 exams are scheduled to begin on May 4. With the exponential increase in coronavirus cases, the chorus for cancellation or postponing the board exams is growing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||India becomes 60th country to approve Russia's Sputnik V vaccine||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has said that India has become the 60th country to approve the use of Sputnik V against coronavirus and more than 850 million doses of the vaccine are going to be produced in the country annually. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has registered the vaccine under the emergency use authorisation procedure. This is based on results of clinical trials in Russia as well as positive data of additional Phase III local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr Reddy's Laboratories. The vaccine has been approved for use in countries with a total population of 3 billion people or about 40 per cent of the global population, and India has become the 60th country to approve Sputnik V, RDIF, Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said in a statement. India is also the most populated country to register the vaccine and also the leading production hub for Sputnik V, it added. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the approval of the vaccine is a major milestone as both countries have been developing an extensive cooperation on clinical trials of Sputnik V in India and its local production. "The Russian vaccine has efficacy of 91.6 per cent and provides full protection against severe cases of COVID-19 as demonstrated by the data published in one of the leading medical journals -- The Lancet," he added. Noting that India is a vaccine-manufacturing hub and a strategic partner for production of Sputnik V, he said RDIF has created partnerships with a number of India's leading pharmaceutical companies for production of Sputnik V which will provide for both vaccination of the population in India and global distribution of the vaccine. "Over 850 million doses of Sputnik V are going to be produced in India annually sufficient to vaccinate more than 425 million people around the world," he said. According to the release, RDIF has agreements with India's Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year. Sputnik will be the third vaccine to be used in India against coronavirus. In January, DCGI had given the emergency use authorisation for two COVID-19 vaccines -- Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford-AstraZeneca manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. As per RDIF, Sputnik V has a number of key advantages, including that there are no strong allergies caused by Sputnik V. The price of the vaccine is less than USD 10 per shot and it uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots, it added. Other countries that have approved use of Sputnik V include Argentina, Bolivia, Hungary, UAE, Iran, Mexico, Pakistan, Bahrain and Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||India logs over 1.61 lakh fresh Covid cases, 879 casualties in a day||A total of 1,61,736 new coronavirus infections have been reported in a day pushing India's tally of cases to 1,36,89,453, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate dropped further to 89.51 per cent, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,71,058 with 879 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 34th day in a row, the number of active cases rose to 12,64,698, or 9.24 per cent of the total infections. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, 2021 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,22,53,697, while the case fatality rate has dropped further to 1.25 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,92,07,108 samples have been tested up to April 12, of which 14,00,122 were done on Monday. The 879 new fatalities include 258 from Maharashtra, 132 from Chhattisgarh, 72 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, 55 from Gujarat, 52 each from Karnataka and Punjab, 37 from Madhya Pradesh, 25 from Rajasthan, 19 each from Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand, 14 each from Haryana and West Bengal, and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. A total of 1,71,058 deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 58,245 from Maharashtra, 12,941 from Karnataka, 12,927 from Tamil Nadu, 11,355 from Delhi, 10,414 from West Bengal, 9,224 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,559 from Punjab, and 7,311 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Risky mix of Kumbh Mela, rallies and laxity amid rise in cases||India on Monday recorded 168,912 new Covid-19 cases as the coronavirus rampaged through multiple states amid public laxity in personal precautions, election rallies, the Kumbh Mela and what some health experts say are deficiencies in containment measures. The daily count –  a new high so far – increased the number of active patients in India overnight by 92,922, raising the total number of patients to more than 1.2 million that doctors say will intensify pressure on hospitals and critical care services. The seven-day average of daily new cases has increased in at least 30 states and Union territories over the past four weeks — doubling in Kerala and increasing 20-fold in Delhi, 30-fold in Chhattisgarh and over 60-fold in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The daily Covid-19 death counts too have increased 6-fold nationwide — from 140 deaths on March 12 to 904 on April 11. In Uttarakhand, where thousands of devotees have congregated for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, defying pleas from health officials to avoid crowds, the seven-day average of daily new cases has increased 15-fold, from 59 on March 12 to 935 on April 11. “It is obvious that the Kumbh Mela has the potential to be a superspreader event. If that happens, we’ll see the impact in the days and weeks to come after the devotees return,” said a senior public health expert, requesting not to be named. The Union health ministry had last month cautioned Uttarakhand that a significant number of pilgrims and local residents were testing positive for Covid-19 daily and iterated the need for all pilgrims to carry Covid-negative reports. Scientists tracking the epidemic’s growth say the R value — a measure of the speed at which the infection is spreading — has decreased slightly in both Maharashtra and Punjab, although the value remains above 1, implying a continued increase in active cases. Maharashtra and Punjab were the first states to report the second wave. “But we see remarkable increases in R in Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Among the 18 states with the fastest growth, Bihar has the highest R value of 2. “This means cases there are doubling every five days,” said Sinha. He, however, underlined that every time cases surged in Bihar during the first wave, the spike appeared to “magically go away”. “We don’t know the reason – it’s possible that the clusters of infections are somewhat isolated from each other and just burn out after a rapid rise,” he said. Many believe that the fast-rising daily counts have made the efforts to contain the infection more and more difficult and rendered the task of tracing at least 20 contacts for each positive case -– as recommended by the health ministry -– impractical. “It’s impractical if not impossible,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We’re now detecting over 150,000 new cases per day – is it really possible to trace and quarantine three million people every day?” “We have a fragile health system, traditionally understaffed and under-funded,” he said. “Also, (a sizeable segment) of the healthcare staff is now deployed in the vaccination campaign. And other medical requirements -- whether deliveries or cardiovascular conditions --- haven’t vanished just because Covid-19 has hit us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||Couple’s funds for cancer hospital and palliative care centre in Bhubaneswar||IT firm Mindtree’s co-founder and Odisha Skill Development Authority chairman Subroto Bagchi and his wife Susmita, who is chairman of Mo School (My School) Abhiyan, have pledged Rs 210 crore for a cancer hospital and another Rs 130 crore for establishment of a palliative care centre, both in Bhubaneswar. A meeting of the Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday gave its nod to the establishment of the cancer hospital and palliative care centre. “Susmita and I will donate 340 crores to bring @karunashraya to set up a world class palliative care unit and @shankaracancer for a cutting–edge cancer hospital. Deeply grateful @CMO_Odisha for the shared vision and support. Odisha will soon emerge as a leading oncology player in India,” tweeted Bagchi. Sri Shankara Cancer Care Foundation and Karunashraya Hospice Trust are Bangalore-based charitable organisations. The cancer hospital will be named Bagchi-Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Institute while the other facility will be called Bagchi Karunashraya Palliative Care Centre. The Odisha government will provide land for the establishment of these two units. The cancer hospital will initially have 250 beds and will be made operational by January 2024. It will be later expanded to a 500-bed hospital. The hospital will have 25 per cent beds reserved for free treatment and another 25 per cent beds will be set aside for patients supported under different government health schemes. The rest of the patients will pay for the services and the revenue generated will be utilised for the expansion of the hospital and supporting the poor patients. It will be an oncology centre of excellence with academic and research facilities, officials said. “The cancer hospital will provide advanced cutting-edge cancer care and evidence–based management of cancer cases,” an official said. The palliative care centre will have 100 beds. The centre will provide holistic palliative care and all patients will receive free service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||BJD seeks Pipili win to check BJP rise in coastal belt||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is going all out to retain the Pipili Assembly seat in Odisha and checkmate the BJP’s plans of making inroads into the state’s coastal belt by registering its first victory from the constituency. Pipili, around 20km from Bhubaneswar, is considered the stronghold of the BJD and a seat that has never been won by the BJP. The seat fell vacant following the death of BJD stalwart and seven-time MLA Pradeep Maharathy. The BJD has fielded his son Rudra Pratap Maharathy as its candidate in the by-election scheduled for April 17. The Assembly segment is a part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency. The BJD has deputed a number of MLAs and ministers to this sensitive Assembly constituency, which has already witnessed pre-poll violence. A delegation of BJD leaders met Odisha chief electoral officer Sushil Kumar Lohani and lodged a complaint about the alleged attack on minister Sushant Singh’s vehicle on Sunday. The incident took place when the minister had gone to meet some injured party workers at Delanga. Police have arrested two persons in connection with the attack. Central forces have been deployed in Pipili to bring the situation under control. BJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sasmit Patra said: “BJP workers attacked minister Sushant Singh and smashed the front and rear windshield of his car on Sunday. Two BJD workers also suffered injuries and are undergoing treatment in hospital. Violence in politics and elections is nothing new for BJP.” “In the Bijepur by-election in 2018 and in the general election in 2019, the party (BJP) had carried out a series of attacks. They are now using money and muscle power again. Cash worth Rs 50 lakh was recently seized from some BJP workers in Pipili. However, the people of Pipili will defeat the BJP and its agenda of violence,” he said. As political temperature rose in the constituency, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday addressed the people of Pipili through the virtual mode and appealed to them to support his party candidate. He also assured them that it was his responsibility to see overall development of the constituency. Naveen also recalled how the people of Pipili have always supported the BJD and his father Biju Patnaik. BJP heavyweight and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan will campaign for the party candidate Ashrit Pattanayak on April 13. The BJP on Monday accused the BJD of being involved in all sorts of nefarious activities. “Free and fair elections seem a remote possibility in Pipili. BJP workers are being harassed and targeted. The ruling BJD is using the police force. The people of Pipili will vote for Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas mantra of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. “If BJP manages to win the seat, it will be able to gain a firm foothold in the coastal belt which is important for the party,” said senior journalist Ashutosh Mishra, adding that the BJP’s influence has been mainly confined to western Odisha. In view of the sensitive nature of the bypoll in Pipili, the police have stepped up security measures. “We are keeping a close eye on the law and order situation in Pipili. A total 80 booths have been identified as critical. Three companies of BSF, 15 platoons of Odisha police and one platoon of Odisha Industrial Security Force (OISF) have been deployed in the constituency,” said director-general of police Abhay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-214
13-04-2021||India||No work in cities, say returning migrant workers||As trainloads of migrant workers alight at various railway stations across Bihar, they have a common refrain. They claim that they have not fled the more developed states out of fear of the coronavirus pandemic, but have been forced to leave because of the circumstances, and by the very people for whom they worked. Their faces do not betray any panic, nor their body language shows any fear. They are just stoic masses of human beings believing in fatalism, and accepting that nobody will come with solutions to alleviate their suffering. Naresh Kumar, 30, alighted at Danapur from a special train from Pune, Maharashtra, in the middle of the night and spent the next few hours waiting for dawn to complete the remaining 150km journey to Sitamarhi. He was working in a garment factory in Pune, earning around Rs 15,000 a month. “I was determined not to leave Pune even if the world came to an end. I had come back last year during the lockdown, and had repented the trouble faced during the journey and months of joblessness. However, the factory was shut down again. I could not find any other work and was forced to return,” Naresh said. Asked what he will do now, Naresh said he would look for work or will become a hawker selling different wares. The majority of the people returning on the trains from metropolises and industrial cities are those who had returned during the lockdown last year. Not finding suitable employment in Bihar, they had returned to work in October–November last year after being called backed by their employers. “Our employers had sent us money and tickets last year and requested us to return to work. We did so. But our salary was cut substantially within a couple of months on the excuse that they were suffering losses. When coronavirus cases increased and the weekend lockdown was announced, we were simply told we should come back later as there was no work,” said Muhammad Faiyyaz, who worked as a chef at a restaurant in Mumbai. Faiyyaz is now determined to try his hand at agriculture at Kamtaul village in Darbhanga district. “It’s very hard work and I have no experience of it, but I will give it a shot. I do not want to experience the trauma of losing my job repeatedly. Besides, no government takes care of workers like us. We are forced to live hand to mouth if we lose our jobs,” he added. Several workers who returned from cities like Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Surat alleged that they had to buy train tickets at higher prices from touts, who had purchased them in advance. Many people who returned to Bihar from other states a week or two before have decided to play safe and stay put at their native places instead of going back to work. Vijay Prasad Chaurasia, 68, a resident of Kudra village in Kaimur district, arrived at Mohania Road station on April 5 to participate in the Ram Navami festival. He and his family members sell merchandise on footpath in Vile Parle (West) in Mumbai, but have decided not to return in the light of the raging pandemic and talk of complete lockdown in Maharashtra. “The previous lockdown made us bankrupt and turned us into beggars. We earned around Rs 400 to Rs 500 daily and managed somehow to pay room rent, electricity bill and survive there. But the income becomes nil if there is a lockdown. We are not returning to Mumbai for the time being. There is nobody who cares about us. Here in our village at least we won’t die of hunger,” Chaurasia told The Telegraph over the phone from Kudra. D.M. Diwakar, social activist and former director of A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, says that the emerging scenario with regard to migrant workers from Bihar is an outcome of various factors. “The Bihar government made much noise about skill mapping of the lakhs of migrant workers who returned from different states during the lockdown last year. It was done in a haphazard manner and without any end result. Had it been done properly, the workers would have become the agents of change in Bihar and contributed to industrialisation of the state. The politicians and the bureaucrats also did not take much interest in it,” Diwakar told this newspaper. He pointed out that the lack of employment in Bihar forced the migrant workers to return, and this time they lost their bargaining power in the process. “These migrant workers are now at the mercy of their employers, who are unwilling to take even a little bit of responsibility. The state and central governments over the past several decades have also not done anything to safeguard these workers or provide them any viable social security cover. The effects of labour laws have also been eroded in the country since 1991,” Diwakar said. He added that the situation could be changed only with drastic policy changes at the state and central level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||Post for Babri acquittal judge ||The judge who had acquitted all the Sangh parivar leaders in the Babri Masjid demolition case has, six months later, been appointed upalokayukta or deputy lokayukta of Uttar Pradesh by the Yogi Adityanath government. As a special CBI court judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav had on September 30 last year acquitted all the 32 surviving accused, denying any conspiracy by the BJP and VHP heavyweights and blaming the Babri demolition on “anti-social elements” who had infiltrated the kar sevaks. Yadav had retired the day of the verdict. Governor Anandiben Patel signed his latest appointment letter on April 6, but the matter became public only when the former judge took charge of his new post on Monday. He is one of three deputy lokayuktas in Uttar Pradesh. The lokayukta courts hear corruption cases against state ministers and state government officials. Among those Yadav had acquitted in the Babri case were former Union ministers L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharati, and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. Yadav had rejected the CBI’s findings in favour of a report by the local police intelligence unit. “There were some anti-social elements among the kar sevaks and they committed the crime. The politicians and the sadhus were continuously making appeals to the mob to maintain peace,” his 2,300-page order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress pushes Narendra Modi for vaccines, cash for poor||The Congress on Monday hoped Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend to his primary duty of governance instead of devoting all his time and energy campaigning for Bengal elections when the second coronavirus wave is rampaging through the country. The Prime Minister’s obsession with the Bengal polls dominated the massive social media campaign for vaccines run by the Congress on Monday. Wondering how the Prime Minister could be engrossed in electioneering when over a lakh new Covid cases are emerging every day, Congress spokesperson Ajoy Kumar said: “The Prime Minister should have set up a war room with medical experts and top administrators to strategise for Covid management. But the war room is for Bengal. The Prime Minister is addressing three rallies in Bengal today (Monday). Even home minister Amit Shah is there.” The party also highlighted the export of over six crore doses at a time India has not vaccinated all its health and frontline workers and persons with comorbidities. Many senior leaders blasted the government for playing with the lives of people with its casual approach to Covid’s second wave that has made India the country with the second largest number of infections in the world. The Congress spokesperson said: “People elected him to govern, they presumed the Prime Minister will rise to the occasion to help people in crisis. What has Modi done to expand vaccine production? There are 13 vaccines available in the world; has the Prime Minister talked to those manufacturers for making them available in India? Has he any concern for the people? When will Bengal election end?” Many other leaders alleged that Modi was driven by a lust for power and hoped he would get serious about the national crisis after polling ends in Bengal. Most leaders pointed at the government’s failure in bolstering the healthcare infrastructure after the severe Covid shock last year and its decision to export and gift vaccines to other countries, arguing that Modi was more concerned about refurbishing his own image than the lives of Indians. As reports suggested that the government was considering approving Russian vaccine Sputnik, the Congress pounced on Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who had slammed Rahul Gandhi for urging the government to grant permission to other vaccines. Rahul himself put out a video saying: “Modi ji, you said the war against corona will be won in 18 days. You asked people to bang thali, light up candles and show mobile phone torch… but corona intensified. Please stop event-bazi now and arrange for vaccines for all. And provide income support to the poor.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote another letter to the Prime Minister on Monday, expressing concern over vaccine shortage and economic disruption affecting the poor in the aftermath of a surge in Covid cases. She said: “Vaccines are our foremost hope. Sadly, most of the states are left with a stock of just three to five days. While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorisation of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances without any further delay.” Sonia added: “Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection in that particular state. All equipment, instruments, medicine and support infrastructure required to deal with Covid-19 crisis should be made completely exempt from GST. Even ventilators, oximeters and oxygen cylinders currently attract GST as do key life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and Dexamethazone.” Drawing attention to the restrictions and lockdowns being imposed in many parts of the country, she said: “We will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people — especially the poor and daily wage earners very hard. It is with all earnestness that I appeal to you to put into place the much needed scheme of minimum monthly guaranteed income in place and transfer an amount of Rs 6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account.” She also sought measures for transportation of migrant labourers as reverse migration had already started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Drug regulatory expert panel clears Russia vaccine||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Monday approved restricted emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik V, paving the way for the entry of a third Covid-19 vaccine in India’s inoculation campaign currently open for people 45 years and older. The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved an application for the emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V submitted by the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the PTI reported. The Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country’s sovereign wealth fund and the vaccine’s promoter worldwide, and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, had last year said they would provide India 100 million doses of Sputnik V after its regulatory approval. The SEC’s recommendation would need to be accepted by the CDSCO for Sputnik V to be made available in the vaccination campaign which currently uses Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. Sputnik V has shown 92 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, the vaccine’s developers have said, reporting the findings of clinical trials, an efficacy slightly higher than those linked to Covaxin or Covishield. Scientists, however, have underlined that the real-world efficacy of all Covid-19 vaccines are yet to be determined. Health experts have for weeks been advocating the need for India to quickly approve more Covid-19 vaccines to accelerate the campaign and protect more people faster. India has administered 108 million doses of the two vaccines since the start of the campaign nearly three months ago. But only about 13.6 million people have received the two doses of vaccines needed to protect them from the infection. Advisers to the campaign estimate that India will require around 700 million doses to cover an estimated 350 million people during the current campaign. “The entry of Sputnik V could speed up the campaign, but the number of doses would need to be matched by both the capacity to administer the vaccines and potential recipients accepting them,” a member of an advisory panel said. Neither RDIF nor DRL has specified how many doses of Sputnik V would be available to India per month. A senior health official had said earlier this month that the Centre is currently able to procure about 10 million doses from Bharat Biotech and around 70 million doses from Serum per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||Ranjith R Panathur: From watchman to IIM professor||A Facebook post that begins by declaring “This is where I was born and grew up” has taken Kerala by storm with ministers and Opposition leaders joining ordinary netizens in congratulating the writer. The picture accompanying the post shows a two-room shed built with stone and mud, its presumably leaky tiled roof covered with black plastic sheets, in a small village in north Kerala’s Kasaragod district. It’s from here that the writer, Ranjith R. Panathur, 28, rose to become a university lecturer in Bangalore — working as a night-watchman to fund his college studies — and a soon-to-be economics teacher at IIM Ranchi. “My only intention in posting that message and picture of my home was to inspire young people like me to have the same determination to overcome difficulties,” Ranjith, who teaches economics at Christ University, Bangalore, told The Telegraph on Monday. Ranjith, who has a doctorate in economics from IIT Madras, said he had received the IIM job offer recently and would soon be leaving for Ranchi. His post has fetched congratulatory calls from Kerala minister E. Chandrashekaran, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and the Congress MP from Kasaragod, Rajmohan Unnithan, as well as a Facebook post from state finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. Ranjith credits much of his success to his IIT Madras guide, associate professor Subhash Sashidharan, who had helped change his mind when the young man had thought of quitting the PhD course. “I wanted to drop out since I was not fitting in with what was a new environment for me. I was at the time proficient only in Malayalam. But my guide changed my mind and instilled the confidence in me to continue,” he told this newspaper. Ranjith is the eldest of the three children of Ramachandra Naik, a tailor, and Baby R, a regular beneficiary of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme. His Marathi-speaking grandparents had migrated to Kasaragod. Although his parents had studied only up to Class V, they had ensured their children received good education. They sent Ranjith to a government-run model residential school for tribal kids in Kasaragod. “I studied there from Class V to X since it was fully funded for all students,” he said. Ranjith studied higher secondary at another government school in the district. He then enrolled in St Pius X College in Rajapuram, also in Kasaragod, and graduated in economics as the college topper. He worked as a night-watchman at a telephone exchange in his village, Panathur, for five years to fund his higher secondary and BA studies. He had started out on a salary of Rs 3,500, which gradually increased to Rs 8,000 in the fifth year. “It was tough — I had to attend classes during the daytime and work at night,” Ranjith said. He quit the job after clearing the entrance test for the Central University of Kerala in Kasaragod, where he did his master’s. “Apart from a monthly grant of a little more than Rs 1,000, I had to depend on my parents to support me,” he said. Ranjith joined IIT Madras in 2015 and earned his PhD in 2020, writing his thesis on “foreign direct investment and industrial agglomeration”. He has since published two papers. His former guide, Sashidharan, lauded Ranjith’s “hard work and determination”. “It’s a proud moment to see him achieving great heights. I’m happy that I could contribute to his academic journey,” he told this newspaper. Sashidharan recalled how he had sent Ranjith to Japan against formidable odds. He said he had received an invitation from the Western Economic Association International to present a paper in Japan before the Robert Lipsey Memorial Panel. “I suggested that Ranjith present the paper. They were initially not happy with a student presentation but eventually agreed. I came to know later from the panel chair that Ranjith had done a fabulous job,” he said. Ranjith’s sister has a master’s in economics and has completed her BEd; his younger brother works at a hotel in Thrissur, having earned a diploma in hotel management. Ranjith says he wants to build a new house for his parents, who still live in the old house with their daughter. He also plans to help students from poor families. “Once I settle down in my new job, I want to help educate poor children and show them there’s a bigger world out there,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||Supreme Court junks plea on Quran||The Supreme Court on Monday termed as “absolutely frivolous” a petiiton filed by ex-Shia Waqf Board chairperson Waseem Rizvi seeking removal of 26 verses from the Quran and dismissed it with a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioner. The petition was filed by Rizvi seeking deletion of 26 specific verses from the Quran allegedly because they, according to him, violate the law of the land and promote extremism. When the matter came up for hearing initially, a three-judge bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, B.R. Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy asked senior advocate R.K. Raizada whether he was serious about pursuing the petition. The counsel argued that he was concerned mainly with various madrasas imparting Quran lessons by teaching the impugned verses which he said fomented terrorism in the country. He argued that madrasas are entrusted with the task to maintain the standard of teaching. But the said verses indoctrinate the children with extremist philosophy, he said. Such a right the counsel argued is not protected under Article 25 of the Constitution which gives every person right to practice and profess any religion. “Students are not to be indoctrinated. Salafists and Wahabis are using this. This means internationalisation of terror is happening…” he said According to the petitioner, he had earlier written a letter to the Centre for deletion of the 26 verses, but finding no response from the government was forced to move the apex court. Justice Nariman, heading the bench, after a brief conversation with the other two judges then dismissed the petition saying it was “absolutely frivolous” and imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioner. The petition said: “Our country has been a victim of terrorism for the last over seven decades, specifically Islamic terrorism, which has become the worrying feature of the contemporary life… Islamic terrorism, or radical terrorism are terrorist acts against civilians, committed by violent Islamists. Such attacks have targeted both, Muslims and non-Muslims. “At present the basic edifices of modern Indian state like democracy, state security, rule of law, sovereignty and integrity, basic human rights etc are under attack of Islamic terrorism. “Unfortunately, justifications given by Islamists terrorist groups for the attacks on non-believers/civilians emanate from the 26 verses/suras of the Islamic holy book ‘Quran’. “These justifications include retribution by armed jehad for perceived injustices by non-believers against believers/Muslims, the belief that killing of non-believers (kafirs) is permitted in Islam, the need to establish Islam by forcibly enforcing Sharia law, establishing Islamic State and caliphate as head of the Islamic State within the country, glorifying the terrorists as martyrs, heavenly reward of company of opposite sex for martyrdom and supremacy of Islam over all other religions. “On account of these 26 verses contained in holy Quran, innocent Muslim students studying in the institutions providing elementary education (madrasas) get radicalized at a very tender age which is not only against the peace and harmony of the country but also against unity, integrity and sovereignty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||7,000 retired BHU employees yet to receive pension for March||Nearly 7,000 retired employees of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have not received their pension for March till Monday. The institution in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency is one of the oldest central universities. Three retired faculty members told this newspaper that the pension payment had been delayed by three to four days in April in earlier years because of red tape. However, the delay up to April 12 this year is unusual, they said. “This has never happened ever since I started working in the BHU 40 years ago. This is unusual. It could be because of lack of funds with the government,” said a retired faculty member. Usually, the retired employees get their pension on the first day of every month. Since November last year, every university has opened a treasury single account (TSA) with the Reserve Bank of India, which is directly sending the salary and pension to the accounts of the beneficiaries. Earlier, the UGC was releasing funds to each institution which in turn was crediting the amount to the staff and pensioners. In the BHU, the employees have got their salary in the first week. The finance officer of the university, Abhay Kumar Thakur, said that the staff salary could be paid from the unspent money allocated under last year’s budget. “We did not receive the grants under the TSA for pension payment. We took the matter up with the UGC and the education ministry. Now the money has been released by the government. We hope to get it in a day,” Thakur said. Separate emails sent by this newspaper to the Union education ministry and the UGC had not elicited any response till Monday evening. The BHU is not an isolated case. The employees and retired staff of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University (SLBSNSU) have not received their salary and pension. For the past 10 months, the central university has been delaying the payment of salary and pension. Its vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey said that the issue had been sorted now. The salary would be paid on Tuesday, Pandey said. “Our university was a deemed university earlier. It became a central university last year. The grants were getting delayed because of the conversion of our institution from deemed to central university. Now this has been sorted out. We will pay salary tomorrow (Tuesday) and pension by Wednesday. From this month, the payment will be on time,” Pandey said on Monday. A faculty member said he had been borrowing money every month to pay the EMI on his home loan on the fifth day of every month as he had committed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||India||UP farmers drive away BJP minister Baldev Singh Aulakh||Baldev Singh Aulakh, the minister of state for Jal Shakti in Uttar Pradesh, who had gone to a village in Rampur district on Sunday to campaign for a BJP-supported candidate in panchayat elections, was driven away by the villagers, mostly farmers, who waved black flags and chanted slogans against him and the party. Eyewitnesses said Aulakh was forced to leave Matkhera in Bilaspur Assembly constituency when residents, most of whom were farmers, gathered around his convoy and started chanting “Aulakh murdabad, BJP murdabad” and “Krishi kanoon wapas lo, wapas lo (repeal the farm laws)”. The minister, however, claimed that nothing of that sort had happened. “There were four-five people who were standing there and created commotion. People don’t oppose me in my Assembly constituency,” said Aulakh, a BJP MLA from Bilaspur, 350km northwest of Lucknow. However, the local farmers claimed that over 250 people didn’t allow the minister to enter the locality and campaign there. “Sardar Gurveer Singh Vikkar, along with 200 farmers from Bilaspur, is protesting against the farm laws at the Ghazipur border (Ghaziabad) for the last 150 days and Aulakh wants to campaign here for his party, which is anti-peasant. We had supported the BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019, but now we are against it,” said Harveer Singh, a farmer and a resident of Matkhera. He said circle officer Anuj Chaudhary with the help of the police made way for the minister’s convoy to return without meeting the villagers. “The police also wielded lathis to disperse the crowd. The minister and the police tried to hush up the news of protest,” Singh added. “It is our duty to ensure the safety of the people. The minister was in trouble and we took him away,” said a police officer who didn’t want to be named. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been organising protests against the three controversial farm laws at Delhi’s borders, had called on farmers across the country to boycott BJP leaders and ministers and prevent them from entering their villages. Sanjeev Balyan, minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, was forced out of Soram village in Muzaffarnagar on February 23. In retaliation, Balyan’s supporters and the police had allegedly attacked the villagers. On April 10, the villagers of Abbas Nagar in Rampur had attacked some BJP workers when they went there to campaign for the party candidate in the panchayat polls. Roop Singh Baghel, a local police officer, said: “We came to know about the protest and rushed to the spot to maintain peace in the village. We have not received any formal complaint from any side.” There is anger in western Uttar Pradesh against the BJP because many farmers of the region have died during the protests at the Delhi border. Sardar Kashmir Singh, a 75-year-old peasant of Pasiapura village in Bilaspur, had committed suicide at the Ghazipur border on January 3. Found hanging from the ceiling of a toilet, Singh had left a suicide note stating that he was anguished to see that the farmers had been sacrificing their lives to protect agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-215
13-04-2021||West Bengal||On wheelchair, Mamata sits alone on dharna near Gandhi’s statue||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna on Tuesday all by herself near Gandhi’s statue on Mayo Road, her favourite protest spot during her days in the Opposition, to protest against the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) decision to ban her from campaigning for 24 hours. Wearing a black mask and scarf, Mamata arrived on a wheelchair with her painting tools a little before 12 noon. She stayed on till around 3pm, it was unclear why she left. In the little over three hours that Mamata was at the dharna site, she kept herself occupied by painting. None of the other senior Trinamul leaders who are usually there whenever she is on a dharna was around. With the EC clamping her speech, Mamata kept her thoughts to herself, though she was seen making one call after the other. Her security team too was kept at a short distance away from her, while she was on the wheelchair, with two small tables where she kept brushes and paint and paper.  Once she was done, Mamata displayed some of the paintings to the photographers present. Trinamul sources said Mamata was scheduled to resume her campaign at night at Barasat and Salt Lake. But she would have to wind up before 10pm, the deadline for campaigning to end for the fifth phase of voting to be held on April 17. On Wednesday, Mamata is scheduled to go to Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar to meet the three injured victims of Sitalkuchi’s firing. Tuesday’s dharna is an extension of the running feud between Mamata and the Election Commission of India (ECI) in the run up to the Bengal polls. The feud got aggravated after the ECI banned entry of all politicians in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi where four villagers fell to bullets of central forces on voting day April 10. The ban against Mamata to campaign came into effect from Monday 8.00pm and is to continue till Tuesday 8.00pm. The ECI took cognisance of Mamata’s April 3 speech, primarily her comment that she would not allow  minority votes be divided, something it concluded violated the model code of conduct. Like Ajay Mukherjee, the former chief minister who  had staged a dharna against the government he led during the tumultuous days of the United Front in the late ’60s, Mamata’s has often betrayed her streetfighter tendencies, particularly in her  second term when her spats with the Centre escalated. On the night of December 2, 2016, Mamata refused to leave the state administrative headquarters, Nabanna, objecting to the presence of the Army at the national highway toll booths and questioned whether it was a “coup”. She relented only after the Army officers and personnel left the toll booths. Little over two years later on a February evening, Mamata occupied the Metro channel for three days to protest the summons against then city police chief Rajeev Kumar in the Saradha scam. ECI axe on BJP leader On Tuesday, the election commission announced a 48-hour ban on BJP leader Rahul Sinha for making provocative statements, while two of his party colleagues Suvendu Adhikary and Dilip Ghosh, were slapped with warnings. After the Sitalkuchi incident, Sinha had commented that the central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four, while Ghosh threatened a repeat of Sitalkuchi in the constituencies where polling is yet to be held. Addressing an election campaign meeting in Berhampore, Ghosh, who is also the chief of BJP’s Bengal unit, demanded the resignation of Mamata and that she be barred from campaigning for the remaining duration of the polls. “Despite being the chief minister she is making provocative statements. Banning her for 24 hours is not enough. She should be disbarred from campaigning,” Ghosh said. “Be it the Supreme Court or the Election Commission, instead of following rules, she prefers to hit the streets.” The central poll panel has been under fire from Opposition parties for allegedly toeing the BJP’s line and working to its advantage. In neighbouring Assam where the poll process ended on April 6, the state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s campaign ban was reduced from 48 hours to 24 hours after he apologised for allegedly threatening Bodoland People’s Front leader Hagrama Mohilary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Nadda takes jibe at Mamata over 'khela hobe' slogan||BJP president J P Nadda, taking at dig at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will be played) slogan, said on Tuesday that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's plight is that of a "defeated player". Nadda, who led a roadshow at Kalna in Purba Bardhaman district, also said that the TMC supremo, who has her accusatory finger pointed at the BJP and the Election Commission, seems to have forgotten that she has done anything creditworthy for the people of the state. "Mamata's condition is like that of a defeated player in a game. She has done injustice to the people of the state for many years. The BJP, however, will usher in development, stop atrocities on women and create jobs for youth, if voted to power," the top BJP leader claimed. He also said that the TMC dispensation has failed to maintain law and order in Bengal. "Mamata Banerjee's politics of extortion, appeasement, her dictatorial nature, and the cut-money (bribery) culture institutionalised by her party has ruined the state," Nadda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha problem will be fixed once BJP comes to power in Bengal, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday gave assurance that a political solution to the long-drawn "Gorkha problem" in the Hills will be reached once the BJP forms government in West Bengal. Shah, during a public meeting here, said that the country's Constitution is "vast" and has provisions for solving all problems. "I promise that a permanent political solution to the Gorkha problem will be reached by the double-engine government of the BJP -- one at the Centre and the other in Bengal. You will not have to resort to agitations anymore," he said. The Union minister, however, did not specify which problem he was referring to. Gorkhas had long been demanding a separate state, and several movements have been launched by the community over the years, the latest being in 2017. Contending that Gorkhas are the pride of India, Shah said that no one cause them any harm. "There is no plan to implement NRC for now. Even if the exercise is carried out, Gorkhas need not worry about it," he asserted. Shah also said that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has "put a full stop" on the development work in Darjeeling, a place that the ruling TMC leaders visit at leisure. Banerjee has visited Darjeeling numerous times in the recent past, but she did not hold any campaign for the three assembly seats in the region -- set to go polls on April 17. The top BJP leader claimed that the TMC supremo tried to ruin the cordial relationship that the BJP shared with the Gorkhas by instituting criminal cases against "some". "Didi has got many killed and instituted cases against many. The BJP, after coming to power, will give amnesty to all such people," he said, without naming anyone. GJM leader Bimal Gurung, a former ally of BJP, had gone into hiding after several criminal charges were pressed against him for allegedly leading a violent statehood agitation in 2017. He resurfaced in October last year and joined hands with the TMC. The state administration has now approached the courts of law for withdrawing some of these cases. The ruling TMC has left the three Darjeeling constituencies to its allies from the Hills -- the two GJM factions led by Gurung and Binay Tamang. Both the sparring factions have fielded candidates, who are constesting the elections from the three seats as Independents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stages dharna in Calcutta to protest against campaigning ban||Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sat on a dharna in the heart of the city to protest against the Election Commission's "unconstitutional" decision to ban her from campaigning for 24 hours. Banerjee, still confined to a wheelchair owing to the injuries she sustained last month, arrived at Mayo road here around 11.40 am and began her sit-in next to a Mahatma Gandhi's statue at the venue. No TMC leaders or supporters were spotted nearby. A senior TMC leader, when approached, said, "No party leaders are allowed near the site of the protest. She is sitting there alone." The Election Commission has barred Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm for her remarks against central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones. Banerjee, lashing out at the poll panel, had said on Twitter that she would hold a protest against the poll panel's "unconstitutional and undemocratic" decision. The TMC boss is scheduled to address two rallies after 8 pm on Tuesday -- one at Barasat and the other at Bidhanangar. Mamata had tweeted after the poll panel ban on campaigning: “To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti… from 12 noon.” Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “You can ban us but you can’t beat us.” Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar had said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” Meanwhile, a defence official here said that the area where Banerjee is staging a protest belongs to the army, and the TMC was yet to receive permission for the programme. "Just to keep everyone informed, we have received an application from the TMC for a no-objection certificate at 9:40 am today. It is still under process," the defence spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||After Mamata, EC bars BJP leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours||The Election Commission on Tuesday barred BJP leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours and slapped a notice on its West Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh over their "provocative" remarks on the killing of four people in firing by CISF during poll violence in Sitalkuchi, saying such statements could have a serious impact on law and order. Strongly condemning Sinha's reported remarks that central forces "should have killed eight rather than four people", the EC said he made "highly provocative statements mocking human life and inciting the forces that could have serious law and order implications". The Commission said it found the remarks of the leaders violative of the model code and various provisions of the Representation of the People Act and the Indian Penal Code. The high-octane assembly election campaign in the state, where the BJP and the Trinamool Congress have unleashed a no-holds-barred attack against each other, has seen the EC clamping down on leaders of both parties for their objectionable utterances. On Monday, the poll panel barred West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her remarks against central forces and a statement that allegedly had religious overtones. The EC, in another order, has let off BJP candidate from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari with a light rap for his remarks that "if people vote for Begum there will be mini Pakistan". "Now, therefore, the Commission hereby warns Shri Suvendu Adhikari and advises him to desist from using such statement while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," the order issued on Monday night said. Adhikari is pitted against Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram where polls were held earlier this month. The EC took suo motu cognisance of Rahul Sinha's remarks and said it decided to issue the order without giving any notice to him due to the urgency of the matter. After the Trinamool Congress approached the Commission against Ghosh over his reported remarks that there would be "Sitalkuchi in several places", the EC asked him to respond to its notice making his stand clear on the issue by 10 AM on Wednesday. The notice said the Commission is of the considered view that Dilip Ghosh has in violation of various clauses of the Model Code of Conduct and provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the Indian Penal Code "made statements that are provocative and can seriously incite the emotions". This could "lead to a breakdown of law and order thereby adversely affecting the election process", the notice said. The ban on Sinha begins at 12 noon on Tuesday and will remain in force till 12 noon of April 15, the order said. The order quoted the text of Sinha's speech in which he said, "The central forces have given them a befitting answer. If they do it again they will be dealt again in a befitting manner. "The central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four in Sitalkuchi. The central forces should be issued a show-cause notice as to why they have killed only four of them." The order said, "Commission hereby strongly condemns the above statements made by Rahul Sinha, BJP, and sternly warns him to be careful from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," according to the order. Four men were killed at a booth in the Sitalkuchi assembly constituency in Cooch Behar during the fourth phase polling on April 10 as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles". The EC notice against Ghosh cited his alleged remarks in which the BJP leader said, "Where did so many naughty boys come from? Those naughty boys were shot at yesterday in Shitalkuchi. These naughty boys will not be there in Bengal. "This is just the beginning. Those who thought that the central forces' rifles were meant to be just for a show have well understood now the power of cartridges... there will be Shitalkuchi in several places. So be careful". He also reportedly said that "this will be carried on throughout Bengal. Those who will take the law in their own hands will be given a befitting answer." The eight-phase assembly polls in West Bengal are being held between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Is the Prime Minister an “aggravator of the culture of eve-teasing”?||When Sushil Chandra takes over as the new Chief Election Commissioner of India on Tuesday, he will have to deal with an unparalleled question: Is the Prime Minister of India an “aggravator of the culture of eve-teasing”? A complaint levelling such an allegation has been filed with Amherst Street police station of Calcutta police, which has forwarded it to the Election Commission. The complaint in the form of a letter has pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee as “Didiiiii” or “O Didiiiii”. Modi has mentioned the words in “almost all the public meetings and /or the public places with an intent… to cause teasing and mockery to common women in society,” according to the letter submitted by members of the Bangla Citizens Forum. It is  “unfortunate to use the said word which aggravated the culture of eve teasing which is a serious penal offence as laid down under the provision of Section 294 of Indian Penal Code”, adds the letter. Section 294 deals with “obscene acts and songs” and says “whoever, to the annoyance of others does any obscene act in any public place, or sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both”. The forum, which describes itself as an organisation that “fights for the protection of the rights of Bengalis” regardless of their political preferences, has also mailed a copy of the complaint to the Election Commission in Delhi. A formal complaint from the Trinamul Congress is already pending with the commission. But this is the first time a complaint has been filed with the police, too. On Monday, Mamata referred to the misogynistic manner in which the Prime Minister addresses her. “The country had never seen such a Prime Minister.  A Prime Minister should speak in dignified language. He should behave properly, respect women and respect the Constitution. But the way he has been behaving and talking, the way he has been taunting and mocking me is a matter of shame,” the chief minister said at Basirhat. The phrase, delivered in a mocking tone, has been widely condemned but Modi keeps springing it on his audience to loud cheers. Allegations have been levelled that the applause is “manufactured” at the sound-system console near the dais. “His language brings shame even to youths chatting informally in a neighbourhood. Even they do not use such foul language. He is far below standards,” Mamata added. Later, speaking in Dum Dum, Mamata said Modi’s references to her indicated his lack of respect for women. “As a chief minister and a woman, the only woman chief minister in the country… I deserve respect. You should extend basic courtesies to a woman,” she said. “I would not have brought this up but it’s relevant in this context…. How can you be expected to respect women? You did not look after your own wife…. I feel compelled to say this here today. You sometimes visit your mother but only for photo-ops,” Mamata added. “The language one uses becomes their identity. What is your identity, Modiji? You, in all of your meetings, mock me…. I cannot understand what language you have imported (to Bengal)… the type that rots,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Chief Election Commissioner exits with 24-hour gag on Mamata Banerjee||Sunil Arora wrapped up his innings as Chief Election Commissioner of India by banning chief minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel who intimidate them. Mamata responded to the gag order by declaring she would sit in dharna near the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Tuesday, the penultimate day of campaigning for the fifth phase of polling on Saturday when 45 seats, including Dum Dum, Bidhannagar and Rajarhat-Newtown, vote. The ban is in place from Monday 8pm to Tuesday 8pm. Wednesday will be the last day of campaigning for the fifth phase since the poll panel has widened the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours after the Sitalkuchi killings. On Tuesday, Mamata will address two rallies after the ban ends at 8pm, the first at Barasat and the second at Biddhannagar. She will campaign in north Bengal on Wednesday. Mamata tweeted after the poll panel ban on campaigning: “To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti… from 12 noon.” Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “You can ban us but you can’t beat us.” Monday was the last day in office for Arora, who has had several run-ins with Mamata and her party. On Tuesday, election commissioner Sushil Chandra, who was chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, is scheduled to take over as Chief Election Commissioner. Arora, a Rajasthan-cadre IAS officer who retired as Union information secretary in 2016, has faced allegations of favouring the BJP by issuing clean chits to its leaders for intemperate remarks during the Lok Sabha polls and going slow on acting against BJP campaigners for incendiary remarks during the Bengal polls. Under him, the EC has remained impervious to specific allegations of the vulnerability of electronic voting machines. Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” Kumar added that the commission was of “the considered view that Ms Mamata Banerjee… has in violation of the provisions of the model code of conduct as well as Section 123(3) & (3A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Sections 186, 189 and 505 of Indian Penal Code made highly insinuating and provocative remarks laden with serious potential of breakdown of law and order and thereby adversely affecting the election process”. The commission “sternly warns Ms Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the model code of conduct is in force”, the order added. The EC stopped short of filing an FIR against Mamata for alleged violations of the act and the penal code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Villagers question EC on not sending representative after tragedy||The residents of Sitalkuchi’s Jorpatki have a question for the Election Commission: why did it not send any representative to the village after the deaths of four voters in CISF firing, unlike its prompt action when a BJP politician was found dead in the same district? Most of the villagers The Telegraph spoke to said they were high school dropouts with very little idea about the outside world, but were aware that the poll panel was supposed to be a neutral body. Two yardsticks “A few days ago, a BJP leader was found dead in Dinhata town. Immediately, the Election Commission ordered an investigation and sent the special police observer to Cooch Behar to conduct an inquiry and submit a report,” said Mortuza Mian, a local youth. “On Saturday, four young men from our village lost their lives in firing and yet not a single representative of the poll panel has paid a visit,” added Mortuza, who was injured when the CISF baton-charged villagers on the polling booth premises ahead of the firing. Amit Sarkar, 50, Dinhata town block president of the BJP, was found hanging at a veterinary hospital in the town on March 24, prompting BJP allegations of murder by Trinamul goons. The poll panel quickly removed K. Kannan as Cooch Behar superintendent of police and brought in Debashish Dhar. It despatched Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal, to Cooch Behar. He spoke with administrative and police officials besides visiting the spot in Dinhata. He then filed a report with the Election Commission saying Sarkar had committed suicide. “In this case (Sitalkuchi firing), however, we find the Election Commission missing in action,” said district Trinamul president and Sitalkuchi candidate Partha Pratim Roy. “Four young men died in Jorpatki and another young man elsewhere in Sitalkuchi (Ananda Burman, hit by a bullet during a political clash), yet no one has been sent to conduct an inquiry. This has again raised questions over the poll panel’s neutrality.” Wrong names Another senior Trinamul leader flagged how the report on the firing by Dube — who did not visit Cooch Behar this time — had got the names of all the four slain youths wrong. The report identified the victims as Chhalmu Mia, Joved Ali, Amzad Hossain and Nameed Mia, whereas their real names are Nur Alam Mian, Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haque and Hamidul Mian. Joved happens to be the name of Nur Alam’s father, while Maniruzzaman’s father is called Amzad. “All the names were wrong. In some cases, their names were mixed up with their fathers’ names. We doubt how serious the commission is about the case,” the Trinamul leader said. Missing report The Trinamul leader underlined that the authorities had so far not revealed the contents of the report by the presiding officer, who is supposed to write a detailed account of whatever happens in his booth through the polling day. Post-mortem veil “Nor have the families been provided with the post-mortem reports. We suspect it’s an attempt to suppress facts, for the photos of the victims indicate they were shot in upper parts of their torso,” the Trinamul leader said. Boy’s injuries Kavita Krishnan, politburo member of the CPIML Liberation, has underscored some of the inconsistencies in a complaint to the Election Commission. Krishnan referred to the injuries suffered by Mrinal Haque, 15, who has said he was assaulted by a central force jawan. The assault is considered the flashpoint that led to the firing. “The injuries on Mrinal’s body give the lie to the police observer’s report to the EC, that Mrinal had fallen sick, and that onlookers mistakenly assumed he had been beaten by jawans and assembled a violent mob which attacked the CISF,” Krishnan said in her complaint. “Even the CISF has not claimed that the victims came to the poll booth armed. Had they in fact been planning violence, they would have been armed — they came unarmed because they came to cast their votes. It is inconceivable that four unarmed persons would suddenly seek to snatch rifles from CISF men — knowing full well that they were vastly outnumbered by a CISF battalion armed to the teeth.” CCTV mystery Questions have been raised also at the authorities’ silence on footage from the CCTVs at the booth. While administrative officials have remained tight-lipped on the subject, the district police said the villagers had taken away the security cameras and ancillary equipment. The villagers denied the charge, saying the police had removed the CCTV cameras. “It’s a false allegation. We ran for our lives; how can anyone wrench off CCTVs at such a time?” said Abdul Aziz Kazi, a Jorpatki resident. “We don’t know whether the Election Commission will conduct any probe. So far, only a few local policemen have visited the village and spoken to some people.” CPIML Liberation’s Krishnan also said in the complaint to the Election Commission: “We want to know why the EC has accepted the CISF version without demanding evidence to back the story. Surely there must be CCTV footage, or other videographed evidence of the CISF claims.” The Telegraph had sought the Election Commission’s response to the questions raised by Krishnan and the complaints filed by others about the Sitalkuchi incident but no response had been given till 11pm on Monday. The villagers have built a concrete memorial to the dead near the booth. “We hope Mamata Banerjee will unveil it when she visits our village,” a resident said. Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent in Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs: meeting held with districts where polls are over ||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Monday held a video-conference with district authorities where polls were over in the first four phases and asked them to step up activities to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Districts like South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram attended the meeting. Sources said the chief secretary made it clear that authorities should ensure enough public awareness programmes to make people aware of the current pandemic situation. On Sunday, 4,398 new infections were reported in the 24-hour window in the state, the highest since October last year, making the total number of active cases shoot up to nearly 24,000 in Bengal. “Authorities should ensure that government offices are run with 50 per cent employees. Private companies should encourage work from home,” said a source quoting the chief secretary. Sources said the chief secretary asked district authorities to consider setting up micro-containment zones if needed. “The area of the micro-containment zone was not specified by the chief secretary. The DMs will decide on micro-containment zones as needed. It may be a single dwelling unit or a cluster,” said a source. The chief secretary said authorities should discourage people from going out to participate in festivals like the upcoming Bengali New Year. Authorities have been asked to restrict night movement though the state won’t declare official night curfew according to the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients have to be brought back in the Covid wards and oxygen supply has to ensured in all hospitals with Covid patients. Sources said districts which participated in Monday’s video conference are not in the zones where cases were rising alarmingly. But they were put on alert so that they can handle the situation. “Most positive cases are being reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas and curbs could not be imposed in these two areas as polls are still to be held. Large poll rallies in these two areas flout Covid-19 protocols, making the situation critical for the entire state,” said a senior health department official. Of the 4,398 positive cases in Bengal on Sunday, Calcutta reported 1,109 cases and North 24-Parganas 1,047. “The situation in the remaining districts are somehow under control so far. But the way people are travelling from these two areas to districts where elections are yet to be held for political rallies, the state could face a disaster soon if Covid-19 safety protocols are not obeyed in the rallies," said a source. The state, meanwhile, has increased the number of tests. It has reached 40,000 daily tests and it is trying to take the figure to 45,000 per day within two days. “We have to increase the tests to isolate positive persons to stop the spread of the virus. Right now the positivity rate is 10 percent and this is alarming. We have to bring the positivity rate to below 5 percent and for that the number of tests must increase,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Gorkhas safe, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah, on his first Assembly election campaign in Darjeeling hills on Monday, said not a single Gorkha would be displaced by the National Register of Citizens (NRC) update process, at a time reports have emerged that many Gorkhas in neighbouring Assam have not found their names in the register. On core issues of Darjeeling such as the permanent political solution and the demand to confer Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities, Shah was brief and only referred to the BJP manifesto. Addressing a crowd in Kalimpong after a road show, Shah said that “lies” were being spread that once the NRC is implemented, Gorkhas would be displaced. “Even if the NRC comes, not a single Gorkha will be displaced. Trinamul is spreading lies that the NRC will come. NRC has not come and even if it comes, it will not affect Gorkhas,” said Shah. Just a few days back, Gorkhas from Assam had issued messages regarding the problems faced by the community members and their exclusion from the register after Kurseong BJP MLA candidate, B.P. Bajgain, had spoken on Shah’s lines. There was much expectation from Shah to provide an insight on core issues of Darjeeling which the hill residents have raised before the saffron camp. Shah, however, was found wanting. “All your issues are there in the ‘Sankalp Patra’ (manifesto) of the BJP,” is all that he said. Even his statement on the tribal status was carefully worded. “In our ‘Sankalp Patra’, we have decided that by providing ST status to 11 Gorkha communities, BJP will secure your education and jobs,” said Shah. The BJP’s promise on ST status has been there for the past seven years and this time, the hill populace wanted to hear something concrete on this promise. Shah, meanwhile, promised a Gorkha language TV channel in Bengal for “education and entertainment”. The Union home minister, however, urged the hill people to ensure that the three hill BJP candidates reach Bengal Assembly as this would be “a solution to all your problems.” He also promised to set up a special investigation team to look into all “atrocities” against the hill people by the CPM in the 1980s and the Trinamul government in recent years. Other promises made by Shah included prominent status to Gorkha language in Bengal, a Gorkha freedom fighter museum built at a cost of Rs 100 crore and package for a tourism hub in the hills. Observers believe that the failure to address core issues could be exploited by BJP’s rivals to the hilt. However, a BJP supporter said: “Let’s not jump the gun, Amit Shah still has to address a meeting in Darjeeling on Tuesday.” Earlier on Monday, Shah spoke in two other public meetings in Jalpaiguri and North Dinajpur districts. In both, he elaborated on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), and said that it would be implemented in Bengal, while focusing on the Matua population. Shah also took a dig at Mamata over her demand for his resignation. After Saturday’s central force firing incident in Sitalkuchi, where four voters were killed, Mamata had demanded he resign. “I am ready to resign if people of Bengal say so…but you should keep your resignation ready,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Poaching cuffs on Chuniajhora tea estate duo||Two suspected poachers who are residents of Chuniajhora tea estate, located on the fringes of Buxa Tiger Reserve, were arrested on Monday after firearms were seized from them during a raid conducted by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the state forest department. The duo Binod Oraon and Punai Oraon have been accused of killing a sambar — a deer species — in the BTR area on Saturday night. Forest sources said a group of five residents of the Chuniajhora tea estate had shot dead the sambar. “They had used improvised firearms to kill the animal. After the sambar died, they chopped its meat and shared it among themselves,” said a forest source. “We have recovered two countrymade guns from them, along with some meat and skin of the dead sambar. During the interrogation, they admitted their crime and also told names of three other gang members. Searches are on to nab them,” said a forest officer. “The duo were produced at a court in Alipurduar on Monday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days,” he added. “We are taking the help of police to trace the other three who are involved in the crime. A probe is on,” said Budhraj Sewa, the field director of the BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Fire engulfs 16 shops,  Rs 5cr loss claimed in Haldibari town of Cooch Behar||Around sixteen shops and a jute godown were razed to the ground at a local market in Haldibari town of Cooch Behar in the wee hours of Monday, leading to an estimated loss of around Rs 5 crores. Sources said around 2am, private night guards spotted the blaze on Basanpatti Road while patrolling in the area. Shop owners and traders reached the spot as the news spread. Initially, two fire engines reached the spot and tried to control the flames but the fire continued to spread. Later, one water tenders each from Jalpaiguri and Mekhliganj were brought. It took over five hours for the fire engines to douse the blaze. “As there is no water pump or reservoir in the market, the firemen drew water from a pond located around 700 metres away from the site,” said a local resident. Pradip Sarkar, the divisional fire officer of Jalpaiguri, supervised the work along with Gobinda Roy, the officer-in-charge of Haldibari fire station, and the blaze was doused around 7am. The market was kept closed for the day. A delegation of traders has urged the Haldibari BDO for financial assistance and also demanded construction of permanent shops for them. “Preliminary probe suggests an electrical short circuit caused the blaze,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Fear hangs over Jorpatki, two days after the incident||Fear hung heavy over Jorpatki on Monday, two days after the central forces had shot dead four voters at the village, part of the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency in Cooch Behar. Several people in the Muslim-majority village of 1,400-odd told The Telegraph that they had witnessed Saturday’s firing near Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra. Their first-person accounts, published below, contest the administration’s claim that the central forces had fired to protect themselves, their weapons and the electronic voting machines from a violent mob. One of the villagers said he had seen Samiul Haque, 21, being shot in cold blood by a jawan whose stick he had grabbed to stop him beating his brother Sahidul. Abdul Gani, local panchayat member I was standing in queue to vote along with hundreds of other villagers. Suddenly, a group of villagers — men and women — gathered on the metalled road near the booth. They seemed agitated and were shouting at the top of their voice. I got curious and stepped out to check what the commotion was about. Some of them told me they were protesting the central forces’ assault on a local boy, Mrinal Haque. As others, too, began leaving the queue and approaching the agitating crowd, the central force personnel suddenly chased and attacked us with batons. While they were beating the voters, several youths took out their cellphones and began recording the assault. I think that infuriated the forces. Some more people had by this time gathered near the booth. Suddenly, we saw the security men wielding firearms instead of batons. They began firing at the youths who were filming the happenings, and I could see at least four youths slump to the ground. As they lay on the ground, the men in uniform snatched away their cellphones. I was numbed by the sudden development, but I ran for my life. Since then, the incident has been playing on my mind. I have thought about it over and over and I’m convinced there was no reason for the forces to fire. The grievances of the villagers, who were agitated because the boy had been beaten up, could have been resolved through talks. This morning, I went to Mathabhanga police station and filed a complaint. I think we deserve justice. Minati Roy Burman, a health worker who had been posted at the booth to screen voters with a thermal gun I was posted at the booth to screen the voters and provide them with gloves. Everything was fine till 9.30am. There were around 200 voters in the queues. Suddenly, I saw another group of men and women walk towards the booth in an agitated manner. Soon, a quarrel broke out between them and the central force personnel. I could hear from a distance that the crowd wanted to enter the booth premises. I heard some of them accuse the forces of beating up a boy. There was pushing and shoving. The men in uniform resorted to a baton-charge to break up the crowd. I felt insecure and locked myself in a room at the booth. After a while, some local people came running to take shelter in the room. I then heard repeated gunshots. From the window, I could see people running helter-skelter amid intermittent gunshots. After some time, I came out of the room and ran. I live at a village about 5km from the booth. I sought help from some local people, who showed me a short cut out of the village. As I was about to leave the village, a group of women chased me and hit me on the head with sticks. A few local people came to my rescue and took me to a villager’s home, where they gave me water and nursed me. They advised me to return to the booth instead of heading back home. I somehow mustered the courage to return to the booth. I could see clotted blood on the ground on my way back to the booth. Mehebul Kazi, backup for the Trinamul agent I was sitting inside the booth as a backup for the Trinamul polling agent. Voting was going on peacefully. I could hear people shouting over something outside but had no inkling what was happening. Suddenly, the situation seemed to heat up with some people gathering outside the booth. I could hear central force personnel alerting each other. Soon, the queues disintegrated and I heard shouts. As I walked towards the booth door, I saw the security personnel carrying out a baton-charge to disperse the crowd. The commotion caused the voting to stop. As the baton-charge continued, I saw local youth Sahidul being beaten up by a CISF man. This prompted his brother Samiul (one of the four slain youths) to intervene. He somehow caught the jawan’s baton. The security man immediately let go of the baton, grabbed his gun and shot Samiul. It’s a sight I shall never forget — a cold-blooded murder happening right in front of my eyes. Soon, a few more gunshots were fired. I was shaken to see at least three bodies lie near the booth but was too shocked to leave the booth. After some time, as the polling team left, I, too, walked out and ran back home. I cannot understand what made the CISF fire at the voters. The people had some grievances; I believe they could have been resolved in some other way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP MP, SP plotted before firing, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that a conspiracy had apparently been hatched a day before the fourth phase of election in Sitalkuchi where four voters were killed in a firing by central forces during the polls on Saturday and vowed not to spare anyone involved in the incident. Speaking at a public meeting in Ranaghat on Monday, the chief minister claimed Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik and superintendent of police Debasish Dhar had held a meeting a day before the incident. She also claimed to have got the names of the CISF personnel who had opened fire and killed the four voters and injured four others on the day. “Boys aged 20-22 years have been killed. They conspired and killed… BJP has conspired with the SP. I’ll surely investigate this. I’ll bring (out) the real incident…They sat and conspired the entire thing and conspired to shoot…then they gave clean chit (to central forces),” Mamata said. She went on to allege that Union home minister Amit Shah was involved in the incident and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware of it as well. “The SP was not our appointed person. He was appointed by the BJP. All the appointments were done by the BJP. They removed the DG law and order, other senior police men, the SP, the DM and also removed my security staff,” she said, raising questions about the motive of such a decision. Showing a list of names on a paper during her meeting in Ranaghat, Mamata said: “I have collected all the details about the jawans who opened fire. I will spare none...I also came to know that the SP had held a meeting with the MP where everything was planned”. Later speaking at another election meeting in Dumdum, Mamata alleged that the election was being held in an atmosphere that resembled the “Emergency”. “The election is being held here under undeclared President’s rule. I can challenge them at every point. Factually and legally, I am right,” she said. Terming the firing in Sitalkuchi as a planned attack, she said: “It is clear that the attack was well planned ahead. I will investigate to find out the real mystery behind it. I will check who opened fire and how they held meetings...how they planted a woman to stage a drama of missing her child.” Speaking about the murder of a first-time voter, which took place in Sitalkuchi prior to the CISF firing incident, Mamata said: “BJP killed its own men who was a Rajbanshi, but accused others. They also did it in Pulwama incident and begged votes using the incident later.” At another rally, Mamata Banerjee referred to Narendra Modi’s regular comments about infiltration from Bangladesh and then juxtaposed his recent visit to the neighbouring country before accusing the Prime Minister of double standards in his dealings with Bangladesh. “He never misses a chance to talk about infiltration from Bangladesh and accuses Mamata Banerjee of encouraging it and then he visits Bangladesh during the polls in Bengal to seek votes... This is double standard,” the Bengal chief minister said while addressing a rally in Basirhat. Mamata brought the issue up while issuing a rebuttal to Modi’s claims in some recent rallies that she had done nothing for the immigrant Matua community. “You had visited Bangladesh before, but you didn’t visit (Orakandi) then... If you had so strong urge to visit that place, you could have done it after the elections. Why did you visit during the election?” she asked. She then expanded the scope of the attack on Modi and even accused him of triggering riots in Bangladesh. “You went there and then riots followed... Wherever you go, you trigger riots,” Mamata said, obliquely referring to unrest in Bangladesh during Modi’s visit in which some people lost their lives. After accusing Modi of using Bangladesh trip to campaign for the polls, she said that the poll panel should have taken action against him. “Earlier also, he did similar things as he visited the US to campaign for US president Donald Trump... His visa should have been cancelled,” she said. To buttress her argument, Mamata referred to the plight of Bangladeshi actor Ferdous Ahmed, whose visa was revoked for his presence in a Trinamul campaign during the 2019 Lok sabha poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Abhishek terms Sitalkuchi firing as 'pre-planned'||Trinamul MP and party youth president Abhishek Banerjee on Monday termed the Sitalkuchi firing as a “pre-planned” move to scare Bengal voters. Abhishek, speaking in two public meetings in Odlabari and Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district, underscored remarks by two BJP leaders, Sayantan Basu and Dilip Ghosh. “...(Earlier) Sayantan Basu had said in his speech that he asked the CRPF to aim at the chest and shoot if there is any problem, and again, after the unfortunate incident which we had never heard of in our state, Dilip Ghosh remarked there will be more Sitalkuchi incidents. These remarks indicate it was a pre-planned move,” he said. To drive home his point, Abhishek even played recordings of the parts of remarks by both these BJP leaders. He also reminded BJP state president Ghosh to a three-and-a half-year-old incident in the hills. “Sitalkuchi won’t happen everywhere…From now, Darjeeling will happen everywhere,” said Abhishek, referring to October 2017, when Ghosh and some other BJP leaders had been heckled badly in Darjeeling. Abhishek also termed the BJP leaders as “jumlabaaz” (those making fake promises) and contrasted them with initiatives taken by the Mamata government for people. “You have to decide if you want people who make hollow promises and never deliver or you need ‘Banglar Nijer Meye’ (Bengal’s own girl) who has met her promises and has vowed to do more for you,” he said. “While the (LPG) gas that Modi gives costs around Rs 1,000, the rice that you cook in it comes for free from Didi. This is the difference.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Modi dubs Mamata ‘conspirator’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “master plan” to rig the polls was behind the incident in Sitalkuchi that claimed four lives on Saturday. Modi, who addressed three poll rallies — at Burdwan, Kalyani and Barasat — on Monday, also alleged Mamata and her party was against Scheduled Caste communities. “Friends, facing her own defeat, now Didi (Mamata) has a new war strategy. It is Didi’s conspiracy by which the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and OBC…nobody will be allowed to vote. It is her conspiracy that people from these groups are stopped from voting and her goons cast false votes. (It is) openly being said that Trinamul’s people will ‘gherao’ central forces and other supporters of Didi will enter (the booth) and cast false votes. Rumours are that what happened in Cooch Behar was a part of Didi’s false-vote masterplan,” Modi said in Kalyani. Though the BJP top brass , including Modi and Amit Shah, have repeatedly held Mamata responsible for Saturday’s Sitalkuchi incident, this was the first time Mamata was accused as a conspirator. The BJP’s narrative so far has been to accuse Mamata of inciting people against central forces. On Sunday, Shah referred to a statement made by Mamata on April 8 in Sitalkuchi where she asked people to “gherao” central forces if they tried to stir trouble or work for the BJP. Modi made a similar charge on Saturday. But a BJP leader said Modi’s Monday speech was a direct attack on Mamata. “What Modiji said meant Sitalkuchi’s incident was a fallout of Mamata’s conspiracy. For the rest four phases this may turn out to be our biggest weapon.” At East Burdwan, Modi held Mamata responsible for the death of a police officer from Bihar who was allegedly lynched in North Dinajpur on Friday night. Ashwini Kumar, the station officer of Kishanganj had gone to neighbouring Panthapara village in connection with a bike-theft case filed at his police station. He was allegedly lynched there. On Sunday, his mother died of shock. At the same rally, Modi for over six minutes held forth on Mamata and her party’s alleged aversion towards people from the backward classes by referring to an alleged caste taunt made by BJP MP Saumitra Khan’s wife and Trinamul’s Arambagh nominee Sujata Mondal. In a video circulated by the BJP, the veracity of which has not been checked by this paper, Mondal is heard saying that SC people were “beggars by nature” and would sell their votes to the BJP no matter what Mamata did for them. Modi attacked Mamata on the same issue in Kalyani too. “...Didi’s leaders are openly abusing the SC, ST and OBCs of Bengal...Only because they support the BJP. Didi, respected Didi, O Didi..., Bengal’s Scheduled Caste, Bengal’s Adivasis, Bengal’s OBC, Bengal’s forest dwellers…Didi you’ll scare them, threaten them, abuse them. But Didi, write it down, their affection for Modi will never decrease. Didi, O Didi, your colleagues can insult Bengal’s Scheduled Castes by calling them beggars, but for us, for the BJP, their honour is supreme,” Modi said. SC groups contribute to around 23 per cent voters in Bengal. The Rajbanshis of North Bengal comprise the biggest share. The Matuas, another SC group, dominate poll battles in the Assemblies of North 24-Parganas, Nadia and parts of Dinajpur. These seats go to polls in the fifth phase. BJP leaders said Modi’s jibe at Mamata on the SC issue was aimed to woo these voters. Modi reminded his audience in Kalyani, a large section of whom were Matuas, of his visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of the spiritual leader of the Matua sect Harichand Thakur. He said Mamata was upset with him for visiting Orakandi. Hitting back at Modi on the SC issue from one of her poll rallies in Ranaghat, Mamata said she won’t take lessons  from those responsible for the Hathras incident. She accused the local Cooch Behar SP of being involved in the “conspiracy” to open fire on Saturday. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: CPIML seeks arrest and prosecution of CISF personnel ||The CPIML (Liberation) has lodged complaints with the Election Commission, seeking the arrest and prosecution of CISF personnel responsible for the firing at voters outside a polling booth in Cooch Behar district and a ban on campaign by Union home minister Amit Shah and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh for allegedly vilifying the victims. In a complaint lodged with chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Sunday, CPIML (Liberation)’s central committee member Abhijit Mazumder asked him to act against the CISF personnel responsible for the killings. “The CISF firing is being justified in the name of “self-defence”. But this excuse does not hold, since there is no evidence that those killed committed any violence against the CISF personnel. Any minor skirmish between supporters of various parties could and should certainly have been handled with minimum force. If the CISF cannot maintain order without using the maximum deadly force, why are they being deployed during elections at all? “We demand that the accused CISF personnel be arrested and prosecuted for the killing. We demand that the EC ease the deployment of central forces and take measures to restore voter confidence....,” said the complaint In another complaint on Monday, the party’s politburo member Kavita Krishnan alleged that remarks of Amit Shah, Dilip Ghosh and BJP leader Sayantan Basu vilified the firing victims. She demanded a ban on their campaigning. Highlighting the inconsistencies in the EC’s narrative, Krishnan added: “The injuries on Mrinal’s body give the lie to the police observer’s report to the EC, that Mrinal had fallen sick, and that onlookers mistakenly assumed he had been beaten by jawans and assembled a violent mob which attacked the CISF…” A report by Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal by the EC, said Mrinal Haque had fallen sick near the polling booth where the firing had taken place and some women were taking care of him. The EC is yet to respond to the letters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sweet hub becomes latest theatre of bitter battle between TMC and BJP||Sitabhog, mihidana and lyangcha are something of a confectionery holy trinity in Burdwan town. Three lakh residents of the town in East Burdwan thrive on 500-odd sweet shops but their shelves contain a more layered history. “Burdwan has a rich history of its own royal family that is entwined with the invention of these sweets as well as the involvement of the British Raj here,” said historian Sarbajit Jash, referring to the rice-based sitabhog and mihidana and the flour-based lyangcha. “These sweets were concocted, or invented, at the home of then Raja Bijoy Chand Mahtab, who was receiving Lord Curzon in 1904 at his palace,” Jash said. Barely a week before the city goes to the polls, the sweet hub has become the latest theatre of the bitter battle between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. While the BJP has been attacking Trinamul over a now-defunct “Mishti Hub” built by the Mamata Banerjee government, the Bengal ruling party has accused the saffron camp of knowing nothing about the state’s history and culture. “The BJP has been trying to get at Trinamul because our attempt to build a Mishti Hub here, like in New Town, did not take off upon completion. The BJP, however, knows nothing about the sweets’ true history, and that of the people here,” said Trinamul spokesperson Debu Tudu, projecting the party as the custodian of the cosmopolitanism in Burdwan town as encompassed by its sweets. BJP leaders in the area, however, demurred when asked about their supposed newness to this rich confectionery culture. “Trinamul’s Mishti Hub was a failure. We will certainly revive it once we are in power. Regarding our supposed ignorance of ways, please note we will be gifting the Prime Minister servings of both sweets when he arrives in Burdwan on Monday,” said BJP district president Abhijit Tah. In 2014, Mamata had announced the construction of the Mishti Hub adjacent to the Durgapur Expressway here, but three years on it was written off as a temporary failure for low footfall. The move came less than three years after her government had issued G.I. tags for sitabhog and mihidana in East Burdwan. “Everything takes its own time. We in Burdwan do not subscribe to the belief that the Mishti Hub was a failure. The politicians have just been busy,” said Burdwan Sitabhog and Mihidana Traders Welfare Association secretary Pramod Kumar Singh. Not far from the Mishti Hub lies one of the three branches of Ganesh Sweets, a 100-year-old local landmark. Owner Prasenjit Datta, grandson of founder Ganesh Chandra Dutt, said: “I don’t know about politics, but all I know is whoever comes to power needs to preserve this culture of sweet-making which is an important industry here.” Dutt sells over two quintals of the three sweets every day. Jash recalls records stating how the two sweets, sitabhog and mihidana, came to be. “The Raja’s confectioner wanted the sweets to be visually appealing to an Englishman, but also not too fancy. So he came up with the tasteful, if tame, mixture of sweetened rice, garnishing and colour, which are common to both sweets,” he said. The old recipe containing “Sita” grain has since been replaced with Gobindobhog rice or chickpea flour (besan).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata contests Modi-Shah forecast||Mamata Banerjee on Monday dismissed “chest-thumping claims” by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah of having won 92-100 seats of the 135 that went to polls in the first four phases of Bengal polls, asserting that the BJP knew it was facing “go-haran hara (abject defeat)”. The Modi-Shah duopoly, which has mounted a perception campaign with sure-win forecasts following each phase of the Bengal polls, on Monday came up with their figures for the half-way stage. As of now, 159 seats of the 294-seat Assembly remain in fray. Prime Minister Modi on Monday resorted to cricket analogies to claim the Bengal electorate had handed the BJP a century already. “The people of Bengal have hit so many fours and sixes that the BJP has already completed a century (has won 100 seats) in the first four phases of the election. Only halfway through, the people have wiped out Trinamul Congress,” said Modi in Burdwan. If one takes his prediction seriously, then the BJP needs only 48 more seats to form the new Bengal government. Union home minister Shah was slightly more conservative. Shah said at Dhupguri that so far the BJP won 92 seats. “From the four phases, we have 92 seats…I request the people of Bengal to continue blessing us (in the rest four phases), so that the BJP can come to power here,” said Shah. Trinamul chief Mamata, who has been dismissing such claims, said at Dumdum that irrespective of the number of meetings the duopoly conducts to wrest Bengal from her, it won’t taste success. “Take it from me…Ora go-haran harbey (They will be handed abject defeat). That they too know very well by now. That is why they have been doing all that they have been doing,” said Mamata, apparently referring to the alleged excesses by the BJP, its Centre, and its various agencies that she accuses of working in the party’s favour, such as the Election Commission and the central forces. Sources in her party said Mamata’s efforts to discredit such predictions by Shah and Modi are not only in order to keep them from damaging her party’s chances in the crucial four phases that remain, with 159 seats between them, but also to throw a direct challenge at the saffron ecosystem’s attempts to peddle the perception that the battle for Bengal is decisively over already in the BJP’s favour. “What she is doing to counter such propaganda is very important for the morale of (Trinamul) rank and file and party supporters,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. According to him, all internal estimates suggest a tally of “80-plus” for Trinamul of the 135 in the first four phases, with scores of seats deemed Trinamul’s strong suit yet to go to polls. “Everyone, including Modi and Shah, knows there is still everything left to play for, and there is a very, very clear path to victory for her (Mamata). That is why they make such claims to sway floating voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Pleas for judge probe||Two advocates filed separate petitions before Calcutta High Court on Monday, seeking a probe by a sitting judge of the court into CISF firing outside a polling booth in Cooch Behar district on Saturday and adequate compensation for the kin of the four youths killed in the incident. A bench of chief justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan is likely to hear within a couple of days the petitions filed by advocates Ravishankar Chattopadhyay and Firdous Shamim of the high court. The petitions described the firing as a heinous crime and demanded a thorough inquiry by a sitting high court judge, who would identify the responsible persons and restrain the Election Commission from providing them with duties in the remaining four phases of Assembly polls in Bengal. The duo demanded adequate compensation for the nearest kin of the four killed in the firing. The Trinamul Congress on Monday filed a complaint with the Election Commission against four prominent BJP leaders for their comments on the Sitalkuchi firing. The ruling party said the provocative speeches by the BJP leaders were aimed at inciting violence in the next phases of the polls. Trinamul leaders led by Derek O’ Brien, Sudip Bandopadhyay and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy lodged the complaint with the chief electoral officer of Bengal. They demanded strict action against the BJP leaders, including state party president Dilip Ghosh, and a ban on their campaign in the next four phases. In the complaint, Trinamul detailed what BJP leaders like Sayantan Basu, Dilip Ghosh and Rahul Sinha had had said about the Sitalkuchi incident. “Shockingly, instead of condemning the act of violence of CAPF of murdering four innocent people, top brass of BJP has been actively condoning the murder and brazenly suggesting that more innocent lives should have been lost at the hands of the CAPF…...statements as above clearly evidences that the violence at Sitalkuchi was sponsored by the BJP and executed by the CAPF,” the complaint by Trinamul Congress reads. A representation of the Sanjukta Morcha, the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, also met the CEO and asked him to take immediate action against Ghosh for his remarks. “The way provocative speeches are being given (is worrying)...If they are spared, the impartiality of the Election Commission will be questioned. They shouldn’t be spared,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose. Bose was accompanied by Rabin Deb of the CPM, Pradip Bhattacharya and Abdul Mannan of the Congress, and ISF leader Naushad Siddiqui. The leaders also said the Election Commission’s attempt to justify the Sitalkuchi incident was “unacceptable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP leaders seek to make most of Sitalkuchi killings||BJP leaders on Monday appeared to compete in outdoing each other in making inflammatory remarks to support the CISF firing in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi that killed four voters. It all started on Sunday with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh claiming there would be more Sitalkuchi-like incidents if limits are crossed, and referred to “dushtu chhele (naughty boys)” having fallen to bullets. A few hours later, Ghosh’s predecessor and the BJP’s Habra candidate Rahul Sinha said the forces should have killed four more in the firing. “The central forces should have killed eight people instead of four people. The forces should be showcaused why they killed only four,” Sinha told journalists. If their comments weren’t enough, the saffron camp’s general secretary Sayantan Basu pledged to repeat “the game of Sitalkuchi” if needed. “I, Sayantan Basu, am saying this, don’t try to play many games, we will play the game of Sitalkuchi,” Basu said, referencing Trinamul’s slogan “khela hobe”. In the past, Sinha and Ghosh have reportedly run two parallel systems in the state BJP, each trying to outdo the other. Now, state BJP leaders are busy discussing which leader gave a “better comment” on Sitalkuchi. “Dilipda toh chirokal ee gorom groom kawtha bawlen (Dilipda always speaks aggressively). But what Rahulda said on Sunday sounded more hostile,” one of Sinha’s aides said. The BJP leader said though Sinha made controversial remarks, it was a little unlikely of him to wish for someone’s death. “(But) with these comments Rahulda will be in publicity for some time,” this leader added. Ghosh’s loyalists refused to give Sinha credit. “Dilipda e toh shuru korlen. (Dilipda started it all),” said one. After Saturday’s incident, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra tweeted a video clip featuring Basu, supposedly in 2019. “…CRPF key boley debo guli jeno buk lokkhyo korey jaaye, guli jeno paa lokkhyo korey naa jaaye… (I’ll tell the CRPF that the bullet should target the chest and not feet)” Basu is heard saying. Moitra tweeted what happened at Sitalkuchi was a result of this. The comments of Sinha and Basu drew flak from rivals. Habra’s Trinamul candidate Jyotipriya Mallick said one shouldn’t wish death by a bullet for an enemy. “…BJP is a party of the uncouth…It isn’t a party, it should be banned,” he said. CPM’s Jadavpur candidate Sujan Chakraborty called Ghosh, Sinha and Basu fascists. “The self-defence theory (that central forces fired in self-defence) is being negated by the likes of Basu,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nandigram battle’s four possibilities||The battle of Nandigram has already made its mark in electoral history. Each and every Bengali around the world is curious to learn the result. That is the reason so many hypotheses are getting discussed regarding the possible outcomes of this Assembly segment. The initial question is, why are Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari fighting from the same constituency? They could easily have chosen two safe seats in different locations and sailed through. Mamata Banerjee may even have had the option of announcing that she was the candidate from each and every constituency of Bengal and was thus not fighting from a specific seat but leading the campaign everywhere. In political science, each such possibility has certain positive and negative arguments associated with it, but it is not hard to believe that there were options to bypass this fight from both ends. But finally, political analysts got to experience the mouth-watering event as both leaders decided to take on each other and to lead from the front. Thus, either Mamata or Suvendu is going to lose the election. Consequently, the defeated candidate will face a tough challenge in pursuing his or her political ambitions further. There are four main possibilities that should be studied. The first two are simple, where the candidate wins Nandigram and his or her party gets a majority in the state. If Mamata as well as the TMC wins, it will be a very tough time for Suvendu. However, the other way would be more disastrous for Mamata. This is because the TMC, as a political party, might face an existential problem. Let us come to the next two possibilities, where the candidate wins and the corresponding party does not obtain a majority. For Mamata, it might not be that bad as the electorate would remember her tremendous single-handed fight and leadership quality. It is now evident that quite a few TMC executives are in the process of changing their allegiance. Thus, our present chief minister would have the opportunity to blame the defectors from her party. There is also the possibility that Suvendu loses from Nandigram but the BJP wins Bengal. This situation might not be that bad for the leader from East Midnapore. He would possibly miss the chance to become the chief minister or deputy chief minister but might continue as a prominent party leader, having shown the courage to contest against Mamata. If Mamata loses and her party wins, that would cement Suvendu’s role as a prominent leader of the Opposition. Mamata would be slightly discredited for a short period, but will surely manage another seat to win a by-election within six months. Thus, the second two possibilities are better than the first two when one considers the future of the losing candidate. There is, however, one face-saving possibility for both Mamata and Suvendu. This is the utopian situation of Meenakshi Mukherjee winning Nandigram, added to the plausible event of the TMC winning Bengal with a slim majority and the BJP becoming a strong Opposition with more than 100 seats. It would be a stunning result, but it won’t be disastrous for Mamata or Suvendu. The CPM’s post-election claim has been that it was the only party that succeeded in putting an election agent in each and every booth of Nandigram. Needless to explain, that does not imply victory. However, the kind of media attention Meenakshi received should help project her as a prominent leader in future. From media reports, it is also evident that she did not receive serious resistance from TMC or BJP supporters during the campaign. Rather, she was welcomed at many places where people said that even though they would not vote for her in this election, they might lend a hand of support during her subsequent attempts. Thus, Meenakshi is the only candidate who will benefit from this election, irrespective of the result. If she gathers a substantial vote that is greater than the winning margin between the main two parties, that will also be highlighted with great detail. This is the beauty of democracy where, in some specific cases, the corollary is always positive. Subhamoy Maitra is a professor with the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. He can be reached at the email ID maitra.subhamoy@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Potato farmers savour state govt’s help but say more needs to be done||A mix of steps taken by the Mamata Banerjee government has helped potato farmers in Bengal hold onto their produce till they get a fair price without falling into the trap of moneylenders or going for distress sale. With large sections of the state’s 15 lakh-odd potato farmers welcoming the initiatives of the government, such as buying stocks from peasants and issuing Kisan Credit Cards, the Trinamul Congress is hoping to reap dividends in the Assembly elections in the potato belt of Hooghly, East Burdwan, Birbhum, West Midnapore and parts of Murshidabad. At a time when Bengal’s cold storages are brimming with potatoes following a bumper crop, reports have reached the state government that 70 per cent of these stocks are owned by farmers themselves. This means that the majority of the farmers did not have to sell their produce to middlemen from the field itself. “This is significant. This shows that the farmers have felt encouraged to hold onto their produce till they get a better price over the next few months. Earlier, the farmers felt forced to go for distress sale after bumper production. Middlemen reaped the benefits by buying potatoes at a cheap rate and selling them at a higher price by hoarding stocks in cold stores,” said a senior state government official. This year, the agriculture marketing department has estimated that 115 lakh tonnes of potatoes were produced in Bengal against an average annual harvest of 90 lakh tonnes. “If the farmers did not sell their produce at a much lower price despite the surplus production, it suggests that they are now in a better position financially,” a bureaucrat said. Initially, the picture had been worrisome for the ruling establishment as the price of potatoes had gone down to Rs 4 a kilo in mid-February when farmers had begun harvesting. They had been in deep trouble as the input cost was estimated to be Rs 5 for producing a kilo of potato. Reacting with alacrity, the Trinamul government on February 23 decided to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potatoes at Rs 6 a kilo to give the farmers some relief. While Bengal has 15 lakh potato farmers, around 60 lakh people are dependant on the cultivation of the tuber. “The potato-producing districts such as Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum have been Trinamul bastions since 2009. If the party faces trouble in these districts, it would find it difficult to retain power in a closely fought battle. It appears that several government schemes initiated over the past 10 years have now started yielding results,” said an agriculture department official. Officials in the department said the issuance of Kisan Credit Cards had been instrumental in giving farmers a sense of security, enabling them to hold onto their produce till they got a fair price. “Nearly 80 per cent of the potato farmers are now covered under the KCC, under which they get easy farm loans from banks. They don’t have to depend on moneylenders, who charge bloated interest rates. This is the reason why they can wait for a better price,” a source said. Another official pointed to the state government’s initiative to lay stress on paddy procurement. “We start procurement in early November when the kharif crop is harvested. As farmers sold their produce at a much better price, they could invest in potatoes without depending on moneylenders,” the official said. Sources said that as the Trinamul government had increased the paddy procurement target to 42 lakh tonnes from 15 lakh tonnes during Left Front rule, the farmers have a cushion. Farmers said they had benefited from the government’s schemes but added that the state should now help them to sell their produce from the cold storages. “I have kept 2 tonnes of potatoes in the store. I can hold onto the produce for another three months. It is expected that I will be able to sell the produce at Rs 12 to Rs 14 a kg. It would be good if the government helps us to send our produce to other states in case the price is low in Bengal. Some kind of transport subsidy will also help,” said Milan Kumar, a potato farmer from Tarakeswar in Hooghly. Another farmer, Sarathi Roy from Memari in East Burdwan, said he had decided to keep 1 tonne of potatoes in the cold storage as the price had come down to Rs 4 a kg in February-end. “Had I been forced to sell the produce at that price, I would have incurred a huge loss. Thanks to the Kisan Credit Card, I could secure a loan on easy terms, which helped me to keep my produce in the store for a few months,” Roy said. On the campaign trail, Trinamul has been highlighting the government’s efforts to provide financial stability to farmers in the rural belt of Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum. “It is true that the state government has helped us in many ways. But it would have been better if more cold storages had come up in the potato belt. The government should think about it,” said Rishi Adak, a farmer in Birbhum’s Labhpur. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been promising to set up more cold storages in the potato-producing districts in his election rallies, Trinamul leaders say they have been working towards that end for the past few years. “If Bengal can store more potatoes, it can serve the neighbouring states such as Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh in the dry season. As we don’t have a proper export policy and storage capacity, the markets are often captured by states like Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat that have better infrastructure,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||North East||Gauhati High Court shield against arbitrary ‘foreigner’ tag||A ruling by Gauhati High Court that a person cannot be declared a foreigner just because he could not establish his linkage with all his relatives on the voter list has been hailed as a “landmark” judgment that will “substantially reduce the arbitrariness” of the foreigners tribunals. The tribunals are quasi-judicial bodies that determine whether a resident is a “foreigner” or not. Justice N. Kotiswar Singh had on March 30 passed the judgment on a writ petition by Haider Ali, son of Harmuz Ali, from Assam’s Barpeta district. The petition challenged the Barpeta Foreigners Tribunal ruling declaring him a foreigner on January 30, 2019, for having failed to prove his linkage with his relatives on the voter list. Ali, 33, had established his linkage with his grandfather and father, both of whom featured on the voter lists of 1965 and 1970 and owned properties in Assam before 1971, documents whose admissibility was not rebutted by the tribunal. The high court said the documents submitted by Ali certainly indicate his father and grandfather were in possession of properties in Assam before 1971 and this can be considered as corroborating evidence to show the petitioner is a descendant of people who were already living in Assam before 1971 and 1966. The cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners is March 24, 1971, according to the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-long anti-foreigners movement. “The documents clearly show the linkage of the petitioner with his father Harmuz Ali and grandfather Nadu Miya and accordingly, we have no hesitation to hold that the petitioner is an Indian citizen and not a foreigner,” the court said. Zamser Ali, the former chief adviser of the Assam chapter of the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), and advocate Aman Wadud hailed the “landmark” ruling, saying it will be a sigh of relief to those trying to prove their citizenship in the tribunals. Ali and Wadud are involved in helping those facing such cases. “This is a very reasonable judgment, it upholds the rule of law and principle of natural justice, which the foreigners tribunals were routinely overlooking. This landmark judgment will substantially reduce the arbitrariness of the tribunals,” Wadud told The Telegraph. Ali said the ruling will also be a huge relief to those who have been excluded from the updated National Register of Citizens when they approach the tribunals. There are 100 foreigners tribunals in Assam handling over 1.4 lakh doubtful citizenship cases. Over 19 lakh applicants, who have been excluded from the NRC, are expected to defend their citizenship before the tribunals. The cut-off date for inclusion in the NRC was March 24, 1971. “The high court ruling has addressed vital issues, including observation on the functioning of the foreigners tribunals and submission of evidence to bolster one’s case. This ruling will definitely impact ongoing cases and those excluded from the NRC,” Ali said. Senior advocate H.R.A. Choudhury echoed him. Allen Brooks, former member of the Assam State Commission for Minorities, said the ruling would hopefully lead to a much-needed course correction. “The honourable court has gone into all aspects of the case and has upheld the constitutional right of a citizen. It has also sent a strong message to the foreigners tribunals on how they should function,” Brooks said. The high court had also said that not mentioning his other relatives cannot be a ground for disbelieving his testimony and the documents relied upon by the petitioner. Apart from the linkage, the court also made observations about the functioning of the foreigners tribunals, which “merely” issue a notice to the proceedee informing that he or she is an illegal entrant to the state and India for a certain specific period of time “without any other facts and documents being furnished to him”. “From the records, it is also seen that after issuing summons to the proceedee or before issuing summons to the proceedee, the tribunal does not examine any of the persons who had made the reference or who had conducted the investigation against the proceedee to hold that the proceedee is a foreigner. Thus, the proceedee is totally in dark as to how he came to be considered to be a foreigner and not an Indian,” the court said. The court also has observed that since the burden of proof as to whether a person is an illegal foreigner or not is upon the person as provided under Section 9 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, he must be “afforded all the opportunities” to furnish evidence. “Therefore, if certain facts are introduced subsequently, which does not contradict his statement or stand taken in his written statement, introduction of such fact subsequently cannot cause any prejudice to the proceedee. In fact, a proceedee must be afforded all the opportunities to prove his case and no hyper technical view should be taken to deny introducing new facts or document, so long as these are relevant and bolster the case of the proceedee... so long as the State does not adduce evidence to rebut the claim of the proceedee, the Tribunal ought not to disallow filing or introduction of new facts/documents not mentioned in the written statement,” the ruling said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
13-04-2021||Opinion||Pandemic added to the woes of the poor, dragged middle class into poverty ||The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the global economy hard, increasing poverty in practically every country, reducing employment and pulling people down from middle-income brackets into low-income groups, sometimes to the brink of poverty. Alongside, the inequality gulf, already a yawning chasm, has also widened. Some countries have been hit harder than others, of course, and India is one of them. A report released by the Washington-based Pew Research Center on 18 March 2021 and Oxfam’s 2021 inequality report released earlier this year shine a light on India’s economic travails as does this year’s Global Hunger Index rankings. Before we get to these, some context is necessary. So, let us look at some of the projected macroeconomic figures to get a sense of the scale of the crisis. Estimates put the drop in global economic output at around 4.5 per cent in 2020. While the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated a 4.4 per cent contraction, in the early days, the World Bank had put the number at 5.2 per cent. The global unemployment figures show the problem from a starker, and more human, perspective. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), 114 million jobs were lost in 2020 compared to 2019. Apart from outright job losses, working hours were curtailed for many. In total, there was an 8.8 per cent reduction in working hours, the equivalent of 255 million full-time jobs, assuming a 48-hour working week (see https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@dgreports/@dcomm/documents/briefingnote/wcms_767028.pdf). Obviously, this had a big impact on global poverty. The World Bank says that the pandemic caused an increase in “extreme poverty” in 2020, for the first time in 20 years. In an assessment in October 2020, it said that between 88 million and 115 million more people would be pushed into extreme poverty, defined as living on less than $1.90 (roughly Rs 138), by 2021. Had the pandemic not happened, the World Bank expected a 7.9 per cent reduction in extreme poverty in 2020 (see https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2020/10/07/covid-19-to-add-as-many-as-150-million-extreme-poor-by-2021). The UNDP says the burden of poverty will fall, or actually is already falling, disproportionately on middle-income countries which had high loads of poverty before the pandemic, especially in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. While citing the IMF and ILO figures for poverty and unemployment, the UNDP also says that more than 265 million people will face acute food insecurity globally. It also says that there will be a 60 per cent decline in earnings for workers in the informal sector, while half the world is trying to survive without “any form of social protection” (see https://feature.undp.org/covid-and-poverty/). The India story We all know intuitively that the pandemic has been bad news for a lot of people in India and throughout the world, but these numbers help us to imagine the enormity of the crisis. Let’s move to Indian the situation, in which the pandemic exacerbated poor economic outcomes already existing – in the language of the pandemic, “pre-existing conditions”. The National Statistical Office (NSO) estimated that the contraction of the Indian economy in the 2020-21 financial year would be of the magnitude of 8 per cent, despite the fact that technically it emerged from a recession in the third quarter (October to December), showing 0.4 per cent GDP growth. The economy is projected to be back in negative territory in the fourth quarter. Despite much waffling about a V-shaped recovery and “green shoots”, there is little point in speculating about what will happen in the impending financial year, especially given the fact that India seems to be in the grip of a second wave of infections that has hit states that are key to an economic recovery – Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra, for example. Restrictions on public mobility have already been announced by some of these states. The unemployment and poverty data can help us, as with the global situation, understand the situation in terms of human costs. According to data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate in February 2021 was 6.9 per cent, which is an improvement over February 2020, before the lockdown, when it was 7.8 per cent. But in between, it has been a rollercoaster. The unemployment rate peaked in April 2020 at 23.50 per cent. The situation started improving in June, by when the easing of the lockdown had begun. The unemployment rate fell to 10.30 per cent that month, reaching its lowest point in November at 6.50 per cent, in between it has been up and down, but below 10 per cent. Contribution of MGNRGA Much of the credit for shoring up the employment figures must go to the programme run under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which was allocated Rs. 61,500 crore in the 2020 Budget after being derided by the ruling party. But increased demand for work caused by the pandemic-induced recession prompted the Centre to increase the allocation by Rs. 40,000 crore. Chhattisgarh (107 per cent of target), West Bengal (105 per cent), and Assam and Bihar (104 per cent) have utilized the scheme maximally. But this in itself tells us a story. MGNREGA programmes usually pay less than minimum wages and draw only those who cannot get paid work even in the informal sector. It is an indicator of economic distress, not prosperity. The unemployment figures, thus, don’t necessarily mean that the situation is getting better. For comparison, the budgetary allocation for MGNREGA programmes in 2021-22 is Rs. 73,000 crore, a reduction of about a third. The allocation was Rs. 61,400 crore in 2018-19 and Rs. 60,000 crore in 2019-20. These figures are being cited to point to the extraordinary role played by MGNREGA to alleviate extreme distress. We need to take a quick look at the situation that existed when the Covid-19 pandemic devastated the economy and a multitude of lives. The GDP growth rate has been falling for some time now. In 2016-17, it was 8.26 per cent, a 0.26 per cent increase over the last year. Since then it has been falling -- 7.04 per cent in 2017-18; 6.12 per cent in 2018-19; and 4.18 in 2019-20, a precipitous decline. The unemployment figures were stable between 2016-17 and 2019-20, falling from 5.51 per cent to 5.36 per cent, though in the aftermath of demonetization there had been a substantial spike in unemployment (see https://www.cmie.com/kommon/bin/sr.php?kall=warticle&dt=2019-01-08%2009:28:37&msec=666). The shrinking middle class In other words, the Indian economy wasn’t doing too well, but the pandemic made matters worse. It is in this context that we need to look at the Pew Research report. It says, first, that the Indian middle class has shrunk by 32 million in 2020, which accounts for 60 per cent of the global contraction of the middle-income group, defined as those who earn $10.01-20 (roughly Rs. 725-1,450) a day. This means that the number of people in the middle class will have fallen to two-thirds of the pre-pandemic projection of 99 million people. At the same time, the number of poor people, defined as those earning $2 or less (roughly Rs 145 or less) a day has increased by 75 million, again accounting for 60 per cent of the global rise in poverty. The total number of poor people is expected to clock in at 134 million, more than double the pre-pandemic estimate of 59 million, at a poverty rate of 9.7 per cent, as against the January 2020 forecast of 4.3 per cent. This also means that those in the low-income tier, earning $2.01-10 (roughly Rs. 145-725) a day will fall from the expected 1.20 billion to 1.16 billion. It should be a sobering thought for those inclined to push the rhetoric of the ‘India Shining’ variety and trumpet the rise of India’s affluent middle class that over 95 per cent of India’s population consists of people who are either in a low-income trap or are poor. We shall return to this point. India’s growth figures, including a —9.6 per cent growth rate for India according to the World Bank’s estimate revised in January this year, are in contrast to the situation in China, which was the only major economy to record positive growth in 2020 at 2.3 per cent. The number of people dropping out of the middle-class category there was 10 million and the poverty scenario remained unchanged. Additionally, in China there are more people in the middle-income and upper-middle-income categories than those in the lower-income categories and the poor combined (see https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2021/03/18/in-the-pandemic-indias-middle-class-shrinks-and-poverty-spreads-while-china-sees-smaller-changes/). There are other metrics, but we shall not belabour the point. Hunger index: still serious Then, of course, there is the Global Hunger Index (GHI). This year, it placed India at 94 on a list of 107. This is despite the fact that India’s score on the index has been improving continuously from 38.9 in 2000, through 37.5 and 29.3 in 2006 and 2012, to 27.12 in 2020. Other countries have improved faster, however. On the GHI severity scale, below 9.9 counts as low, 10-19.9 as moderate, 20-34.9 as serious, 35-49.9 as alarming, and above 50 as extremely alarming. So, India has improved over this century from alarming to serious, but is not likely to break into the moderate category anytime soon. Of concern, to citizens will be the fact that low-income countries – in Africa, South America and Asia, including Sri Lanka (64, in the moderate bracket), Nepal (73, moderate), Bangladesh (75, serious but just about, with a score of 20.4) and Pakistan (88, with a score of 24.6) – outperform India in providing nutrition to their people. Rich vs poor This is at one level inexplicable, though not surprising, given that it has been known for a decades that India has been behind even countries in sub-Saharan Africa on key indices like child malnutrition rates. This brings us inescapably to Oxfam’s report, The Inequality Virus — Global Report 2021. It begins with the finding that globally it took just nine months for ‘the fortunes of the top 1,000 billionaires to return to their pre-pandemic highs, while for the world’s poorest, recovery could take more than a decade’ and that the increase in the wealth of the 10 richest people in the world is more than enough to prevent anyone from falling into poverty because of the virus and provide vaccines for everyone on the planet (see https://d1ns4ht6ytuzzo.cloudfront.net/oxfamdata/oxfamdatapublic/2021-01/The%20Inequality%20Virus%20-%20Global%20Report%20%282021%29-3.pdf?N03OMRi1S_PWAiXig7D34AiDJ6ibPSOP). Among these 10 richest are Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Elon Musk of Tesla and an assortment of entrepreneurs mostly in the IT and IT-enabled sectors. The pandemic has made, and will make over the coming years, a deeply unequal world even more unequal. The report says that a survey of economists found that 87 per cent of respondents felt that the pandemic would create an increase or major increase in income inequalities in their countries. In India, too, the pandemic has delivered a bonanza to the rich. We’ve already seen what it is doing to the poor. The Oxfam report says Mukesh Ambani doubled his wealth between March and October 2020, his total fortune reaching $78.3 billion. In the process, Ambani jumped from the 21st spot in the global list of billionaires to sixth place. Gautam Adani, too, has made a killing. His group’s six listed companies added $79 billion to their market value in their past year. Adani is now India’s second-richest person in India with a net worth of $56 billion, having added $50 billion to his fortune in the past year, $5billion more than Ambani has done (https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/the-growing-wealth-and-power-of-gautam-adani-2398716). These examples serve mainly to highlight the extreme impoverishment of hundreds of thousands of people in the country. The point is whether the government is doing or has done enough to meet this emergency. Clearly, it hasn’t. From the early days of the pandemic, economists have advocated putting money into people’s pockets through direcst cash transfers to alleviate hardship and get the economy going. These appeals have not been heeded. The problem from a larger political economy vantage is that the Indian state is neither interested in redistributing wealth downwards, nor in strengthening a dilapidated welfare infrastructure. (Suhit K. Sen is a freelance journalist and an independent historian)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Shamed: CISF kills 4 in Bengal||Bengal has a long and chequered history of political violence. The death of four voters at the hands of the Central Industrial Security Force and the ugly politics that has been unleashed in the aftermath of the tragedy have set yet another grim milestone in this respect. Did the protectors turn predators? The answer is unclear. The security forces claim that they fired in self-defence after being attacked by an irate mob. But this account — the version that has been presented to the Election Commission — has been challenged. Villagers assert that an unprovoked assault on a 15-year-old boy by a security personnel led to a spontaneous protest that was met with bullets. Is the CISF’s expertise in crowd management reliable? Established protocol makes it clear that firing can be an option as the last resort. The administrative failure to stop a crowd from gathering, the absence of a lathi-charge or the use of tear gas to disperse the crowd, the disappearance of the state police from the site and the deputation of a solitary quick response team deepen suspicions of severe procedural lapses. Heads must roll for this. But will it? Fairness and accountability are not exactly in abundance these days. Equally nauseating are the shockingly intemperate comments made by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party in response to the tragedy. The state president, Dilip Ghosh, has warned of the repetition of such bloodletting in Bengal. It is pertinent to mention that Mr Ghosh — he is no stranger to controversy — would be one of the chief ministerial aspirants if the BJP were to wrest power from the Trinamul Congress. Hopefully, this blatantly intimidating remark will get the EC’s attention. But then, Mr Ghosh may have merely been emulating his boss. The Union home minister, while alleging that the TMC was politicizing the killings, showed his hand when he said that Mamata Banerjee’s party ignored one of the deceased because he did not belong to its vote bank. This macabre ritual of first failing to stop blood from being shed and then attempting to milk the loss of citizens’ lives for a barely concealed political agenda is a blot on elections, supposedly the largest festival of democracy. Blood must not be shed in Bengal for the remaining phases of the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Yet again: US police shoots 20-year-old black man in Minneapolis||Sir — The suffering of black people in the United States of America never seems to end. The most recent incident occurred in Minneapolis where a police officer reportedly shot a 20-year-old black man, who later died. The family of the victim, Daunte Wright, said that he was shot by the cop before getting back into his car, driving away and crashing some time later. This tragedy becomes even more marked given the fact that Minneapolis is where the former policeman, Derek Chauvin, is on trial for the killing of George Floyd, whose murder sparked a massive protest, in the US as well as in other countries, highlighting police atrocities against the black community. However, even though the protests gained support in the international arena, not much seems to have changed as far as the treatment of black Americans by the police is concerned. Systemic racism is not a problem that will be easily solved in a nation that was built on the foundations of slavery and slave labour. Arijit Sen,Calcutta Sir — The name of Daunte Wright has now been added to the long list of names of black people in the US who have lost their lives owing to police brutality. Apart from George Floyd, other victims of such discrimination include Breonna Taylor, Tamir Rice and Elijah McClain. Some of the slain were children when they were killed. The US has had a black president, and now has a black vice-president. Representation at the highest levels of government, however, does not guarantee affirmative action on the ground. Unless the administration takes concrete steps to reduce the suffering of black people and protect them from discrimination, nothing will change. Saumya Mitra,Calcutta Masked truth Sir — It was horrifying to read that a mattress-making factory in Maharashtra was discovered to have been stuffing its products with discarded face masks instead of cotton or other material. Piles of masks were also found on the factory premises. These actions are outrageous at a time when the Covid-19 spike in the state and the country has been alarming. The culprits must be penalized. Shreya Pillai,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Festive fun: Modi's 'Tika Utsav'||India is fortunate in having a prime minister who can only see the brightest side. In a discussion with chief ministers regarding the alarming rise in Covid-19 infections, he announced a ‘Tika Utsav’ between April 11 and 14 as a boost to vaccinations. States are expected to inoculate the maximum number of people during the shortest time in this festival. Narendra Modi believes in ‘changing the atmosphere’, so that vaccinations against a damaging, often deadly, virus can become festive for four days, framed by the birth anniversaries of Jyotiba Phule and B.R. Ambedkar at either end. While discussing the surge in infections, Mr Modi felt, no doubt, that a celebratory feel with a couple of icons thrown in — the relevance is mysterious — would energize people into vaccinating and being vaccinated so as to win the ‘war’ against the virus. Such cheer would have jarred less had there not been a shortage of vaccines. A ‘Tika Utsav’ without adequate tikas is a bit over-the-top even for the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government. Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are among the states declaring serious shortages; many states are shutting down vaccination centres or closing them early. Last week, some of these feared their stocks would run out in two days. The chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, for example, said he was eager to comply with the prime minister’s programme, but for that his state would need 25 lakh doses. But the Union health minister has declared there are enough stocks and has forbidden “fear-mongering”. Maharashtra has been heartily rebuked for mismanaging vaccinations. But as buying and distributing vaccines are solely in the Centre’s grip, no one else is responsible if vaccination numbers begin falling just when the second wave hits a rising gradient. Reportedly, other vaccines are awaiting the government’s approval to come in, while the country’s two vaccine manufacturers are asking for finances to increase their production. The Centre’s lack of planning is too blatant to miss. So the ‘Tika Utsav’ serves multiple purposes. It allows Mr Modi to ignore frightening realities and act cheerful, so that issues of incompetence and accountability are drowned by cymbals and gongs on one side and rebukes on the other. Plus the failure of the utsav can be laid at the states’ door — party poopers, all of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Star power: Celebrities and Bengal polls||Prior to becoming the Ukrainian president in 2019, Volodymyr Zelenskiy was a sitcom star with his only political experience being playing a high school history teacher in the 2015 political satire, Servant of the People, who is propelled to the highest office of Ukraine after his rant against government corruption goes viral. The upcoming West Bengal election is largely riding on celebrity quotient. Both the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are now flooded with actors, singers, directors, former cricketers and well-known footballers. Even the Left fielded an actor in one constituency. The wall between glamour and politics is thin. Cricket being extremely popular, a cricketer-turned-politician is not an alien concept in the subcontinent. While Ronald Reagan and Arnold Schwarzenegger are often cited as instances of film stars turning into politicians, the former Guatemalan president, Jimmy Morales, and the former Philippine president, Joseph Estrada, are also notable examples in this regard. Bollywood’s tryst with Indian politics is not a recent phenomenon either. Celluloid and Dravidian politics have been inseparable — five out of seven Tamil Nadu chief ministers from Dravidian parties so far have been from Tamil cinema. According to P. Eric Louw of the University of Queensland, the gap between politics and entertainment has narrowed. Celebrities are in the public gaze for years and that can influence voting behaviour. A new political entrant celebrity might be seen to invigorate politics with new ideas. Critical theorists such as Douglas Kellner of the University of California, however, have employed the concept of the ‘media spectacle’ to suggest that the emphasis on celebrity replaces the complexities of policy with symbolic gestures. Some celebrities, of course, take refuge in electoral politics in the declining stages of their career. But Amitabh Bachchan illustrates that sometimes a star’s stint in politics may be surprisingly short-lived, even if it has a triumphant beginning such as defeating a political stalwart like Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna from Allahabad. Given that star candidates have been fielded in truly challenging seats in the Bengal elections, the objective might be to recreate Bachchan-Bahuguna moments. But not every star is the same, social structures differ, and every election is unique. A century-old history depicts that the 1920 presidential campaign of Warren Harding in the United States of America was endorsed by film stars like Al Jolson, Lillian Russell, Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford. In 1960, John F. Kennedy received the support of members such as Sammy Davis Junior and Dean Martin. How, then, do celebrities influence elections? Unfortunately, the academic literature on celebrity politics and celebrity endorsement is often superficial and anecdotal. The most conspicuous example of celebrity endorsement in recent history is that of Oprah Winfrey, one of the world’s most well-known faces, endorsing Barack Obama prior to the 2008 US Democratic Presidential Primary. Based on some methodological derivation, C. Garthwaite and T. Moore from the University of Maryland estimated that the endorsement was responsible for 1,015,559 votes for Obama. An Indian example may be traced back to the 1996 Tamil Nadu elections when, in a televised message, Superstar Rajinikanth said: “Even god cannot save Tamil Nadu if Jayalalithaa is re-elected to power.” Many believe that one-liner sealed Jayalalithaa’s fate in that election. However, not every celebrity is eager to take active part in politics. During a 1990 Senate election in his home state of North Carolina, Michael Jordan, a superstar by then, refused to endorse Democrat Harvey Gantt, an African American, against the incumbent Republican, Jesse Helms, known to be a notorious racist. “Republicans buy sneakers, too,” Jordan is known to have famously said. For the time being, many celebrities might be believing that only politicians of their preferred party are buyers of sneakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Pitching for Ahmedabad||On December 10, 2020, the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s media release announced the itinerary of England’s tour to India which featured a total of 12 matches. Seven were to be held in “the newly built Sardar Patel Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad.” On March 7, the Indian Premier League fixtures said that the “World’s Largest Cricket Stadium — Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad” would host eight league matches, three play-offs and the final. That’s a total of 12 games, more than any other venue — just in case anyone doubted the location of the new headquarters of Indian cricket. Given that India will be hosting the 2023 ICC World Cup, where else could its finals be held but in Ahmedabad? Perhaps even the semi-finals. That’s not a snide dig but an informed punt. That power in Indian cricket rests today with the BCCI secretary, Jay Shah, the son of the home minister, Amit Shah, is not a new phenomenon. Both Jagmohan Dalmiya and N. Srinivasan occupied that post en route to their colourful presidencies. Yet, never before in the BCCI’s past has the expression of that power become both political and parochial. Parochial in how the biggest games on the Indian cricket calendar are being corralled into a single venue in Ahmedabad. In the past, the lollipops were evenly distributed with the biggest kid getting the largest. Today, that kid owns the entire box. The expression of power becomes political because Indian cricket is being marinated in the ideology of the ruling regime, in this case, the Bharatiya Janata Party. In the past, when engaged with cricket, politicians left their ideologies at the door in clubby, cross-party agreement. The presence of politicians in the BCCI is a decades-old phenomenon, its lengthy list spanning across a range of dispensations: N.K.P. Salve, Madhavrao Scindia, Manohar Joshi, Sharad Pawar, Arun Jaitley, even Anurag Thakur. Before their ascension to national office, both Modi and Amit Shah were presidents of the Gujarat Cricket Association. The politicians worked alongside businessmen, lawyers and a myriad cricket administrators and stayed away from the day-to-day cricket business. They were in it for various reasons. Because cricket’s public platform magnified their identity beyond the political stage. Because they loved the power of office and wanted to own another fiefdom. Because they may have even loved the game as kids. Each of those, some of those, or all of those. To career cricketer administrators, the presence of politicians in the mix became movers, shakers, and red-tape cutters. The politicians in the Board protected the interests of the Board; as a united front to nix the sports development code, which sought greater transparency and accountability in sports administration. Or get land at subsidized prices to build infrastructure. Or hurdle over messy diplomatic tripwires and host three World Cups across South Asia. But the presence of politicians didn’t involve transferring or transmitting their political ideologies through Indian cricket. The divergent party lines conformed to a larger cricketing role as protectors of the BCCI’s rich, insular turf. The turf may have always been ready for a takeover, but with Indian cricket owning the game’s riches and the public mindspace, the time is ripest now. Cricket is merely one of the many engines in the BJP’s dream of cultural expansion. Everyone on the BCCI payroll — players, former and current, officials, broadcasters — seems to have fallen in with the party line and has been herded under the umbrella of uncheerful nationalism. Today, it must be noted that the post of president in the GCA lies vacant; the highest ranked official is Vice-President Dhanraj Nathwani. To be the GCA president means standing in the boots worn by Modi and Amit Shah, an act so subversive that it is not to be contemplated. The new head of the BCCI’s anti-corruption unit is a former Gujarat DCP, Shabir H.S. Khandwawala, appointed sans due application process or interviews. He is 70, outside the maximum age limit for BCCI office-bearers, stated in the new but obviously malleable BCCI constitution. Indian cricket today is playing second fiddle to the political ideology in power because none of its faithful will speak for it. The messy exchange between Wasim Jaffer, the most prolific batsman in Indian domestic cricket, and the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand was ignored by top BCCI officials: Jaffer’s former teammate and president, Sourav Ganguly, the secretary, Jay Shah, and the treasurer, Arun Dhumal (the brother of Anurag Thakur). In the past, BCCI presidents, regardless of their political beliefs, brought rogue state officials to task to demonstrate their control. In order to push the Lodha reforms into mothballed irrelevance, the BCCI’s cross-party grandees first edged out its professional management. What they now have is the ruling regime’s iron fist. Jay Shah, a semi-conductor of his father’s authority, has become Indian cricket’s front-line commander over and above the player-president, Ganguly. Checkmate. The president of India travelled to Ahmedabad to inaugurate a stadium named after his constitutional subordinate, the incumbent prime minister. Seats in the lower tier most visible on television are coloured orange, the BJP’s party colour. During its day-night Test debut, the orange wall made the sighting of the pink ball difficult in natural light for fielders, but who cares. It must be mentioned here that the only stadium bigger in the world than the Narendra Modi Stadium is the Rungrado 1st of May Stadium in Pyongyang, North Korea. It’s enough to kill irony with a sniggering fit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Black hole sun||The British film director, David Lean, liked to repeat a vaudeville entertainer’s precept he had internalized in his youth: never pop out of the same hole twice. While this might be sound advice for clowns, jugglers, magicians and cabaret performers, it is not a rule that history has ever felt obliged to follow. Or, perhaps, we should say there are only so many holes available to history, from which it tends to cannon up a limited variation of projectiles. The trick history has, though, is in the infinite new combinations of what it launches at us at any given moment. On the one hand, we could be forgiven for thinking we’ve seen it all before. Murderous despots, Arturo Ui-types with funny facial hair, who develop a sinister hold over large populations? Yes, seen those. Cunningly effective megalomaniacs feeding off the weak, corrupt politicians ranged against them? Yup, seen that too. The rise of a cancerous ideology which inexorably eats into the body of a society? Yes, tick. All this at a time of economic disaster, leading to further devastation? Nothing new, seen that. All of the above combined with a relentlessly deadly global pandemic? Hmm, wait, perhaps not that often, but there must surely have been some broadly comparable moment, one will just have to look. On the other hand, observing history is sometimes like watching an entirely predictable train crash unfold in slow motion. Going through my previous writings for this page, I just came across a column looking at the deep cultural failures and cop-outs of the Left Front that had been ruling West Bengal for 28 years at that point. Written in November 2005, a paragraph goes: “As a result, Bengal is not gurgling beatifically in the lap of some great secular and progressive era as the Comrades would have us believe, it is a simmering pressure-chamber in which the forces of the religious right and forces of the most ruthless of capitalisms are waiting to pick on the carcass of the CPI(M)’s legacy. What will follow once this Baam-Phront goes will likely be horrible and devastating.” Another passage, this time from the election diary carried in this paper almost exactly 10 years ago, relaying a conversation with one of Bengal’s most perceptive political scientists: “Whether CPM comes back or, most likely, TMC takes over, the power management, the favour management, the bribery management, will all have to be different... Think not of the formations we see today: one street-fighting party, the CPM, ceding power to another one, the TMC — the only one who could challenge it, precisely because it’s a spawn of the ‘politics’ perfected by the Left Front over three decades. Think instead of what happens two years hence, when the two different gangs of thieves start falling out internally. The Red gang because they’ve lost power and are under huge tectonic pressure, the Green gang because their ineptitude and venality in power is by now utterly exposed, the cracks inherent in their foundation now widening. Think also of the Congress sharks and BJP hyenas circling, smelling blood... Think of what kind of shopping mall Shonar Bangla will have become by then.” The “two years hence” was off by a few years but not too many. The ‘Red gang’ imploded quicker than anyone predicted, helped along by the TMC’s programme of what one can now call ‘CPM-mukta Bangla’. All the beseeching from observers that the TMC should water democracy and not do to the Left what the Left had done to all opposition in the state fell on ears deafened by vengeful blood. By 2014, those busy looking only at Bengal were ambushed by what history threw up from other holes; the venality and ineptitude of West Bengal’s new rulers was exposed early enough, but it was dwarfed by the towering venality and ideology-driven incompetence of the newly installed RSS-BJP regime in Delhi. In fact, rapidly, every mistake and misdemeanour at the state level was magnified monumentally by the rulers at the Centre. If a man was hounded by the police in Calcutta for a cartoon of the chief minister, the bigger mob just bought over most of the country’s media and targeted their media critics in job-lots. If the unofficial hafta level was increased in Bengal, the bigger guys just put in the opaque electoral bonds and tweaked the whole banking system and income-tax mechanisms. If the space for dissent was squeezed at the village and district levels by the local regime, the national regime just sent in the re-programmed investigative agencies to arrest dissenting activists across the country. Of course, the Trinamul Congress has managed to do some positive things in this state over 10 years, but it has done them under the twin shadows of its own default mode of anti-democratic belligerence and the monstrous nationwide hegemonic project unleashed by the RSS-BJP. As a result we find ourselves in a thicket of thorny questions: is ‘Subaltern Hindutva’ a real thing? If so, will Subaltern Mamatatva be able to fight it off? What particular hell would a hung assembly unleash upon the state? What would a Mamata in Opposition do, especially if she felt the election had been stolen from her? What revenge would Amit Shah extract from a Bengal that had refused to succumb to his charms? These and many other questions aside, anyone in Bengal who believes in the founding principles of the Republic, anyone who still retains faith in genuine secularism, social justice, environmental common sense and the rule of law now finds themselves hoping that the TMC staves off the massive, multi-spectrum assault from the sangh parivar. A perhaps far-fetched secondary hope is that if Mamata Banerjee does manage to retain power, she and her party will have learnt some lessons and will do things radically differently from the playbook of the people they are fighting against. As for the other possibility, here is a foolhardy prediction: if the RSS-BJP do manage to capture West Bengal in these elections, they will come to regret it bitterly, and not too far in the future. History will continue to flummox us with the mix of the familiar and the unforeseen, but this is the one state in the Union which has the ability to turn into a black hole, with a gravitational pull strong enough to suck power away all the way from Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Mirchiya falls in Palamau goes totally dry||Daltonganj: The Mirchiya Falls at the Palamau Tiger Reserve has not been able to attract tourists this year, as it has dried up totally. Located in the Garu east range of the tiger reserve, the waterfall that used to attract hundreds of tourists now depends on the onset of rains to gain its glory back, Deputy Director (south) of Palamau Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said. He blamed forest fire and subsequent loss of ground vegetation for the situation. “Forest fires denude the land making it lose all retentive power to arrest and detain the rush of the rain waters. As a result it runs off and does not percolate down to the earth,” he said. He added that the eco development committee of the Mirchaiya village has proposed for soil moisture conservation, whereby the water is arrested by raising small earthen check dams down the stream. (Our Correspondent) Bokaro: Operations at several Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) units came to a halt as hundreds of protesting employees went on a strike for a few hours, demanding minimum wages pending for the last four years. The employees under the banner of Krantikari Ispat Majdoor Sangh even when vital work remained stalled, and returned to their jobs only after top officials of BSL negotiated with them and assured to fulfill their demands. “All major departments inside BSL plant faced shutdown for a few hours. We have demanded wage revision from the management by providing 15 per cent minimum guarantee benefit, 35 per cent perks, 9 per cent pension and clearing the due arrears,” a protester said. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “During the A-Shift on Tuesday, certain sections of agitating employees disrupted work for two to three hours in some of the shops. Later, senior officials appealed to withdraw their agitation and stop disruption of work, after which normalcy returned.” (Our Correspondent) Daltonganj: Two inmates of a children’s home in the town fled on Monday night, confirmed a member of Palamau child welfare committee, Dhirender Kishore. The two kids, vagabonds from Sahebgar and Garhwa districts, climbed on the roof of the centre to escape, said sources. The former came to the centre on April 5, while the latter was an inmate for a year or so, they added. A hunt is on to trace the two. Kishore said that it was not known why the two ran away. “Let them be found first. After that we can ascertain the reason,” he added. Officials are scanning CCTV footage in this regard. Palamau police inspector A.K.Mahatha said, “We will try to trace them but till 1pm on Tuesday, the children’s home officials have lodged no written complaint in this regard.” (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team of anti-corruption bureau led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Madan Paswan nabbed an assistant sub-inspector Upendra Singh while he was taking a bribe of Rs 50,000 from a villager. Triloki Prasad, a resident of Dharhara village in Barkatha block, was facing criminal charges and the case was being handled by Singh, who demanded Rs 1 lakh to remove his name. “I did not know about this FIR but the officer (Singh) was not ready to spare me without a bribe. I then contacted the bureau officials, who laid a trap to catch him while taking the bribe this afternoon,” Prasad said. The sub-inspector was caught near Indrapuri cinema hall in the town. Officials said processes initiated to send Singh to the prison. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The district administration on Tuesday ordered private hospitals to declare the number of beds within 24 hours, so that half of them can be reserved for Covid-19 patients. In a meeting with about 12 hospitals, DC Bokaro Rajesh Singh along with civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak and SDO, Shashi Prakash Singh appealed to disclose the correct number of beds and warned of action if incorrect information was provided and Covid-19 treatment protocols were flouted. Nearly two dozen out of 70 private hospitals in Bokaro are not providing treatment to Covid-19 patients but are vaccinating beneficiaries. The district has over 400 active patients and 300 of them are in home isolation. In this scenario, state-run hospital BGH has been facing tremendous pressure while treating the patients. As a result, the hospital can only admit those who are in a serious condition. (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad ramps up Covid-19 testing at hotspots||Intended at ensuring prevention of spread of Covid-19, the Dhanbad district administration on Tuesday launched a drive for intensive testing at all the hotspots in the districts, starting off with Surya Realcon colony, Shraddha Apartment, Saraidhela, Pathak Colony Manaitand and ward Number 27 of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that authorities have identified several hotspots for the drive, and testing will be carried out in different colonies of Matkuria, Wasseypur, Vanasthali Colony and Telipara on Wednesday. The district meanwhile has also decided to conduct the covid test of employees of different hospitals. “Based on the data of Covid patients available with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme it has been observed that a large number of patients admitted in Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super Speciality Hospital are Covid-positive. So, the district administration has decided to conduct covid tests of all medical staff to ensure better management. Appointments of medical teams and magistrates have been made and kits have already been sent in this regard,” he said. “In case of any report of lack of cooperation appropriate action would be taken against residents  under suitable sections of the district Disaster Management Act,” Singh added. The DC also instructed all government officials of the district not to leave the headquarters without prior permission. “Rising number of infections in the districts means more testing is required, for which we need manpower,” he reasoned. The district administration has also taken the absence of employees from work seriously, Singh informed. “We have also instructed the departmental heads to take permission from me even while processing the application with regard to emergency leave,” the DC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri girl secures 10th rank in Indian Engineering Service exam||Sindri girl Lakheshwari Kumari Jaiswal has secured 10th All India Rank in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering category of the Indian Engineering Service examination conducted by Union Public Service Commission, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. Daughter of a grocery shop owner, the 27-year-old pursued her B.Tech from Guru Nanak Institute of Technology, Calcutta. She is currently posted in Guwahati, where she is employed at the Indian Railway. Lakeshwari said she had started preparing for the examination in 2018, and cracked the prelims in 2019. “But I could not clear the interview. This was my second attempt,” she told The Telegraph Online. When asked about the secret behind her success, Lakeshwari said that the credit goes to her parents, who advised her to follow the path of hardwork to gain success. “They are my real motivators,” she said. Lakheshwari said that she takes positivity from everywhere in life and learns from each failure. “There are motivators everywhere in your life and I have learned a lot from them,” she said. Her father Shiv Narayan Jaiswal said, “She had the fighting instinct from her early childhood and always had the habit of improving after learning from failures.” Meanwhile, Anurag Kumar, a graduate from IIT-ISM, who currently works at Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited as an assistant engineer, has also secured the 16th rank in the electrical engineering branch of the same examination. He had served at Tata Consulting Engineering Limited until 2018 for four year, after his graduation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly man on stretcher kept waiting at sadar hospital, dies||An elderly man from Hazaribagh, who was on oxygen support, died at the entrance of Ranchi Sadar Hospital on Tuesday morning while waiting for hours on a stretcher to get admission around the time state health minister Banna Gupta was conducting a surprise inspection of the government facility. Attendants of the patient claimed that they begged the staff to allow him to be admitted, but that they refused citing a host of procedures and non-availability of beds, once again exposing shortcomings of the health system of the state capital amid a raging pandemic. Despite the state government’s tall claims of reserving beds at hospitals, those fighting ailments are faced with a horrific reality. The deceased was identified as Lav Kumar Gupta. He was suffering from respiratory issues, but is not known wheteher he was a Covid patient. His daughter blamed the health minister and the entire health system of Jharkhand as she broke down at the hospital. “Sadar hospital in Hazaribagh referred us to Ranchi on Monday. We reached here early on Tuesday.  After failing to get a bed in private hospitals, we came to sadar hospital around 8am. But there was no one to help us for hours. Repeated pleas to at the admission section went unheard. While some some cited space issues, others kept talking about paper work, leading to the death of my father,” she rued. During the inspection, minister Gupta walked around the hospital in a PPE kit. Speaking to reporters later he said, “Any death is an unfortunate incident. The government is trying its best to address the crisis. I appeal to the media to support us in this hour of crisis.” Gupta sad he was trying to streamline the system, which was why he had begun inspections. "At sadar hospital, we have realised that there are many patients who are occupying beds without much need. They can be easily sent to home isolation. In ICU, too, we are soon going to empty the oxygen support beds. I will also going to make surprise inspections of private hospitals.” Opposition BJP on the other hand accused the state government of mismanagement and demanded that chief minister Hemant Soren declare a "health emergency in Jharkhand." In a statement, BJP state president Deepak Prakash said, “The government is in total chaos. It is unaware how to tackle the crisis while people keep dying every day. Even after death, the deceased aren’t getting a respectable cremation. It’s high time the government declares a health emergency in Jharkhand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Meet N. Sai Krishna, a sports coach who ‘challenged’ the norm||From leading a pack of special athletes and helping them cross busy roads to coordinating daily sports drills, N. Sai Krishna is a guide and sports coach despite being intellectually challenged. The 21-year-old’s efficiency has improved by leaps and bounds, thanks to Jeevika, a special school in Sonari locality of the steel city, where Krishna is enrolled in. He not only handles the daily chores of his school, but also works at a departmental store in Sonari, a testimony to his mental health. “We feel very happy  with the progress Krishna has made. He understands things and also respects visitors at our school. He handles our school’s daily affairs brilliantly,” said Avtar Singh, the founder of Jeevika. Be it opening the locks of school or guiding special students to daily sports drills, Krishna does his job well without any complaints whatsoever. “Krishna’s  IQ  may not have increased  but his efficiency has certainly improved,” Singh, a former international cyclist said. The special guide, who lives in Sonari with his widowed mother Padmavati, has claimed two medals (silver and bronze) at the Special Olympics World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019 as well as two gold medals at the Special Olympics National Roller Skating Championship held in Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) in 2014. He was almost mute when he joined Jeevika, which is active in trying to bring special students to the social mainstream. Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of the school said, “There is scope for more improvements in his (Krishna) efficiency in future,” she added. The special athlete said he enjoys doing his work.  “I love coming to the school and guiding the students. I am enjoying my job,” Krishna said. Singh said they were operating the school on every alternate day in view of the pandemic. “We are concerned with the health of our students, who have already been taught to follow Covid protocols like maintaining social distancing and use of masks. Krishna and another Jeevika student Ryan Francis  won medals at the 19th National Para Athletics Championship held under the aegis of the Paralympic Committee of India in Bangalore held from March 24 to 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||Districts told to ensure timely, respectful cremation of Covid victims||The state government has directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts of Jharkhand to appoint nodal officers to ensure respectful and timely cremation of Covid patients, the order coming days after the Mukti Dham imbroglio in Ranchi where over a dozen bodies of Covid patients had to lay unattended in ambulances outside the crematorium for over 24 hours owing to a technical snag in the incinerator. State health secretary K.K. Soan, in a letter addressed to all deputy commissioners, said that all districts must be prepared for cremation of coronavirus- infected bodies in advance to ensure that there are no roadblocks in the process of cremation even if the count of bodies is high. “There has been a sudden rise in the number of Covid casualties reported every day. In such a situation, all the districts are advised to be prepared for timely and respectful cremation of such bodies well in advance,” the health secretary’s letter stated. As per government data, at least 40 Covid patients have died in Jharkhand during the past 48 hours. At least 22 of them were residents of Ranchi. The electric incinerator at Ranchi Mukti Dham, used only for cremation of Covid victims, remained defunct for more than 48 hours, forcing authorities to look for alternative places where  bodies of Covid victims could be cremated. Eventually, many of these bodies were cremated at Swarnarekha Ghat in suburban Ranchi’s Bada Ghaghra. Officials from the district administration, who inspected the Swarnarekha Ghat on Sunday, said that even though the bodies would be cremated in the traditional way, all necessary protocols for cremation of Covid bodies would be followed. The health secretary, in his letter to deputy commissioners, also directed all officials in districts to provide Moksha Vahan, a hearse provided by the government, for Covid victims. The nodal officers for cremation of Covid bodies, Soan said, could be directly contacted in case any family faces hurdles in cremation. As per latest data with the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,232 people have died of Covid in the state so far. Jharkhand has reported 118 Covid deaths in April and at least 50 of these victims were residents of Ranchi, highlights data compiled by the NHM. The incinerator at Mukti Dham in Ranchi’s Harmu has been used for cremation of Covid bodies since the advent of the virus in March 2020. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials said the incinerator broke down on Sunday due to overuse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||State asks for more ventilators as Covid cases continue to rise||Jharkhand reported 19 Covid casualties and 2366 fresh cases from Sunday 10pm to Monday 10pm, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Monday’s findings took the active caseload in the state to 15,343 and the Covid toll up at 1232, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for eight Covid casualties and 787 cases of infection on the day, revealed NHM data. The active caseload in the district reached 6981 on Monday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The Covid toll here reached 317 by Monday night. Dhanbad also reported eight Covid casualties on Monday, which took the toll in the district to 135. The district, however, did not report a major spike in cases. At least 64 cases against 42 recoveries took the active caseload there to 513. The active caseload in East Singhbhum, the second worst-hit district, reached 1,805 on Monday as the district reported 370 fresh cases of infection. With two more deaths reported on Monday, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum also jumped to 373, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, the state health secretary KK Soan wrote to the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare requesting her to provide at least 1500 ventilators to Jharkhand for treating patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19. In his letter, Span said that Jharkhand had around 500 functional ventilators and may require more ventilators if cases continue to rise at the same pace. The state also received 1,500 vials of remdesivir injections for treatment of Covid patients. Jharkhand has run out of the anti-viral injection, which affected treatment of Covid patients across the state. Health Minister Banna Gupta had on Sunday requested Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan to provide additional Remdesivir injections and other medicines to Jharkhand for treatment of Covid patients. The state on Monday administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to over 53,000 people, while the second dose was administered to 5,701 beneficiaries, stated an NHM report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
13-04-2021||Jharkhand||National Lok Adalat bench in Ranchi welcomes first trans member||In a first for Jharkhand, a transgender person became a member of a National Lok Adalat bench, organised by the District Legal Services Authority at the Ranchi civil court on Saturday. Amruta Alpesh Soni, 38, from Sholapur district in Maharashtra, was part of the National Lok Adalat’s bench number 19, which also comprised judicial magistrate, Ranchi, Manish Kumar Singh, and Nityanand Singh, panel lawyer (DLSA Ranchi). Lok Adalat is a forum where the disputes/cases pending in the court of law or at pre-litigation stage are settled/compromised amicably. The Lok Adalat has been given statutory status under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Soni completed graduation from Jamia Millia Islamia University in 2007 and did an MBA in marketing from Symbiosis Institute in Pune. Soni has been associated with work among transgenders and sex workers and is currently director (health), Jharkhand, with TRY, an NGO. “It was a very good experience. I am hopeful that DLSAs in other districts would also follow suit and include not only educated transgender but also sex workers in the panel as this is one of the best way to bring them in the mainstream of society,” said Soni, a former sex worker who was diagnosed as HIV-positive. Soni was associated with project Vihaan which provided help to HIV-infected persons in Chhattisgarh before coming in Ranchi in May 2020 after joining TRY, which runs hospitals with the help of the Jharkhand tribal welfare department and also works for female sex workers. Soni, who was the chief guest of the inaugural function, said she has been working for transgenders and sex workers who are looked down upon in society and such steps would go a long way in making people look up to them with respect. “I would also like that other district legal services authorities not only select transgender and sex workers in the (Lok Adalat) panel but also set up a separate bench to try cases pertaining to their problems,” said Soni. DLSA Ranchi secretary Abhishek Kumar said that the decision to include a transgender in the National Lok Adalat bench in the state was based on the directive given by the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority executive chairman Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh. “A direction was given to take up measures to bring transgenders and sex workers into the social mainstream and Soni was selected based on her experience and work. This is the first instance in Jharkhand. The decision is also aimed at ensuring that transgenders, sex workers and those staying in urban slums come forward with their problems to the DLSA. We are happy at her work at the National Lok Adalat,” said Kumar. During the daylong Lok Adalat held in virtual mode, a total of 47 benches, including 29 for judicial officers and 18 for administrative officials, were conducted. A total of 2,471 cases were disposed of and an amount of Rs 118,33,100 awarded by the Lok Adalat bench in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-83
