14-04-2021||Calcutta||Arsalan scion asked to surrender by April 20||Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez — the prime accused in the Jaguar crash that killed two Bangladeshis on Shakespeare Sarani in August 2019 — has been asked to surrender before a court by April 20 by the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday. Police will be free to arrest Raghib if he does not surrender by April 20. Raghib was arrested a few days after the accident and granted conditional bail in April 2020 on health grounds. “The interim bail that was granted on the premise that he was unfit to participate in the trial got negated by the report from a medical institute which stated that he is fit to face the trial. Hence the court considering the gravity of the case did not extend his interim bail and directed him to surrender before a court by April 20, failing which the police will be free to act as per legal procedure,” public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee said. Raghib, now 27, the scion of the family that runs the biryani chain Arsalan, was granted bail last year with the court instructing him to remain under treatment till declared fit as an “outdoor patient” by the hospital. He was allowed to return home on the condition that he would not leave home without the consent of the officer-in-charge of the local police station. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar F-PACE had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshis, killing them on the spot. Initially, Raghib’s younger brother Arsalan Parwez, now 23, an MBA from Edinburgh, had initially courted arrest claiming he was at the wheel. The family had claimed that Arsalan’s elder brother Raghib was in Australia for higher studies. However, after analysing the event data recorder of the Jaguar, police had got the phone number of the person who was last at the wheel. From the phone number’s WhatsApp account, the cops had found Raghib’s photograph. Investigators said they had zeroed in on him by scanning more than 45 CCTV cameras starting from the place of occurrence to the front of Arsalan’s residence where it was purportedly found that Raghib and not Arsalan had stepped out of the home and driven the Jaguar on the night of the accident. Raghib who had fled to Dubai after the incident, had returned to Calcutta after cops had found the truth and he was arrested from outside a nursing home where he had got admitted after his return to the city. Raghib is facing charges of causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash and negligent driving, mischief, jumping traffic lights and destruction of public property. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. His younger brother has been charged with causing disappearance of evidence and providing false information for shielding the offender that could lead to a punishment of seven years in jail. Their uncle, Mohammad Hamza, who gave shelter to Raghib has been charged with harbouring criminals that could have a punishment of three years of imprisonment. Police have filed the chargesheet in this case in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||India in Celebration, a collection by Sajal Ghosh released in Calcutta||A senior executive of a petrochemical giant travelled across the length and breadth of the country for five years and took photographs to “present India as a colourful, respectful, tolerant country”. India in Celebration, a collection of more than 200 photographs captured by Sajal Ghosh from over 27 festivals and fairs, was released on Sunday evening. “My intention was to present India as a colourful, respectful, tolerant country,” Ghosh, executive vice-president (CS) and head, legal, Haldia Petrochemicals, said at the book launch at Bengal Club. He has captured the Hornbill Festival at Kisama (Nagaland), Latmar Holi in Nandgaon near Mathura (Uttar Pradesh), Id prayers on Red Road in Calcutta among others and shared experiences of his travel. “My perception of India is totally different and if you go through the book you will be able to understand what I am saying. My perception is that everybody should extend their hands to each other. That is the perception I have of India that we all belong as a nation. It’s a colourful, vibrant country, like that. But unfortunately we are going through all sorts of aberrations at present,” he said. Each photograph is accompanied by a text by writer and activist Jael Silliman to “orient the reader". “This book brings together India’s diversity, its pluralism, its dynamism. It’s got secular festivals, it’s got deeply religious festivals,” Silliman told The Telegraph. “I got to enjoy the journey across India, to see parts of India in festivals. I thought I was very well read but I had not heard of some of these festivals...The pages throb with passion, intensity, beauty, spirituality, muscular power and great, great devotion,” Silliman said at the launch. Ghosh, too, spoke of the thrilling diversity that he experienced across the country. “I thought why not present these differences in a collective manner, maybe in the form of a book,” he said. He could not travel last year because of the pandemic. The Khajuraho Dance Festival in February 2020 was the one that he attended just before the lockdown. Ghosh had to juggle his work and his hobby for this book. At times, he took a flight in the morning, attended a festival and returned the same day or headed straight for a meeting from the airport. Ghosh shared his experience of the Theyyam Festival, held for more than 1,500 years in Kasargod and through out the Kannur region of northern Kerala. The dancers in the festival are Dalits, who are considered representatives of God, and villagers come to touch their feet. He also spoke of how he survived on fruits when he spent three nights with a Naga family to photograph the Hornbill Festival. The book has a foreword by Shashi Tharoor who writes: “There are many reasons to be proud of being Indian. We have a long-standing and resilient democratic culture. We have a long history of peaceful relations between our immense number of religious and ethnic groups… Much of this glorious heritage can be described by the catch-all term, ‘diversity’, a word that feels almost inadequate to describe India’s unparalleled breadth of linguistic, geographical and cultural variation. Tharoor adds: “Many of these festivals are purely secular, harvest celebrations — Onam for example, or Dusshera, or even Holi— despite their origins in Hindu mythology…. The ability of festivals to act as a unifier, to put things in perspective and remind us that we are Indians and human beings before anything else, is awe-inspiring…. This book, compiling Jael Silliman’s text with Sajal Ghosh’s stunning images of these wonderful festivals, is more than a collection of photos: it is a volume of what makes India, and Indians, wonderful.” During the programme on Sunday writer Shankarlal Bhattacharjee said: “The book is a celebration and at the heart of it is a Bengali mind”. Tridib Chatterjee, president of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, said he saw “a slice of India” in the book. The book will be available on Amazon and Boighar.in. Ghosh announced that a substantial portion of the proceeds would go to charity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: High court on Covid protocol at poll rallies||The election officer and police superintendent of each poll-bound district should ensure that the number of attendees at meetings and rallies does not exceed the limit set for public gatherings by the state disaster management authority, a bench led by the chief justice of the high court said on Tuesday. A senior Bengal government official said the state did not have such a cap on the number of people who can attend an outdoor programme. The court issued the order on two writ petitions clubbed together. The petitions expressed concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. The district magistrates and the chief electoral officer of Bengal “shall be personally responsible for ensuring that the Covid guidelines are scrupulously followed by all and sundry,” said the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. The bench noted that the guidelines laid down by the election commission are in place.  “What needs to be done is that the said guidelines need to be implemented in the strictest possible manner. This the administration must do,” said the court. “Anybody violating Covid-19 norms laid down by the election commission will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of… the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and other legal provisions as applicable,” said the bench. Campaign rallies are drawing huge crowds that are rampantly violating social distancing norms. Tweets of “huge turnouts” at rallies are being posted by political parties regularly. The court expects the leaders on the dais to wear masks. The order says: “The Commission has taken a serious view of the laxity in maintaining the norms, particularly not wearing masks and not keeping social distance by political leaders on dais / stage…. Political parties, leaders, campaigners, candidates, existing or aspiring policy makers are expected to… not only set an example by maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and following prescribed protocols but also by exhorting all the local formations who attend programmes to follow COVID protocols.” Tuesday’s court order iterated the norms. Some of them are: ⚫A group of five persons including candidates, excluding guards, is allowed in door-to-door campaigns ⚫Public gatherings/rallies may be conducted subject to adherence to extant Covid-19 guidelines. The district election officer and district superintendent of police should ensure that the number of attendees does not exceed the limit prescribed by the state disaster management authority for public gatherings, the court said. “If the norms continue to be violated, we will consider moving a contempt of court petition,” said Srijib Chakraborty, counsel for the petitioners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Plea for more paediatric Covid beds||A group of doctors has written to the state health department with an appeal to set up more paediatric Covid beds as more children are testing positive for the disease in the second wave of infection compared with the first. The letter from Protect the Warriors, an association of doctors, has also urged the department to publish a paediatric Covid management protocol, which will include an advisory on managing a child at home when adults in the family test positive. The letter has also stressed the need to have paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds at both government and private hospitals. Symptoms in child patients have mostly been mild or moderate, doctors said, advising parents not to panic. “It is true that we are witnessing more children testing positive for Covid-19 now than what we did last year. However, most of the children have mild or moderate symptoms. That does not mean that a child will not have severe symptoms. There should not be a bed crisis if a child develops severe symptoms of Covid,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. Ghosh is not among the signatories of the letter. Doctors who signed the letter said setting up paediatric Covid beds, especially ICU beds, was necessary as it was not possible to treat a child in an intensive care unit for adults. “Ventilators meant for children are different from that for adults. The doses of medicines for children are also different from those for adults,” said Rohit Kapoor, a pediatrician with the Institute of Child Health and one of the signatories of the letter. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has a dedicated paediatric and neonatal Covid ward. The hospital admitted 25 children suffering from Covid over the past 10 days. On Tuesday, 10 children were admitted in the paediatric Covid ward. “The number of children testing positive for Covid-19 is about three times more than what we witnessed last time. The symptoms are mostly fever, cough and cold, and mild shortness of breath,” said Mihir Sarkar, an associate professor of paediatrics at CMCH. The hospital had 90 beds for paediatric Covid patients but the number was reduced as cases started to decline late last year. Of the 25 Covid beds at present, eight are paediatric intensive care beds. Sarkar said the other beds were occupied by children suffering from other ailments and it may not be immediately possible to convert them into Covid beds. The signatories have also requested that the health department publish a set of guidelines on how parents who have tested positive for Covid deal with children. “Often both parents test positive for Covid and they are clueless about how to deal with children at home. We advise against sending the children to grandparents because they may get infected through the young ones,” Kapoor said. The letter has also requested the department to ensure uninterrupted supply of IVIg, a drug administered to children who develop inflammation in the coronary artery after recovering from Covid-19. The health department on Tuesday asked private hospitals to increase Covid beds, including critical care beds. An official of Belle Vue Clinic said they had 150 Covid beds till Tuesday morning and added 17 critical care beds by the evening. An official of AMRI Hospitals said their Mukundapur unit added nine Covid beds on Tuesday and the Dhakuria unit 22 beds on Monday. The department also assured the hospitals that there would be no shortage of remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Schools flooded with board exam queries||Schools are flooded with queries from parents and students on whether CBSE and ICSE board exams will be held on schedule as Covid-19 cases are rising across the country. The CBSE Classes X and XII, ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory papers are scheduled to start on May 4. Several school heads said the preparation for the exams was on across schools but there was an “increasing uneasiness” among the students and teachers. For both ICSE and ISC exams, admit cards have been distributed, answer sheets have reached schools and invigilation rosters across schools are ready. Question papers usually come 10 days before the start of the exam, at least two principals said. For CBSE Classes X and XII, schools are yet to receive a communication from the board regarding exam centres. “We are receiving queries from mostly Class X examinees. We have sent a message to parents that students should continue with their preparation...,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Class XII practical exams for both boards are under way in many schools. A few schools had to reschedule the exams  for students who were in quarantine. “There is an increasing sense of uneasiness as the days of exams are drawing near,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said teachers have been asked to tell students and parents to concentrate on the exams and preparations. “In the run up to the boards, our teachers are asking parents to let the students focus on exams and follow the SOPs so that they remain healthy before the exams,” he said. In some schools the seating arrangements have also been decided. “We are ready with all the preparations for the boards — from answer sheets to invigilation roster. But simultaneously we are having to talk to parents also who have various questions about the exams,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar. The CBSE is yet to communicate about exam centres but it has informed about the number of students who will appear from a school, a head said. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary School, said: “We will have 12 students in one room and have readied our invigilation roster likewise.”. In meetings of schools, teachers have raised queries on the conduct of the examinations when cases are rising. “There is uncertainty because of the rise in the number of infections...,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: People aged 80 and above can vote from home||Calcuttans who are 80 years or older have the option to cast their vote at home with polling officials coming over for the exercise. Thousands of voters have availed themselves of the service during the fourth phase, while many more have applied for the same in the remaining four phases. Here is how the process of voting from home, introduced this year in Bengal, works. Anyone who is 80 or above and has his or her name on the electoral list is eligible to vote from home. Booth-level polling officers have to provide such persons with “Form 12D”, where they have to state that they want to vote from home.The officers have to take back the filled-in form within five days of the notification of election in that constituency. Polling officials called on people ages 80 or more, asking whether they were willing to cast their vote from home to avoid standing in queues and exposure to unknown people during the pandemic. Krishna Sarkar, 80, a resident of BD Block in Salt Lake, was “pleasantly surprised” when polling officials came knocking on her door last week asking whether she was willing to vote from home. “My mother was elated,” said son Sujoy. The officials left a copy of Form 12D and returned two days later to collect the filled-in form. On Sunday, five polling officials reached their home to get Sarkar’s vote. Salt Lake votes on April 17 but Sarkar was allowed to vote in advance. “In some housing societies, we faced problems as many people did not know about this and thought we were from a political party trying to influence them. Some shut their doors on us,” said a polling official in Sonarpur. Officials carry ballot papers, envelopes, gum, wax, empty forms, hand sanitiser and a cardboard partition that is folded into an enclosure with one side open. First, the voter is asked to fill in Form 12D (if it was not filled in and submitted before) and then the rules are explained to him or her. “It usually takes seven to 10 minutes to explain the rules of signing on the ballot paper that has the name and symbols of all contesting candidates. After putting a tick against the chosen candidate, the voter is supposed to fold the paper in four halves before handing it over to the polling officials,” said an official. The folded ballot is put into an envelope and sealed. The sealed envelope is kept in another envelope and sealed. The process is repeated with a third envelope. The procedure is videographed in the presence of the voter. “We have got a good response. Twenty-one teams worked to ensure that the 691 elderly voters who had shown interest to vote from home could do so. The process was completed in three days by March 31,” said Sachchidananda Bandyopadhyay, the returning officer of the Kasba Assembly constituency, which went to the polls on April 10. The sealed envelopes are taken to a strongroom. They will be opened on May 2. “So much secrecy was maintained that I was asked to look the other way when I was helping my grandmother fold the ballot paper. No one was allowed to even peep when she was casting her vote behind the cardboard partition,” said the granddaughter of Sumitra Dey, 81, who is a voter in the Sonarpur South constituency, which voted on April 10. Parts of Calcutta and surrounding areas will vote on April 17, 22, 26 and 29. However, the enrolment process of elderly voters who want to vote from home has stopped for this year. “The Election Commission of India rules say that the enrolment process has to be wrapped up within five days of the date of notification of the elections in that phase,” said district election officer, north, Piyali Sengupta, who is in charge of seven Assembly constituencies that will vote on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||JU VC appeals for digital divide funds||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has appealed to “the members of the university family” to “donate generously” to “enable the university to address the issue of digital divide affecting a large section of students”. A corpus of Rs 21 lakh was raised last year, which was utilised to buy students smartphones and data packs. Since classes of the even semester have started on digital platforms, as a precaution against the raging Covid pandemic, VC Das on Monday posted a fresh appeal on the university’s website, “soliciting contribution from members of the extended university community” to initiate the third phase of data recharging drive. The appeal says: “All concerned are requested to take care of this appeal and donate generously for a greater cause”. Campuses across the state have remained shut since March last year because of Covid. Ahead of the start of classes on digital platforms in September last year, the VC had on August 19 appealed to teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and requested alumni, guardians and others to contribute to raise funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to students so they could overcome the digital divide and attend classes. An official of the university said the corpus had been exhausted. “Although the higher education department wants the classes to be held on digital platforms in the coming days following a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, it has not released any money to any state-funded university to address the issue of digital divide. So we have to again arrange funds on our own,” said the official. Cases are being reported on the campus on such a scale that the university has been forced to reduce the office attendance of non-teaching employees and officers to “at least” three days a week from early April. “In a situation like this, continuance of classes on digital platforms is the only way forward. We have to help the students who encounter financial constraints as long as possible so that they can attend classes on these platforms overcoming the digital divide,” the VC told Metro. At JU, a large section of students come from remote places of districts like Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and South 24-Parganas. “Many of them are children of peasants, fishermen and daily wage earners, whose financial conditions have worsened during the pandemic. We cannot stop helping them after buying them smartphones. They have to be provided resources to be able to keep using the phones,” said a JU official. The VC has said in his appeal that the university was able to provide 250 smartphones to needy students and data recharging to 750 students. “The university is now required to initiate the third phase of the data recharging drive for our students. In this connection I once again….,” Das has written in his appeal. Das had asked teachers in April last year to be “cautious” about conducting online classes or sharing digital content as “many students may not be able to afford a desktop computer or laptop at home, or may be staying in a remote village, with limited or no Internet connectivity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Elderly miss second jab as units run out of Covishield doses||Several private hospitals in the city on Tuesday deferred administering the second dose of Covishield because of shortage of doses, officials of the healthcare units said. The Centre has promised Bengal three lakh doses of Covishield in a couple of days and state health department officials said the booster - or second - dose would be administered after the arrival of the consignment. Hundreds of elderly people and those with comorbidities, whose second dose of Covishield is due from Tuesday, are calling up or turning up at hospitals but are being told that doses are not available. The state government has told private healthcare units that for the time being only Covaxin should be administered to those who are turning up for their first dose, while Covishield should be reserved for those who took it in their first dose and are turning up for the second. Most people who took the shot at private facilities were administered Covishield. Covid vaccination for senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities started on March 1. The first booster dose for those who had taken Covishield on March 1 is due from Tuesday. The booster dose of Covishield should be given at least 42 days after the first dose. However, because of a shortage of Covishield doses, a number of hospitals in Calcutta could not administer the second jab on Tuesday. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, around 60 people who arrived for their second dose of Covishield were turned back because of non-availability of doses, said officials. “We could administer the second dose of Covishield to only 21 recipients on Tuesday,” said an official of the hospital. “Around 550 people are scheduled to take the second jab of Covishield between April 13 and 15 and many of them called up the hospital asking whether they would get it. We told them the hospital would inform them when to come.” Vaccination at the hospital chain’s Salt Lake and Mukundapur units is suspended for several days because of lack of doses. “At the three units together, more than 850 recipients are waiting for the second dose,” said an AMRI official. Belle Vue Clinic sent messages to those who were supposed to get the second dose of Covishield on Tuesday, asking them to visit the hospital on a later date. “We sent messages to around 250 people who were supposed to get the second dose of Covishield today. We have been assured by the state government that we would get Covishield on Wednesday and then we can administer the booster dose,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. At Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala, no booster dose could be administered on Tuesday, said an official. “We sent back four people who had come for their second dose and there were many who we informed over the phone not to come on Tuesday. We have been promised fresh doses on  Wednesday,” said the official. Several other hospitals said they did not start administering the second dose of Covishield because they had run out of stock. “We have got calls from nearly 300 vaccine recipients who are scheduled to take the second dose. But due to lack of stock, we can’t vaccinate them before April 16,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital will call the recipients as and when doses are available, said Mitra. An official in the state health department said the Centre had promised three lakh doses of Covishield and two lakh doses of Covaxin in the next two days. Bengal's chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had written to the Centre and also called a senior official in Delhi, asking for vaccine doses on an emergency basis. “Once we get the fresh doses, we are expecting that the crisis of Covishield will be resolved,” said an official. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,519 to 29,050 on Tuesday. The state recorded 4,817 new infections and 2,278 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Business||Yangon terminal project: Adani terminates all payments to Myanmar||The Adani group has reportedly terminated all payments to the Myanmar authorities in connection with its Yangon international terminal project that it won in 2019. The development came on a day S&P Dow Jones Indices said it will remove group firm Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) from its sustainability index following reports of its business ties with Myanmar’s military, which has been accused of human rights violations after a coup. “APSEZ will be removed from the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices following a media and stakeholder analysis triggered by recent news events pointing to heightened risks to the company regarding their commercial relationship with Myanmar’s military,’’ S&P Dow Jones Indices said in a statement. It added that this change will be effective prior to the opening on April 15. The Adani group firm is building a $290 million port in Yangon and its project there had come under the limelight after an ABC News report said that a group firm will pay up to $30 million to the Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC), which is a military-controlled firm. The US had recently slapped sanctions on the firm. A CNBC-TV 18 report, quoting the group, said that the contract for the Yangon project was won in 2019 and its counterparties were entities of a democratically elected government of Myanmar. The group added that the investment decisions were made under very different circumstances and that all negotiations with and payments to MEC were made before the US sanctions. It went on to add that all payments to MEC were terminated and one time payments made in exchange for the port project were completed in December 2019. Thus the indication from the group was that it was only halting the payments and that the project has not been abandoned. This, however, could not be confirmed. Clarifying on the ABC News report with regard to the payment to MEC in “land lease fees”, the group had said late last month that APSEZ won the Yangon international terminal project through a global competitive bid. “The project, fully owned and developed by APSEZ, is an independent container terminal with no joint venture partners,’’ it said. Without making any direct reference to the payment allegations, the group added that it is “watching the situation in Myanmar carefully”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Industries operating in Bengal advised to follow Covid protocol||Industries operating in Bengal have been advised to follow Covid protocol to rein in the surge of the virus even as restrictive measures or lockdowns have been ruled out for now. A meeting was convened by state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay in the presence of several top bureaucrats of the administration to exhort the industry to encourage work from home, introduce flexible shifts on the shop floor and office, avoid congregations, arrange vaccination at the office or factory site for eligible workers/employees and create quarantine centres and safe homes. While several states have imposed some restrictions or curbs on the movement of people and vehicles impacting business, Bengal has not done so despite seeing a massive surge in Covid cases over the past fortnight, primarily because of the long drawn assembly elections. “We are asking the industry to revert to the same protocol that they followed during the last peak. A positive aspect is that people are not scared like last time and there are vaccines available. However, the flip side is people have become careless too,” an official said. Apart from various chambers of commerce such as CII, Ficci, ICC and MCC, trade bodies representing tea, jute and leather were called. Industry leaders were asked to sensitise their respective members to follow Covid protocols. Alok Roy, who represented the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the government encouraged possible tie-ups between industry bodies and hospitals for large scale vaccination of eligible groups of people. Industry bodies were relieved when a lockdown — complete or partial — were ruled out during the meeting. “We all know how the industry and economy suffered during the lockdown in 2020. It was a relief to see that the administration is not thinking on those lines,” said an industry member who was present. Apart from the chief secretary, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, industry secretary Vandana Yadav, MSME secretary Rajesh Pandey and health secretary N.S. Nigam were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||WhatsApp policy sows conflict||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that competition regulator CCI’s order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s policy does not reflect an investigation into the abuse of dominant position and rather appears to be concerned with privacy issues of consumers. “It (order) appears to be concerned with the privacy issues of consumers,” Justice Navin Chawla said in response to the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) stand that the regulator was not examining the alleged violation of individuals’ privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. “Your order does not reflect it is an investigation into the alleged abuse of dominant position,” the court said. Senior advocate Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CCI, said the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and “stalking” of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore, an alleged abuse of dominant position. “There is no question of jurisdictional error,” Lekhi said and added that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging the CCI's decision were “incompetent and misconceived”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Stocks claw back some losses as Sensex rises 661 points||Stocks have clawed back some of Monday’s losses as the Sensex rose 661 points — but is in the grip of a fresh bout of uncertainty following the restrictions announced by the Maharashtra government. Late on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a virtual lockdown starting 8 pm on Wednesday for the next 15 days. Only essential services will be allowed during this period. Shares of Tata Consultancy Services declined over 4 per cent on Tuesday as the company’s March quarter earnings failed to cheer investors. The stock tumbled 5.14 per cent to Rs 3,074.55 during the day on the BSE. It closed at Rs 3,105, lower by 4.21 per cent. On the NSE, it dipped 3.89 per cent to Rs 3,120. Infosys, which fell 1.91 per cent, will announce its results on Wednesday. The 30-share BSE Sensex gained momentum in late-afternoon trade to close 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48544.06. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to finish at 14504.80. Indirect taxes Net indirect tax collection in 2020-21 grew 12.3 per cent to Rs 10.71 lakh crore, exceeding the revised estimate of Rs 9.89 lakh crore, the finance ministry said on Tuesday. The collection in indirect taxes, which includes GST, customs and excise duties, was Rs 9.54 lakh crore in 2019-20. Net collections from Goods and Services Tax (GST) stood at Rs 5.48 lakh crore during 2020-21, an 8 per cent drop compared with Rs 5.99 lakh crore in the previous fiscal year. Customs revenue during 2020-21 was Rs 1.32 lakh crore, a 21 per cent growth over Rs 1.09 lakh crore collected in 2019-20. Net collections from central excise and service tax (arrears) stood at Rs 3.91 lakh crore, up 59.2 per cent from Rs 2.45 lakh crore mopped up in 2019-20. Moody’s alert The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic is credit negative and poses a threat to the economic recovery in India, global rating agency Moody’s said. It said the infections present a risk to growth forecasts as the re-imposition of virus management measures will curb economic activity. However, a double-digit GDP growth is likely in 2021 given the low level of activity last year, Moody’s said. The impact will be less severe this time because of the focus on  “micro-containment zones” as opposed to a complete lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Niraj Shah hikes McLeod stake to 7%||Mumbai-based investor Niraj Rajnikant Shah has scooped up a little more than a 2 per cent stake in bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd, taking his holding in the Khaitan family promoted company to over 7 per cent. Shah consolidated his position as the second largest shareholder of the company where the promoters now hold only 17.48 per cent. According to the latest regulatory filing, Shah acquired a little over 21.28 lakh shares in McLeod representing 2.042 per cent stake. Prior to this, Shah held 5.15 per cent in the company. Following the latest series of acquisitions, the investor now has 7.19 per cent in McLeod. Shah’s accumulation comes in the backdrop of the Burman family cornering a sizable chunk of shares in Eveready Industries, the other frontline company from the Khaitan stable. The promoters of FMCG giant Dabur now hold close to a 20 per cent stake in the dry cell battery maker Eveready where Khaitans now own less than 5 per cent. Sources in McLeod said Shah’s accumulation was an independent decision of an investor and nothing more should be read into it. In contrast, initially the Burmans were believed to have come forward to take the Khaitans out of the woods at Eveready. Shah holds shares in listed  companies such as Likhita Infrastructure and RPP Infraprojects . Restructuring The stock purchase also coincides with the deliberations undertaken by the secured and unsecured lenders of McLeod Russel to restructure its outstanding debt . As tea prices soared in the last season on the back of a supply shortage, all frontline bulk tea producers reaped the benefits, including McLeod. Average auction prices for north Indian tea from January to December stood at Rs 201.87 a kg, compared with Rs 152.26 a kg in 2019. Industry sources say the good tiding could bring relief to the Khaitans who are expected to monetise assets to beat down the debt from the level of Rs 2,000 crore odd. Bringing in an outside investor is not being considered as part of the comprehensive resolution, as of now, the sources added, hoping the process may get completed by September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
14-04-2021||Business||Centre set to invite financial bids for Air India||The Centre is set to invite financial bids for Air India as it looks to complete the sale of the troubled national carrier by September. After its assessment of the preliminary bids, the government has placed all the financial and operational details of Air India (virtual data room) for due diligence before the bidders, which include the Tatas and a consortium led by SpiceJet. The expression of Pawan Ruia has apparently been tossed out along with the overtures by the employees union. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Gill has said the government will keep the carrier running till it gets divested and there is no choice but to either privatise or close down the airline. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India, which has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The stake sale process got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has extended five times the deadline to submit preliminary bids. The airline, which started as a mail carrier in 1932, will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at overseas airports. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services in India . So far in 2020-21 (April-March), the government has provided Air India with a guarantee support of Rs 964 crore, which helped the airline to raise new working capital loans from banks. The government has also extended its existing guarantee of Rs 6,693 crore for working capital requirements. Air India at present has a fleet of 121 aircraft, of which it owns 65 planes. Subsidiary Air India Express has 25 Boeing 737, of which it owns 10. The national carrier may record around Rs 10,000 crore financial loss this fiscal year. The airline’s total debt has reduced to Rs 23,000 crore as the Centre shifted its Rs 30,000 crore working capital debt to a special purpose vehicle, AI Asset Holdings Ltd. Previous attempts to sell the airline since 2017 has not been successful. The government has sweetened the offer this time and has allowed the suitors to put their bids on enterprise value. The government will take 15 per cent of the sum, while the rest will be debt taken up  by the winning bidder. Aviation minister Puri had said he expected the bids to come in within two months. “After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline,” Puri said. "There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
14-04-2021||India||Decision to hold ICSE, ISC exams under review amid Covid surge, says board||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) Wednesday said it is reviewing the Covid-19 situation and will soon take a decision on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams. The CICSE announcement comes following the CBSE's decision to cancel class 10 exams and postpone class 12 papers in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. "We are reviewing the situation and will soon take a decision in this regard," CICSE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. He, however, did not delve into what the board was contemplating. The class 10 exams are scheduled to begin from May 5 while class 12 exams have already begun from April 8. The board exams last year had been cancelled because of the coronavirus pandemic. Students were evaluated based on internal assessment. The education board had told the Supreme Court last year that it would not provide students with an option of re-examination and they will solely be evaluated on the basis of internal assessment. As per the scheme, candidates were assessed based on the best three percentage marks obtained in subjects for which board exams were conducted and the marks of their internal assessment as well as project work were taken into account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||India to manufacture 78 lakh vials of remdesivir per month: Centre||The government on Wednesday said it has given approval for stepping up the manufacturing capacity of remdesivir that would enhance the production to around 78 lakh vials per month. The current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in a statement. "Fast-track approval has been given for seven additional sites having the production capacity of 10 lakh vials/month to six manufacturers. Another 30 lakh vials/month production is lined up. This would ramp up the production capacity for manufacturing to around 78 lakh vials/month," it added. The issue of availability of remdesivir was reviewed by Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya in meetings with all-existing manufacturers of the remdesivir drug and other stakeholders where decisions were taken to increase production/supply and reduce prices of remdesivir, the statement said. As an additional measure, remdesivir, active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and formulation were placed under export ban on April 11, 2021 by Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to increase the supply of remdesivir in the domestic market, the ministry said. On government intervention, remdesivir supplies of approximately 4 lakh vials meant for export are being diverted by manufacturers to fulfil domestic requirements, it added. "EOU/SEZ units are also being enabled to supply to the domestic market," the statement said. Manufacturers of remdesivir have volunteered to reduce the price to less than Rs 3,500 by the end of this week, to support the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to fight against COVID, it added. "Manufacturers of remdesivir have been directed to give priority to fulfil hospital/institutional level supplies. Enforcement authorities of states and central government have been directed by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to take immediate action on incidence of black-marketing, hoarding and overcharging of remdesivir," the ministry said. It also said the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) is continuously monitoring the availability of the drug.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi asks Centre to cancel CBSE Class 12 exams too||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said CBSE board exams must be cancelled for Class 12 as has been done for Class 10 and asserted that keeping the students "under pressure" till June is "unfair". Her remarks came soon after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced that exams for Class 10 have been cancelled and those for Class 12 have been postponed in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the country. The exams were scheduled to be held from May 4. "The Class 12 exams have been postponed and a review of the situation will be done after June 1. Students will be given at least a 15-day notice before the exams are conducted," a Ministry of Education official said. Reacting to the development, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Glad the government has finally cancelled the 10th standard exams. However, a final decision MUST be taken for the 12th grade too." "Keeping students under undue pressure until June makes no sense. It's unfair. I urge the government to decide now," the Congress general secretary tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi had on Sunday written to the education minister seeking cancellation of the CBSE Board exams, saying it will be impossible to ensure the safety of students at crowded exam centres. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had also urged the government earlier this week to cancel the exams. Earlier on Wednesday, Priyanka Gandhi had reiterated her call for cancelling the CBSE exams, saying the Centre must not ignore the voice of students and call off the tests due to the COVID-19 situation in the country. In a Facebook post, she said that in the past few days, she heard from many students across the country who raised some important issues related to the examinations amid the second wave of COVID-19. They say that in the last days leading up to the examinations, there was already pressure of preparation and now there was additional pressure of protection against the virus on them, according to Priyanka Gandhi. "Along with that, there is also the danger of safety of teachers engaged in exam duty and families of students," the Congress general secretary said. Many countries have come out with several new methods of assessment in this emergency, she noted. The decision on the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Shahi snan in Haridwar: Lakhs ignore Covid concerns to take holy dip||Throwing caution to the wind amid rising cases of coronavirus, thousands of seers congregated on Wednesday at Har ki Pairi in Haridwar to take a dip in the Ganga during the third shahi snan of the Kumbh mela. The royal bath' marked Mesh Sankranti and Baisakhi, and fell two days after a similar convergence of sadhus' and other devotees for the second shahi snan -- events where following social distancing norms appears almost impossible. By noon between eight and 10 lakh people had take a bath in the river, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar, who was supervising the arrangements at Haridwar, said. Sadhus from four of the 13 akhadas were through with the snan' by this time. The officer said the event was going on without any hindrance. He said the crowds at the Ganga ghats were much smaller than expected at the third shahi snan - considered the most important in the series - and attributed this to the Covid restrictions in place. Police personnel were seen distributing masks among people in the Mela area. However, social distancing norms were violated openly by the seers when they and their followers descended the steps at Har ki Pairi to wade into the river. No masks were worn by a large proportion of them. The seers from the akhadas took the dip along with their revered deities carried in ornate palanquins at Har Ki Pairi, which was reserved exclusively for them. Lakhs of common devotees bathed at the other ghats of the river in Haridwar and Rishikesh. Seers and Naga sanyasis of the Niranjani Akhada led by Acharya Kailashanand Giri were the first to bathe in the river along with Anand Akhada seers. They were followed by the Joona Akhada, which has the highest number of sadhus led by Swami Avadheshanand. The Mahanirvani Akhada seers came next, as the batches followed one another according to their allotted time slots. All akhadas have to finish taking a dip at Har Ki Pairi before sunset so time management is very important, Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. The shahi snans, and the Kumb Mela, have raised concerns over their role in possibly adding to rising coronavirus cases in the country. Uttarakhand recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 1,925 people testing positive. Dehradun with 775 cases and Haridwar with 594 were the biggest contributors to the day's tally. On the initial hours of the third shahi snan, the DGP said there was no disorder anywhere. He said this was because of the expansion of infrastructure in Haridwar over the past few months, including the addition of more ghats which has helped in better crowd management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Making FASTag mandatory won't breach right to freedom of movement, says govt||The Union government has informed the Bombay High Court that making FASTag mandatory for all vehicles plying on national highways does not breach a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement in any way. The Centre made the submission in an affidavit filed in the High Court last week in response to a public interest litigation challenging its decision to make FASTag, the electronic toll collection chip, mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas on national highways. The plea filed by one Arjun Khanapure, also challenged the government's norm of imposing fines on vehicles flouting the FASTag rules. The Centre, however, submitted that FASTag had been made compulsory on national highways to ensure seamless traffic movement, cut travel time short, and that all decisions had been taken in accordance with the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules. "The mandate of using FASTag does not violate a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement," the Centre's affidavit stated. The petitioner had said that as vehicles without FASTag are prevented from plying on national highways, making the chip compulsory breached a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement. However, the Union government said that as per its notification dated February 14 this year, provisions had been made at all toll plazas along national highways to fit the chip in vehicles that did not have FASTag. In cases where it was not possible to fit vehicles with FASTag on the spot for any reason, the vehicle was permitted to still ply on highways, on extreme left of the FASTag lanes. However, such vehicles were required to pay twice the toll amount. Traffic marshalls had also been deployed along national highways to guide vehicle movement and prevent traffic jams or inconvenience to other commuters because of such vehicles, the government said. In its affidavit filed in the High Court on April 6, the Union government urged the court to dismiss the PIL. It said that allowing prayers made in the plea would cause "irreparable loss" to the National Highways Authority of India. The government further said that it did not make FASTag mandatory overnight and had given incentives, including a 10 to 25 per cent cashback to users from 2016 to 2020. The government said it had amended the CMV Rules in 2017 to make FASTag mandatory for all vehicles sold after December 1, 2017. In November 2020, it further amended the CMV rules to make FASTag compulsory for all vehicles on toll plazas along all national highways beginning January 1, 2021. The government also said that the double user fees or penalties imposed on vehicles without FASTag on national highways were in accordance with the National Highway Fee (determination of rates and collection) Rules, 2008. It also contended that unlike what was claimed in the PIL, Aadhar and linking bank accounts were not mandatory for obtaining FASTag. The Centre further said the RBI has announced the enhancement of national electronic toll collection and will allow easy payment options, including UPIs. Currently, 119 state toll plazas also have FASTag and the Centre has provisions of financial assistance for state governments to help make all highways suitable for FASTag vehicles, it said in its affidavit. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni will hear the matter further later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||CBSE cancels Class 10, postpones Class 12 board exams on account of Covid surge ||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday cancelled class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The board exams for class 12 to be held from May 4 to June 14 are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 by the board and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations," an official of the Ministry of Education (MoE) said. "The board exams for class 10 are hereby cancelled. The results of class 10 board will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the board. Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allocated to him or her on this basis will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the exams, the official added. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Cabinet Secretary, School and Higher Education Secretaries and other top officials attended the meeting. For schools under the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) board, a decision is yet to be announced. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said on Wednesday it was reviewing the Covid-19 situation and would take a decision on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams soon. The pandemic situation in the country is seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in many states, with a few states having been affected more than others. In this situation, schools have been shut down in 11 states. Unlike state boards, CBSE has an all-India character, and therefore, it is essential to hold exams simultaneously throughout the country. Looking to the present situation of the pandemic and school closures, and also taking into account the safety and well-being of the students, the crucial decisions have been taken, the MoE official said. The demands for cancellation of board exams were being raised from various quarters. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had on Tuesday appealed to the Centre to cancel the exams, saying it can contribute to a large scale spread of the coronavirus. Last week, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had urged Union Education Minister Pokhriyal to intervene and direct CBSE to reconsider its decision to go ahead with the board examinations in May despite the "massive and uncontrolled" rise in Covid-19 cases. The Shiv Sena had also written to the education ministry, requesting the government to develop a national consensus and possibly reschedule classes 10 and 12 CBSE and other board exams. Over 2 lakh students had signed an online petition demanding cancellation of board exams and the hasthtag "cancelboardexams" has also been trending on Twitter for a week. States including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have already announced changes in plans for board exams. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended in view of the exponential rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. India reported a record single-day rise of over 1.84 lakh new coronavirus infections, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Ambani security scare case: NIA probing 'fake encounter' angle||Investigators suspect that suspended cop Sachin Waze had planned a "fake encounter" of two persons to project their link with the explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, sources said on Wednesday. This way, Waze, an "encounter specialist", apparently wanted to claim to have solved the case, but it did not work out, they said. During a search of Waze's house in neighbouring Thane, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, had recovered the passport of a man, whose identity has not been revealed. The investigators suspect Waze had planned to kill the passport holder and one more person in a "fake encounter", the sources said. The "fake encounter" was initially planned in the Maruti Eeco vehicle, which was stolen from Maharashtra's Aurangabad city in November last year, they said. The probe agency suspects that by eliminating two persons, Waze had planned to claim to have solved the case of the explosives-laden SUV and earn praise, but the plan did not work out, the sources said. The NIA earlier claimed Waze was planning to do "something big". Accordingly, the agency is working on the "fake encounter" theory, the sources said. The explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani on February 25. Businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. The NIA arrested Waze on March 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. He had on Tuesday isolated himself after some officials in his contact tested positive for coronavirus. "After noticing initial symptoms, I got myself tested. My report is positive. I am in self-isolation and following doctors advice. I am doing all the work virtually," Adityanath tweeted from his official Twitter handle. Earlier, he had said, "The officers of my office tested positive for coronavirus. They were in touch with me, therefore, as a precaution, I am isolating myself and starting all my work digitally." Some officials, including his Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Abhishek Kaushik, tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister, however, had not identified the officials who were tested for the infection. Chief minister Adityanath’s announcement comes just after his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav said he had tested positive for the virus. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "My corona test report has come positive. I have isolated myself and started treatment at home itself. People who have come in contact with me in the past few days should get themselves tested. They are requested to stay in isolation for some days."  Yadav had recently visited Haridwar where the Kumbh Mela is underway and met various religious leaders, including Akhara Parishad chairman Mahant Narendra Giri who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||‘...Then you win’: Rahul on Centre’s foreign vaccine approval policy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday cited a quote of Mahatma Gandhi to imply that the government's decision to fast-track emergency approval for foreign-produced anti-coronavirus vaccines had been prompted by his party's suggestions. Rahul Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, urging the government to fast-track approval for vaccines. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then accused Gandhi of lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approval for foreign vaccines. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to the prime minister, had also requested him to allow emergency use of all the vaccine candidates having required clearances. "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win," Rahul Gandhi cited Mahatma Gandhi's quote and tagged a media report on the central government saying it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs. With an aim to expand the basket of COVID-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The move is significant as it may make available several vaccines, including those made by Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, in India with certain conditions. In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to B R Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. A key architect of India's constitution, Ambedkar is an icon for many Indians, especially Dalits, for his relentless work for social reforms and empowerment of the disadvantaged sections of society. "India is now proving that it is indeed possible to regress in time," Gandhi tweeted. "Today, we remember Babasaheb who asked the difficult questions that helped put our country on the path of progress," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||India's National Education Policy is futuristic, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the new National Education Policy is futuristic and as per global standards. "India takes pride in being the mother of democracy as it's values are embodied in our social life," Modi said at the Association of Indian Universities' 95th annual meet and a national seminar of vice-chancellors. The Centre unveiled the new National Education Policy (NEP) last year. "The National Education Policy is futuristic and as per global parameters," Modi said. He said the role of skilled youth is continuously increasing as India walks the path of 'aatmanirbharta' (self- reliance). "Babasaheb Ambedkar has given a strong foundation for us to take forward all our democratic values after the independence," Modi said on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar. The city-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University hosted the event. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani attended the meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-212
14-04-2021||India||Modi to hold meeting on issue of CBSE board exams today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with the Union education minister and key officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue of CBSE board exams, government sources said. Class 10 and 12 exams are set to begin from May 4 amid demand by some leaders, including Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, that they be cancelled amid an alarming rise in the COVID-19 cases across the country. Meanwhile, schools across the nation are being flooded with queries from parents and students on whether CBSE and ICSE board exams will be held on schedule as Covid-19 cases are rising across the country. Several school heads said the preparation for the exams was on across schools but there was an “increasing uneasiness” among the students and teachers. “We are receiving queries from mostly Class X examinees. We have sent a message to parents that students should continue with their preparation...,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. “There is an increasing sense of uneasiness as the days of exams are drawing near,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said teachers have been asked to tell students and parents to concentrate on the exams and preparations. “In the run up to the boards, our teachers are asking parents to let the students focus on exams and follow the SOPs so that they remain healthy before the exams,” he said. A call on the examination may be taken in the meeting to be chaired by the prime minister, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh appears before CBI for questioning ||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh appeared before the CBI on Wednesday for questioning in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, an official said. Deshmukh reached the DRDO guest house, where a team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is camping to, in suburban Santacruz around 10 am, he said. The CBI on Monday issued a notice calling Deshmukh to join the agency's probe into the allegations levelled against him by Param Bir Singh and suspended police officer Sachin Waze, the official said. Waze, an assistant police inspector, is under investigation in the case of an explosive-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The CBI is conducting a preliminary enquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by Waze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the SUV case, officials earlier said. The Bombay High Court last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh. In a letter, Singh had claimed that Deshmukh asked Waze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh has denied the allegations. So far, the CBI has recorded statements of Param Bir Singh, Sachin Waze, Deputy Commissioner of Police Raju Bhujbal, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil, advocate Jayshree Patil and hotel owner Mahesh Shetty. It also questioned Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||India records highest single-day spike with over 1.84 lakh fresh cases||India reported a record single-day rise of 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of cases to 1,38,73,825, while the active cases surpassed the 13-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,72,085 with 1,027 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 35th day in a row, the active cases increased to 13,65,704, comprising 9.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.92 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,23,36,036,while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,06,18,866 samples have been tested up to April 13 with 14,11,758 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Centre waives clinical trial preconditions for emergency use of  foreign Covid-19 vaccines||The Centre on Tuesday waived clinical trial preconditions for emergency use authorisation of Covid-19 vaccines approved by select foreign regulatory agencies, seeking to augment India’s vaccine basket and accelerate the inoculation campaign. The Union health ministry has accepted the recommendations of an expert panel to expedite emergency use authorisation of vaccines already approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, the European Medicines Agency, the regulatory agencies of Japan and the UK, and those listed by the World Health Organisation. The move, advocated for weeks by sections of health experts, opens a window of opportunity for companies such as Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson to introduce their vaccines in India without the mandatory local clinical trials, health officials said. “This is a liberal regulatory step that will increase access to vaccines manufactured in other countries,” Vinod Paul, chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, said. “We invite vaccine makers such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson … to be ready to come to India at the earliest possible,” Paul said, adding that the clinical trial waiver would apply only to Covid-19 vaccines given the current circumstances. The NEGVAC have also recommended that the first 100 beneficiaries of each such foreign vaccine introduced in India should be monitored for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out into the vaccination campaign. Experts have urged the Indian government to allow entry of more Covid-19 vaccines to accelerate the inoculation campaign that has administered over 110 million doses across India since its start on January 16. But only about 13.6 million people — among an estimated 350 million potential beneficiaries — have received the two doses required for protection. The campaign currently uses Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. An adviser to the campaign has said Serum currently makes about 70 million doses per month, while Bharat produces about 10 million doses a month. “This move will greatly expand the basket of options,” Dr Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, who is among those who had called for the introduction of additional vaccines into the campaign. Babu and other experts tracking the vaccination campaign expect that the Centre will procure the vaccines and make them available through vaccination centres adopting the same process as with Covishield and Covaxin. “I don’t think private sales are likely in the immediate future,” one expert said. Pfizer has asserted it is selling its Covid-19 vaccines only to governnments worldwide. “We remain committed to continuing our engagement with the (Indian) government towards making the vaccine available for use in the government’s immunisation programme,” a Pfizer spokesperson told The Telegraph. Experts also expect some tricky price negotiations. Pfizer’s price has been reported to be $19.50 per dose, while Moderna’s reported price is $32 to $37 per dose.  The Indian government is procuring Covishield at Rs 210 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 290 per dose. The vaccines are free in public hospitals but those who opt to take them in private hosptials need to pay Rs 250 per dose. “The government could play a facilitator in introducing the vaccines in India — ideally, local manufacturing would make them cost effective,” Babu said. “The government could negotiate a price and introduce them through private institutions with some reasonable margins.” The government is hoping to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign to even higher than the current four million doses per day. “As the rate of vaccination increases, there is likely to be a demand-supply mismatch,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “The entry of more vaccines could help resolve or ease this mismatch.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Kerala minister K.T. Jaleel quits||Kerala minister for higher education and minorities welfare K.T. Jaleel resigned from the state cabinet on Tuesday, days after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism in appointing a relative to a government position. Although Jaleel had approached Kerala High Court to quash the Lokayukta order, he resigned before the case came up. He announced his decision in a Facebook message describing it as a “temporary relief for those who wants to suck my blood”. The Muslim Youth League, the youth arm of Indian Union Muslim League, had in November 2018 filed a complaint against Jaleel for allegedly flouting rules to appoint his cousin K.T. Adeeb as the general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation. An Independent backed by the ruling Left Democratic Front, Jaleel had contested from the Thavanur Assembly constituency in Malappuram in the April 6 state polls. The Enforcement Directorate had earlier investigated the minister for alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act for accepting Ramazan food kits and copies of Quran sponsored by the Consulate-General of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram in 2020. But Jaleel had maintained that he had only helped the consul-general of the UAE organise and distribute food kits to the poor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India|| Metal structures of crematorium furnaces start melting in Surat||Metal structures of furnaces at some crematoriums in Surat have started melting or breaking as they are being used round-the-clock because of the rush of bodies amid the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Tuesday. For the past week, around 16 gas-based furnaces at the Kurukshetra Crematorium and Ashvini Kumar Crematorium here in Gujarat are operating 24x7, they said. “Before the coronavirus outbreak last year, around 20 bodies were cremated at the Kurukshetra Crematorium every day. Now, there is a sudden rush of bodies. At present, we are handling about 100 bodies per day,” Kamlesh Sailor, president of a trust that manages the crematorium, said. Sailor said six gas furnaces at their facility are now being operated 24 hours. As a result, the iron frames and chimneys have started melting and breaking, he said. Mechanics are being called to replace those parts. The Ashvini Kumar Crematorium, the oldest in Surat, has decided to increase the number of traditional wood pyres to manage the rush. “We operate 10 gas furnaces and three wood pyres. Earlier, we used to cremate about 30 bodies every day. Now, the number has gone up to 90-95,” manager Prashant Kabrawala said. “We recently installed heat-resistant bricks in two of our furnaces, which were shut for some time. Our maintenance engineers are visiting the crematorium almost daily as we are facing these issues every day,” he said. Kabrawala said they have decided to add two more wood pyres in the wake of these frequent maintenance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Foundation laid by Pandit Nehru, Bhubaneswar turns 73 ||The Odisha capital, whose foundation was laid by first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on this day in 1948, turned 73 on Tuesday. The city, which has seen tremendous development over the past few decades, was ranked second in the Centre’s Ease of Living Index 2020 with a population of less than a million. A number of functions were held here on Tuesday to mark its 73rd anniversary amidst Covid restrictions. Recalling Bhubaneswar’s journey, Pradosh Patnaik, senior journalist and brother of economist Prabhat Patnaik, said: “The foundation of the city was laid on April 13, 1948, by first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Bhubaneswar was designed by German town planning engineer Otto H. Koenigsberger in 1946. In the course of its journey through 73 years, the city has witnessed unprecedented development.” Pradosh, who is the president of the capital foundation celebration committee, was born in Jatni, around 17km from here, but has been residing in the city since 1958. “As per the master plan prepared by Koenigsberger, the city was to be developed in a 12sqkm area at an estimated cost of Rs 2.89 crore. The city was originally built for 15,000 people. But its growth has surpassed everything.” Patnaik told The Telegraph. Pradosh’s classmate and Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray said: “The efforts to develop Bhubaneswar into a modern city received a fillip when the first session of the Odisha Assembly began here in 1952 in a new building known as Sardar Patel hall. The babus began to arrive in the city after the new Raj Bhavan was set up in 1960. The city was divided into units.” Routray, who has seen many ups and downs in the political history of Odisha, said: “It was Harekrushna Mahatab, the first chief minister of Odisha, who had planned the city. Later chief ministers such as Nilamani Routray, Nandini Satpathy and Biju Patnaik took the work forward. It was J.B. Patnaik who gave a new shape to the city by including more and more areas. During the rule of present chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the city has grown further.” Routray claims that Bhubaneswar is only the city which had a reserve forest covering an area of 150sqkm on its outskirts. “But the biggest problem that the city is facing now is drainage because of its unplanned growth,” he said. Though Bhubaneswar has almost no industries, it has emerged as a major education hub and also boasts of tremendous growth in the health sector with a string of high-end hospitals. The Utkal University was set up on January 2, 1963, and the Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) was established on February 1 the same year. Then the Sainik School came up on January 8, 1964. “Since then the city has never looked back. In the 1990s, a number of private schools, colleges and universities, including KIIT and Siksha O Anusandhan, came up. The city now houses NISER (National Institute of Science Education and Research), IIT Bhubaneswar, International Institute of Information Technology, Xavier Institute of Management, Institute of Mathematics and Applications, National Institute of Information Technology, Institute of Life Sciences and many others. Even Rama Devi Women’s College has got the status of a university,” said Sanjay Mohanty, a city-based doctor. Satyajit Mohanty, a computer professional, said: “The city is now emerging as an IT hub with presence of top-notch IT companies such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Tech Mahindra and Mindtree. The recent establishment of a World Skill Centre here has brought the city into international focus. It is slowly emerging as information technology investment region.” Besides educational institutions, the city has also turned into a major health hub with hospitals like the AIIMS, KIMS (Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences), Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, Apollo, Care Hospital and the AMRI to name but a few. “Even people from the neighbouring states, including Bengal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, are coming to the city for treatment,” said Dr Meenakshi Parija. Known as the temple city that was founded during the Kalinga empire over 3,000 years ago, modern Bhubaneswar’s tourism potential received a major boost after the Biju Patnaik airport got the status of international airport on October 30, 2013. It facilitated the arrival international tourists in large numbers. Capital Celebration Committee vice-president Pradyumna Mohanty said: “It has got the characteristics of a Metro city and has the honour of being the country’s first smart city. It had been planned like Chandigarh but its unplanned growth over the years has cretaed problems which need to be solved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||SC seeks data from states, UTs on inhuman conditions faced by migrant children ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought data from all states and Union Territories on the alleged inhuman conditions being faced by thousands of children belonging to migrant families allegedly deprived of food, health, education and other basic amenities because of the pandemic. “List the matter after two weeks. In the meantime, all the states/UTs may file their reply affidavit wherein they shall state the number of migrant children present in their respective States/UT and also the conditions of such children,” a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said in a written order. The court passed the direction while dealing with a PIL filed by an NGO, The Child Rights Trust, through advocate Rukhsana Choudhury seeking enforcement of the aggrieved children’s fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (right to equality), 21 (right to life and personal liberty) 21A (right to education) besides fulfilment of directive principles under Articles 39 (adequate means of livelihood, etc) and 47 (duty of state to raise level of nutrition of various disadvantaged sections). According to the NGO, the severity of the impact of the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown announced on March 24 last year had led to a mass exodus of millions of migrants from cities. While there were several measures taken for the protection of migrant workers including their travel back to their hometowns, the impact of all of this on the migrant children has not been addressed by the respondent authorities. It referred to migrant children of the following three categories — children of migrant workers who are left behind in their villages, children who are taken by the migrant families with them and migrant children who migrate for labour of their own. “All of these children have been the most vulnerable during this time and have been the worst affected. Children of migrants and migrating children remain invisible and are the most vulnerable and are denied access to healthcare and proper nutrition, access to education, and are living in makeshift, unfriendly, unhygienic and testing conditions,” the petition said. “Migrant children affected due to Covid are still working in brick kilns, stone crusher units, construction sites, rice mills, plantations and other sectors where children as young as 5 years lend a hand to help their parents earn their daily sustenance. The pandemic is having a discriminatory impact on migrant children and has aggravated their vulnerabilities,” it alleged. It was submitted that migrant children have been deprived of access to food security which is a fundamental right under Article 2l and also a statutory right under the National Food Security Act, especially because schools and anganwadis centres are closed and hence mid-day meals provided in the schools are not available. “Children from 0-6 months and from 6 months to 3 years have other food and nutritional security guarantees under the NFS (National Food Security) Act which are not being complied with. Migrant children … are stranded or in relief camps and quarantine centres at source districts without food or shelter. Children of migrant workers who have been travelling with them, have died due to lack of food. “In addition to food, the children of migrant workers are left in a particularly vulnerable position regarding health. There have been deaths of infants and children due to starvation, malnutrition and tiredness,” the petition said. The matter has been listed after two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||India||Rahul's suggestion to access foreign jabs accepted by Centre||Rahul Gandhi’s suggestion to allow Indians access to vaccines made abroad has been accepted by the Narendra Modi government, four days after he made it and at least two Union ministers responded by calling him names. On Tuesday, the Centre decided that all vaccines developed and manufactured outside the country that have been granted emergency approval in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan or which are on the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. On April 9, Rahul had in a letter to the Prime Minister expressed concern at the slow pace of the vaccination drive in the country, pointing out that less than 1 per cent of the population had been fully vaccinated in three months. “Provide vaccine suppliers with necessary resources to increase manufacturing capacity. Fast-track approval of other vaccines as per norms and guidelines. Open up vaccination to everyone who needs it,” the Congress leader wrote. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad immediately pounced on Rahul, questioning his understanding as well as intention. “After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full-time lobbying? First he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India’s acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines,” Prasad tweeted. It did not matter that Rahul had not asked for “arbitrary approval” of foreign vaccines but had in his letter to the Prime Minister specifically mentioned that approval should be granted “as per norms and guidelines”. Lobbying for fighter planes is an unsubstantiated charge the BJP lobbed at the Congress leader after he relentlessly highlighted allegations of violation of laid-down procedures and corruption in the Rafale deal. Rahul had used the word “arbitrary” to describe Prime Minister Modi signing the Rafale deal during his visit to France. Prasad also referred to Rahul’s allegation that India was facing vaccine starvation. “India is not facing vaccine starvation but Gandhi is facing attention starvation…. Rahul Gandhi’s problem is that he doesn’t understand all this and his ignorance is compounded by his arrogance,” the minister tweeted. The tweets demonstrated a breakdown of systemic engagement between the government and the Opposition and the bitterness that overrides every communication between the two sides. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani echoed Prasad. “Part-time politician, full-time lobbyist! Is that a surprise? After all — chor chori se jaye hera pheri se na jaye (A thief will do mischief come what may),” he tweeted, attaching Prasad’s tweet to her message. On Tuesday, after the government decided to allow foreign vaccines, neither Prasad nor Irani explained whether the move was driven by a noble concern for people’s health care or whether lobbyists had had their way. The government has not engaged in constructive dialogue with the Opposition on the pandemic and has been particularly harsh on Rahul, who has been cautioning about the gravity of the health and economic fallout since February last year. Much like the early warning in 2020, which had earned him scorn from the government and the BJP, Rahul again sounded an alarm on February 17 this year. “The Government of India is being grossly negligent and overconfident about Covid-19. It is not over yet,” he wrote. On February 21, the BJP passed a resolution thanking Modi for defeating Covid. On March 15, Rahul tweeted: “As warned earlier, Covid-19 continues to be a big threat. Please keep the guards up — wear masks and follow all precautions.” The country’s top politicians have been appearing without masks in public and leading huge electoral rallies where every Covid protocol has been flouted. The country is now in the middle of a rampaging second wave, which threatens to overwhelm the health care system. The Prime Minister did not appear to have foreseen this when he told the World Economic Forum’s Davos Dialogue on January 28: “India’s stats cannot be compared with any other country as 18 per cent of the world’s population lives here and yet we not only solved our problems but also helped the world fight the pandemic.” He added: “In these tough times, India has been undertaking its global responsibility from the beginning. When airspace was closed in many countries, India took more than 1 lakh citizens to their countries and delivered essential medicines to more than 150 countries. Right now there are two made-in-India vaccines. The World Economic Forum will be relieved to know that in the time to come many more vaccines will come from India. These vaccines will enable other countries to speed up their vaccination process.” Modi is now facing criticism for offering help to other countries without addressing India’s basic vaccination concerns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-213
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata feets families of Sitalkuchi firing victims, promises justice  ||The Burmans of Cooch Behar’s Pathakuli are a divided lot and a tragedy has made the rift deeper. On Wednesday morning when Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee came calling on the kin of those killed on April 10, Jagadish, father of the slain 18-year-old first-time voter Anand, refused to meet her. Jagadish Burman’s refusal was a reminder of the acrimonious atmosphere that personal political choices can create within a family and its fallout. Instead, Anand’s maternal grandfather Kshitish Chandra Roy and uncle Ranjit later went to meet the chief minister at Mathabhanga, where she addressed an campaign meeting. “After the elections are over, the Sitalkuchi incident will be probed. We will find out those who killed Anand Burman. The perpetrators will be punished,” she said. “I came here to meet the family members of the victims. I met all the five families. Anand’s grandfather and maternal uncle are here. All of them were so young. The government will stand by them in the days to come,” she said. Anand’s father, a known BJP supporter in Pathakuli, had made it clear earlier in the day that he was not interested in meeting Mamata. “Everyone here knows who killed my son. We were being threatened from days before the polls,” said Jagadish. “We don’t want any financial help from this government.” On Saturday morning, after barely two-and-half hours of polling, Sitalkuchi turned violent with clashes between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. Soon after, four perons --- Nur Alam Mian, Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haq and Hamidul Mian--- were killed outside a polling booth at Jorpatki after the central forces opened fire. The central forces had claimed that the villagers had attacked a team and that they were forced to fire in retaliation. Following the violence, the Election Commission put in place restrictions, including extending the "silence period" from 48 hours to 72 hours, for the fifth phase of elections, and barred the entry of politicians in the district for the next 72 hours from April 10, to prevent any possible law and order flare-up. Though Mamata wanted to visit the trouble spot on Sunday, she did so on Wednesday after the EC embargo ended. She spoke with the kin of two victims on Sunday morning over a video call, though she did not call the Burmans. The BJP has been trying to create a divide using the incident, harping on the socio-religious identities of the victims, while accusing Mamata of pandering to the minorities even in a tragedy, as Burman is a Rajbangshi while the rest were Muslims. “It isn’t surprising Mamata offers no comfort to the family of Anand Burman who was killed while queueing up to vote. He was a Rajbangshi, which isn’t her votebank. Contrast with her high-decibel protest against the death of four Muslims in a poll fracas incited by her,” Swapan Dasgupta, the BJP nominee for the Tarakeswar,  had tweeted on Sunday. The local BJP leaders were quick to claim that Anand was their party worker and killed by Trinamul-backed goons.  On Wednesday too the party’s national president JP Nadda claimed Mamata was anti-Dalit. “She hasn’t yet said a word on the death of Anand Burman. This shows her anti-Dalit attitude,” Nadda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP brought outsiders during rallies, contributed to Covid surge in Bengal, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the BJP has contributed to the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the state by bringing "outsiders in large numbers" for campaigning during the ongoing assembly elections. Addressing a poll rally in Jalpaiguri, Mamata also accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of not responding to the state's plea to vaccinate a majority of people, which could have helped contain the spread of the disease. "They (BJP leaders) have brought outsiders for campaigning and contributed to the rise in Covid cases. We had managed to get hold of the Covid situation, they made it complicated," she said at the public meeting. Speaking on the Election Commission's decision to prohibit her from campaigning for 24 hours, she said, "Is it a fault to ask Hindus, Muslims and others to vote together? What about Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is mocking me at every election meeting? Why is he not banned from campaigning," she asked. The Election Commission had barred Mamata from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm for her remarks against the central forces and a statement that had alleged religious overtones. Accusing the prime minister and Amit Shah of peddling lies at poll rallies, the TMC supremo said, "The Centre has kept the NRC and the NPR bills alive, but the home minister had claimed at a meeting at Lebong in the hills that he had no plans to enforce the National Register of Citizens." "Don't trust them. If they come to power, you may face the same experience like the 14 lakh Bengalis in Assam (referring to the final NRC in the northeastern state). BJP is a dangerous party which is trying to divide Bengal," she claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi's 'Sonar Bangla' a farce, says Rahul Gandhi at first Bengal rally||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday termed BJP claims to build "Sonar Bangla" (golden Bengal) as a "mirage" and said the saffron party has nothing to offer except for hatred, violence and dividing people on the basis of language, religion, caste and creed. During his first rally in Bengal in this election season, Gandhi took a dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and said his party would never align with the BJP and the RSS, unlike the TMC, which in the past had been an alliance partner of the saffron party-led NDA. "BJP wants to destroy Bengal's culture, heritage and divide it. In Assam, they are doing the same thing; in Tamil Nadu, they are trying to do the same thing with their alliance partner AIADMK. "The BJP has nothing to offer except for hatred, violence and divisive politics," he said, addressing a rakky at Goalpokhor in Uttar Dinajpur. Mocking BJP's slogan of building "Sonar Bangla", Gandhi termed it as a "mirage and said they "sell the same dream in every state". "In every state, they say similar things like Sonar Bangla. But, they only offer dividing people on the basis of religion, caste and language," the Congress leader said. Criticising "cut money" culture in Bengal, Gandhi said "You gave opportunity to TMC. But, they failed. People of the state have to venture out in search of jobs. This is the only state where you have to pay cut money to get jobs. Ridiculing TMC poll slogan "Khela Hobe" (Game will happen), he said serving people and playing games in this regard are not the same. "We have never aligned with the BJP and the RSS. Our fight is not just political but ideological too. For Mamata Ji, it is just a political fight. "The BJP knows very well Congress will never surrender before them, so they called for Congress Mukt Bharat. They never said TMC mukt Bharat, as they have been their former allies," he said. Gandhi urged people to vote in favour of the Congress- ISF-Left alliance in Bengal to usher in a new era of development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP will not get even 70 seats in Bengal, asserts Mamata||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the BJP will not be able to win even 70 seats in the ongoing state assembly elections which many expect to be a cliff-hanger. Speaking at a rally at Dabgram-Fulbari in Jalpaiguri district, the Trinamool Congress supremo ridiculed Prime Minister Narendra Modis recent claim that BJP had already won a 100 seats in the four phases of the election to the 294-seat assembly. "Prime Minister Modi has said the saffron party has already won 100 seats out of 135 seats where elections have been held. I can say that after the elections are over, BJP will not even get 70 out of total of 294 seats", she said. The Trinamool Congress leader charged that the BJP was spreading falsehood by telling different things at different places on the same issue. Banerjee said home minister Amit Shah had said in Lebong in Darjeeling that there will be no NRC. However she pointed out that 14 lakh people have been identified and sent to detention camps based on a process to find illegal migrants under the National Register of Citizens. 14 lakh people have been asked to go to the detention camps", she pointed out. Banerjee said if TMC is voted to power once again, it would not allow the controversial National Register of Citizens(NRC) to be implemented in West Bengal. All of you are citizens. My only request to people is that they cast their votes, she said. The Trinamool Congress leader claimed that BJP is bringing in people from other states where the pandemic was raging and this was helping spread Coronavirus. "These people will spread COVID in the state and then go awaylast year when COVID was in spate, none of the BJP leaders cared to the come to the state", she said. Banerjee also criticised the saffron party for its 'anti-people and anti-poor stance allowing prices of fuel including cooking gas to skyrocket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP stunt to implicate Sitalkuchi falls flat||Monkey business on Sunday; weasel video on Monday. The saffron ecosystem’s desperation to defend Saturday’s killings in Sitalkuchi has led its members to tweet a picture and a video clip of purported mob violence in the constituency, which were quickly exposed as fraudulent and hurriedly deleted in the face of a social media backlash. The photo was from Jharkhand and the video a two-year-old one from Manipur, Trinamul has said and independent fact-checkers confirmed. On Sunday, several BJP leaders and party supporters had shared a photo of a CISF officer with severe face injuries and claimed his wounds were the handiwork of voters in Jorpatki. This was an attempt to buttress the official claim that CISF jawans had fired — and killed four voters — after being attacked by a violent mob in Jorpatki, part of Sitalkuchi constituency in Cooch Behar district. The photo was taken down after Trinamul held a news conference on Monday and said a check had revealed that the officer in the picture was the victim of a langur attack in Baghmara, Jharkhand, on April 9. The fact-checking website AltNews corroborated Trinamul’s allegation. The injured officer has been identified as assistant sub-inspector S.P. Sharma. Trinamul turncoats in the BJP such as Suvendu Adhikari, Rajib Banerjee, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh had all shared the picture, claiming Trinamul “goons” in Sitalkuchi had injured the officer. So had the BJP youth wing’s national vice-president, Santosh Ranjan Rai. None of the posts mentioned the death of the four civilians, or the allegation that the CISF had shot at least some of the victims above the waist. On Monday, a Facebook page titled “BJP Kamarhati”, which generally campaigns for the BJP’s Kamarhati candidate Raju Banerjee, shared a video of a mob attack on a polling booth, claiming this had led to the Sitalkuchi firing. Trinamul again issued a statement saying the video showed an incident at a booth in the Imphal East constituency of Manipur during the 2019 general election. Polling had been disrupted at the booth after some voters turned violent over alleged misconduct by an election official. AltNews and the India Today fact-checking team corroborated the Trinamul charge. The video was quickly pulled down. The BJP tried brazening it out. “Which images are being shared is not important; what is important is that the ECI (Election Commission of India) has said the jawans were attacked. It’s a question of their security,” state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Rajib Banerjee said: “I had no idea that this had happened. I asked my social media handler to take it down immediately when it was brought to my notice. I suspect someone had hacked my account with some ill intention and did this. I asked Suvendu to take the post down from his wall too.” Calls to the mobile numbers of Suvendu, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh either went unanswered, or evoked the reply from aides that the leaders were busy campaigning. “This is illustrative of the kind of Goebbelsian lies that the saffron camp’s propaganda machinery likes to work with. There are countless such examples from recent months in Bengal alone,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul national spokesperson and chief whip in the Rajya Sabha. “Every fact check exposes them but they keep coming back with more lies or twisted half-truths on social and mainstream media.” Trinamul seniors said that though BJP leaders have been threatening Sitalkuchi-like incidents across Bengal, they are increasingly unsure of how the incident would influence the vote in the remaining 159 of the state’s 294 seats. “Therefore, they have been trying to substantiate the claims of the Election Commission and the central forces that the jawans had fired in self-defence,” a Trinamul vice-president said. While the authorities claim the personnel had fired to protect themselves, their weapons and the electronic voting machines from a violent mob, villagers say the forces fired without justification on a mob protesting a jawan’s unprovoked thrashing of a boy at a nearby market. Questions have been raised over the absence of cell phone and CTV footage of the incident, with the villagers saying the forces had removed the security cameras and snatched mobiles from the dead and the living. The police have accused the villagers of stealing the CCTVs. On Tuesday, the BJP blamed Mamata and the senior IPS officer in charge of her security for the absence of cell phone images. “Police raided homes at night and forced residents to delete the footage they had recorded,” state BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said. The police, however, are functioning under the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP's sinister endeavour to conquer Bengal: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday came out all guns blazing, barely 15 minutes after the 24-hour campaign ban imposed by the Election Commission of India had ended at 8pm, and tore into the BJP over its alleged misuse of resources, including central agencies, to stop her. After a three-and-a-half-hour dharna — during which she mostly painted — by the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in protest against the commission’s decision, the Bengal chief minister wondered aloud at her Barasat and Bidhannagar rallies in the evening why the BJP was trying “only to stop her and nothing else”. Mamata steered clear of directly attacking the poll panel, possibly because she is the biggest campaigner for her party and any more restrictions could affect Trinamul adversely in the 159 seats that are yet to go to the polls. Some of the key points Mamata raised after the ban ended on Tuesday evening: Context: The campaign ban. Mamata: They are trying to spoil my campaign. The BJP and its leaders remain unaffected, they campaign freely…. Anyway, the responsibility for judging right and wrong in this I leave to the people. There is no point trying to stop me. Hit me and I hit back so much harder. I’m not one to run away and retire to my room. There are those who talk about opening fire, about killing four more, eight more, killing people everywhere. But in their cases, total silence. Plastered mouths. Mamata Banerjee, however, has done a grave wrong by urging people to vote united, against votes getting polarised. I still say so, I will always say so. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, SCs, STs, Matuas, women, students, youths…. I want everyone’s vote, for the Trinamul Congress… to save Bengal, to keep Bengal from losing everything it holds dear. Context: Why are you scared of me, BJP? Mamata: I cannot for the life of me understand why such elaborate efforts are on from Delhi and around the country only to stop me, nothing else…. Only to conquer Bengal, an oshubho procheshta (sinister endeavour)…. Well, I can tell you clearly yet again, I will not let Bengal become Gujarat. You (the BJP) have endless money, people, resources, besides every agency that is at the Centre’s disposal. Despite that, why are you so scared of me? Only one reason…. You have everything; do you know why you will lose despite that? Because I’m a street fighter; I have fought my battles on the ground. I do not command armies from upstairs. Context: Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim before the Gorkhas that the National Register of Citizens (NRC) was not being considered. Mamata: They went to Siliguri and started saying the NRC was never talked about, and Mamataji is supposedly lying…. Have I been lying? Had they or had they not talked about the NRC (in the Bengal context)? Did they or did they not clear the decks for it (the contentious citizenship tripod)? Do the legal provisions still exist or not? Are 14 lakh people still earmarked for detention camps in Assam or not? Then who is lying? Context: The attempts by Shah and others to polarise voters over two separate Sitalkuchi incidents, clubbing them together and accusing Mamata of the politics of appeasement. Mamata: These two brothers of the lethal BJP syndicate, Modi and Shah, they are going to Jalpaiguri and saying Mamata Banerjee is not talking about the Rajbanshi (victim, Ananda Burman). Who said so? Mamata is not the BJP. She spoke about all five (victims from the two incidents on Saturday in Sitalkuchi). She doesn’t thrive on death or the politics of death. You go to the Rajbanshis and tell them something to try and turn them against me. Polarising all the time. Five people died. Four died from the central forces opening fire and another died in a voters’ queue — but not from firing by the central forces (but) from antisocials opening fire. Well, I think the BJP killed its own person… now the BJP has to prove it hasn't. The day before, our Mathabhanga candidate Girindranath Burman, such an educated man, he was thrashed. He suffered serious injuries to the head. That is why Rajbanshis were displeased with you (the BJP). That is why you took the life of a Rajbanshi boy. Then here you are, making lofty claims. I’m going to Sitalkuchi tomorrow (Wednesday). I would love to meet the BJP family too. But if they do not come, what can I do? I want to help everybody. I might have issues with you (the BJP), but not with your supporters, not the masses. I view everyone equally. Context: Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying different things at different places in the state in a bid to woo various sections of the electorate. Mamata: The two of them, going to different places and saying different things.... He (Shah) only lies, all the time…. He (Modi) is not only the biggest liar I have seen, but also a gobet (nincompoop). This is not an abuse; in Bengali a gobet means a person with less wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Delhi campuses tell what Calcutta peers stand to lose||Senior student activists in Delhi’s universities often cite Bengal’s example to juniors when faced with police action or violent clashes with rivals, highlighting their eastern peers’ long tradition of standing up to authority and injustice even in the face of odds. Some of them now believe that the roles may be reversed if the BJP wrests power in Bengal. JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia may offer an insight on what lies ahead if a government and its unofficial henchmen decide to launch onslaughts on centres of higher education. These two universities in Delhi have been in the spotlight in connection with protests against government policies on Kashmir and citizenship, and against administrative measures that have struck at dissent and diversity — as well as for facing police and mob backlashes to such resistance. Students and teachers at these institutions described to The Telegraph how they had negotiated the minefield of public activism while being attacked by the government and maligned by the media and the Right-wing ecosystem. This, they said, was the sort of pressure that a BJP government at Nabanna could exert on student activists in Bengal, where they said campuses like Jadavpur University can even now host free discussions on topics like Kashmir or Hindutva that are taboo in Delhi. Kanhaiya Kumar was JNU students’ union president in 2016 when he was arrested with two other students on sedition charges for their presence at an event where slogans for Kashmir’s independence were allegedly chanted. Now a CPI national council member, Kanhaiya told this newspaper about the lessons he had picked up from the movement for free speech that the 2016 arrests had launched and in which he participated after his release. He had learnt that student activists cannot divorce themselves from the reality of the society around them, and must be able to publicise their point of view independently of mainstream media. “Anyone who values free speech, multiculturalism and debate must realise they stand to lose all this if the BJP wins. Who the police in your state reports to makes a huge difference in the matter of how repression can be aggravated,” he said. “Student activists must be able to dilute the boundary of a university and connect with the local people — at businesses like tea shops or booksellers that exist because of a university. We also need to engage with the Right-wing paradigm of nationalism, Hindutva and the armed forces and reconstruct the discourse with a new understanding.” He added: “Ignoring the discourse of our opponents or believing that students alone can resist goons works against us. Traditional activists also need to understand the dynamics of the digital media and create their own tools for communication, for we cannot depend on the mainstream media for fairness.” Kanhaiya said JNU was able to protect itself better against mob violence because it is an entirely residential, walled campus — an advantage that most student activists elsewhere do not enjoy. Ayesha Kidwai had become the JNU teachers’ association president in 2016 and spearheaded the movement by teachers and students against seat cuts. “The unity of teachers, students and (other varsity) employees is important.... Differences exist in every university and governments exacerbate these by patronising one group to finish off the conversation. Be prepared for violence, disappointment and division. There should be no violence initiated from your side,” was her advice. Delhi police had gone on the rampage at Jamia on December 15, 2019, after buses were burnt in the neighbourhood during a rally against the Citizenship Amendment Act. However, the movement against the new citizenship matrix continued to thrive on the campus and at nearby Shaheen Bagh, inspiring similar protests across India. Akhtarista Ansari was then a final-year BA sociology student and vice-president of the campus unit of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association. She became one of the faces of the agitation after photos of her chanting slogans and protecting a student from being beaten by the police appeared in the media. Now an MA student at JNU, she told this newspaper that asserting one’s identity on the side of the oppressed was a legitimate and effective way of standing up to repression. “One may not be religious, but when a minority institution is specifically targeted and its students attacked and abused with religious slurs, we need to assert our identity,” she said. “As a Muslim, when you protest against the government or the Sangh parivar, you are asked to go to Pakistan. We heard these slurs while being hit by the cops. Being vocal against targeted communal violence is the first step.” She added: “Jamia doesn’t have a students’ union, perhaps because the powers that be do not want an outspoken leadership of Muslims. And that’s why it was all the more important for us to do our duty as a privileged class that has received higher education and speak out against injustice.” A student leader who was active during the 2016 JNU movement played down the possibility of Delhi campuses holding too many lessons for Bengal’s students, saying the protests in the capital were overhyped. “It’s naive optimism to think that students are the epicentre of change. Our impact was overestimated,” said the former student who now works as a researcher elsewhere and did not want to be named. However, the former JNU student said Bengal might become the “new epicentre of the student movement” if the state’s students have to face a more hostile government than the ones they have experienced so far. “Bengal’s campuses are unlikely to give in without a fight,” the former student said. Bikramaditya Choudhary, who was the JNU teachers’ association secretary during the 2016 arrests, said the defence of academic freedom cannot be an isolated one. “The problem is not with the university per se but (with the authorities’ attitude towards) the larger democratic principles such as the functioning of institutions and discussions, and (their tendency to take) every word of criticism as a personal insult,” he said. “A fight for the freedom of speech is not just a fight for one university but reflects respect for every voice across the country. JNU did not speak out at the volume required when school education was destroyed (with thousands of state government schools closed down across the country over the past decade or so). When the assault on higher education came, it (JNU) woke up.” Majid Jamil, president of the teachers’ association at Jamia, said that good relations with the university administration and not being linked to any political party had helped the teachers take up the cause of the brutalised students more effectively. “But today an atmosphere exists where we feel the presence of the Sangh parivar even within Jamia. It’s getting harder to get approvals (within the teachers’ body) even to express solidarity with the farmers’ movement,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Resistors of CAA are back to fight fascist forces||Salman Rushdie finds “hope in the determination of India’s women and college students to resist” sectarianism and “dismiss the darkness”. Since Parliament passed the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act on December 11, 2019, protests led by the young and the women have been held across the country. Calcutta emerged as one of the epicentres of that rallying cry against the new citizenship thrust. The Telegraph tracks the journey of some of the protesters who had been at the forefront of the movement a year ago and whose struggles have found their way into the electoral battle of Bengal. Many of them are back to doing their bit in resisting an “autocratic and majoritarian regime”. Here’s how On March 16, 2021, Sabyasachi turned 23. March 16 was also the second day of a two-day nationwide strike called by an umbrella body of nine bank unions to condemn the Centre’s proposal to privatise public sector banks. The birthday boy spent the first half of the day in front of a government bank in the Dalhousie area, where students, rights activists and self-help group members joined bank officers to protest against a common adversary — the “anti-people” central government. At the demonstration, Sabyasachi represented “No Vote to BJP”, a campaign that aims to “warn” people about the “dangers” posed by the Right-wing ecosystem. In the afternoon, Sabyasachi joined hundreds of other people in front of the Indian Coffee House at College Street. A street-corner meeting was held in protest against the alleged defacing of “No Vote to BJP” posters by party supporters at the Coffee House the day before. Later in the evening, Sabyasachi’s friends arranged for a cake, which he cut at the Coffee House. “Resisting fascist forces is much more important than celebrating my birthday. The BJP sees Bengal as its final frontier. But we will do everything that we can to resist them from conquering Bengal,” Sabyasachi told this newspaper. Sabyasachi, a chemistry graduate from Dinabandhu Andrews College, is gearing up for a three-year LLB course. He is inspired by Sudha Bharadwaj, a lawyer and rights activist who has been in custody since her arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2018. “I want to build a lawyers’ collective that will stand against oppressors. The way activists are being hounded in our country does not befit a democracy,” he said. Sabyasachi grew up in Burdwan and studied at the Burdwan Municipality High School. “My classmates came from different religious backgrounds. We grew up together. But post-2014 (when the Narendra Modi government came to power), many of them have been behaving strangely. They keep sharing communal posts on social media,” said Sabyasachi. He was “driven out” of a WhatsApp group of friends because of his criticism of the Modi government in the wake of demonetisation. “There comes a time when you can no longer be neutral. You have to pick a side. I have picked mine,” he said. Majumder is part of Janaganamana, an organisation formed by a group of theatre workers in 2019 to help marginalised people. Members of the troupe had visited villages in Malda and Murshidabad flooded by water released from the Farakka barrage. The villages are flooded almost every year. The controversy around the CAA triggered a new fear. Most of the families the group interacted with said their documents had been swept away, along with other belongings. “They never thought that not preserving, or not having, some document could make them termites and infiltrators in their own country. That was the time we decided to protest against the CAA-NRC-NPR in our own way — through songs and skits,” said Majumder, 36, a resident of New Barrackpore. A series of songs by the group — most of them tweaks of popular Bengali numbers — had become a hit in the rallies against the citizenship thrust last year. “Batashe bohichhe bish, bukete lagilo chot, raja je kohilo heshe NRC eshe gechhe (The air is filled with poison, the heart wounded. The king says smilingly that NRC is here),” said one song. The troupe members spent the lockdown months preparing a new play called Idurkol (rat trap). “The play has a message. If your neighbour is in trouble but you are not bothered because you think it is not your problem, think again. Tomorrow, you might be in the same trouble and there will be no one to help you,” said Majumder. On March 27, the troupe members were allegedly attacked by BJP supporters while staging the play at Basanti in South 24 Parganas. “I think the CAA-NRC-NPR is a ploy to turn citizens into cheap labourers. Protesting against discrimination is not unusual, sitting idle is,” said Majumder. Roy is one of the founders of the No NRC movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations that had been campaigning vigorously against the citizenship thrust. From August 2020, Roy and her colleagues have been touring districts to make people aware of the “discriminatory nature” of the new citizenship matrix. “We have been organising workshops, many of them focused on women,” said Roy, who lives and runs a clinic at Tagore Park near the Ruby intersection. In January, Roy visited Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, a Matua bastion where a section of the residents is said to be in favour of the CAA. “Why do you want citizenship when you are already citizens? You have voter cards, ration cards. The moment you seek citizenship, you admit you are not one,” Roy, 48, told the audience. At a tribal village in Bankura, Roy warned residents, most of who do not have documents, that “big corporates have been eying your land, which is rich in minerals”. She told them that they were the original inhabitants of the country, having resided on this land for centuries. While campaigning against the CAA-NRC-NPR combine, Roy realised how fissures were created in everyday lives by communal forces. In a slum area in Tangra, she had come across a middle-aged woman who had been deserted by her husband. The woman worked as an ayah to make ends meet. The contractor who gave her work is an active member of a political party. He is said to have promised the woman a decent living space in return for her support for his party. “Where would the space come from?” the woman asked the contractor. He said the “Bangladeshis will be driven out very soon and their homes would be free for local people”. Nousheen, who teaches political science at a city college, was among a handful of women who started the demonstration against the citizenship matrix at the Park Circus Maidan on January 7. By the time the pandemic forced the organisers to call off the siege on March 23, the protests, led by women, had become a mini Shaheen Bagh, inspiring similar demonstrations at several parts of Calcutta. Confined, Nousheen started a virtual campaign called “I resist from home”. She engaged in virtual conversations with many people — from Bengal to Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh — to call out the “majoritarian and autocratic nature” of the BJP regime. “The passage of the CAA was the turning point in my life. It marked a paradigm shift in the politics of the country. At the same time, I was also overwhelmed to see women lead a mass movement. It was a moment of liberation for many Muslim women. The protests needed to continue, even if not in the physical form,” Nousheen told this newspaper. During the sessions, Nousheen showed her home, decked up with anti-CAA posters, and encouraged others to do the same. A Kashmir-based activist spoke of “a perpetual lockdown in the Valley because of the Internet siege and stifling of the slightest hint of dissent”. From January 3 this year, Nousheen started another sit-in protest against the farm laws along with representatives of the Sikh community near the intersection of Chakraberia Road and Sarat Bose Road. The sit-in lasted for over two weeks. “The BJP regime gives one reason after another for people to rise in protest. The CAA, the labour and farm laws, the crackdown on students — all of these are different manifestations of the government’s fascist nature,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||I respect Mamata as a woman, says Rajnath ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said he respected chief minister Mamata Banerjee even though she belonged to his rival camp, a comment which was in sharp contrast to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s controversial “Didi O Didi” jibe at poll rallies. Speaking at a public meeting at Swarupnagar in North 24-Parganas in support of BJP candidate Brindavan Sarkar, Singh said: “You are a chief minister, you too are an institution. I have never spoken foul language against you. You may belong to a rival party, but I have always respected you a lot.” “You are a woman and deserve respect. Respecting women is the tradition of India,” he added, while urging BJP supporters to respect women as an incarnation of “power”. “I respect women and will never tolerate any insult to the woman community,” he added. The defence minister, however, criticised Mamata for alleged corruption and nepotism. “I oppose you because your party has cheated and deprived people of their rights…but never used any bad language,” he added. Singh, however, said he expected that Mamata would also reciprocate the same gesture whenever she spoke. “Using foul terms like Dushasana against the Prime Minister does not suit a chief minister.” He urged Mamata to avoid using slanderous words against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Prime Minister is an institution, not an individual. You too are an institution …Using foul language does not suit a leader,” he added. On Monday, Mamata had accused Modi of mocking her with “Didi, O Didi” chants and termed it as disrespectful to women. She alleged the way Modi had been mocking her was “below the standard” and did not suit a Prime Minister. She also said the Prime Minister should speak in a dignified language, behave properly and respect women. “But the way he is taunting and mocking me is a matter of shame,” she said. A Trinamul leader in North 24-Parganas praised Singh for his comments. “Ideologically, as a BJP leader, Rajnath is no different than Narendra Modi. But he marked his difference in culture by showing respect to the chief minister who is a woman,” the leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccination overdrive plan in Calcutta||The Bengal government has decided to undertake a week-long vaccination drive from April 16 in Calcutta following a sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. “We have decided to start the vaccination drive in coordination with the CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation) to send a message to people at large that vaccines are safe and it is required to prevent the spread of the virus. We will try to administer vaccines to 35,000 to 40,000 people everyday in the city during this period,” said a senior health department official. According to sources, right now, about 25,000 people are inoculated every day in the city while the figure is about 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh in the state everyday. Before launching the drive, the state government has ensured a steady supply of vaccines in the state. A source said, because of irregularity in supply of vaccines for the past few days, the number of jabs could not cross 2.5 lakh on Monday. “The chief secretary has written to the Union health secretary urging him to keep a steady supply of vaccines in the state as Bengal is one of the few states where wastage of vaccines is almost nil and coverage is very high,” said an official. After about 4 lakh Covishield vaccines were supplied on Monday, the state received 2 lakh Covaxin vaccines on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the state would get another 3 lakh doses of Covaxin. “The state has been assured that there will be a steady supply of vaccines. After securing the assurance, the plan to take up the vaccination drive in Calcutta has been framed,” said another official. According to the plan, all eligible people would be given vaccines from the health units of all 144 wards of the CMC. “People can visit the health units with valid documents like Aadhaar and register their names. They will be given vaccines on the same day. The walk-in mode would be initiated to ensure that a maximum number of people can be covered during the period,” said a source. The plan to start the vaccination drive in Calcutta was initiated considering that about 1,200 cases were being reported from the city everyday and elections were being held in the city. “The vaccination drive would also help generate awareness among the people. This is the need of the hour, particularly when no restrictions could be imposed in the city as elections are yet to be completed here,” said another official. The state government also urged large housing complexes to arrange on-site vaccination programmes as this was allowed by the Centre recently. “Housing complexes can contact private hospitals or the health department if they can arrange at least 100 eligible persons willing to get the jabs,” said an official. The chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, on Tuesday held a meeting with all chambers of commerce in the city at Nabanna where the state government urged them to ensure that private companies followed the Covid-19 protocols. “Maintaining physical distancing, sanitisation of offices, staggered attendance of employees, encouraging employees to work from home and taking initiatives to conduct on-site vaccination programmes are the few initiatives the private companies take to prevent the spread of the virus,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Bar on Mamata campaign should have been longer, says Dilip ||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Tuesday that the Election Commission should have banned chief minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for longer duration “given the way she is fanning communal sentiments”. On Monday, the EC had banned the chief minister from the campaign for 24 hours for her call to minorities not to divide their votes and women to gherao central force personnel if they created problems during polls. Ghosh claimed on Tuesday that the EC had taken the action in cognisance of his complaint. “I am the one who complained to them... But they should have banned her for longer given the way she is fanning communal sentiments,” he said at a media interaction in Behrampore on Tuesday morning. “She is the cause for the deaths in Sitalkuchi because she has blatantly been disregarding the EC and central forces. So naturally, people will follow in her stead,” Ghosh said. A group of BJP workers taking part in a road show led by Dilip Ghosh allegedly ransacked a Trinamul Congress office at Rashikpur in Burdwan town on Tuesday evening. Sources said Ghosh was leading the road show on the 2km-stretch from Power House More to Curzon Gate on Tuesday evening. When the road show reached Rashikpur, a group of BJP workers was involved in an altercation with Trinamul supporters. “They suddenly ransacked our office with bamboo sticks as police stood mute spectators. They hurled hundreds of brickbats at our office without any provocation,” said Abdur Rob, a Trinamul district secretary in East Burdwan. But a senior BJP leader said the attack was the result of instigation by Trinamul workers. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh gets notice, Rahul Sinha ban||The Election Commission on Tuesday issued a notice to Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and banned the party’s Habra candidate Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours for their inflammatory remarks in support of the CISF firing in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi on Saturday that had killed four voters. The action took place on Sushil Chandra’s first day as the Chief Election Commissioner. Sinha had not been given notice to defend himself. However, another BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari — who contested against Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram — was let off with a warning for his communal remarks. On Monday, Mamata was banned from campaigning for a day for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel if they intimidated them. Monday was the last day of Chandra’s predecessor Sunil Arora in office. The order to Adhikari was yet to be uploaded on the EC’s website when this report was filed, while Tuesday’s orders to Ghosh and Sinha have already come up. A top EC official told this paper that he would check why the Adhikari order had not been uploaded. The official added: “The nature of violation, the reply of the candidate, the frequency of statement, as well as gravity of the statement was considered. Only after ascertaining various factors, the decision is taken by the Commission in the most objective and neutral manner.” In a speech telecast on a private Bengali news channel on Monday, Sinha was quoted by the EC saying: “....The central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four in Sitalkuchi. The central forces should be issued a showcause notice as to why they have killed only four of them.” The EC found Sinha’s remarks violative of the Model Code of Conduct and various provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Indian Penal Code. Sinha has been banned from campaigning for the next 48 hours commencing from noon on Tuesday. Ghosh was sent a notice for his speech in Baranagar on Sunday, on a complaint of Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’ Brien. The EC quoted him saying: “Those naughty boys were shot at yesterday (Saturday) in Sitalkuchi. These naughty boys will not be there in Bengal This is just the beginning... There will be Sitalkuchi in several places.” The EC found Ghosh’s speech violated the same sections as Sinha’s speech and asked him to respond by 10am on Wednesday. The panel is yet to respond to CPIML-Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan’s complaint that included Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP’s Bengal general secretary Sayantan Basu’s provocative remarks over the killings. Adhikari had been served a notice for his speech on April 3 saying that “if you vote for Begum (referring to Mamata) there will be mini-Pakistan”. The EC said in its order on Monday that Adhikari had denied the charges and claimed “he will be more careful in future...” The Birbhum district magistrate and district election officer, Deviprasad Karanam, on Tuesday showcaused Trinamul’s Birbhum president Anubrata Mondal for his speech to drive out BJP workers by beating them up. Mondal — who is known for his inflammatory speeches — had recently asked Trinamul workers whether they could drive BJP activists out of the boundary by beating them up. Sources said Mondal had been showcaused after a complaint had been lodged against him through the commission’s online portal. The complainant said such remarks would increase violence in the district. “We have served a showcause on Mondal and given him 24 hours to reply following a complaint lodged by a person with us,” said Karanam, the district magistrate. Mondal did not respond to several phone calls made by The Telegraph but a senior Trinamul leader said he would answer to the notice of commission properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Autopsy reports say bullets hit chests, say cops ||The four youths of Jorpatki village, who died in a firing by CISF jawans posted at Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126), had bullet wounds in their upper torso, a source in district police said on Tuesday quoting post-mortem reports. “They were hit by bullets in their neck and chest. I don’t know the other details like how many bullets had hit each one of them,” said the source. After the incident on Saturday, Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had claimed that the central forces had fired at the youths to kill and not to injure them. On Sunday morning, as she spoke with the families through video calling, the chief minister had shown some photographs claiming them to be those of the deceased and said the central forces had fired to kill them. “I have seen the gory photos of their bodies and it’s clear from the pictures that the bullets hit their chest and neck.. It is evident that the CISF men did not fire at their legs, as is the usual practice, but had fired to kill them,” she had said. On Monday, Abdul Gani, a local panchayat member who also filed a complaint at Mathabhanga police station over the incident, had also made a similar claim. He had mentioned how a CISF man had shot Samiul Haque, one of the deceased, as he tried to dissuade the former from beating Sahidul, his brother. The delay on the part of the police to hand over the post mortem reports left the families and their neighbours disgruntled. Once again, they asked the Election Commission and the administration what steps had been taken against the CISF men after the incident that claimed four lives. The villagers mentioned that unlike another incident — the death of Ananda Burman, another youth who died at another booth (5/285), also under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat, as he was hit by bullet during a clash among Trinamul and BJP supporters — none of the CISF men who opened fire in their place have been taken into custody. “In the other case, the police acted proactively and have arrested the principal accused, who had purportedly fired at the youth. But in our case, we have not heard about arrest or detention of any of the CISF men or seizure of their firearms. Such differences have made us ponder as to whether both the incidents are being treated with equal importance and in a neutral manner,” said Ershad Hossain, a resident of Jorpatki. So far, officers of Mathabhanga police station have been to the village and have spoken with some of the injured persons. “We don’t have any information that they have spoken with the families…. We really don’t know where the investigation is heading to,” said Haider Ali Mian, the brother of Hamidul, who has also lost his life in the firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Only Mamata can give justice, says Sitalkuchi victims’ kin ||The bereaved families of four CISF firing victims at Jorpatki village in Cooch Behar district have said only the chief minister could give them justice as they are eagerly waiting to meet Mamata Banerjee at Mathabhanga on Wednesday. Mamata will reach Mathabhanga on Wednesday morning and meet the families at a ground next to the subdivisional hospital at the town, 20km from the village. “It seems the Election Commission has forgotten us.... Only Didi can give us justice,” Jobed Ali, the father of Nur Alam Mian — one of the four deceased youths — said on Tuesday evening as local Trinamul Congress leaders were busy making arrangements so that representatives of the deceased families could reach Mathabhanga. “We have collected five names from each families and submitted the same to police and other agencies concerned. Tomorrow, all arrangements would be made for them so that they do not face any inconvenience,” said Alizar Rehman, a Trinamul leader in Mathabhanga. After the firing outside a polling booth at Jorpatki in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment on Saturday, Mamata had announced that she would reach the village the very following day. However, the Election Commission issued a 72-hour ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar. The ban ended on Tuesday. Jobed Ali said Mamata was their only hope. “She reacted immediately after our sons were gunned down by the central forces and vowed to stand by us. She has also promised to a CID investigation and we believe it is only Mamata Banerjee who can help us get justice. We will meet and urge her to see that justice is delivered to us,” said Ali, who is yet to recover from the shock. The aggrieved residents also pointed out that none from the BJP had spent a word for them so far. “Instead, some BJP leaders came up with intemperate remarks which have only hurt us. Aren’t we residents of this state and country? Considering the present situation, we can only depend on Mamata who had risen on such occasions earlier,” said Sahidul Haque, the brother of Samiul who lost his life in the firing. Family members of Ananda Burman, a youth from Pathakuli, another village in Sitalkuchi, who died after suffering bullet injuries, were brought to the district BJP office in Cooch Behar on Tuesday. Burman had suffered the gunshots during a clash between Trinamul and BJP supporters near his booth on Saturday. Jagadish Burman, Ananda’s father, trained guns at Trinamul and said his son had been killed purposefully. “He did not die by accident. Ahead of the elections, we were threatened time and again by a section of Trinamul supporters. As my son went out to vote, they killed him,” said Jagadish. He said in the past couple of days, some Trinamul leaders had contacted them and wanted to take them to Mathabhanga so that they could meet Mamata. “We will not meet her…. we will not take any assistance from the state either,” the father added. Malati Rava, the district BJP president, said the party was with the family. “We have provided them with some assistance. Our party will extend all possible help to them so that they can fight the legal battle to get justice for their son’s death,” she said. Such moves by Trinamul and the BJP hint that both sides are trying to drum up support by highlighting the incidents which claimed five lives, opined observers. “It is evident that both the parties want to galvanize support as elections would be held in four more phases by referring to the incidents. Also, they are desperate to prove that they are with the affected families by playing cards in their own way,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Shah iterates promises, but hills raise doubts||On a sunny Tuesday afternoon in Darjeeling, there was a heavy downpour of electoral promises from Union home minister Amit Shah but many have complained about the poor track record of the BJP in fulfilling its assurances for Gorkhas. Shah sounded well versed with the problems of the Darjeeling hills and his speech touched on a range of issues, right from the NRC to civic amenities of Darjeeling town. “Give your mandate to Narendra Modi, all of Darjeeling’s problems will be solved within five years,” Shah assured the hill people at Gorkha Stadium in Lebong, Darjeeling. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which had been with the BJP for 12 years but dumped the party recently to join hands with the Trianmul Congress, has been repeating that the BJP is not interested in solving issues of the hill people. Gurung said that was the primary reason behind him severing ties with the BJP. The BJP had mentioned two issues in its 2019 Lok Sabha election, “a permanent political solution” and granting tribal status to 11 hill communities. Shah, who had skipped talking on the core issue of “permanent political solution” at his road show in Kalimpong on Monday, did speak about it at Lebong. “Our Constitution is vast and there is a solution to all problems,” Shah said, while referring to the “permanent political solution”. The BJP leader also made a commitment to grant tribal status to the 11 communities. Apart from these two core issues, Shah promised to start “withdrawing (statehood agitation) cases within one week of coming to power.” This promise, many observers believe, is probably an attempt to get Gorkhaland activists on his side. The Mamata Banerjee government has already started withdrawing cases related to the Gorkhaland movement. Shah also reiterated that Gorkhas would not be displaced by the NRC. For the past few days, the BJP has been trying to drive home the point that even if the NRC is implemented in the state, Gorkhas will not face any problem. The assurance has, however, drawn flak from the community, particularly because over one lakh Gorkhas in the neighbouring state of Assam have not made it to the NRC. “The NRC has not been implemented in Bengal…. Some people are spreading lies. Even if it is implemented, not a single Gorkha needs to be bothered about it,” Shah said. In the course of his speech, the Union home minister promised land rights to tea garden workers within six months of the BJP coming to power in Bengal, a Rs 600 crore package to solve Darjeeling’s drinking water crisis, upgrade of Darjeeling municipality into a corporation, subsidised loan up to Rs 50 lakh to homestay owners, along with a threeyear tax exemption, a Gorkha TV channel and a central university in north Bengal. He also promised that the BJP government in the state would turn the cinchona plantation into a medicinal hub, conduct panchayat elections (in the hills) within six months of coming to power, make Darjeeling an educational hub and introduce Buddhist, Queens of Hills and Rajbanshi tourism circuits. Shah said the BJP government would discard the present Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The panchayat elections had last been held in the hills in 2000. On hearing Shah’s speech, a voter in Darjeeling said: “To start with, we would be happy if only two issues, permanent political solution and granting tribal status, are first fulfilled.” After the meeting in the hills, Shah spoke at another public meeting in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri and attended a road show in Islampur, North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Rahul Gandhi to begin campaigning in the state||Rahul Gandhi will on Wednesday begin campaigning in Bengal at a time the majority of Congress leaders are said to be praying that Mamata Banerjee succeeds in warding off the stiff challenge posed to her by the BJP. Rahul will address rallies at Matigara-Naxalbari in Darjeeling and Goalpokhar in North Dinajpur. Most Congress leaders view Rahul’s intervention as a mere formality, given that secular forces all over the country don’t want to harm Mamata’s chances. Although many Congress leaders see the Trinamul Congress emerging as a strong contender for leadership in the Opposition camp if she wins a third term, they believe dealing with her is significantly better than the BJP in Bengal. Top Congress functionaries privately admit that the limited involvement of the central leadership in Bengal is a calculated political strategy. It is indisputable that Sonia Gandhi considers Mamata an important ally in the larger battle against Narendra Modi in national politics. Sonia’s bonhomie with the Bengal chief minister had been evident at a meeting to discuss Covid-19 strategy with Opposition leaders earlier this year. A senior Congress office-bearer told The Telegraph: “We certainly don’t want to disturb Mamata at this juncture. We have our differences and our local unit is fighting her but that doesn’t affect the national perspective. Mamata remains a valuable asset for the 2024 battle and you should not be surprised if Rahul’s attack is concentrated on the BJP.” All senior Congress leaders have avoided attacking Mamata in the last couple of months. While most leaders have been critical of the BJP’s polarising tactics in Bengal and the exceptional involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in the Assembly elections, Former finance minister P. Chidambaram’s tweets a few days ago clearly revealed the Congress’s mind. “The polarisation of society that is taking place in Bengal, thanks to the BJP, is the gravest tragedy that has befallen that state. I cannot believe that the land of Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, Raja Rammohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose, Satyajit Ray and Dr B.C. Roy can fall prey to the virus of communalism. Anyone who claims the legacy of these great leaders — as I proudly do — should shun and fight communalism,” Chidambaram had said. EC ‘bias’ Trinamul leader and former BJP finance minister Yashwant Sinha has said the Election Commission’s impartiality has been compromised. In an article in a news portal, Sinha wrote: “…The words she (Mamata) spoke are far less objectionable than the utterances of the Prime Minister and the Home Minister. What happens when the Prime Minister goes to the neighbouring country of Bangladesh in the midst of elections and visits a shrine and temple of a certain community, returns to India, and openly tells that community in Bengal of his exploits in Bangladesh? Is he not openly and unabashedly asking for their votes on the basis of caste?” Sinha added: “The ‘Jai Sri Ram’ invocation is a purely religious slogan which is freely used in election rallies by the BJP leaders to rouse the masses in order to garner their votes. Does it not amount to inciting religious sentiment?… The Prime Minister and Home Minister openly incite the people to punish the TMC because it is encouraging minority communalism. “Are they not, by making this charge, openly asking the majority community to vote for it? “In the road shows of the Home Minister and other BJP leaders, people dressed as Hindu gods and goddesses can be clearly seen. Is that not asking for votes in the name of a particular religion? Or is it that these people are too high and mighty for the Election Commission to even consider suitable action against them?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
14-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Opposition plea for “fair and smooth” counting of votes on May 2||The Congress-led 10-party alliance in Assam moved the Election Commission on Tuesday requesting steps for “fair and smooth” counting of votes on May 2. Polling in Assam was held on March 27, April 1 and 6 with both the Congress-led alliance and the ruling BJP-led alliance exuding confidence of winning the keenly-contested elections. Led by Assam PCC president Ripun Bora, senior leaders of the alliance went to the office of the chief electoral officer to submit a two-page memorandum to the chief election commissioner requesting a slew of directives to “maintain transparency, impartiality for fair and smooth counting of votes”. The Congress had on April 7 moved the CEO seeking access/link of CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because they fear that the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls. Tuesday’s joint memorandum by the alliance seems to be an extension of the demand made by the Congress, which has also flown out AIUDF and BPF candidates to Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh respectively fearing poaching by the BJP. Congress insiders said certain developments during the three-phase polls, from transportation of electronic voting machines to their recovery from unauthorised places, have raised a lot of questions about the way things have been handled so far. “The reported incidents do not inspire confidence. That is why our alliance leaders have suggested a slew of dos and don’ts to remove any kind of trust deficit... for fair and smooth counting,” said senior PCC member Diganta Choudhary. The dos and don’ts, among others, included a direction to all deputy commissioners, subdivisional officers (civil) and returning officers to furnish the details of officials engaged for counting to all the contesting candidates. The alliance leaders also sought a directive to the officers to ensure video-recording of all counting tables and shifting of EVMs from the strong room to the counting hall, allow the presence of authorised agents of candidates at the entrance of the strong room after it is opened till the counting process is over and details about postal ballots issued in each constituency. There are 126 Assembly constituencies in the state. The leaders wanted that postal ballots be taken up for counting before the EVMs are opened besides directing the returning officers that “unless one round is finished and recorded in writing, next round of EVMs cannot be opened for counting”. The Congress-led mahajot (Grand Alliance) includes the AIUDF, CPM, CPI, CPIML, Anchalik Gana Morcha, Bodoland People’s Party (BPF), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party (JPP) and the Adivasi National Party (ANP). The memorandum was signed by representatives of all the parties besides the Congress’s Bora, Pradyot Bordoloi and Debabrata Saikia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
14-04-2021||Opinion||Save them:  Goa losing forest cover||Sir — No amount of awareness campaigns seems to suffice when it comes to willing the authorities to act in favour of the environment. It was recently revealed that in the last 10 years, Goa’s forest department approved 99.3 per cent of all applications for the felling of trees. Some reforestation drives had taken place, but there are no data on the survival of the trees. Only two years ago, Goa was known to have 60 per cent forest cover — it ranked fifth in the country in this regard. It is likely that the authorities have now sacrificed Goa’s greenery for monetary profit. This must be stopped at once. Gargi Chaudhury, Mumbai Sir — The shooting of four unarmed people in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar by Central Industrial Security Force personnel guarding a polling booth reminds one of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in the pre-Independence era (“Shamed”, April 13). According to reports, a 15-year-old boy was beaten at the village market, without provocation, by a jawan of the Central forces. This appears to have triggered protests against the jawans, leading to the shots being fired. These armed personnel, who are supposed to be trained in industrial and airport security, could have easily controlled the situation by using batons to disperse the crowd or firing shots into the air. But they reportedly shot at the upper bodies of the people in the mob, resulting in this untoward incident. The administration, which is under the direct command of the Election Commission, took to the usual tact of blaming the crowd — it levelled charges against the mob of trying to snatch away the guns from the CISF personnel. Had the crowd attacked the guards, why is there still no evidence of any injury caused to them? With four more rounds of elections still left, the EC should not waste time in discouraging security personnel from using firearms and promote the use of other modes of mob control in order to prevent any further loss of life. Hira Lal De,Hooghly Sir — One would think that the CISF personnel are trained to defuse difficult situations without resorting to opening fire. But the incident in Cooch Behar proves they are not. The perception that the EC and the Central forces deployed in the state are not as politically neutral as they should be does not seem too far from reality any more, and this erodes their institutional credibility. The EC is supposed to ensure a level playing field for all parties and apply rules uniformly. But many of its decisions going in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party make it look like an arm of the ruling regime — this makes one wonder, could the EC have scheduled the polling in eight phases at the BJP’s behest in order to suit its campaign plan? The task of safeguarding democracy is better served if the EC acts in a non-partisan way. M.K. Gandhi had taught that the means should be as fair as the end. But if what the BJP has been doing in Bengal is anything to go by, then its end of wresting power from the Trinamul Congress would seem to justify whatever means it adopts, be it communal polarization, misuse of institutions, splurging on canvassing or perhaps even unleashing violence. It would thus be an inversion of truth to think that the BJP adheres to Gandhian philosophy.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — As if the death of four people were not bad enough, leaders of the BJP are now issuing threats of similar violence. Will the EC act against these leaders?Anjana Gupta,Howrah Sir — It is criminal to not follow Covid-19 protocols in a public space given the spike in cases across the country (“Metro commuters flout mask mandate”, April 12). The government as well as the local administration have been creating awareness about the situation and requesting people to wear masks. But if people take such alerts lightly and ignore them, they are putting themselves in harm’s way. The second surge of the pandemic is proving to be deadlier than the first. One cannot be lax in one’s approach any more; norms must be followed strictly.  Bal Govind, Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
14-04-2021||Opinion||Hidden killers: Non-communicable diseases||Losing sight of the bigger picture is easy when a crisis presents itself. While India’s population and health infrastructure are groaning under the weight of the highly contagious coronavirus, an equally grim truth has surfaced: around two out of three deaths in India occur on account of non-communicable diseases. A study by the Thought Arbitrage Research Institute found that at least 10 per cent of the population across 21 states suffers from an NCD. The figures indicate the scale of the crisis: since the 1990s, illnesses such as diabetes, digestive ailments and hypertension have claimed more lives in India than infectious diseases have, with Odisha, Tripura and Assam topping the list. There are, of course, several contributors to the problem, including an ageing population, rapid urbanization sans modernized hygiene systems, urban congestion on account of migration as well as climate change. The study also revealed a few unexpected findings. Last year, a report had found that adult obesity in India is on the rise, with the number of obese Indians shooting up from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016. The public health discourse tends to attribute the cause of lifestyle diseases to faulty consumption patterns found mainly in urban areas, where access to food is not always an immediate hurdle. And yet, the prevalence of NCDs in rural India is only marginally less than in cities. Data show that between 1990 and 2016, the death rate across age groups in rural areas increased by 131 per cent for diabetes and 55 per cent for ischaemic heart disease. Clearly, older hypotheses concerning the rural-urban health index need to be reviewed. Combating NCDs requires reforms at various levels, from adequately taxing the consumption of packaged food to encouraging such lifestyle choices as the use of cycles and the adoption of healthy diets. The medical response to NCDs has also been inadequate; there is a paucity of disease surveillance systems and poor access to medicines, diagnostic services and insurance. While the Ayushman Bharat Yojana covers in-hospital secondary and tertiary care, there are no clearly-outlined mechanisms for paying for chronic outpatient care and medication, which comprise the bulk of the out-of-pocket expenses for NCD treatment. There is an urgent need for awareness initiatives — for instance, teaching obese citizens about eating healthy food and supporting local cuisines — that are to be bolstered by trained personnel, basic drug supply chains and efficient facilities. Private players can be roped in to strengthen these efforts. The only way to stop diseases that kill silently is to train an unrelenting light on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Right over all: Freedom to choose religion||It is deeply heartening when the Supreme Court speaks firmly in support of Constitutional rights. While dismissing a public interest litigation against superstition, black magic and religious conversion by threats, deception and gifts, the Supreme Court reportedly said it did not understand why a person over 18 should not be free to choose his religion; the word “propagate” in the Constitution with regard to religion was there for a reason. What was most reassuring about the Supreme Court’s ruling was its reportedly critical approach to the petition, which the three-judge bench found “very harmful”. The contents of the petition presented by Ashwini Upadhyay of the Bharatiya Janata Party laid bare his party’s agenda: this is not the first attempt to target minority faiths by implying that they practise deceit to get people to convert. The hullabaloo around love jihad springs from this as well, and the fact that Uttar Pradesh now has a law against it although Parliament can offer no proof of its existence indicates the Hindutva forces’ determination. The petition said that members of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are particularly vulnerable to conversions by the ‘carrot-and-stick’ method or black magic. Apart from violating certain Constitutional freedoms — ironically, freedom of religion was mentioned too — the practice also goes against the secular spirit, according to the petition. The inversion of logic is typical, but the Supreme Court reportedly delivered a sharp rebuke to Mr Upadhyay’s lawyer because the writ petition was based on Article 32, providing the freedom to approach the Supreme Court against the violation of fundamental rights. While withdrawing the petition — the court mentioned the “heavy cost” it would impose — the lawyer requested permission to make a representation to the government and the Law Commission on the issue. The Supreme Court refused. It tellingly termed the petition a “publicity interest litigation”. There can be little doubt that conversion is the focus of an agenda to erase religious freedoms and destroy ideals of tolerance. The petition raised the feasibility of a committee to implement a Central law against religious conversion with a penalty of imprisonment from three to 10 years. The repeated efforts to make conversion look wrong — ghar wapsi was one form — comprise a kind of publicity intended to demonstrate that there is no choice but one religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Lessons from Singhu border||The farmers’ movement is now entering a new phase. While the government is trying to tire out the protesters and push the protest out of the media’s glare, the farmers are gearing up to make the protest more inclusive. They are now talking about the agrarian crisis and the need for a minimum support price in all states. It is no longer going to be about the protection of mandi and MSP in Punjab and Haryana alone. Committees have been formed to reach out to farmers in other states as well as to gather information about state-specific problems related to agriculture, apart from addressing the common problems of debt, lack of infrastructure, the absence of assured returns, high cost on inputs and middlemen, among others. The movement is no longer about gaining subsistence living but about the agrarian crisis afflicting small and medium farmers. The participation of the youth and women has made a difference to the way the movement is being envisaged as one beyond immediate interests and more about the future of the younger generation. It is now willing to debate the very corporate model of development. The protest leadership is also transitioning. After being led by Jats and Sikhs, panchayats at various places in Punjab and Haryana are reaching out to Dalits to join the protests. Punjab has the largest Dalit population in India. Panchayats and khaps, in order to include Dalits, are discussing caste-based discrimination. They are also deliberating on the issue of prejudice against Muslims and introspecting where they went wrong by supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party and by consenting to the communal violence in Muzaffarnagar. Farmers invited Muslim leaders to address the protests and there was a kind of performance that was akin to ‘truth and reconciliation’. These are explosive changes in the otherwise conservative rural hinterlands that are combining the intricate cultural issues ‘internal’ to the rural community with the ‘external’ economic assault on the sovereignty of the agrarian economy. Farmers have perceived the complex inter-relationship between the need to bring about internal social change and to defend themselves against an external assault. In fact, the second phase of the farmers’ protest is no longer about the kisan but about insaan. There is also the possibility of a second phase of the anti-CAA protests after the pandemic subsides, given that the Union home minister has referred to the formulation of the rules and its implementation after the current round of assembly elections. The anti-CAA protests must observe the developments and changes brought about by the farm protests to understand how the moral universe is built in order to reach out to a larger number of social groups cutting across cultural differences. It is in building solidarities, and not in making appeals to the State and invoking the Constitution, that resistance can meet with success. The anti-CAA protests, too, began by making the right moves. It was led by women. There were declarations that this was to be a protest to save democracy and the Constitution. It began to spread beyond Shaheen Bagh to other cities and smaller towns in North India. However, the anti-CAA protest, unlike the farmers’ movement, seems to have reduced itself to an agitation by and for Muslims. Further, it got stuck in its agenda with its appeal to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The second phase of the anti-CAA mobilization, if it is to be started after the pandemic, needs to move into more universal registers and focus on appealing to the larger sections of the Hindu population that remain indifferent. A CSDS survey revealed that a majority of the respondents from Hindu society support the CAA. Herein lies the confidence of the current regime in pushing for these changes. The question that the anti-CAA protesters must address is the need to create the kind of moral valency that the farm protest has generated. They need to ask themselves what kind of symbolic representation would allow them to gain the support of the larger society beyond the Muslim community. Significantly, the CSDS survey had also found that most Hindu respondents supported a plural India — not a theocratic Hindu rashtra. But when it came to the CAA, they responded differently. This only shows that the social imaginary and the moral signification of being a Muslim ought to be resignified. The anti-CAA movement needs to address the points on which majoritarian mobilization is based. In an interview in The Caravan, a rioter who took part in the Delhi riots said that he regrets taking part in the violence but ‘Muslims cannot be trusted and they will consolidate and organize attacks on Hindus and we need to be vigilant.’ This intangible anxiety is driving the consent for the violence against and the marginalization of Muslims. It is this inexplicable anxiety of a majority community against a numerical minority that is making compassion towards Muslims difficult. No amount of violence seems to convince the majority that a Muslim can be a victim of unfair violence. Muslim mobilization in India, as part of the anti-CAA protest or otherwise, has to create narratives to quell this anxiety that is not based on evidence. If farmers can gain support as annadaatas, there is no reason why a larger solidarity cannot be built for Muslims with a narrative that is willing to engage the common Hindu and not just the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Failing brakes||The elections in West Bengal are being considered by many to be a decisive fight to stem the swelling tide of right-wing populism in India embodied in the ideology of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mamata Banerjee is fighting a hard battle for survival. Not that Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress is a paragon of liberal democracy, but her political position has been stridently opposed to the majoritarianism of the BJP. This majoritarianism is marked by the stifling of dissent and a systematic attack on the independence of the essential institutions of democracy such as the media, the judiciary, law enforcement agencies, the bureaucracy and autonomous universities. Populism is not new in India. Left and right-wing varieties have raised their heads from time to time. For instance, Indian politics during Indira Gandhi’s time had been discernibly left-wing populist in nature, characterized by a suspicion of big business and foreign investments. Vote-bank considerations allowed the formation of coalitions of the disadvantaged and marginalized people who were promised certain economic resources from the State. There were concerns about economic inequality and environmental degradation. Religion was left alone by the State to form an important component of the nation’s cultural plurality and diversity. Nationalism was tempered with an acceptance of cultural openness and plurality. The elite, in this brand of left-wing populism, comprised a wide-ranging set of opinion-makers. They were intellectuals of different hues, but most of them with left-of-centre leanings. During the earlier Nehruvian era, the State relied on the intellectual elite to construct the economic template for facilitating nation-building. With Indira Gandhi, there was a shift from the Nehruvian consensus to a more left-wing populism that culminated in the disastrous Emergency that severely threatened and strained the fabric of democracy and freedom. The first three decades after Independence, despite the left-of-centre policies pursued by the State, did not achieve expected results in economic growth and poverty reduction. Much later, with the advent of neo-liberal globalization, there was an opening up of the economy to world markets and capital. The decade of the 1990s did not change the deep structural problems. While poverty and unemployment remained, economic inequality grew to massive proportions. New economic opportunities were scarce and limited to the narrow middle class. Liberal democracy, despite witnessing electoral changes in government, remained weak. The quality of people in politics deteriorated. There was a gradual erosion of independent institutions, accompanied by a rise in corruption and weak governance. The decade of the 1990s, however, saw the growing strength of India’s business class who, by that time, had become more confident and realized the benefits of cooperating with international capital. International capital, on the other hand, saw the potential of opening up a large new market in the subcontinent. The State, in the new global order, found its control over national policies like tax rates, capital flows, money supply and public investments becoming weaker and uncertain in terms of their impact. This crisis of sovereignty, the emergence of a more powerful business class with strong ties to global capital and the continuation of economic uncertainties and deprivations paved the way for a serious challenge to the older elite. A realization also dawned on the poor and middle classes that left-wing populism was unable to deliver on the promises made. The concept of liberal democracy gradually began to be contested and an alternative political narrative inevitably emerged. Global capitalism needs room to grow through new markets, strategic investments, expansion of debt and productivity-enhancing new technologies. There are limits to penetrating international markets and raising debt. New technologies have become the mainstay of expansion. However, the expectation is that with the advent of new technologies like artificial intelligence and robotics, employment opportunities will shrink phenomenally. The project of a worldwide consolidation of capitalism has been stalled and confronted with hurdles which no international institution can solve, simply because there is no global government. The crisis of incomplete globalization has thrown up winners and losers in large numbers, with a pervasive anxiety about economic stability in the near future. India has to confront its own set of problems. However, in this context, imperfect liberal democracy as well as left-wing populism began to be perceived by many as useless and impotent. The alternative narrative to replace liberal democracy centred on national culture and not the national economy. It was spun around a homogenous cultural identity, debunking diversity as a hurdle to development. Simple solutions were attractively packaged for all, characterizing a golden age from a perfect past. This narrative required two features to sustain it and gather momentum. First, the leader had to appear as strong and decisive, one who knew what the solutions were and could articulate them with clarity. Second, the leader had to be able to identify a clear and unambiguous set of enemies of the nation. They were the immigrants from the past, a religious minority, socially deprived categories like Dalits and adivasis. The public gaze, from the poorest up to the white-collar workers, had to be distracted from dwelling on complex economic issues. Liberal democracy, even in its weakest and most distorted form, exhibits varying amounts of certain essential traits. While democracy implies some process of collective self-determination, liberalism requires the guarantee of individual liberties and rights. Any guarantee of these freedoms requires, in turn, a bill of rights or a Constitution, but more so, a set of well-functioning, independent institutions that protect these freedoms from powerful political intrusions. Right-wing populism warrants that elections remain in place while chipping away at the independence of the essential liberal institutions of democracy. Hence, liberal democracy soon becomes an illiberal democracy, but elections continue to be part of the political process. Then, at a later stage, the electoral process is assaulted through misinformation, lies and the brute force of the State to demean it. Gradually, the illiberal democracy transforms into an illiberal dictatorship. India is currently going through this process of change. A good indicator of this is not only how institutions of the judiciary, enforcement agencies, elections, the media and academia have all been weakened and compromised, but also the fact that on almost every index of social well-being, economic performance, political freedoms and environmental safety, India’s rank in the world community has slid considerably in the recent past. Little wonder that the nation has been described as only “partly free” or, according to another study, an “elected autocracy”. A democratically elected government has promised to work to make India free of political opposition. It is in this process that the acquiring of elected representatives of the people, both before and after elections, is now the accepted norm, and individual freedoms are assaulted on a daily basis — what we wear and eat, who we might marry, where we might live and, above all, who we have to fear and obey. The BJP government’s economic policies are also markedly right-wing as revealed by its closeness to big business and its disdain for the well-being of farmers, workers and minorities, evident in new laws recently enacted without any debate in Parliament. The results of the elections in Bengal will reveal whether we accelerate on this road to a one-party State, or we slow down a bit on this journey towards an Opposition-free democracy where dissent is dangerous, and even humour can land one in prison. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIIMS adds machinery to speed up Covid testing ||State Health Minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday approved the procurement of three additional RT PCR machines at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences to speed up the process of Covid testing in Ranchi, the worst affected district in terms of caseload in Jharkhand. Chairing a virtual meeting of the governing board of the State-run hospital, Gupta, the chairman of the board said that in the wake of the growing cases of Covid-19 infection in the state, the government has decided to add more teeth to RIMS’ machinery. “The additional RT PCR machines will help RIMS test more samples on a given day and also clear the backlogs,” said Gupta, adding that timely testing played a crucial role in identifying cases and limiting the spread of the virus during the second wave. Gupta also approved the procurement of 256 CT Scan machines for the Radiology wing and Trauma Centre at RIMS, besides opening vacancies for four scientists and eight lab technicians in the Mircobiology wing of the largest State-run hospital in Jharkhand. The new recruitments, he said, will help in research related to viruses and other micro-organisms. The sudden rise in demand for Covid tests flooded Ranchi labs with swab samples in the past couple of weeks, which eventually led to a delay of over 48 hours by private labs in providing RT PCR test reports to residents. As per NHM data, about 25,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. Even on Wednesday, some private labs admitted that it was taking more than two days to get RT PCR test results. Amid an unprecedented rise in cases and casualties, the state is also facing a crisis of beds and medicines used for treating Covid patients, health officials said. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), the state has been reporting more than 2000 fresh cases of infection and over a dozen Covid deaths every day on an average in the past one week. The meeting on Wednesday was virtually attended by Health Secretary KK Soan, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Kanke MLA Samri Lal. RIMS Director Dr. Kameshwar Prasad and other senior doctors of the hospital were also present, sources said. Besides decisions related to strengthening the infrastructure for the fight against Covid-19 virus, Gupta on Wednesday also approved procurement of various equipment for the cardiology wing of RIMS. The equipment will help in cardiac surgeries and placing pacemakers in patients in need of such surgical interventions. The state, however, is yet to get a genome sequencer to detect new and mutated strains of virus without having to send samples to Bhubaneshwar. Covid samples recently sent for genome sequencing confirmed the presence of double mutant and UK mutant strains of Covid-19 in Ranchi and Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Parents, teachers across Jharkhand welcome cancellation of board exams ||The Jharkhand Parents Association on Wednesday welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the Class 10 and postpone the class 12 board exams in the wake of the growing cases of Covid-19 in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a meeting with Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and other education department officials, took this decision . Ajay Rai, the president of JPA, said cancelling the board exams was a smart move given the rise in Covid cases and the risk of infection in students if they visit examination centres. “Risking the well being and health of students would not have been wise in the current circumstances. We also need to consider the fact that students are already under stress during their board exams, and the additional stress of Covid-19 would have made it even more challenging for them,” said Rai. Manohar Lal, the Ranchi coordinator for CBSE said that around 10,000 class 10 students and 9000 class 12 students were set to appear for the board exams scheduled to begin on May 4 and conclude on June 10 in Jharkhand. Unlike ICSE, there was no concept of home centre in CBSE, which meant that the students had to appear for the exams in centres away from their homes amid the growing cases of Covid-19 infection if the exams were not cancelled, said members of the JPA. Utpal Bhowmick, a Ranchi-based lawyer whose son had to appear for the class 10 exams this year, said that his son was under a lot of stress because of his exams and the Covid-19 situation and could not focus on his studies. Jamshedpur A section of students in the steel city said that the delay in exams will affect their studies. Rajiv Kumar, a student who was supposed to appear for the Class XII examination said,"Exams could have been conducted by maintaining social distancing and following other Covid-19 protocols." From Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas, around 4,000 students were about to appear for the Class XII examinations from as many as 12 CBSE schools. All schools affiliated to the board have welcomed the Centre’s decision. "In the wake of the growing number of Covid positive cases across the country, CBSE has taken the right decision to postpone the class 12 board exams. Although the board had increased the number of centres and strict guidelines had been issued to all the centers, the movement of a large number of students to answer their examinations would only make the Covid situation worse. I think the decision has brought relief to all parents whose wards were supposed to answer board examinations this year, " said Namita Agarwal, principal of Jamshedpur Public School. Dhanbad Students, parents and teachers of Dhanbad have welcomed the Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision. “We welcome the decision taken by the CBSE as the safety of students is of paramount importance,” said Dr K.C. Srivastava, Regional Officer of DAV School Group, to The Telegraph Online. “The decision to prepare the results of class X based on an objective criterion to be developed by the Board is also welcome as it is most likely to be based on the internal examination performance,” said Srivatava and added that those not satisfied with the results will get an opportunity to sit for an exam , as and when the situation improves. Srivastava has advised students to not stop preparations as they will be faced with more difficulties when they are in Class XI. He said students should simultaneously use the time being spent at home for preparation of professional courses. Prashant Singh, parent of a class X student of a Dhanbad school, affiliated to CISCE said, “after CBSE we  are very anxious about the CISCE examination and expect a similar decision.” Abhishek Acharya, a class XII student of the Delhi Public School, Dhanbad said, “though from safety point of view  the decision is ok but in a country like India where virtual classroom has not been very successful and we have already suffered with respect to practical learning  due to cancellation of offline classes the decision has negative aspects  also.” “Due to postponement of class XII exam by June, our career progress will be delayed,” said Acharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||UK, double mutant strains of Coronavirus found in Jharkhand patients||A UK mutant and a double mutant strain of the Coronavirus have been found among Covid patients in Jharkhand’s Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts, the Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory (RGSL) at Bhubaneshwar-based Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) has confirmed. The Jharkhand government had sent at least 52 Covid positive samples to Bhubaneshwar last week for genome sequencing, and the test reports confirmed that at least nine of these samples were of the UK mutant while four were the double mutant strain, the government stated in a press communique released on Wednesday afternoon. As per data shared by the state government, at least eight of the nine UK mutant samples were from Ranchi and the remaining one was from East Singhbhum. Among the four double mutant strains, three were from Ranchi and one from East Singhbhum. At a time when the state is already battling the worst wave of Covid-19 cases, the presence of mutant strains of the virus has rung the alarm bell for the health department. The mutant strains of the virus are said to have higher transmissibility and are also likely to evade the immune response of the body developed after exposure to the unmutated Covid-19 virus or vaccination. While the UK strain of the virus was first found in European countries, the double mutant variant of the Covid-19 virus first emerged in India and has spread to other countries like the USA, Germany and UK. The presence of mutated virus strains in Ranchi and East Singhbhum could be one of the reasons for the sudden spike in Covid cases and fatalities, say experts. “The new mutated strains of the virus have a higher transmissibility, which could be one of the reasons for the spike in cases lately in Jharkhand,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state co-ordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Ranchi and East Singhbhum have reported more than 50 per cent of the fresh Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand in April – a trend that could be attributed to mutation in the virus. As per government data, Ranchi alone has reported 8,384 of the 19,703 Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand since April 1. East Singhbhum has reported 2,798 of the fresh cases this month. Health officials said that the Covid samples sent for genome sequencing to Bhubaneshwar were stored at – 80 degree Celsius and had CT value of less than 25. Of the 52 samples from Jharkhand, 39 were selected for whole genome sequencing. Genomic sequencing is a testing process to map the entire genetic code of an organism. which in this case, is the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant apologises for Covid spike, says govt doing its best ||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Wednesday that the state government was doing its best to manage the spike in Covid-19 cases and apologised to those who faced problems in the last few days while campaigning in Madhupur for the April 17 byelection. Facing severe criticism, primarily for inadequacies in dedicated Covid treatment facilities, he assured people that he was keeping a strict watch on the situation and that systems were being streamlined. Hemant, who has been camping in Madhupur since April 9, is expected to return to Ranchi on Wednesday night. In the recent weeks, Jharkhand has witnessed an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases and shortage of hospital beds for critical patients. In statement, the chief minister said," Please don’t believe in any kind of rumors that are doing rounds. I am regularly in touch with authorities in the state to keep a strict vigil over Covid-19 situation in the state and issuing necessary directives from time to time. We are faced with an unprecedented situation and despite resource crunch and other challenges, the government is working its best to provide solace to its people and fight the virus. I am sorry if anyone faced any problems in recent days, but I once again assure you that this is your government and it will go to all extent to safeguard its people in war against covid-19.” Hemant appealed to people to help the government in fighting the pandemic by following the protocols. “Don’t venture out of your homes without the mask in any situation and follow all the protocols advised by the government to stay safe,” he said. Criticising Opposition parties, mainly the BJP for its double standards, Hemant said, “I also request Opposition parties to stop creating panic in the state for their political mileage. Like they (BJP) are spending all energies in Bengal election, Madhupur too is part of the country and Jharkhand where polling is happening on the directions of the Election Commission of India and union government.” On Tuesday, the state reported 29 casualties and 2,844 new infections in a single day. As per the records, Tuesday’s 24-hour death toll was almost equivalent to that of total fatalities recorded in February and March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Mental health fallout during Covid: Study||A study conducted by Jeevan, a Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre, has revealed that mental health of individuals has taken a turn for the worse, with the situation likely to aggravate in the days to come. The study is linked to the rise in number of suicide cases in the steel city. Experts at Jeevan fear that the stress level of people will increase in the second wave of Covid. A total of 38 individuals committed  suicide in March and 34 in February, 18 in January 10 in April so far. Of the total of 100 deaths in over three months, 65 were men below 45 years of age, 25 were both men and women aged above 45 and rest were teenagers. “Mental health of people in the 25-45 age group is not in good shape. This age group is feeling depressed and the feeling of non-performers is sinking in this age group. Unemployment and family problems have also effected them, which consequently lead to suicidal tendencies in them,” said Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain. Speaking  to The Telehgraph Online, Jain informed their study was based on interaction with people suffering from depression and suicide notes. “People approach our volunteers with complaints of feeling depressed for not being able to perform. Pressure of unemployment and family problems also form part of interaction. Suicide notes also point to similar issues,” he added. According to Jain, they think people will continue to become victim of depression in the second wave of Covid. “The second wave of pandemic  does not paint a very positive picture to say the least. We fear more  people would become victims of depression,” the Jeevan director said. He advised people to develop a positive attitude in life and always think about the best. “Spreading awareness among people who have suicidal tendencies is the best way to help them out. I have requested the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner to help us advertise Jeevan’s telephone numbers on hoardings at different parts of the city,” Jain said. People who need counselling are not able to contact Jeevan volunteers as its phone numbers are not available to most. ”The posters and hoardings, which were put up at some localities, including Kadma and Sonari, are either damaged or some other advertisement has come on top of them,” said Jain. He said it was a good sign that the number of students dying by suicide was not very high. “We are organising  a programme `Pariksha ka bhoot ko bhaga do’ via zoom on April 17. “Our experts, school principals and parents would be part of the programme. Around 25 schools of Jamshedpur are expected to be part of the event,” Jain said. According him, reaching out physically to people for counselling was not possible in Covid times. “We plan to conduct awareness sessions at 12 community centres run by Urban Services wing of Tata Steel will now take place via zoom,” Jain added, People can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499/9297777500 (only call), 9955377500,9955435500 (Call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||IMD warns of rain and thunderstorm for three days||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Wednesday issued a rain and thunderstorm alert in various pockets of Jharkhand for the next three days. Dry weather prevailed in the state during the last 24 hours. Statistics revealed that the automatic weather station at Pakur recorded the highest maximum temperature of 41.2°C in the past 24 hours. Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar and several other places recorded around 41°C for the last two days while the day's reading at Ranchi was hovering around 38°C for the last two days. Wednesday's satellite pictures revealed formation of  a low pressure trough in mid and upper tropospheric level which will help thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand. The Patna Meteorological Centre also issued a forecast of partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain or thunderstorm at isolated places over north, south-east and central Jharkhand between April15 and 17. Jharkhand has so far experienced three Nor'westers, two of them took place earlier in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Palamau cop, his wife and son die in road accident||Daltonganj: Three people of a family, including one child, died on Wednesday as their car collided with a truck at Pokhraha National Highway 75, while one was critically injured. The three have been identified as Akhilesh Prasad Yadav,  his wife Parmilla Devi and their eight-year-old son Gulshan. Akhilesh was a police officer posted in Dhanbad. Manish Yadav, his brother, was sent to RIMS in Ranchi and was in a critical condition,sources said. The family was on their way from Daltonganj to Ranchi when the accident happened at 4:45 am on Wednesday. Police said that the driver had escaped but his truck had been seized. The bodies have been sent to Chhaterpur in Palamau, from where the family hailed, after the postmortem. (Our correspondent) A renowned dentist of Chinese origin in Katras area and prominent lawyer of Saraidhela died in the last 24 hours from Covid-19 taking the total number deaths in the district to 179 since March 2020. Dr K.S. Chang, 71, was undergoing treatment in RIIMS. Jaiprakash Dasaundhi, the lawyer, was undergoing treatment in Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College  and hospital. District Secretary of Indian Medical Association, Dr Sushil Kumar said, “Doctors being the front line covid workers are more prone to Covid infection.” “We deeply sympathise with the family members of Dr KS Chang, who served the residents of Dhanbad for more than 40 years and appeal one and all to take maximum precaution  for themselves and their family members,” said Kumar. “We are afraid of lack of facilities for us as despite announcement of insurance for such doctors working in the government sector, none of doctors who lost their life are yet to get the insurance claim,” said Kumar. Chatra: Extremists of maoist group Tritiya Prastuti Committee set ablaze two trucks on the Raham bypass road in Tandwa sparking fear among transporters and contractors to coal companies working in the area, sources said on Wednesday. A pamphlet from the outfit  recovered from the spot asked transporters and contractors not to engage in commercial activities without its permission and warned of dire consequences if done otherwise. Sources said that the two trucks carrying coal to Fulbasia railway siding were stopped by armed extremists near Sarnapatti village on the Raham bypass on Tuesday midnight. The drivers were then asked to come down from their vehicles, after which the miscreants set the trucks on fire. Tandwa police reached the spot on getting the news and tried to bring the blaze under control along with firefighters, but the vehicles were completely gutted nonetheless. Officer-in-charge of the police station said raids were on to nab the accused. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar Chatra: Five out of 11 ventilators of Chatra Sadar Hospital were sent to RIMS in Ranchi on Monday after the extremist-affected district was instructed to do so, amid surging cases of coronavirus in the state. Chatra, which already lacks good healthcare facilities, was compelled to send the ventilators upon receiving an instruction from Deputy Commissioner Divyanshu Jha. The state capital has been trying to upgrade its facilities amid the surging cases. None of the 11 ventilators installed in the burn ward of the Sadar Hospital has been used for even once, and the technicians have forgotten how to use the life saving machines, sources said. Due to this, the state health department took some of them back to send them to Ranchi. Civil surgeon Ranjan Sinha while confirming the development said he was told that it would be better that the ventilators were sent to Ranchi. Meanwhile, Chatra on Wednesday recorded 84 new cases of Covid-19. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: As many as 41 traffic police officials were provided with sunglasses and towels to beat the heat while they are at work, managing the town. Palamau Superintendent of Police Sanjeev Kumar on Wednesday said that the mercury was on the rise with each passing day and the traffic police were the ones to bear the brunt of it, standing on the roads doing their work of controlling vehicles. People in Daltonganj, across all classes, tie a towel or a ‘gamcha’ around their heads to dodge the extreme heat in the region. Kumar said all the officials have been asked to wash their towels daily in view of the pandemic. Traffic in-charge R Saras said sunglasses and towels have been given to six traffic police officers, 34 associate cops and one traffic police driver. A cop said the move has been helpful for her. (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh: An NDRF team on Wednesday dug out the body of a 24-year-old who was reported missing on Sunday from Daru village under Sadar block. On Tuesday, villagers blocked roads after finding clothes and slippers near a closed Irga stone mine, fearing that the missing man, Uma Rajak had been murdered. This prompted Daru police to call in the NDRF team, which after a four-hour effort, found the body. Rajak’s relatives blamed two of his friends, saying that they had murdered him as he was last seen with them. They charged that all the men had consumed alcohol and got into a fight, after which Rajak was killed. Daru police station officer-in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said they had started their investigation but were waiting for the postmortem report to know whether he was murdered or it happened accidentally. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)  Koderma: Two women admitted to the dedicated Covid ward at the Mahila Degree College in the district died onWednesday of the virus. One of them was 60 years old and a resident of Bishnupur, while the other was 47 years old and a resident of Vidyapuri. Both of them were brought to the hospital after having complained of breathing troubles, said sources. Doctors said that the women were put on ventilator support but all efforts to save them failed. Meanwhile, DC Koderma Ramesh Gholap visited an engineering college in Bagitand area where a new 200-bed Covid centre is coming up and inspected the ongoing work. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad restaurants record sharp decline in business amid second wave||Restrictions imposed by the state government have taken its toll on around 500 restaurants in Dhanbad, already reeling under the impact of Covid-19. The state has ordered markets to be closed at 8 pm amid rising Covid-19 cases affecting not only table services at restaurants, but also delivery services as many people are avoiding food from outside to avoid the infection. A rough assessment has indicated that there has been a 50 per cent dip in the selling of food at restaurants during the first wave of the pandemic. However, right during the beginning of the second wave, sales have dipped to 30 per cent, and is expected to go down further. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sonu Alag, owner of Swadist restaurant said that they have been suffering losses since March last year and are barely able to pay salary to the staff. “Though the situation was slightly better from November till March, since last month we have been back at square one. The government’s April 6 notification has further increased our problems. Home delivery is affected due to shortage of staff,” he said. “We have not received any bulk orders for birthdays and anniversaries since last March. Those were our main source of income and our staff could earn some extra money as well,” Alag added. Echoing his sentiments, La Piaza owner Satnam Singh said nobody ventures out in the heat during summers and people like to come to restaurants only during the evening and night. “As the new norms say that markets have to be closed by 8 pm, very few customers come to restaurants in the evening to avoid police action. We are facing one of our worst times in this business,” Singh said. Mihir Mandal, Manager of Monalisa restaurant at Luby Circular Road, said “Even the regular customers are  not visiting our restaurants. The overall position of this business is in a pathetic condition in Dhanbad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 2,884 Covid-19 cases, highest one-day spike this year||Jharkhand reported its highest single-day-spike in Covid cases and casualties this year on Tuesday as at least 2,844 state residents were found infected by the deadly virus and 29 Covid patients died in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM on Tuesday night, the active caseload in Jharkhand reached 17,155 on the day, while the count of Covid patients in Ranchi jumped to 7,587 as the district alone accounted for 1,049 of the close to 3,000 fresh cases. As many as 1,003 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in the state on Tuesday, while Ranchi reported 429 Covid recoveries, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the districts with highest fatality rate in the state, reported six Covid deaths each on Tuesday, while four patients died in Hazaribagh. Three patients died in Simdega, while Dhanbad and West Singhbhum reported one casualty each. Two Covid patients also breathed their last in Bokaro in the past 24 hours. Tuesday’s developments took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1,261. As per government data, at least 379 East Singhbhum residents and 323 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 infection in the state so far. The state has reported 48 Covid casualties in the past 48 hours. East Singhbhum and Hazaribagh reported a triple digit spike in cases on Tuesday. With 434 cases and 158 recoveries, the active caseload in East Singhbhum reached 2,079. The active caseload in Hazaribag reached 788 as the district reported 209 cases against only four Covid recoveries on the day. The doubling rate of Covid cases also dropped below the 50-day-mark on Tuesday. As per government data, it would take 48.80 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the doubling rate of 84.84 across India. The growth rate of infection in the state was also a growing concern. As per NHM data, Jharkhand Covid-19 growth rate was 1.43 per cent against the national average of 0.82 per cent. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of as many as 34,155 people and more than 7 per cent of them were found infected. As per figures with the NHM, over 1.44 lakh people have tested positive in Jharkhand so far and 87.62 per cent of them have recovered. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 71,916 people, about 57 per cent of the over 1.26 lakh residents registered for the dose. The second jab was administered to only 6,636 beneficiaries, hardly 3 per cent of the more than 2.35 lakh people registered for the dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||Police recover 20 cartridges and magazine of Insas rifles||Police in Jharkhand’s Palamau district have recovered 20 cartridges and a magazine of the Insas rifles, manufactured by Ordnance Factory Board strictly for defence and security personnel, at Daltonganj, around 180 km from Ranchi. Acting on a tip-off, the Palamau district police at district headquarters in Daltonganj arrested two youths — Hassan Ansari, a resident Bedma-Babhandi area under Ramgarh police station and Jilani Ansari, a resident of Teliabandh under Sadar police station on Monday evening. “We had got a tip-off that two youths were trying to sell off cartridges of self loading rifles (SLRs) at Daltonganj Station Road and that they were contacting buyers through WhatsApp groups. We spread our network and caught hold of the two youths. They were remanded to judicial custody at Palamau Central Jail on Tuesday morning. However, the main kingpin of the racket identified as Guddu Ansari, a resident of Leslieganj is still absconding and his arrest would unravel on the supply channel of the cartridges to the youths,” said Medininagar city police station OC Arun Kumar Mahatha. According to police officials, Guddu Ansari fled from his house on Monday evening soon after getting information about the arrest of his accomplices. “The two arrested youths are not able to disclose much about the supply route and simply said that they were handed the 5.56 bore 20 cartridges by Guddu Ansari and were directed by him to sell it to prospective buyers whom he had contacted through WhatsApp groups. Everything would be cleared after arrest of Guddu Ansari,” said a police official. Police also recovered a high-end bike from the arrested duo. They are not ruling out the hands of Maoists in the sale of the Insas rifle cartridges. “It is very difficult to find Insas rifles in common market and is available only with defence and state police special forced to counter Maoists. We cannot rule out hands of Maoists as Palamau is a rebel hot bed,” said a senior police official. Police officials are trying to nab those who had expressed interest to buy the cartridges. “We would nab those who had expressed interest to purchase the cartridges as they might be having the prohibited SLR or trying to sell it to Maoists,” said the police official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
14-04-2021||Jharkhand||BJP, JMM trade charges on management of the pandemic situation in Jharkhand||Allegations and counter-allegations flew between the Opposition BJP and the ruling JMM on the management of the pandemic situation in Jharkhand on Tuesday in the run-up to the by-election to the Madhupur Assembly seat on April 17. JMM cabinet minister Hafizul Hassan is locked in a direct fight with the BJP’s Ganga Narayan Singh for the bypoll, campaigning for which would end on Thursday. BJP legislative party leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi on Tuesday accused chief minister Hemant Soren and his government of misguiding people on vacant beds in hospitals for Covid patients and suggested declaring a health emergency in the state. State health minister Banna Gupta countered the BJP allegation by stating that the state has enough beds in the government and private hospitals to treat Covid patients. He reminded the BJP leaders to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to do the same thing as suggested to Soren. Gupta claimed that Modi was busy in election campaigning amid a surge in Covid cases across the country and vaccine shortage in several states. Senior BJP leader Marandi told the media at Madhupur: “The state government has failed completely in controlling the spread of Covid-19. The people are crying for medical attention while the chief minister is busy in campaigning for the Madhupur bypoll. The government should immediately declare a health emergency in Jharkhand. “The government is making false claims on vacant beds for Covid patients in the state while in reality people are standing in queues waiting for treatment at RIMS and other hospitals in Ranchi. The central government is willing to help but the state government is only interested in doing politics over issues.” Jamshedpur West MLA Gupta on Tuesday inspected the Covid ward, vaccine centre, ICU and critical care units at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi wearing a PPE kit and interacted with Covid patients and tasted the food being served to them. “The visit is aimed at sending a message that I can visit any Covid hospital any time. There should not be any slackness in treatment of any patient. “At the moment the government has drawn up an action plan with the private and government hospitals across the state so that there are enough beds to treat Covid patients,” said Gupta. On the BJP’s allegation that the chief minister was engrossed in campaigning, Gupta retorted: “The BJP leaders should first ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi on what he is doing at the moment when the entire country is witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid cases and there are crises of injections and vaccines.” The state registered 2,366 fresh cases and 19 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. In capital Ranchi on Monday, there were a total of 984 oxygen-supported beds, out of which 875 were occupied, while 58 out of 91 ICU beds and 87 out of 159 ventilator beds were occupied. The growth rate (seven days) of the virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday stood at a worrying 1.29 per cent, more than the national average of 0.79 per cent, while the recovery rate was 88.30 per cent, lower than the national average of 89.90 per cent. The mortality rate stood at 0.86 per cent while the national average was 1.30 per cent. Meanwhile, Bihar leader of the Opposition and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav campaigned for Hafizul in Madhupur on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-82
