15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Salt Lake mega rallies on Super Tuesday||FD Block may be best known for the Durga puja it hosts and BF Park, behind the swimming pool, for its star-studded Kali puja. But in the run-up to the elections the two venues hosted two powerhouse politicians within hours of each other on Tuesday. Home minister Amit Shah took stage at a BJP meeting at FD Park at 6.15pm and chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed Trinamul supporters at BF Park at 9.20pm. Thousands had gathered for both the meets and together, they ensured an action- packed Tuesday for the township. The arrangements at both venues were elaborate. Massive stages were built, two-storey tall cut-outs of the leaders were put up, flags and sashes handed out to supporters and bio toilets fitted along the border of the parks. The Trinamul venue had even been covered with a hangar-like shelter. It would have protected the audience from the heat, since the meeting was originally scheduled for the day time. It had to be pushed to late evening following an Election Commission order banning Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours. Before the speeches began, music drowned all other sounds. There was Rabindrasangeet as well as propaganda music played to the galleries. Both venues had the crowds cordoned off into different sections. Hundreds sat but many more stood watching from the back. The BJP rally saw supporters in orange caps reading “Modi para” while the TMC folks wore blue and white caps saying “Didir doot”. Both rallies had a slew of speakers before the big act. The BJP show had the likes of candidates Swapan Dasgupta and Bhaskar Roy. Amit Shah entered FD Park when Sabyasachi Dutta, the candidate from Bidhannagar, was delivering his speech. “Amit Shah swagatam!” he said and the crowd was up on its feet. Cellphone cameras came out, people waved and tried to climb over the barricades to get a closer look but security personnel forced them back. At BF Park too, the Trinamul crowd roared when Mamata Banerjee was wheeled onto the stage. Most people stood up to see her better and click pictures but this had people at the back protesting. Police had to intervene and ask them to get off their chairs and bamboo barricades and take their seats. Banerjee was flanked by candidates Sujit Bose and Tapash Chatterjee and a host of councillors. The crowds may have been divided between the two venues but making hay were hawkers, many of whom had planned to attend both meetings. “It’s lucky for us that Didi’s meeting got rescheduled. How would we have attended two events if the timings clashed,” asked Pradip Adhikari, who arrived at the Amit Shah event early in the day selling sashes, caps and brooches in saffron and bearing the party logo. “There’s huge demand for BJP masks too but my Burrabazar supplier is out of stock.” Before the pandemic, bread and butter for this hawker from Habra used to be selling cola at stadiums but now he lands up at political rallies. “I don’t discriminate between parties and have been travelling across the state. This business is keeping me afloat now,” Adhikari says. Biswajit Choudhury had left home with as many kulfis as he could in his basket. “If I’m left with any kulfis after the BJP rally I’m heading to Didi’s show,” he said, adding that his ilk had to be apolitical at work. But not all was hunky dory. The swimming pool area wore a strange look that evening. “There are no shoppers or diners today, only policemen,” said a confused Pratima Som, who had come from Kestopur to drop her daughter at tuition in CF Block. “I’m feeling uneasy about walking about, as I usually do, and am worried about getting an auto home later.” The eat street was bereft of customers. “The swimming pool area is used to gala events but Mamata Banerjee’s presence has drawn tremendous crowds. In fact it is so crowded that regular diners aren’t showing up,” said Satish Shaw of The Scoop restaurant in CF Block. Abhijit Dutta of the Banchharam outlet there concurred. “The approach road has been blocked to cars and so our regular customers are unable to come. The crowd that has turned up for the rally is unlikely to buy from us,” he said, wrapping up for the day. Both rallies had die-hard followers who sang, danced and swore by their leaders. Adhikari, the hawker selling party merchandise, said A4-sized pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were his highest selling item across BJP meetings. Nitai Mondal and his chums were dancing outside FD Park to propaganda tunes playing on his phone, through a speaker that hung from his neck. “We have switched loyalties to BJP as we want better job opportunities,” said the delivery boy. Pinky Jana said she comes to FD Park every year during the Pujas. “I had especially loved their dinosaur-themed puja a few years ago. It was very crowded back then but it is even more crowded today,” she said, looking around. Bikas Upadhyay and his friends would have arrived even earlier to watch Amit Shah, “but we heard that BJP’s star campaigner Mithun Chakraborty was coming to Kestopur. I’m a huge fan and went to see him first,” he quipped. Sunny Bag of Duttabad stood on a chair, arms outstretched and showing the victory sign at Mamata Banerjee as she spoke on stage. He wore a striking parrot green kurta. “I’ve bought this kurta especially for Didi,” beamed the man who runs a food joint. “I shall wear it for Poila Baisakh and again on April 17 when I go to vote.” Sixty-nine-year-old Rajkumari Banerjee had come to the venue with a walking stick. “I have to use this stick since I broke my femur bone,” said the Karunamoyee resident, who had come escorted by her family members. “Mamata Banerjee too has broken her leg but she has to fight it out. And she can!” Those like Ashima Sarkar of Polenite were somewhat relieved that the meeting took place in the evening as they were spared the heat. But those like Bijoy Shaw set the record straight. “The heat is incidental. For Didi we can assemble at 1pm or 1am,” said the Lake Town resident. “For Didi, we can sacrifice our lives. Hindus and Muslims live peacefully in my neighbourhood thanks to Didi. I don’t want this to change,” said Babu Sahu. Many, if not most, across political rallies are going without masks. “I have a mask but I won’t wear it. Corona can’t touch us if Sujitda is by our side,” Bakul Hussain had proclaimed at a Sujit Bose rally at City Centre on Sunday. “Mask hatao! I don’t wear masks,” another member of the audience, Jyotsna Bibi had said, holding her four-month-old baby on her lap. Ashraful Khan, who lives in the tin-shelter slum near City Centre, had decided that the pandemic was but a ploy by the central government to render the common man jobless. “Have you seen this coronavirus? Then why do you believe in it?” he asked. Khan, however, was carrying a mask in his pocket despite his beliefs. “Some months back, the cops caught me for not wearing one and tried to fine me Rs 300. When I apologised they made me do sit-ups instead. From then on, I carry a mask and wear it only when necessary.” At the Amit Shah rally, some youths, when asked why they weren’t wearing masks, answered: “Jai shree Ram!” “Modi is our mask; he will protect us,” smiled Piyush Rana, before putting on a paper mask bearing the picture of Modi. Deba Sahu said he didn’t have time to wear his mask before coming. Next to him was his toddler neighbour, also without a mask. “We won’t get Covid. If anyone asks, I have a mask in my pocket but I’m not worried,” said Dilip Sardar, a cycle mechanic from Duttabad.  Traffic management A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that the last minute change in timing of the Trinamul rally came as a breather for them. “We thought traffic would get thrown out of gear due the to the clash of the two rallies but even the few hours of difference came as a blessing. We were able to handle traffic much better,” said the officer. When trucks and lorries headed to the BJP rally took over the Broadway, police diverted most of them through the lanes of GC and FD blocks. But those like Ashis Bagchi, a resident of DB Block who was headed home after visiting a doctor at a hospital off the Broadway, were still stuck behind BJP supporters headed to the venue. “My driver had to drive at snail’s pace behind the supporters. We requested the constable to let us pass using the opposite flank of the road but he refused. I rolled up the windows when I saw that most of the people there did not have masks on,” said Bagchi. By the evening, cars and buses carrying Trinamul supporters were parked along the lanes leading to the BF Block venue. “But traffic outside the block was largely unaffected as this park was inside a residential block,” said the officer. He added that a helipad had been built at BF Park to receive the chief minister. “But it finally went unused as she came by car from Barasat,” he said. Voters will be given a glove to press the button which will be disposed as biomedical waste through designated agencies after polling. They will have their temperatures scanned at the polling booth. If someone’s temperature is high, it will be checked one more time. If it is still high, according to the Election Commission of India guidelines, he will be asked to come back in the last hour of polling, between 5.30 and 6.30pm. “We have supplied polling personnel with PPE and face shield. One polling official in PPE kit will help him cast his vote,” returning officer of the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency Biswajit Panda told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The provision applies to Covid suspects and Covid positive people in home quarantine as well. They will have to wait till polling is complete for the general queue. There was a provision for Covid positive voters to vote at home through postal ballot but for that the application needed to be made within five days of the last date of filing nomination of candidates, which is long over. Neither Bidhannagar nor Rajarhat New Town received any such application. First-time voters can download their Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) from the Voter Portal https://voterportal.eci.gov.in/. “They need to register with their mobile number and choose the ‘Download E-Epic’ option. Over 800 first-time voters have already downloaded their EPIC in the Rajarhat New Town constituency,” said an official. The e-EPIC is a non-editable secure PDF version. New voters will also get hard copies of their voter ID cards. “The digitisation is meant to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the voter ID card,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Central forces battle heat, water shortage in Salt Lake||The Central forces have arrived in the twin townships ahead of the elections and chances are you have seen them marching in your neighbourhood dressed in combat fatigues and wielding assault rifles. As of Wednesday, men from three companies of Central forces were camping at different schools of Salt Lake and preparing for election duty. More companies were on their way and were expected to reach Salt Lake and New Town soon, an official of the Election Commission said. The first to arrive were companies from the Border Security Force (BSF). Each company comprises between 80 and 100 men who will be guarding the polling booths in Salt Lake and New Town tomorrow. They would also be posted around the booths and others would be patrolling on foot and on vehicles. Many will also be part of Quick Reaction Team (QRT) columns that will move around to curb any incidents of violence or trouble during the poll day. “Our mandate is clear. We have been asked to intervene at the first sign of trouble any where,” said an officer. They have also been handed out CDs of past elections held in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat and have received a list of booths that are likely to be considered sensitive. “We know exactly how elections have been taking place here and intend to curb any sort of violence instigated by lumped elements both inside and outside the polling stations,” the senior BSF officer said. Before coming to Salt Lake, the forces were stationed along the India Bangladesh border at Seemanagar near Krishnanagar. They have also been to Bankura and adjoining areas during the polls. “While on border duty we have to keep an eye out for trouble-makers and can recognise them instinctively,” said a BSF inspector. “We have to watch out for people trying to cross over illegally as well as smugglers trying to move cattle, drugs, bootleg liquor and banned cough syrup.” This lookout for people trying to sneak things through the border makes it easy for them to keep an eye out for trouble-makers during the polls. “We automatically scan crowds. It’s part of our training and has now become a habit,” said the inspector. The men are up from 5am and by 7am they’re out patrolling across Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat. Officers of the local police stations are guiding them. “Several residents have been coming forward to interact with us. They greet us and say that they have faith in us,” said the inspector. The forces, however, declined comment about the Sitalkuchi shooting incident. At a school in Salt Lake’s Sector I, an inspector said their personnel was intentionally keeping a distance from civilians during area domination activities. “We have been surveying the neighbourhood for area domination but even if residents want to interact with us we do not engage with them,” he said. The men seem impressed with the townships. “We quite liked the wide streets of Salt Lake and New Town. It has a good tree cover that is helping us cope with the heat,” said a constable. The heat has not affected their patrols. “The summer is oppressive but our personnel are trained for all kinds of weather. Not one of us has complained or fallen sick. We are also following Covid-19 protocol,” said the officer. The men are tucking water-soaked cloths under their collars for some relief and are wearing caps as shields from the sun. The only complain is about drinking water scarcity in their camps. “We are carrying our ration of food and our quartermasters are rustling up great dishes like rajma-rice, daal and spicy chicken curries. But we have a shortage of water in this building. On some days, we are having to buy water from the local markets,” the officer said. Many a jawan said that they work on rotation basis and would want to visit Eco Park, Victoria Memorial and Nicco Park on their off days. Inputs from Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Health secretary asks private hospitals to increase Covid bed count||Private hospitals must further increase the Covid bed count as the number of people getting infected is increasing rapidly, senior state government officials told private healthcare units at a meeting on Wednesday. The hospitals said they would ramp up their Covid bed strength but added that increasing the count beyond a point could be difficult. The demand for non-Covid beds was equally high, officials of the hospitals said. “We have asked the hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. We also asked them to open satellite facilities,” health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Officials of the health department pointed out at the meeting that the number of Covid beds in private hospitals across Bengal had come down from 5,000 during the epidemic’s peak last year to 4,000 now. “We were told to bridge this gap and add 1,000 beds as soon as possible,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. The meeting, chaired by home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, was held at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. Several private hospitals in the city have increased the number of Covid beds over the past few weeks but the bed crisis is still there. Officials at AMRI Hospitals, Belle Vue, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and Peerless Hospital said all their Covid beds were occupied on Wednesday evening. Belle Vue has 167 Covid beds, 37 of which are in the critical care unit. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has 160 Covid beds, 90 of which are critical care ones. “We had 30 Covid beds a fortnight back. We added 130 beds within 15 days, but even that is not sufficient, it seems,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica. The hospital had 230 beds at the peak of the epidemic last year. “It is difficult for us to further increase Covid beds immediately because the pressure of non-Covid patients is also very high. They have waited for long to undergo surgeries and procedures. We cannot suddenly deny them the opportunity to undergo the procedures,” Roy said. “We have 111 beds now. We will increase it to 121 by the end of this week. We can further increase it to 128, if required. But increasing the count beyond that will be a challenge because the demand for non-Covid beds is very high,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head (east), Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. The state government officials also asked the private hospitals to open satellite units where Covid patients with mild to moderate symptoms can stay, While a few hospitals like AMRI and RN Tagore have already opened satellite units, some others like Belle Vue are having discussions with hotels for opening such facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Heritage plaque installed at Sarod maestro Ali Akbar Khan’s house||The saying goes that his father would thrash him if he missed his riyaz. The training under his father, Allauddin Khan, often stretched from early morning till late at night. Along with him trained sister Annapurna Devi and Ravi Shankar. Sarod maestro Ali Akbar Khan was born at Shibpur in Brahmanbaria, now in Bangladesh, and moved to Calcutta in the late 40s. He founded his first music school, Ali Akbar College of Music, in the city in 1956. On his 99th birth anniversary on April 14, Intach, Calcutta chapter, along with Rotary International District 3291, celebrated his life and music by installing a heritage plaque at his Ranikuthi house. Ali Akbar’s grandson Siraz Ali Khan, and musicians Anindya Banerjee, Tejendra Narayan Majumdar and Bickram Ghosh were among those who attended the programme. Ali Akbar moved to the US in 1968, where he lived for the rest of his life. The Ali Akbar College of Music, too, moved with him to Rafael, California, with a branch in Basel, Switzerland. He passed away in 2009. “In Calcutta, he first lived in a flat on Broad Street and then on Kabir Road. But a lot of time he spent at 159/1 Rashbehari Avenue, where renowned musicians visited him. I still remember the soul-stirring concerts on the roof of the house. In 1995, he bought a house in Ranikuthi,” said musician Anindya Banerjee. “The installation of the plaque is for the benefit of future generations who will learn about Ustadji and his contribution to Hindustani classical music,” said Sudip Mukherjee, district governor, Rotary International District. “We are happy that we could install the plaque on the auspicious occasion of Ustadji’s 99th birth anniversary,” said Intach’s Calcutta convenor G.M. Kapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bishop Philip S. Masih of Methodist Church dies ||Bishop Philip S. Masih of the Methodist Church, who was the chairman of Calcutta Boys’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School, died in Lucknow on Tuesday. Masih had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital in Lucknow. He was 65. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter-in -law. The bishop was assigned to the Lucknow Episcopal area that comprises Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and the northeastern states. He was the chairman of more than 100 schools in these states and two degree colleges in Lucknow. In Bengal, he was the chairman of around 18 schools, including Methodist School,  Dankuni, and Mount Hermon School, Darjeeling. He became a bishop in 2012. “The bishop was the president of the council of bishops for Methodist Churches. He was an excellent administrator and under his leadership our schools have made great progress. It is a colossal loss,” said Raja McGee, the principal of Calcutta Boys’ School. Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School, said it was under his leadership that the school had branched out. “We (Calcutta Girls’) started schools at Pakur in Jharkhand and in Asansol under his leadership and encouragement...,” said Biswas. There will be a memorial prayer service on April 16 in a Lucknow church.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, state board to decide on exams soon||The ICSE council will take a decision on the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) board exams and “inform all concerned at the earliest,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government would take a decision “in the interests of the students at the appropriate time considering the prevalent Covid-19 situation”. The state board exams (Madhyamik and Higher Secondary) are scheduled for June. “But nothing can be more urgent and important than the health of our children and those involved in the examination process. The government will certainly take a decision in the interests of the students at the appropriate time considering the prevalent Covid-19 situation,” Chatterjee said on Wednesday. The ICSE and ISC (theory papers) are scheduled to start on May 4. “We will take a decision regarding the ICSE Class X and ISC Class XII board examinations and inform all concerned at the earliest...,” said Arathoon. On Wednesday, the CBSE cancelled the Class X board exams and postponed the Class XII exams. The exams were to begin on May 4. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations put a message on its website on Wednesday that read: “Due to Covid situation, CISCE will take a decision regarding ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examinations and will inform all concerned at the earliest.” The Telegraph had reported how the board was ready with all exam preparations and schools in the city had distributed admit cards and even the answer sheets had reached the schools. The state government had allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. Heads of institutions affiliated to the state board have sought suspension of in-person classes because of the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. The school education department has not taken any decision on this yet. “We are keeping a watch on the situation. Many schools are holding classes on digital platforms following a spike in cases. Any decision on shutting down the institutions again will be taken after consulting the chief minister's office,” an official of the school education department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||City school observes Ambedkar Jayanti to ‘glorify peace’||A school in the city observed the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, the father of the Constitution of India, because it felt it was important to “glorify peace, love and unity” in the midst of “violence and the barriers of caste, colour or religion”. The programme at Scottish Church Collegiate School in Kestopur on Wednesday was preceded by a message sent to all children the previous day about being “same” despite speaking different languages, wearing different clothes and eating different food. “Whether we are Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Parsi... we are all Indians. So he (B.R. Ambedkar) made a big book with rules to tell us how to live like good Indians and love one another always…. This book is called the Constitution,” the message read. The school, which came up in November 2019, has students from Classes Lower Nursery to III and is under the Scottish Church Collegiate School on Bidhan Sarani. “It is important to glorify love, peace and unity, which are the essence of our democracy. We need to stand united, which is not happening now. When our children switch on the television they see so much of violence and hatred…. We talk about social skills but how do you develop those in the midst of barriers of caste, colour and religion,” said Angela Ghose, acting principal, Scottish Church Collegiate School (Kestopur). The school has included the Preamble to the Constitution in the school diary. Ghose said it was not enough to have it in the diary; children should be made aware of it and explained why it is there in the diary. “As educators we have to make children aware not just of their rights but also duties and if we let the matter rest, we are letting children believe nothing wrong is happening,” said Ghose. “Our children need to know that above academics, knowledge and marks is the understanding of human values, and as schools we can instil values in them.” Some of the parents attended the programme. The school authorities feel it is important for parents to understand that the institution stands for equality. The programme was attended by the headmaster of the Scottish Church Collegiate School in north Calcutta, Bivash Saniel, who said it was important to highlight the ideals of people like Ambedkar. “Our school stands for equality… .Ambedkar is the architect of what we as a country represent and today there is so much division on caste lines, culture lines and religion lines,” said Saniel, also a member of the managing committee of the Kestopur school. Children did not attend the programme because of the pandemic. The idea was to get across the message through parents. The parents who turned up on the campus were shown the Preamble to the Constitution. “Children need to know the Constitution and know about Ambedkar. Parents took home the message to their children,” said Ghose. “It was encouraging to see parents reading about B.R. Ambedkar. Many of them sent content they found on the internet about him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Prioritise second dose of vaccine, says government||The state government on Wednesday asked private hospitals to give priority to Covid vaccine recipients turning up for the second jab and administer the first dose only if enough doses are available. Many private hospitals said they would stop giving the first dose from Thursday because of shortage. Bengal received three lakh doses of Covishield and two lakh doses of Covaxin on Wednesday, but state health department officials said the stock would only last for about three days. The government on Wednesday held a meeting with private healthcare institutes and told them that their priority should be the second dose. “We have told the private hospitals to focus on the second dose and administer the first according to availability. The private hospitals have also been asked to send messages and call recipients of the second dose and give them slots on days when they could administer the dose,” said Joly Chaudhuri, the joint secretary of the state urban development department who chaired the meeting. “We are asking recipients of the second dose to call our helpline if they are facing problems getting an appointment.” Sources said the state government had also given the option to hospitals and other healthcare units to not conduct vaccination on Sundays and holidays because of shortage. Several hospitals said they would not administer the first dose of a Covid vaccine on Thursday. Some others said they would not conduct vaccination on Thursday as it coincides with Poila Baisakh and also because of shortage of supply. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences administered 218 first doses with Covaxin and only 72 second doses with Covishield. On Thursday, the hospital will only administer the second dose. A limited number of first doses will be administered again on Friday subject to availability, officials of the hospital said. “We have been advised to rationalise the use of vaccines because of a supply shortfall. The primary focus should be on the second dose and only a limited number of first doses will be administered,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Peerless Hospital will not conduct vaccination on Thursday because of a lack of supply. The hospital has around 4,000 people lined up for the second dose, most of whom had taken Covishield as the first dose. “It’s our responsibility to ensure that those who have taken the first dose get the second dose, too. So, first doses will be administered again if we have enough supply,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “Every day we are requesting the state government to give us enough doses. But we are getting inadequate doses because of shortage.” AMRI Hospital’s Mukundapur unit administered the second dose to only 28 people on Wednesday and no one was given the first dose. The group’s Salt Lake unit could not conduct vaccination for the fifth consecutive day. The Telegraph reported on Wednesday that hundreds of people who were scheduled to get the second dose were turned away by hospitals or asked not to visit the healthcare units because of shortage of vaccines. The Covid vaccination for all senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities had started on March 1 and many of them are now eligible for the second dose. At most private healthcare units, Covishield was given as the first dose. Only about 12 lakh of the targeted population of 3 crore in Bengal have got both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 260 points to close above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 260 points higher after a volatile session on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, TCS and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets. After gyrating 877 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 259.62 points or 0.53 per cent higher at 48,803.68. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 76.65 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,581.45. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's, HDFC and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Infosys, Maruti, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. "Domestic equities looked to be resilient amid high volatility. Benchmark indices recovered sharply from today's low mainly led by rebound in financials and pharma indices," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Auto stocks were worst hit mainly due to wider economic restrictions imposed in Maharashtra, which contributes over 20 per cent of automobiles production of the country, he said, adding that Infosys witnessed heavy profit booking after missing the street's estimates in 4QFY21 earnings. However, strong buying was seen in other IT majors due to sustained growth prospects, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Seoul and Tokyo settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 66.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
15-04-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and M&M amid negative cues from domestic and global markets. After opening over 200 points higher, the 30-share BSE index reversed all its gains to trade 216.73 points or 0.45 per cent lower at 48,327.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 62.55 points or 0.43 per cent to 14,442.25. Infosys was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, UltraTech Cement and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex closed 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48,544.06, and Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to finish at 14,504.80. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 730.81 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Stock exchanges remained closed on Tuesday on account of Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Jayanti. "Amidst the negative of an alarming rise in COVID-19 cases, a relief from the market perspective is that there is no large-scale lockdown," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. However, the massive restriction of activity in the economically significant state of Maharashtra is bound to have its impact on growth and earnings. The market knows this, but what is unknown is how long will this last and how quickly we can get ahead of the infection cases, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading on a positive note. Equities on Wall Street too ended on a negative note in overnight trade after Federal Reserve's Beige Book survey on economic activity pointed to a moderate pace of pick-up in economic activities to start the year with a slight uptick in inflation. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 66.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Future Enterprises Ltd defaults on payment of interest on non-convertible debentures||Kishore Biyani group firm Future Enterprises Ltd has defaulted on payment of interest on non-convertible debentures (NCDs). “The company is unable to service its obligations in respect of the interest on NCDs due on April 12, 2021,” Future Enterprises said in a regulatory filing late on Tuesday night. The company had issued debentures worth Rs 300 crore and the interest payable on April 12 was Rs 15.2 crore. Future Enterprises develops, owns and leases retail infrastructure for Future Group. It handles the back-end operations of the group’s retail business. The development comes at a time Amazon and Future Group are locked in a legal tussle over the sale of the latter’s retail and wholesale business to Reliance Retail. On August 29, 2020, Future Group had announced that its retail and wholesale businesses would be sold to Reliance Retail in a Rs 24,713-crore deal. There have also been reports of Future Retail’s lenders being close to approving a debt recast plan. The plan includes a two-year moratorium on repayments though there will not be any change in the interest rate. The company owes over Rs 6,000 crore to banks. Religare Finvest Religare Enterprises on Wednesday said its arm Religare Finvest will default on Rs 100 crore NCD payment obligation later this month to subscriber Axis Bank because of financial distress caused by misappropriation of funds by former promoters and officials. Religare Finvest Limited had borrowed Rs 100 crore from Axis Bank by placing non-convertible debentures (NCDs) on a private placement basis in September 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel announces a new corporate structure||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a new corporate structure to sharpen the company’s focus on rapidly unfolding digital opportunities. The move comes at a time players are positioning themselves beyond the core telephony offerings as they enhance digital engagement, build future streams of revenue and create brand differentiation, besides redefining themselves as a larger platform of digital services, say market watchers. Bharti Airtel said the restructuring exercise would focus on four distinct verticals — digital, India, international and infrastructure. The new structure involves Airtel Digital Limited folding into the listed entity Bharti Airtel. Moreover, the telecom business will be housed in a newly created entity — Airtel Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharti Airtel. Bharti Airtel will now house all of the digital assets spanning Wynk Music, Airtel Xstream, Airtel Thanks, Mitra Payments platform, Airtel Ads, Airtel IQ, Airtel Secure, Airtel Cloud and all future digital products and services. Bharti Telemedia, the 100 per cent arm operating DTH services, will exist alongside Airtel Limited for now. “It is intended to eventually fold the DTH business into Airtel Limited to move towards converged services to customers,” it added. The company has approached the government to seek clarity on the licensing policy as telecom and DTH is currently regulated by the two separate ministries of communications, and information and broadcasting, respectively. Airtel Payments Bank will remain a separate entity under Bharti Airtel. All infrastructure businesses such as Nxtra and Indus Towers will remain separate entities. International subsidiaries and affiliates will also remain separate entities. “The board has approved the scheme enabling the company to file for all statutory approvals to give effect to the proposed rearrangement,” a statement said. Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal said, “The new structure sets the exciting future course for Bharti Airtel and provides focus on the four distinct businesses digital, India, international and infrastructure, each, in a razor-sharp way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Chambers critical of Maharashtra closure||The lockdown in Maharashtra has evoked a mixed response: some industrialists have welcomed the state government move but chambers are sceptical. On Tuesday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government had announced tough curfew-like restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days. It will come into effect from 8pm on April 14 and be in force till 7 am on May 1. Ahead of the announcement, well known industrialists such as Rajiv Bajaj, the managing director of Bajaj Auto, had condemned such a move, warning of disruptions across industries. Finance ministry officials said the performance of the economy in the current quarters would not be as good as the previous quarter. The regional chapters of Ficci and Assocham also spoke in the same vein as Bajaj. “We are certainly hopeful that this (restrictions) will help slow the transmission of the virus. However, the lockdown will have a deep impact on the state’s economy and Ficci Maharashtra will engage deeply with the stakeholders in the government to minimise the impact and smoothen out the implementation related issues,” Sulajja Firodia Motwani, chairperson of Ficci Maharashtra, said. She said there are concerns on both supply and demand side. And, on the supply side, many companies operating in Maharashtra are selling their products all over the country and extended disruption in  their operations will create a negative impact on their customers, she added. Industry body Assocham also said it is working with the Maharashtra government to mitigate the economic impact of its 15-day curfew, and urged all states to reach out to the most vulnerable sections of the industry, particularly in the informal sectors, with the best possible relief. On Wednesday, Sanjiv Bajaj, the managing director of Bajaj Finance, did not pass any adverse remarks against the curbs. “Thank you Maharashtra government for a balanced set of restrictions announced by the Hon. CM yesterday,” he tweeted. “The chain has to be broken,” tweeted Harsh Goenka of Ceat Tyres. “With no hospital beds and shortage of medical essentials, I welcome the Maharashtralockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Returns from guaranteed return life insurance plans trump fixed deposits||Returns from guaranteed return life insurance plans have trumped fixed deposits amid falling interest rates. The trend, according to the industry officials, is expected to sustain over the next 12 months. Interest rates on fixed deposits across tenors of 7-1,826 days in major public and private sector banks are in the range of 2.75-5.8 per cent. Data compiled by online insurance aggregator Policybaazar.com show that an individual of 30 years investing Rs 60,000 every year for a period of 10 years can earn a return of 5.51-6.04 per cent across guaranteed return life insurance policies offered by insurers such as HDFC Life, ICICI Prudential, Tata AIA Life, Aditya Birla Capital, Bajaj Allianz Life, Max Life and Bharti Axa Life. These products, however, are of longer tenure with premium paying terms in the range of 5-12 years and policy terms ranging between six years and 20 years. According to insurers, guaranteed income policies typically include protection as well as maturity benefits and assured returns, which could be both immediate payout or deferred payout depending on the choice and the policy. “We are seeing an increased interest for guaranteed return covers which is ideal for risk-averse individuals who are looking for a regular source of income. The falling rates on term deposits have aided the interest in these products,” said a senior executive of a private life insurer. Vivek Jain, head of investment business, Policybazaar.com, said the insurance companies which invest in long-term instruments such as government securities are able to offer better returns on relatively longer tenure policies. Moreover, with low policy rates and banks being flush with funds, the returns on fixed deposits have come down significantly. “In 2014, fixed deposits used to give a return of around 8.5 per cent. From there it has come down to around 5.4-5.5 per cent.Today we have a situation where guaranteed return products are offering a better rate than fixed deposits,” said Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Infosys fourth quarter net profits tumble on a sequential basis||Technology giant infosys saw its fourth quarter net profits tumble on a sequential basis even as its revenues rose by a blip but trailed market estimates. India’s second biggest software services company also unveiled a Rs 9,200-crore share buyback programme that fell well short of expectations. There was, however, some consolation as Infosys  guided for a double-digit revenue growth during this fiscal. The Bangalore-based company reported a net profit of Rs 5,076 crore — an increase of 17.47 per cent over Rs 4,321 crore in the year-ago period. However, it was 2.33 per cent lower than the preceding three months. The net profit number was lower than the Rs 5,100-5,250 crore expected by analysts. Revenues during the fourth quarter rose just 1.5 per cent sequentially to Rs 26,311 crore but was higher by 13.1 per cent from Rs 23,267 crore reported in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. In dollar terms, it stood at $3,613 million, which was lower than the $3,646 million expected by brokerages such as Reliance Securities. However, these disappointments were made up by a robust order book which placed it on a strong foundation for the current fiscal. Large deal wins stood at $2.1 per cent during the fourth quarter and for the entire year, it was at $14 billion. With clients across industries continuing to bet on technology, Infosys said it expects revenues in constant currency terms to rise 12-14 per cent in 2021-22, which came in line with analysts’ estimates. There was no good news on the operating margin front as Infosys guided for a 22-24 per cent rise for the current fiscal, which was lower than the 24.5 per cent recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. Moreover, attrition jumped to 15.2 per cent from 10 per cent in the preceding quarter. At a press conference, the top management of Infosys said there are certain tailwinds on costs which could impact operating margins. The company expects to give out salary hikes in July after rolling out increments in January this year. Moreover, certain other costs such as travel are expected to inch up for the company. “Our intense focus on client relevance, growing our digital portfolio with differentiated capabilities and empowering employees have helped us emerge as a preferred partner-of-choice for our global clients,’’ CEO and MD Salil Parekh said. While digital services contributed 51.5 per cent of revenues during the quarter, all verticals barring communications showed growth during the period. Financial services reported a 15.6 per cent constant currency growth over last year, while it stood at 18.3 per cent for life sciences and 15.5 per cent for high-tech. Analysts do not rule out the possibility of the Infosys stock opening lower in Thursday’s trade. Incidentally, the Infosys ADR was trading more than 3.50 per cent lower after the results were announced. Infosys has announced a Rs 9,200 crore ($1.2 billion) share buy back which fell short of Street expectations. The expectation in some circles was that it would announce a Rs 10,000-12,000 crore share re-purchase programme. Nomura had anticipated that the company Infosys will announce a $1.3-1.9 billion plan at a maximum price of Rs 1,650 per share. Infosys will buy back shares from the open market at a price of up to Rs 1,750 per share. For 2020-21, the board recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share. Together with the interim dividend of Rs 12 per share, the total dividend per share for 2020-21 will be Rs 27, which is a 54 per cent increase over the previous fiscal. With this, the company has announced total dividend of Rs 11,500 crore for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||India||Delhi court grants bail to Umar Khalid in Delhi riot case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former JNU student Umar Khalid in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February last year saying he was not physically present at the scene of crime on the date of incident. The applicant (Khalid) is not visible in any CCTV footage/viral video(s) pertaining to the scene of crime on the date of incident. There is no identification of the applicant either through independent public witness or any police witness of he being present at the scene of crime on the date of incident, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted in the order. The court further said that even the CDR location of the mobile phone of the applicant was not found at the scene of crime on the date of incident. The applicant has merely been roped in the matter on basis of his own disclosure statement, fourth disclosure statement of co-accused Tahir Hussain and disclosure statement of co-accused Khalid Saifi, it said, adding that no recovery of any sort has been effected from the applicant pursuant to his disclosure statement. The court rejected prosecution's argument that Khalid had been in regular contact/touch with co-accused Tahir Hussain and Khalid Saifi over mobile phone and said that prima facie that does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter. The FIR in the present case was registered on the statement of Constable Sangram Singh, where he stated that on February 24, 2020 at about 2 PM, a large crowd gathered on the road in a locality in the northeast Delhi and started pelting stones in which he and other police officials got injured as they were thrashed by the mob. They set the vehicles in a parking area nearby on fire, including the motorcycle of the complainant, he said. Though Khalid has been granted bail in this case, he will remain in jail as the former JNU student leader is also accused in some other cases including one related to the criminal conspiracy lodged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-04-2021||India||After CBSE, NEET postponed in view of rising number of Covid-19 cases||In view of a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance test (NEET), which was scheduled to be held on April 18, has been postponed, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. "In light of the surge in #Covid19 cases, GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18. Next date to be decided later. Decision has been taken keeping the well being of our young medical students in mind," he said in a tweet. The decision came a day after CBSE Class 12 examinations were postponed in view of the rising number of cases. Earlier on Thursday, DMK chief MK Stalin in a tweet asked the rationale behind holding the examination. In a tweet, Stalin, whose party is a vocal critic of NEET, pointed out at the cancellation of CBSE class X exams "due to the second wave" of Covid-19. "CBSE exams have now got cancelled due to the second wave of #Covid19. With increasing cases and fatalities, when our doctors are fighting hard against all odds, is this the right time to hold National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for PG courses," Stalin, Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
15-04-2021||India||Declare journalists frontline workers, get them vaccinated, says Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Thursday urged the Union government to declare journalists as frontline workers and ensure priority vaccination for them amid a rise in coronavirus cases. In a statement, the Guild said news organisations have been relentlessly covering the pandemic, elections, and other current affairs in an effort to ensure that the flow of news and information to readers continues unabated. "News media is included in essential services. Therefore, it will only be fair that journalists be given this cover of protection, especially in the face of the number of infected rising to astronomical levels," the statement said. The Editors Guild of India (EGI) urges the Union government to declare journalists as frontline workers and they be allowed priority vaccination against coronavirus, along with other frontline workers, it said. Without the protection of vaccination, media persons are finding it very difficult to discharge their professional responsibilities, the Guild pointed out. The EGI said therefore, it calls upon the Union government to immediately get all journalists, regardless of age, vaccinated so that there is no disruption in their work during this critical time. India saw its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 COVID-19 infections, pushing the country' tally of cases to 1,40,74,564, according to official data released Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||15-year-old SFI worker stabbed to death in Kerala, family blames RSS-BJP||A 15-year old boy was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of people during a temple festival at Padayanivattom near Alappuzha on Wednesday night, police said. The teenager, a student activist of the Students' Federation of India (SFI) was stabbed to death at around 10pm on the night of Vishu, allegedly by members of the RSS,family sources said. "We have taken into custody and questioned the father and brother of Sajay Datt, a local, who is the accused in the case. We are yet to nab him, a search is on," police told PTI. The CPI(M) has called for a hartal in Vallikunnam area protesting the murder of the tenth standard student. He was supposed to attend the ongoing tenth standard exams in the state. Sources close to the family told P T I that the assailants came looking for his elder brother, a DYFI activist but attacked the minor, killing him. "He is my second son. He lost his mother a year ago. He was just 15. He may have been an SFI activist in school… since he is from a Communist family. I don't understand why he was killed," his father, Ambili Kumar, told the media. CPI(M) Charumood area secretary Binu told the media that it was planned murder. "He was an SFI activist. It was a planned murder by the BJP and the RSS," he said. Meanwhile, BJP denied all the allegations and said it was in no way associated with the murder. "All the allegations raised against BJP and the RSS are baseless. Police have clearly said that it was not a politicalmurder," BJP district president A V Gopakumar said. Recently, after the state Assembly polls, a 22-year- old IUML worker was allegedly killed in a post-poll clash between the league activists and the CPI(M) at Kannur. The teenager is the seventh Left worker killed in the state during the last eight months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||UP shuts schools, imposes 11-hour curfew in 10 districts amid Covid surge||All schools in Uttar Pradesh will be closed till May 15 while board exams for classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the state government said on Thursday. The government also imposed an 11-hour night curfew in 10 districts with more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases with immediate effect, according to a statement issued here. The decisions were taken at a meeting virtually chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from his residence, where he has isolated himself after testing positive for coronavirus. The new dates for the board examinations will be decided in the first week of May, an official said. "Schools up to Class 12 are being closed till May 15 and no examinations will be held during this period. Also, UP Board exams for classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20," the official said. Schools up to Class 12 were already shut till April 30. Initially, the UP Board exams were to be held from April 24 but were postponed to May 8 following the steep rise in coronavirus infections in the state. Every year, about 56 to 57 lakh students of classes 10 and 12 appear for the UP Board exams. During the meeting, Adityanath also directed officials to impose a night curfew from 8 pm to 7 am with immediate effect in 10 districts that have more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases. The districts are in Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur, the official said. The chief minister also said that people should also be told about the importance of wearing masks and sanitisation. Since Lucknow is the state capital, he said, it's obvious that more people will come here. So additional arrangements should be made in the city. "King George's Medical University and Balrampur Hospital should be made dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in a phased manner. In private hospitals, too, the number of beds should be increased," he said. On panchayat polls, which began on Thursday, Adityanath said all personnel on duty should follow Covid-19 protocols and gloves, sanitisers and masks should be made available. On migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh from other states, he asked officials to create quarantine centres in every district with necessary facilities. He said the chief medical officer will monitor the availability of oxygen and anti-viral drug Remdesivir and that there should be no shortage of essentials in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Decision on approving foreign-made vaccines to be taken in 3 days, says Centre||India's drug regulator will take a decision on applications seeking approval for restricted emergency use of foreign produced vaccines within three working days from the date of submission, the government said on Thursday. The Central Drug Authority, CDSCO, will process applications for registration certificates (registration of overseas manufacturing site and product; in this case Covid vaccine) and import license within three working days from the date of approval of restricted use in emergency situations. The CDSCO issued detailed guidelines specifying regulatory pathway for approval of foreign approved Covid-19 vaccines after the central government on Tuesday decided to fast-track emergency approvals for all coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the WHO or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued regulatory pathways for foreign produced Covid-19 vaccines according to which the CDSCO has prepared detailed guidelines specifying regulatory pathway for approval of foreign approved Covid-19 vaccines. The government had on April 13 approved streamlining and fast tracking of regulatory systems for Covid-19 vaccines approved for restricted use by the US FDA, EMA, UK MHRA, PMDA Japan or which are listed in WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India and would encourage imports including import of bulk drug material, optimal utilisation of domestic fill and finish capacity, which will in turn provide a fillip to vaccine manufacturing capacity and total vaccine availability within the country, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Need to create environment to quickly scale up vaccine production, says Goyal ||There is a need to create environment for quick scaling up of global production of vaccines and other medical products to contain the spread of coronavirus and this requires temporary removal of all hurdles, including related with intellectual property protection in the WTO, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said. In this regard, he said, India and South Africa along with 57 other WTO (World Trade Organisation) members have co-sponsored a proposal for temporary and limited-scope waiver from certain provisions of the TRIPS (trade related aspects of intellectual property rights) agreement relevant to the prevention, treatment and containment of COVID-19. Goyal said that this waiver is not intended to take away protection given to pharma companies, and it focuses only on COVID-19 vaccines, associated medicines, and cure. "We need to create an environment for quick scaling up of global production, not only for vaccines but also other medical products, such as therapeutics and diagnostics. This requires temporary removal of all impediments to the production of COVID-19 medical products, including where necessary Intellectual Property protection," he has said. The minister was speaking at a WTO event -- COVID-19 And Vaccine Equity: What Can The WTO Contribute? -- on April 14. The minister stated that the world is not producing sufficient vaccines due to limited licensing agreements. To bridge the supply deficit, every tool at our disposal should be used towards producing enough vaccines, he said adding all initiatives must be explored in parallel and in a timely manner to ramp up manufacturing of COVID-19 medical products. Goyal said that every country should strive for resilient supply chains by ensuring unimpeded access to raw materials required for COVID-19 products and failure to do so could prolong the pandemic for many years through cycles of mutation and may cost the global economy trillions of dollars. "The time to act is now," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||More than 1,700 test positive for Covid in Kumbh Mela over 5-day period||A total of 1,701 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases. The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire Mela Kshetra extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Haridwar Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said on Thursday. More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela Kshetra is likely to climb to 2,000, he said. The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh. A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two royal baths (Shahi Snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating COVID norms like wearing of face masks and social distancing. Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints. As the 13 akharas had to take their holy dip at Har ki Pairi in accordance with their allotted time slots before sunset, the police and paramilitary personnel were hard-pressed to ensure each of them vacated the ghat before the arrival of the next akhara in line to prevent chaos. As seers were averse to undergoing RT-PCR tests till the Mesh Sankranti Shahi Snan of April 14, both testing and inoculation in the Kumbh Kshetra including the areas allocated to the akharas are likely to be stepped up in the coming days, Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Gyms, malls, spas closed in Delhi; weekend curfew to be imposed ||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced sweeping restrictions, including a weekend curfew and the closure of malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums, in a bid to break the chain of Covid infections in the city. There will be no in-house dining in restaurants and cinema halls will be allowed to operate with only 30 per cent capacity, the chief minister said at an online press conference a day after the city recorded the biggest single-day jump 17,282 new Covid-19 cases. Kejrwal said essential services and weddings will not be affected during the weekend curfew and passes will be provided to those attending weddings. The chief minister also said there was no shortage of hospital beds and over 5,000 were still available for Covid patients. Efforts to increase beds on a large scale will also be made, he assured. Restaurants in the national capital will be allowed to do home deliveries, Kejriwal announced, adding that only one weekly market in a zone will be allowed to open per day and steps will be taken to control crowds in those permitted to function. Covid-19 cases, he said, are rising every day in Delhi and the restrictions were needed to check the spread of the virus. The government will also ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, Kejriwal said, noting that many people were still not following it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Congress candidate from Bengal dies after testing positive for Covid-19||Congress candidate Rezaul Haque died, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, died at a hospital here early on Thursday, health department sources said. Haque, 46, the party's nominee from Samsherganj Assembly constituency in Murshidabad district, was initially admitted to a private hospital in Jangipur on Wednesday following bouts of breathing trouble, they said. He was later referred to a medical facility in Calcutta after his condition deteriorated at night. Haque died around 5 am, the sources said. West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury condoled his death and said the Election Commission should take note of the various instances of violation of safety protocols at poll rallies. "I have written to the commission, stating how Covid regulations are being violated. We need to raise the awareness level," Chowdhury said. Samsherganj goes to polls in the seventh phase of the Assembly elections on April 26. India recorded 1,038 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 3, 2020, as  the toll increased to 1,73,123, data released by the Union health ministry showed. A total of 2,00,739 new Covid-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||‘Tika Utsav’ a sham of the Centre to hide poor handling of Covid situation, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over the handling of the Covid-19 situation and alleged that it is only indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'. He also alleged that there is no testing, no beds in hospitals, neither ventilators or oxygen and vaccine is also not available. Gandhi also took a jibe asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were given to the fund for handling Covid-19 situation. "There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?" he asked. His attack came after the government celebrated the 'Tika Utsav' (vaccine festival) from April 11 to 14. India saw its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 Covid-19 infections and 1,038 fatalities pushing the country' tally of cases to 1,40,74,564 and the total death toll to 1,73,123, according to official data. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the country were recorded at 14,71,877 cases. With over 1 lakh infections per day for the ninth consecutive day, India has added 13,88,515 cases in nine days. India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity is insufficient to meet its target of administering five million doses per day, an expert panel underlined on Wednesday, shedding light on shortages flagged by states but denied by the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day Covid surge, registers over 2 lakh cases||India added a record over 2 lakh new COVID-19 infections in a day pushing the total tally of cases to 1,40,74,564, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 2,00,739 new COVID-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,73,123 with 1,038 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 3, 2020 the data updated at 8 am showed. With over 1 lakh infections per day for the ninth consecutive day, India has added 13,88,515 cases in nine days. Registering a steady increase for the 36th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 14,71,877, comprising 10.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.31 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.23 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,20,03,415 samples have been tested up to April 14 with 13,84,549 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,038 new fatalities include 278 from Maharashtra, 120 from Chhattisgarh, 104 from Delhi, 73 from Gujarat, 67 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Punjab, 51 from Madhya Pradesh, 38 from Karnataka, 31 from Jharkhand, 29 from Rajasthan, 25 from Tamil Nadu, 24 from West Bengal, 22 from Kerala, 21 from Bihar, 18 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, 13 each from Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. A total of 1,73,123 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 58,804 from Maharashtra, 13,046 from Karnataka,12,970 from Tamil Nadu, 11,540 from Delhi, 10,458 from West Bengal, 9,376 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,672 from Punjab and 7,339 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-210
15-04-2021||India||Covid: CBSE calls off Class X exams, defers Class XII boards||The government on Wednesday cancelled the CBSE Class X board exams and postponed the Class XII test in view of the spike in Covid cases. Nearly 21.5 lakh Class X students and another 14 lakh Class XII pupils were to take the CBSE board exams, which were to be held from May 4 to June 14. This is the first time a CBSE board exam has been cancelled fully. Last year, the exams had been partially cancelled in the wake of riots in northeast Delhi and rising Covid-19 cases. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 before a decision is taken on the Class XII exams. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the exams. “The results of Class Xth Board will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the Board. Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allocated to him/her on this basis will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive to hold the exams,” said a release issued by the department of school education and literacy, ministry of education. “The Board Exams for Class XIIth to be held from May 4th to June 14th, 2021, are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on 1st June 2021 by the Board, and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations,” the release added. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Sunday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had written to the education minister seeking a cancellation of the CBSE exams. She followed this up with tweets repeating the demand. Rahul Gandhi also called on the government to reconsider its decision to hold the exams, as did Arvind Kejriwal and the Shiv Sena. Parents and students appeared relieved by the announcement. School principals and educationists welcomed the decision but cautioned that the board should enforce a robust formative assessment in schools that can be used to grade students. Because of the exponential rise in Covid cases, schools have been shut down in 11 states. States like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have already postponed their Classes X and XII board exams. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), another national board, is expected to take a decision soon, an official said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the boards must put in place a robust formative assessment system. The international boards that cancelled their exams last year had relied on formative assessment that, besides covering internal assessment, includes diagram drawings, group activities, extra-curricular activities, games and surveys. “The boards will have to enforce proper formative assessment in schools. They have to lessen their dependence on one-time paper-pencil tests. In case of any eventuality, the formative assessments should be enough to judge the students objectively,” Ganguly said. Anu Rai, a Class XII student of a Delhi government school, said the project-based learning conducted online did not offer a level playing field for all. “Students who have gadgets and Internet did well. I could not take part in all the online classes. We have one mobile phone at home and we are three brothers and sisters,” she said. Anu said the Class XII exams should be held offline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity insufficient||India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity is insufficient to meet its target of administering five million doses per day, an expert panel underlined on Wednesday, shedding light on shortages flagged by states but denied by the Union health ministry. A 22-member India Task Force has cautioned that monthly vaccine supplies for the inoculation campaign at the current production capacity of 70 to 80 million doses per month would “fall short by half” for the target of 150 million doses per month. “It is critical to ramp up production capacity,” the task force — a group of public health experts, senior government administrators and academic researchers — assigned to propose options to address India’s second Covid-19 wave has said in a report. Its members include K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India; Raman Gangakhedkar, former chief epidemiologist at the Indian Council of Medical Research; Suneela Garg, a senior community medicine specialist; Dhruva Chaudhry, a critical care medicine specialist; and others. The group has also recommended “urgent attention” to three critical elements on vaccines — “alternative sources for imported raw materials that are already in short supply, expansion of fill-finish facilities by bringing other manufacturers, and provision of financial support to manufacturers to ramp up production”. The task force’s recognition of vaccine shortages — flagged last week by vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — contrasts with assertions by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan last week and health officials that there is no vaccine shortage. “Where does the question of (vaccine) shortages arise?” Vardhan had tweeted on April 8. “We’re continuously monitoring and enhancing supply.” A query sent by The Telegraph on Wednesday to the Union health ministry seeking the minister’s response to the states’ complaints of shortages has not elicited a response. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday that states had received over 131 million doses, consumed 114 million doses, had in stock 16.7 million doses and an additional 20 million doses were in the pipeline on their way to states. Bhushan said states should monitor vaccine usage daily and, if required, “reappropriate” vaccines from areas of relative low consumption to areas of high consumption. But a medical expert who is not a member of the task force said that at the current production capacity and the current pace of vaccination made it clear why some areas might be experiencing shortages. The health ministry has said India is administering on average about 4.1 million doses per day and advisers to the vaccination campaign have said the goal is to reach five million per day. A parliamentary panel in the Rajya Sabha had in early March said Bharat Biotech’s production capacity was about 12.5 million doses of Covaxin a month and the Serum Institute of India could produce 70 to 100 million doses of Covishield a month. Even the full production capacity of 112.5 million doses per month would not be enough to administer 120 million doses at the current rate of 4.1 million doses per day. The India Task Force has also sought a nationwide ban on gatherings of 10 people or more for the next two months and proposed that the vaccination net be widened to include all adults with chronic health disorders and phased opening of vaccination for younger people. The group, pointing out that large congregations such as political, religious and social events, such as weddings, or sporting programmes could rapidly spread the coronavirus, has asked for a ban on more than 10 people for the next two months. “Such restrictions will be disruptive, but (we) believe public health concerns need to override any other considerations, given the risk of infection, morbidity and mortality,” said the task force, set up by The Lancet Covid-19 Commission in partnership with the Centre for Sustainable Development, Columbia University, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. It has also recommended a special focus to ensure all urban poor in the current vaccine eligible group of people 45 years or older receive vaccinations as early as possible in districts with the fastest-growing epidemics and a “phased opening” of vaccinations for younger people “as supplies permit”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Siddique Kappan in jail for six months||Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested in October while on his way to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl, completed six months in custody on Wednesday, locked up in a Mathura jail on stringent anti-terror charges. While the prosecution recently filed a chargesheet running into nearly 5,500 pages in a Mathura district court, Kappan’s family back home in Kerala is keeping their fingers crossed waiting for the Supreme Court to list a habeas corpus plea and hear a regular bail application. While the habeas corpus plea was filed a day after his arrest, the bail application was submitted a month later. Neither Kappan’s lawyer nor his family have any clue about the contents of the chargesheet since it’s in Hindi. They are waiting for it to be translated into English. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020, along with three others while on their way to Hathras district. The secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), Kappan is a retainer with the Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. It was the KUWJ that had filed the habeas corpus petition and assigned a Delhi-based lawyer to fight the case in the Supreme Court. Advocate Wills Mathew, who is representing the KUWJ, told The Telegraph that he would like to study the contents of the chargesheet before making any comments. “I am getting it translated by another lawyer and hope to get the English version in a day or two. I am sure Kappan is innocent,” Mathew said. But even Mathew had no answer on the delay in the apex court listing the habeas corpus petition. “Usually habeas corpus pleas are taken up in a maximum of two weeks. We hope it would be taken up without any more delay and the bail plea that was adjourned would be heard too,” he said. Uttar Pradesh police  slapped provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other penal sections against the men for trying to foment law and order trouble in Hathras. Kappan has denied all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid-afflicted elderly veteran dies gasping for breath in Patna||A Covid-afflicted elderly former armyman died gasping for breath on a scorching day in Patna as a premier government hospital in the Bihar capital allegedly dithered on admitting him because the authorities were busy welcoming the health minister. Former jawan Vinod Kumar Singh, 60, a native of Lakhisarai district, had been brought to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in an ambulance on Tuesday afternoon when health minister and BJP leader Mangal Pandey arrived there to inspect the facilities. Vinod’s family members said he was kept waiting for one-and-a-half hours in the vehicle outside the hospital and repeated requests to admit him fell on deaf ears. “We had first taken my father to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, but the people there said there were no beds. We then rushed to the NMCH, but the ambulance was kept waiting for one-and-a-half hours as everybody was busy welcoming the health minister,” said Abhimanyu Singh, son of the deceased ex-armyman. Weeping inconsolably, Abhimanyu added that he kept requesting the hospital authorities to admit his father and start the treatment . “I kept begging them to quickly admit him as the vehicle was standing under the scorching sun. It was very hot outside and my father was in a serious condition. He was having difficulty in breathing. I begged them to at least shift my father to the verandah, but the officials stopped me and said the health minister was coming. My father died before my eyes,” Abhimanyu said as his mother wailed beside the body of her husband. Health minister Pandey arrived soon. When reporters asked him about the death of the Covid patient, he said: “We are trying to provide better health facilities. The number (of patients) in the hospitals has suddenly shot up over the past few days…  Any death is sad and unfortunate because our doctors and health workers are working day and night to save lives. Any incident like this is surely painful.” NMCH superintendent Binod Kumar Singh refuted the allegations. “All of us were not busy in welcoming the minister. Only my deputy superintendent and I were involved in it. Our other doctors were working. They saw the patient. He (Vinod) had been brought dead,” he said. “The reaction of the family members after his death was exaggerated,” he added. Bihar is witnessing an explosion in Covid cases. There are over 20,000 active cases and beds at prominent government hospitals are already full.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress prods ‘callous’ Modi government to act||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis was “callous and cruel” as it had left people to fend for themselves. Alleging that the government had blundered through 2020 when preparations could have been made to curb the spread of the virus and bolster health infrastructure, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “We don’t see any improvement when the country is dealing with the second wave. The government’s callous attitude borders on cruelty and has endangered the lives of millions of people.” With Covid cases surging, hospital beds have quickly filled up and there are reports from several states of patients waiting outside in ambulances for admission. Surjewala added: “Is the government a shop for a slanging match? When will they understand it is us versus corona, not us versus you? How can foreign minister S. Jaishankar say we will continue to export vaccines when states are facing shortage of vaccines?” The Congress spokesperson continued: “Please don’t discriminate between people and states, treat everybody as equal. Apart from vaccinating people and providing treatment to the infected, please offer financial assistance to the poor. Learn from the Maharashtra government, which has offered support to the poor despite meagre resources.” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday night announced fresh curbs to break the chain of infections, just stopping short of imposing a total lockdown. He exempted essential services, imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 to curb gatherings and announced a Rs 5,476-crore relief package for those who will be affected by the restrictions. While the popular scheme of cooked food — Shiv Bhojan costing Rs 5 per meal — has been made free, the government will supply 3kg of wheat and 2kg of rice per person free of cost for one month to the beneficiaries of the Food Security Scheme. Five lakh licensed hawkers, 12 lakh auto rickshaw drivers, construction workers and maidservants will be given Rs 1,500 each. Each poor tribal family will be given Rs 2,000 for one month. The Congress thanked the Prime Minister for agreeing to cancel board exams. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had forcefully raised the matter with the education minister, tweeted: “Glad that the government finally cancelled the 10th standard exams. However, a final decision must be taken for the 12th grade, too. Keeping students under undue pressure until June makes no sense. It is unfair. I urge the government to decide now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Dalit boy forced to lick spit, drink urine in Gaya district||A Dalit boy was allegedly forced to lick spit and drink urine as a punishment over a love affair in Gaya district of Bihar. Six persons have been arrested in connection with the incident. The incident happened at Kadhauna village under Wazirganj police station in Gaya district, around 125km south of state capital Patna. It came to light after a video of the purported incident was shared widely on various social media platforms since Monday. The video shows the 17-year-old boy kneeling on the floor of a house and licking spit after being threatened by other people during a panchayat meeting. Several persons are seen spitting on the floor, which the teenager is then forced to lick. He is also supposedly made to drink urine. The Telegraph could not verify the authenticity of the clip. However, the police swung into action after somebody forwarded the clip to Gaya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar on Monday. The footage was verified, traced, and six persons were arrested. An FIR has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology Act. “The 17-year-old boy had eloped with a 15-year-old girl of his village on April 2. Both belong to the Manjhi caste. Both were caught by their family members and brought back two days later to the house of former mukhiya Abloo Singh, who chaired a panchayat. The boy was made to lick spit. The girl’s father, uncle and brother were among the people who spat,” Aditya told this newspaper on Wednesday. He said that Abloo, who had recently tested positive for Covid-19, was absconding. Efforts were on to arrest all the persons named in the FIR, he added. The SSP also said that a few anti-social elements tried to portray the incident as a caste conflict and spread tension in the society. “We are identifying those people. Action will be taken against them as well,” Aditya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||BJD and BJP spar over Odisha vaccine shortage ||The war of words has escalated between the ruling Biju Janata Dal and the Opposition BJP over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in Odisha. Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday hit out at Odisha health secretary P.K. Mohapatra for making an “unnecessary” fuss over the vaccine shortage. But the ground reality shows that inadequate supply has led to the stoppage of the vaccination drive in 11 out of 30 districts of the state. Pradhan said: “More than 45 lakh vaccines have been released to the state out of a stock of 11 to 12 crore doses. The shortage of vaccines in Odisha is a non-issue. Every alternative day, around 2.5 lakh vaccines are reaching the state.” “An unnecessary controversy was created over the shortage of vaccines in the state. Odisha health secretary is creating this controversy to show his importance. He is speaking the language of Rahul Gandhi. I congratulate him for that. But he should refrain from all this,” he said. The minister urged Mohapatra, who has the rank of additional chief secretary, not to create unnecessary fuss over the issue. “There is no dearth of vaccines in the country. In order to ensure adequate supply of the vaccines, the Centre is going to allow the use of two to three foreign-made vaccines as well. Last year we had defeated coronavirus and will do this again. We need to use masks and follow the social distancing norms,” he said. The BJD immediately hit back and asked the Union minister not to indulge in vaccine politics. “All are aware that the daily vaccination number has come down from 2 to 1 lakh because of the shortage of vaccines. The Odisha government is finding it tough to prepare the vaccine schedules. Was it a blunder on the part of the health secretary to bring the issue of the shortage of vaccines in the state to the notice of the Centre?” asked BJD spokesperson Pratap Deb. Deb said at a time when the Prime Minister is asking the state to speed up the vaccination drive, shortage of vaccines had severely affected the inoculation programme. Health secretary Mohapatra earned the wrath of the BJP leadership after he consistently highlighted the issue of vaccine shortage. He had first written a letter to the central government. Later health minister Naba Kishore Das had shot off a letter to the Centre demanding 25 lakh vaccine doses. The issue took a political turn when chief minister Naveen Patnaik took up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week during the latter’s review meeting with chief ministers on the preparedness of the states to fight Covid-19. Though the Centre immediately released 2.5 lakh doses of vaccines in the first batch following Naveen’s appeal, the BJP leadership did not take it kindly, sources said. The BJP has ever since been critical of the state government for raising the issue of vaccine shortage as it is said to give bad publicity to the NDA government at the Centre. A state government source said: “When we are not getting adequate supply of vaccines, there is no point in observing the Tika Utsav (Vaccine Mela). More than 500 vaccination centres have closed down and the vaccination programme has stopped in 11 districts. We are facing the wrath of the people.” “The Centre should immediately release the data showing which state has received how many doses of vaccines. If it releases the list, one will easily known how much Odisha got compared to states like Gujarat. However, our wastage of vaccines is nil. For Odisha’s cause, all our leaders should get united on the issue rather than indulging in politics. Our state needs more vaccines and we should get it immediately,” said a senior functionary of the state government. Odisha has so far received 4,808,650 doses of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Odisha Congress bypoll candidate dies of Covid||Ajit Mangaraj, the Congress candidate for the Pipili Assembly bypoll in Odisha, passed away on Wednesday. Mangaraj, 53, was being treated at a hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 during the campaign. Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and senior Congress leaders condoled his death. Pradhan, who hails from the state, visited the hospital and expressed his condolence over the death of Mangaraj. Senior Congress leader Pradeep Majhi said Mangaraj’s blood oxygen level dropped to below 30 per cent and he could not recover from it. “It is our fault to hold elections during the pandemic. The Congress candidate became a victim of the infection. There should be no election during the pandemic,” the former MP said. The Election Commission will take a call on whether the by-election, which was scheduled for April 17, should be countermanded or not. The bypoll to the Pipili seat was necessitated following the death of BJD legislator Pradeep Maharathy in October last year. Maharathy had won the seat seven times. The BJD has fielded his son Rudra Pratap, while the BJP has nominated Ashrit Pattanayak. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Covid: 441 security  central paramilitary jawans test positive||As many as 441 security personnel of the central paramilitary forces have tested positive for Covid in the past 24 hours. Out of 441 cases, the BSF has reported 311 cases and the CISF 52 cases. The CRPF has recorded 28 new cases. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has reported 31 cases. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has reported eight new cases while the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the National Security Guards (NSG) have 19 cases together. The CAPF has lost 208 jawans in the past one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||India||Bodies of Covid dead pile up at Lucknow crematoriums||Bodies of the Covid dead are piling at the two cremation grounds in Lucknow as the pandemic surges through Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday afternoon, there were 124 bodies at Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat, according to crematorium staff. The figures were 120 and 130 on Tuesday and Monday. The crematorium staff said that based on their conversations with family members, they had learnt that most of the dead were Covid patients who had died in hospitals or while waiting for beds. Usually, around 20 bodies are cremated at Baikunth Dham and 10 at Gullala Ghat. On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh recorded an all-time high of 20,510 cases, with Lucknow alone reporting 5,433. The official death toll for the state was 68. The two electric incinerators at Baikunth Dham and one at Gullala Ghat have not been enough. On Wednesday afternoon, 60 beds of firewood were laid at the two crematoriums. However, there were still 50 bodies in the queue. “They have made beds of firewood but we need more to cover a dead person before burning the body. The cremation ground staff have demanded Rs 7,500 from us to arrange for more firewood for my father and wait till 4am on Thursday for space at Baikunth Dham,” said Rohit Singh, a postgraduate student whose father died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night. Sanjay Kumar, whose neighbour in old Lucknow died of Covid-19 on Tuesday evening, said: “The police are extorting money from us in the name of traffic rules. They fined my neighbour Rs 4,000 for parking his car in the parking area of Gullala Ghat. Either you bribe them Rs 1,000 or they would impose a fine on you.” “Come to Lucknow if you want to see the dance of death. The vultures are there at every place in the city to blackmail you, extort you or exploit you in the name of the coronavirus,” Kumar added. Dipu Pandit, an employee at Baikunth Dham, said: “The number of the dead has risen sharply in the past three days. We are trying our best to help the relatives of the dead.” “The rate of firewood at the cremation ground is Rs 550 per quintal,” he added. “Some contractual employees of the Nagar Nigam have been deployed here and they are trying to blackmail the relatives and friends of the dead. The police have also started imposing fines on those who park their vehicles outside the Dham. It is happening for the first time here,” said another employee of Baikunth Dham, requesting anonymity. D.K. Thakur, the police commissioner of Lucknow, said: “Those who have been fined for parking their vehicles outside the cremation grounds can contact the helpline for relief.” Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, the municipal commissioner of Lucknow, said: “There is enough firewood at the cremation grounds. We appeal to the people not to pay any heed to rumours.” Social media has been flooded with a video of a senior government administrative official in Lucknow telling doctors during an informal conversation: “People are dying on the roads now.” Kaushal Kishore, a BJP MP from Mohanlalganj in Lucknow, on Wednesday appealed that the impending panchayat polls be deferred. “The situation in Lucknow is out of control. There are dead bodies piling up at the cremation grounds. I appeal to the Election Commission to postpone the panchayat polls in the state (to be held between Aril 15 and 29) as saving the lives of the people should be the priority.” On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh law minister Brijesh Pathak had written to the health department mentioning that he was receiving calls from people every day for hospital beds for their Covid-afflicted relatives but he had failed to help them. Udai Veer Singh, a Samajwadi Party MLC, criticised chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Lies don’t make a Yogi. It is a killer government of liars and frauds,” he said. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a videoconference with leaders of her party in Uttar Pradesh and said: “It is sad that the state government is increasing the capacity of crematoriums instead of beds in hospitals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-211
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges EC to club remaining phases of Assembly elections||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Election Commission to hold the remaining four phases of the Assembly elections in the state in one single day in view of rising Covid cases in the country. “Amid an ongoing pandemic, we firmly opposed @ECISVEEP's decision to conduct WB polls in 8 phases. Now, in view of the huge surge in #COVID19 cases, I urge the ECI to consider holding the remaining phases in ONE go. This will protect the people from further exposure to #COVID19,” Mamata posted from her Twitter handle in the evening. Among the five states where Assembly elections were held this year, Bengal is the only state where four out of the eight phases of polls still remain. The other four states -- Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry -- have already gone through the process and are now waiting for the results. Earlier in the day, the poll panel ended speculation about a change in voting schedule by saying that there was no question of clubbing the remaining phases of the elections in Bengal. Arrangements for the fifth phase of polls, on April 17, are already nearing completion, an election official said, even as several social media users held debates on whether the poll panel should at least conduct the next three phases of Bengal elections on a single day. "(There is) no such plan of clubbing phases," an EC spokesperson in response to queries. There are suggestions that some political parties may raise the issue at an all-party meeting called by the chief electoral officer of West Bengal on Friday. The meeting has been called to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines issued by the EC are adhered to by political leaders during campaigning. Amid the rising number of coronavirus cases, the EC had on April 9 flagged instances of star campaigners and leaders campaigning without masks and warned that it will not hesitate in banning events like rallies in case the Covid-19 guidelines issued by it last year are not followed. Several TMC leaders have accused the EC of conducting the polls for too long without any reason. Earlier on Thursday, TMC MP Mahua Moitra tweeted, “It is certainly criminal negligence bordering on manslaughter on part of @ECISVEEP  to mandate 8 phase election in WB in middle of worst pandemic. Unbelievable that we are being put through this. Infections, deaths rising everyday.” Bengal will go into its fifth phase of polling on Saturday, while the remaining phases will be held on April 22, April 26 and April 29. Results for all the eight phases will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||EC bars Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours over Sitalkuchi remarks||The Election Commission Thursday evening imposed a 24-hour campaign ban on the BJP's Bengal president Dilip Ghosh for his "there will be Sitalkuchi in several places" remarks. The order said the Commission "sternly warns" Ghosh and advises him to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the Model Code of Conduct is in force. The ban will be in effect from 7 pm April 15 to 7 pm April 16, during which Ghosh will not be allowed to campaign. The Commission had on Tuesday issued a notice to Ghosh for his alleged remarks after four people were killed when central forces opened fire during polling at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The Trinamul Congress had approached the Commission against Ghosh. The notice cited Ghosh's alleged remarks that "if someone crosses his limits then you have seen what happened in Sitalkuchi. There will be Sitalkuchi in several places.” The poll panel’s move comes days after it had imposed a similar ban on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for 24 hours for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel who intimidate them. Mamata had responded to the gag order by declaring she would sit in dharna near the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Tuesday, the penultimate day of campaigning for the fifth phase of polling on Saturday when 45 seats, including Dum Dum, Bidhannagar and Rajarhat-Newtown, vote. Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” The commission “sternly warns Ms Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the model code of conduct is in force”, the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||FIR lodged against Mamata Banerjee in connection with Sitalkuchi killings||An FIR has been lodged against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at a police station here, alleging that she instigated voters to gherao central forces and that, in turn, led to the incident of firing in Sitalkuchi and the subsequent death of four persons. Siddique Ali Mia, the zilla president of BJP's minority cell in Cooch Behar, cited the TMC supremo's comments during a rally in Banerswar area as he filed a complaint on Wednesday claiming that her address provoked people to attack CISF personnel during the fourth phase of state elections. He attached a video clip of Mamata’s speech in his complaint at Mathabhanga police station. Villagers, after being provoked by such provocative statements of Mamata Banerjee, tried to snatch fire arms of the deployed paramilitary forces, Mia said. "The said villagers including women launched an attack upon the paramilitary forces with the intention of causing bodily injury, knowing it to be likely to cause death of the deployed paramilitary forces," he wrote in the FIR, a copy of which is with the PTI. The BJP leader, when contacted, said he would launch a massive protest demanding the chief minister's arrest, if the police "sit idle" on the FIR in the next few days. "She (Mamata) is solely responsible for the death of those four people. She is answerable to all the voters of our district," Mia stated. At least four persons died outside a polling booth in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency on April 10 when CISF personnel opened fire in "self defence" allegedly after coming under attack from locals. The Election Commission had suspended the voting exercise at the booth following the incident. In its statement, the EC said, "The joint report of the two special observers has been received ... wherein they interalia stated that recourse to open fire by the CISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save the lives of the voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel and their own lives as the mob had attempted snatching their weapons." The poll panel had also banned political leaders from entering the district for three days. Mamata met the family members of those killed in the firing on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh wishes all a 'Hindu Nava Varsha'||A sneak preview of “asol poribartan”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call for real change in Bengal, was available before Bengali New Year’s Day. “Sakalke Hindu Nava Varsher Subhechha (Greetings to everyone on the Hindu New Year),” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh posted on Facebook ahead of Poila Baisakh. This is the first time that the Bengali New Year is being yoked to a religion and categorised as the Hindu New Year. For half a millennium, Poila Baisakh has been celebrated as a religion-neutral occasion by Bengalis, including those living in Bangladesh. “It’s one of those IT cell templates…. This is a first even for us, calling Poila Baisakh a Hindu occasion,” conceded a BJP state unit functionary on the condition of anonymity. The “Hindu” greetings had started circulating on Tuesday itself. “When I first received such a wish late on Tuesday night from a senior party colleague, I did a double take. It might be counter-productive as the Trinamul Congress will accuse us of not understanding Bengal’s ethos,” the BJP functionary added. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy lambasted the apparent attempt at polarisation even over such an occasion. “It is a festival for all Bengalis. They are not only trying to polarise the electorate through such statements, fascists like them will go to any extent in order to ruin our culture,” said Roy, the Dum Dum MP. Poila Baisakh, or the Bengali New Year’s Day, is the first day of the Bengali calendar, usually celebrated on April 14 or 15 by Bengalis wherever they live. The celebrations, according to most historians, are rooted in the Mughal era and linked to the proclamation of tax collection reforms by Akbar in the 16th century. The festival date is set according to the luni-solar Bengali calendar. BJP state unit chief Ghosh, in a video message shared on his Facebook page on Tuesday evening, tried linking various elements of mythological legends and folklore to claim it was the first day of creation according to the Vikram Samvat, a calendar initiated in 57 BC. “The most ancient calendar of the world, Vikram Samvat’s first day is about to start. It is a proof of India’s pride, heritage and culture. We were the first in the world to start calculating a year,” said Ghosh, although historically recorded formal calendar traditions were found in Sumer, Babylonia and Persia since, at least, the second millennium BC. Several historians pointed out that the Vikram Samvat starts in 57 BC, while the Bengali calendar starts from 593 AD, which is why Thursday will be the beginning of year 1428 in the Bengali calendar, and not 2078. Ghosh added: “This is considered to be the first day of creation. Starting from Bhagwan Ram to several other great men… this is why it is a day of pride for us. I convey the best wishes of the Hindu New Year to all Indians and citizens of the world, as a proud Indian….” Historians and political scientists said the BJP’s label was laughable, but the political motive was understandable, given the saffron camp’s craving to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee ahead of the RSS’s centenary in 2025. Political analyst Subhamoy Maitra said it was evidently an election-driven statement. “A political leadership, given the narrative that’s a principal basis of this election, has tried connecting this occasion to that narrative, which they hadn’t done in the past…. The common people will interpret it in their own way,” he said. “How seriously this statement ought to be taken, academically or historically, is for historians to decide,” added Maitra, professor at the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. Historian Sugata Bose said this had been a Bengali New Year for centuries, which came about through a confluence of many different traditions, as Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has shown in the chapter on the Indian calendar in The Argumentative Indian. “In fact, when it happened in Akbar’s time, it was hardly possible to label them Hindu and Muslim. But retrospectively, we might call them both Hindu and Muslim traditions, a combination of the solar and the lunar calendars came about,” said Bose, a grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Incidentally, this year’s Poila Baisakh and the beginning of the Ramazan have more or less coincided. The occasion is being celebrated widely in Bangladesh, where the Mangal Shobhajatra for the Bengali New Year’s Day, organised by the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Dhaka, was recognised by the Unesco as “a cultural heritage of humanity”. Bose, the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University, said the Bengali New Year’s Day had always transcended the division between religious communities in Bengal. “It’s a great pity that just for the sake of an election where divisiveness is the chosen strategy, a day that sees great solidarity and intermingling of people of all religious communities, Hindus, Muslims, Buddhists, Christians… the whole of Bengal belongs to them,” said the historian. “Let us rise above them. Let us, if at all possible, ignore this kind of divisiveness, and let us all get together and observe the occasion, regarding everyone as equal,” he added. Senior historian Rajat Kanta Ray saw a two-fold factor at play. “Modi wants to establish himself as the all-time leader of India… and he wants his party, the BJP, to be the permanent ruler of India,” he said. “It is easily understood that they are trying to bring about a cultural transformation to suit their political end. But, to Bengal, growing a beard like Rabindranath Tagore and cleaning public spaces like Mahatma Gandhi are not enough,” added Ray, professor emeritus of history at Presidency University and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Subash Ghisingh critic late Sudarshan Sharma’s girl debuts ||Anjani Sharma Bhujel was in Class V when her world came crashing down. Her father Sudarshan Sharma, a vocal critic of then undisputed Darjeeling leader Subash Ghisingh, was killed in 1992, and no one has been convicted for his murder. Twenty-nine years later she has plunged into “electoral politics”, unfazed by the family tragedy but with a strong urge to change the culture of politics in hills. Anjani is contesting as an Independent from the Darjeeling Assembly seat. “Wherever I went for campaigning the atmosphere was congenial. I did not face political hostility,” Anjani, 40, said on Wednesday, the last day of campaigning. Her father was only 42 when he was killed. Such a congenial atmosphere was not around when her father was in politics. Sudarshan was a leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), rivals to Ghisingh’s Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF). Sudarshan — with party colleague Madan Tamang who was killed in 2010 —was actively involved in a movement to recgonise the Nepali language in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. Ghisingh wanted the nomenclature Gorkhali during recognition while many in the hills wanted to stick with Nepali. The language — with both the words Gorkha/Nepali — was recognised in the Constitution on August 22, 1992. Sudarshan was murdered on November 21, the same year. “He was killed because of his involvement in the bhasha andolan and also because he was against autocratic rule… against the practices of social boycott (against Opposition supporters), settling for an autonomy (DGHC) following the Gorkhaland struggle,” said Anjani. Anjani was only a child when she lost her father but his life left a major impression on her. “Wherever I went there were a lot of people who talked about my father” said Sharma, a data scientist who has floated her own company. The Independent candidate said she was scared that issues like “regionalism” were under threat in the hill which prompted her to contest the elections. She does not hold a grudge against the GNLF. In fact, Subash’s son Mann Ghisingh did apologise to her. “I don’t have grudges; Mann was not responsible for my father’s death. I, however, want him to keep regionalism alive as his father (Subash) did. Back then the Congress was powerful (as a pan-India party), but regionalism had been kept intact, unlike now,” said Anjani. The electoral decision “angered” her mother Innu Sharma but the retired schoolteacher did not discourage Anjani from choosing her own path, she said. “My mother went through difficulties after the family tragedy,” said Anjani. “She struggled a lot to raise her two children,” said Anjani. Despite him being a municipality councillor there was no water and electricity connection at Anjani’s house when her father died. Sudarshan, who was also a teacher at Municipal Boys’ High School, was in jail for protesting against the Prime Minister Moraji Desai, during his visit to Darjeeling in 1979. Anjani’s elder brother Ananth was born then, Anjani said, adding that her father was also born when her grandfather Hari Prasad Sharma was in jail “for advocating issues of the community”. Standing in an election for the first time, Anjani said her campaigning experience made her believe that hill people are more conscious of issues and parties now. “Even in remote places like Srikhola, people were aware of issues and political parties,” said Anjani. Irrespective of the outcome of election results, Anjani plans to work on creating awareness on the census process and prepare the hill people with documents for the NRC process. Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah has said Gorkhas would not be displaced by the NRC process. “Leaders may make tall claims that Gorkhas might not be affected but we need to have our documents and many of our people are poor in documentation and keeping records,” said Anjani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Didi promises to take care of victim's family||Mariam, one-and-a-half months old, lost her father Maniruzzaman Mian when CISF jawans opened fire in Sitalkuchi during polling on Saturday. Four days later, the baby found herself in the hands of a visitor who came calling in a wheelchair. Handed back a little later, Mariam slept without fuss in her mother Rahila Begum’s lap as Mamata Banerjee promised to heal the wounds of the widow in her early twenties. “There won’t be any problems.… We will take care of you,” the chief minister told Rahila whose husband was one of the four who were killed in the firing by the central force. “Those who are behind these killings, I will not spare them…. Once the elections are over, the state government will conduct an inquiry. Whoever they might be, we will not relent and we will go to every possible extent so that they are punished,” Mamata added. Within hours of the tragedy on Saturday, Mamata had reached Siliguri with the plan of visiting the bereaved families the next morning. However, Mamata had to postpone her visit as the Election Commission announced a 72-hour ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar. The killings also prompted the commission to expand the silence period for the fifth phase of polling, following which campaigning ended on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning, Mamata’s chopper landed in Mathabhanga, where she met the families of the four victims of Jorpatki, a village in Sitalkuchi. The maternal grandfather and an uncle of Ananda Burman, a first-time voter who died on the same day in Sitalkuchi when two groups clashed, were also present in Mathabhanga to meet Mamata. When Mamata reached the ground near Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital on Wednesday — after the 72-hour ban got over — she spoke with each of the families, especially with the wives, and cuddled the children. Mamata assured them of all possible help before telling them how her plan to reach them earlier was scuttled by the poll panel’s order. “I wanted to come on the very next day but was not allowed,” Mamata said. “But I had promised that I would be meeting the families on April 14 and accordingly, I have reached here. We will stand by these families and we will reply to the bullets with ballots,” said Mamata. The deaths in Sitalkuchi on poll day and the subsequent war of words between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP have added a new dimension to the already polarised discourse in Bengal this election season. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, have been referring to the death of Burman, a Rajbanshi youth, to accuse Mamata of being selective in her mourning and only referring to the deaths of four Muslims to appease the community. However, the chief minister has been mentioning the death of Burman in all her speeches since the incident. On Wednesday, Mamata herself tried to drill holes into the BJP claim as she spoke of Burman’s death. “We will also find out who all were responsible for the death of Ananda Burman. All those who died are Rajbanshis as four of them were nasya Sheikh (Rajbanshi Muslims) while the other was a Rajbanshi Hindu. Please consider me as your own girl and I would urge you to maintain peace and amity,” she said. During her short address, Mamata instructed party leaders Rabindranath Ghosh and Partha Pratim Roy to make arrangements so that five “martyrs” memorials can be built. “Find a place and get the columns ready. Once the elections are over, I will come here again,” she said. The families, who were eagerly waiting for Mamata’s visit, said they found the chief minister’s visit reassuring. Jobed Ali, the father of Nur Alam Mian, one of the deceased youths, said even when they had headed to Mathabhanga from their hamlet — located around 20km away — they were not sure what Mamata’s visit would yield. “But her compassion and the manner in which she has assured us would help us to try and return to our normal lives. She is the only political leader on whom we can depend.… We are confident that she will meet her promise and we will get justice,” Ali said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM joins Ghani legacy bandwagon ||A tug-of-war between the Congress and the Trinamul Congress over A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury’s political legacy came to the fore once again on Wednesday, the death anniversary of the Malda Congress stalwart. On Wednesday, leaders of both the parties observed Ghani’s death anniversary, claiming themselves as the “right successors” to his political legacy. CPM leaders, too, for the first time, went to Kotowali, Ghani’s ancestral house located 10km from here, to offer floral tributes at his tomb. In the past also, leaders of Trinamul and the Congress had paid tributes to Ghani on his birth anniversary. The Left Front is fighting the current Assembly polls in alliance with the Congress. Ghani, a five-time MLA and an eight-time MP from Malda, had held several crucial departments as minister, both in the state and at the Centre, from 1972 to 1984. He passed away on April 14, 2006. State irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra, Englishbazar Trinamul candidate Krishnendu Choudhury and many other party leaders gathered at Brindabani Ground of the town on Wednesday morning to pay respect to Ghani’s life-size statue. Choudhury had unveiled the statue after Ghani’s demise. “Barkatda was an iconic leader. He is particularly relevant when a communal party’s roars are being heard in the state and the Congress has surrendered to the CPM, which he had fought all his life,” Choudhury said. “Undoubtedly, Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul are the true torch-bearers of Barkatda’s anti-CPM and anti-BJP ideologies,” he claimed. Ghani’s nephew Isha Khan Choudhury, his father Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury and other relatives gathered around Ghani’s tomb to pay tributes before they went out for election campaigns. “My uncle was not only the guardian of our family. Actually, all residents of Malda still regard him as the pioneer and a visionary of a district like Malda. But all must remember that he never left the Congress, unlike the opportunists who are adept at shifting political allegiance every now and then. Thus, the Congress alone carried forward Ghani’s political legacy,” said the younger Khan Choudhury. Englishbazar CPM candidate Koushik Mishra also offered flowers to Ghani’s tomb at Kotowali. “The CPM and Barkat Saheb had always respected each other. He becomes particularly congruous as Trinamul does not care for political courtesy and the BJP is endangering the communal harmony which Ghani Khan tried to preserve all his life.” The BJP, which though stayed from any formal programme to pay homage to Ghani, ridiculed the CPM. “How can we forget that the CPM had described Ghani as ‘shukno pata’ (dry leaf) in 2004 with the ambition of defeating him? We are not hypocrites like them. Ghani Khan was a respectable leader. We never insulted him personally,” said Ajay Ganguly, Malda district BJP general secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Muezzin allegedly slapped for refusing to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'||A muezzin in Hooghly’s Chinsurah said he was slapped by an unidentified youth for refusing to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the early hours of Wednesday. Mohammed Sufiuddin, 54, a resident of Chakbazar in Chinsurah, said that around 3.45am on Wednesday, he was riding a bicycle to the mosque from his home when three motorcycle-borne youths accosted him near the Chakbazar More and asked him to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. “I told them about my religious identity and requested them not to force me to chant the slogan. At this, one of the youths slapped me hard and I fell down with my cycle. As I cried in pain, the youths escaped from the scene. There was no one around as it was too early in the morning,” said Sufiuddin. “Jai Shri Ram” has been converted into a war cry by the BJP since the 2019 general election. Later in the day, Sufiuddin, who has been working as a muezzin at the local mosque for the past six years, lodged a complaint at Chinsurah police station against three unidentified persons. “We have received the complaint and started a probe,” said Gaurav Sharma, the police commissioner of Chandernagore. BJP leaders said the party would never force anyone to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. “Our party has never forced anyone to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. I don’t know whether the offenders belong to our party. If anyone, even if they are from our party, is accused of harassing the person, I will request the police to take action against them,” said Gautam Chatterjee, the BJP president in Hooghly. Sufiuddin said that ever since the BJP won 18 seats in Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, there had been a tendency to harass people like him by those associated with the party. “This is not the first such instance with me. Shortly after the 2019 poll result was declared, a youth, who was part of a bigger group, had said, ‘Kaka, Jai Shri Ram bolo’ (Uncle, chant Jai Shri Ram). But before I could reply to the youth, one of his friends rebuked him and asked him not to force me to chant Jai Shri Ram,” Sufiuddin said. Banking on its Lok Sabha election performance, the BJP hopes to win a good number of the 18 Assembly seats in a district that used to be a Trinamul bastion. The Trinamul had won 16 Assembly seats in the 2016 election but trailed in eight in the Lok Sabha polls. Sufiuddin said he had never thought that he could be slapped for his religious identity in Chinsurah town, where he has been living for years. “They only slapped me once but I lodged a complaint with the police to teach them a lesson. If the police take steps, they will not dare to do such things in future. It is not the culture of our area where I have been living since my childhood,” said Sufiuddin. Trinamul leaders in Hooghly accused the BJP of trying to disturb communal harmony in Chinsurah. “The attack on Sufiuddin shows BJP’s attempt to damage our culture and harmony. We strongly condemn the incident,” said Tapan Dasgupta, a Trinamul leader and state agriculture marketing minister. In July 2019, five men had been branded cattle rustlers and beaten up after they declined to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Nirmala targets state over tea and tourism||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the Mamata Banerjee government had never backed the Centre’s efforts for the betterment of the tea industry, while the tourism sector couldn’t flourish in north Bengal because of alleged non-transparent practices by the state administration. Sitharaman sought to put the Trinamul Congress government in the dock over the tea and tourism sectors, which are the backbone of the economy of north Bengal. She flagged the issues concerning the tea and tourism sectors on a day campaigning for 17 Assembly seats in Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts ended. The two districts will go to the polls on Saturday. Sitharaman first held a meeting with leaders of BJP-backed tea garden trade unions and representatives of plantation workers at Nagrakata (in Jalpaiguri district) in the western Dooars. She then attended a “retailers & traders meet” organised by the BJP in Siliguri. Speaking to newspersons, Sitharaman trained guns at the Mamata Banerjee government for not cooperating with the Centre for the development of the tea industry. “Since 2014, when I was in the commerce ministry, we have time and again tried to take initiatives for the benefit of the tea industry but the state government never supported us. On one hand, they didn’t do anything on their own. On the other hand, they stopped us. Till now, the minimum wage (of tea workers) has not yet been fixed. We have, however, made it clear in our manifesto that we will fix Rs 350 as the daily wage,” said the Union finance minister. She added that the Centre had allocated a sum of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of the tea population in Bengal and Assam, particularly women and children. The announcement had been made earlier this year as Sitharaman had tabled the budget. On the tourism industry, Sitharaman said: “Syndicates are even prevalent in the tourism sector of the region. There are certain non-transparent practices, because of which the industry has not flourished in the region.”. She went on: “A number of welfare schemes could not be implemented in Bengal because of the Trinamul government. For example, the Centre had set aside Rs 4,000 crore under the housing-for-all scheme but the state government has never contributed its matching grant. As a result, prospective beneficiaries were deprived of pucca houses.” Mannalal Jain, a leader of the Trinamul-backed tea trade union in the Dooars, rejected Sitharaman’s accusations. “The finance minister’s visit will not do any wonders for the BJP. She came here ahead of the elections and iterated some promises which were never met. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee has lived up to her commitments made to the tea population, which include introduction of free housing scheme and facilitating revision of tea wages,” said Jain. Altogether, votes of the tea population decide the results of over 12 seats in north Bengal. On April 17, elections would be held in around seven such Assembly seats in the districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Arms haul cuffs on Bengal BJP worker||A BJP worker has been arrested for allegedly stocking arms and ammunition at a guard house inside a fishery in the Munshigheri area of North 24-Parganas. Police sources said two pipe guns, 10 rounds of cartridges and six crude bombs were seized during the raid early on Wednesday morning. After the seizure, the accused booth-level BJP worker, Himangshu Sardar, a resident of Gopalpur-Munshigheri area, was arrested from his house. Later, Sardar, 34, was produced at the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat and remanded in police custody for five days. “We have information that goons have plans to unleash violence in the area during voting on April 17. We have also come to know that the arms were being stocked in the deserted fishery on the instruction of a BJP worker,” said an officer of Haroa police. Local Trinamul leader Hafiz Ahmed said: “The BJP has no support base in the area and wants to terrorise people so that they do not step out to vote. The police have foiled their heinous motive.” However, BJP candidate Rajendra Saha refuted the allegations. “The police have acted on the directions of the ruling party. Trinamul is afraid of losing ground, so with the help of the police it planted the arms and implicated our party worker in false cases only to malign the BJP.” Three BJP workers were injured when suspected Trinamul supporters attacked a rally in the Dhuturdaha area of Minakhan on Wednesday. BJP candidate Joyanta Mondal has lodged a police complaint alleging that Trinamul workers assaulted BJP supporters with bamboo poles and iron rods. In Baranagar, BJP supporters were beaten up and party candidate Parno Mitra was heckled during a campaign allegedly by suspected Trinamul supporters on Wednesday afternoon. Later, BJP supporters blocked BT Road for about an hour seeking arrest of the culprits. “There was no provocation from our end. But local Trinamul leaders got women to attack our boys with sticks and shoes. Police were mute spectators when the attack took place,” Mitra said. Trinamul candidate and former minister Tapas Roy refuted the allegations. “She has realised she will lose and is now staging a drama to draw compassion from the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM decides against holding large rallies amid Covid surge||The CPM has decided against holding large rallies ahead of the remaining phases of Assembly polls in view of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. The move comes at a time experts have been blaming large political rallies, where Covid-19 protocols are being flouted, for the sudden spurt in positive cases in the state over the past few weeks. The CPM has become the first political party to initiate the step voluntarily and medical experts described the move as “responsible behaviour”. “We have decided that we will not hold large rallies ahead of the remaining phases of elections. We will lay stress on door-to-door campaign, campaign through social media and small street corners. Door-to-door campaigns and street corners would be held following proper Covid-19 protocols,” said Md Salim, CPM politburo member, at Alimuddin Street on Wednesday. This means the CPM would not hold large rallies for the sixth, seventh and eighth phases of the polls. The campaign for the fifth phase of the polls, scheduled for April 17, came to an end on Wednesday as the Election Commission had extended the silence period before the polls to 72 hours from 48 hours after the Sitalkuchi firing. Salim also said his party would request its allies like other Left parties, Congress and the ISF to follow the same path to ensure that the spread of the virus could be contained. He also said party workers would continue to work for distressed people like they had done during the first wave of the pandemic. Salim added that the CPM would use social networking platforms to reach out to voters in view of the pandemic. Experts welcomed the CPM’s move and said it would put pressure on other political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols. “It is astonishing that other parties like the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, which are organising huge rallies across the state, remained silent about following Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. They should take a cue from the CPM,” said a member of Covid-19 patient management team. “The situation is really grim... Already there is a scarcity of hospital beds in Calcutta and its surrounding areas. Still, rallies are being held in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the areas from where majority of the cases are being reported, as elections are due here,” said a source. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has, however, blamed the BJP for the spurt in positive cases in the state. “We had brought the situation under control. But the BJP is bringing in thousands of people from outside and they are spreading the virus in the state,” said Mamata while addressing an election rally in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday. The BJP said the entire country was facing the second wave and Bengal was no exception. “The chief minister is herself the health minister of the state and the government has done nothing to prevent the spread of the virus,” said Jayprakash Mazumdar, a state BJP leader. Officials in the health department said that the state government had taken several initiatives like increasing hospital beds, generating awareness, bringing down attendance of government employees to 50 per cent and increasing the number of tests. “But several other steps like imposing night curfew or setting up of containment zones could not be initiated right at this moment as elections are yet to be completed in a large part of the state. The problem has become more critical as elections were not over in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas where restrictions are immediately needed,” said a senior official. The Election Commission has decided to convene an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. “The poll panel would request the political parties to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed properly in case of large gatherings. The poll panel expects that political parties would come forward as they have a responsibility towards the society,” said a source in the poll panel. According to the bulletin issued by the health department on Wednesday, the Covid -19 situation is alarming in the state. A total of 5,892 positive cases were reported in the state on Wednesday and majority were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas where election campaigns are still on. On Wednesday, Calcutta reported 1,601 cases, while North 24-Parganas logged 1,277 infections. The number of deaths jumped to 24 on Wednesday from 20 on Tuesday. “This is alarming. If the political parties don’t come forward and behave responsibly, more than 10,000 cases could be reported every day by the end of this month,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP’s 6,300-rally plan draws Trinamul ridicule||At a town hall meeting in the Rajarhat-Gopalpur constituency on Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah had declared that his party would hold 6,300 small meetings for the remaining 159 constituencies that go to the polls in the last four of eighth phases. While BJP leaders claimed that it was Shah’s strategy to “carpet bomb” these constituencies with campaigns, the Trinamul Congress mocked this decision and said the saffron camp was taking refuge in small meetings since they were experiencing thin crowds at big rallies. According to Shah, the idea behind the smaller rallies was to establish a stronger connection with the electorate. At bigger meetings, Shah had said, the leader would speak and leave, but with smaller audiences, there was a better opportunity to connect directly with the people. “The idea is to carpet bomb these seats with our campaigns. There will be town hall meetings, street corners, nukkads and even meetings at one’s uthon (backyard). We will hold more than 50 to 60 such meetings in each constituency,” said state BJP vice-president and spokesperson Jay Prakash Majumdar. Since Sunday, Shah himself has addressed three town hall meetings, including the one at Rajarhat-Gopalpur. The same day, he addressed another town hall meeting at Kamarhati. On Tuesday, he addressed a group of entrepreneurs in Bidhannagar constituency. BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda addressed two town hall meetings in the Asansol South and Asansol North constituencies on Wednesday. Mocking the saffron camp leaders for their alleged inability to draw crowds, Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “Where are people in their rallies? This is why they are being forced to cut the size of their meetings short.” “Shah has claimed an absurd figure. Who is going to count if they are actually holding 6,300 rallies? They don’t have cadres at the grassroots, they don’t have people to conduct small meetings,” Roy added. At many of BJP rallies, including those meant to be addressed by Shah, Nadda or Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the turnout has been much lower than what the organisers expected. Both Shah and Nadda had to cancel some of their meetings because of thin turnout. However, it is also true that in some other constituencies, the huge audience has surprised Shah himself. BJP’s Majumdar, however, negated Roy’s claims. He clarified that the smaller rallies would be in addition to the large public meetings and road shows that his party had been conducting. “Trinamul has already complained to the Election Commission, asking why we are conducting so many big rallies with all of our top rung leaders. They can rest assured that such meetings will continue along with the smaller ones,” he said. However, a section of BJP leaders has found this strategy a bit “uncomfortable”. According to them, it is uncalled for a Union home minister to address small gatherings such as town hall meetings. This is at best the work of local councillors, the leaders feel. They also raised the question of “too much intervention” from the central leadership in local affairs. “Why are we here for? Town halls, street corners, nukkads should be left to us. Amitji or Naddaji are leaders of great stature. Amitji is a home minister. They shouldn’t get involved in all these,” a state BJP leader said. Trinamul’s Roy took a step ahead and said Shah was “not even a proper politician”. “It is India’s misfortune that he is our home minister. Now, he will hold nukkads like councillors,” he said. Majumdar, however, said every BJP member was first an ordinary worker and hence, would address meetings irrespective of its size if the party wanted him to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Hate in saffron ecosystem’s DNA, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi went all out against the saffron camp in his first campaign outing in the Assembly elections in Bengal on Wednesday for his party nominees from the districts of Darjeeling and North Dinajpur. “We should not allow the BJP to come to power in this state. Wherever the BJP and the RSS go, they indulge in divisive politics. They spread hatred and create rifts among people… it is in their DNA,” said the Congress leader. Rahul addressed public rallies in Goalpokhor (North Dinajpur district) and in Shivmandir, on the outskirts of Siliguri (Darjeeling district). “The BJP will try to stoke fires in the state. None from the BJP would be affected by it…. it is the people of Bengal who will suffer,” he said. Though Rahul also attacked Trinamul, his verbal volleys at the ruling party in Bengal were more mellow in nature. “The Congress always works with its own ideology and never compromises with it. We have ideological differences with the BJP and the RSS and never ever will we make any understanding with them. But it was Trinamul that had forged an alliance with the BJP,” said Rahul, reminding his audience that Mamata’s party had been a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) earlier. He also blamed the Mamata Banerjee government for unemployment in Bengal and highlighted the migration of youths from here to other states. “The youths in Bengal know well that they won’t get any job here in the state. That is why they are compelled to leave Bengal. This is one of the major issues which Trinamul has failed to address here, despite being in government (for a decade),” the Congress leader said. While speaking at a poll rally in Shivmandir, Rahul also addressed the Gorkha population of north Bengal and reminded them that despite electing BJP MPs thrice since 2009, their principal demand (of a permanent political solution for the hills) had not yet been met. “They (the Gorkhas) have elected BJP candidates from Darjeeling seat successively for three times. But their problems remain the same,” Rahul said. Sankar Malakar, the sitting MLA of the Congress in the Matigara-Naxalbari seat, later said that he would secure support of the Gorkhas in his constituency. “They (people of the Gorkha community) are well aware that it is the Congress party that has resolved the hill problem… not once but twice. Back in the 1980s, (then Prime Minister) Rajiv Gandhi was instrumental in forming the DGHC (Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council) and again, in 2012, it was the Manmohan Singh government that had expedited the creation of the GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration). The BJP has made several promises but has delivered nothing,” Malakar said. Trinamul leaders, commenting on Rahul’s comments on their party, said that that he lacked information about present-day Bengal. “People are well aware that it is not the Congress but Trinamul that has been fighting against the BJP. He (Rahul Gandhi) seems to be unaware of the developments that have taken place in Bengal during past 10 years,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Turncoats have changed political dynamics||The flood of turncoats has been one of the defining elements of the Bengal Assembly elections. The changed political dynamics of the people in the electoral fray have added another dimension to the contest in West Burdwan — mentors have been pitted against their former protégés. In Pandaveswar, former Asansol mayor and Trinamul MLA Jitendra Kumar Tiwari is the BJP candidate against his one-time understudy — Narendranath Chakraborty, a Trinamul zilla parishad functionary. In Asansol North, minister Moloy Ghatak is taking on the BJP’s Krishnendu Mukherjee, his former comrade-in-arms. Mukherjee, a businessman, used to be a constant presence beside Ghatak at political and social programmes. The BJP had secured sizeable leads in both Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Chakraborty is banking on Mamata Banerjee’s slogan “Bangla nijer meyekei chai (Bengal wants its own daughter)” to turn the tables on Tiwari, who switched to the BJP in March amid protests from party old-timers. Tiwari said he was confident of victory, riding the “BJP wave”. “The people here will not accept those who are against chanting Lord Ram’s name. I am sure I will win with the blessings of Lord Ram,” he said while starting his campaign last month after offering puja at a Ram temple in Pandaveswar. He had taken the initiative to construct the temple during his tenure as a Trinamul MLA. Tiwari is also promising a free trip to the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya for senior citizens in Pandaveswar if he wins the polls. BJP insiders said Tiwari was also relying on the party’s polarisation agenda to see him through. Describing Tiwari as “Mir Zafar” and asking people not to vote for the “traitor”, Chakraborty recently told a gathering at Pandaveswar market: “In 2016, I could have been the candidate from Pandaveswar, being a party old-timer. But when Didi chose Jitendra Tiwari as her trusted soldier, I gave my best efforts to get him elected.” “Didi’s image and our efforts helped him to win the seat. People here will never support a traitor,” Chakraborty added. “I have promised to turn Pandaveswar into a model constituency if I win. People know I am a son of the soil and Tiwari stays 50km away in Asansol,” said Chakraborty, also Trinamul’s Pandaveswar block president. The Pandaveswar Assembly segment is part of the coal belt and falls under the Asansol Lok Sabha seat that has a sizable number of Hindi-speaking voters. The BJP got a lead of around 20,000 votes from Pandaveswar in the 2019 general election. “It is clear that Tiwari wants to woo them,” a source said. Pandaveswar has around 70 per cent Hindu voters, while Muslims constitute close to 27 per cent of the electorate. At Asansol North, sources said the BJP’s Mukherjee is banking on a possible split in the 40 per cent Muslim votes to sail through. The constituency has the largest number of Muslim voters in West Burdwan district. Sources said Trinamul was worried as the Sanjukta Morcha had left the seat to Abbas Siddique’s Indian Secular Front. Hyderabad-based Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has also fielded its candidate. Both parties are expected to eat into the Muslim votes. The AIMIM is hoping to get the support of the Urdu-speaking Muslim voters in the constituency. In the Asansol North Assembly segment, the BJP had taken a lead of 22,000 votes in the 2019 general election. Ghatak, however, ruled out the possibility of any split in Trinamul’s vote bank. “People here are not fools. They are aware of the development done by the Mamata Banerjee government in which I am a cabinet minister. People know about the misrule in BJP-run states. People are fed up of the increase in the prices of fuel and cooking gas. They will not vote for the BJP,” he said. The BJP’s Mukherjee, who has several criminal cases pending against him, is confident that the “goodwill” associated with Prime Minister Narendra Modi will ensure his victory. “Modiji is a popular leader in our state as well as the country. He is coming here to campaign. The people will vote for Modiji and nothing else will matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: A small eatery in Darjeeling offers taste of loyalty||For politicians jumping ship like there is no tomorrow in the season of elections, a small and nondescript momo and thukpa (noodles) joint in the Darjeeling hills may serve a lesson in fidelity. Neeni Aji Ko Dokan (Neeni sister’s shop), situated near Darjeeling Motor Stand, remains largely unknown to tourists but ask any Darjeeling resident for directions and they will not fail you. Among the shop’s patrons is P.S. Tamang, the chief minister of Sikkim, whose Sikkim Krantikari Morcha is in alliance with the BJP. Tamang used to be a regular at the restaurant and knows the lane like the back of his hand. To the uninitiated, the shop only sells beef momo and thukpa. Tamang’s political ideology, or maybe compulsion, does not seem to match his taste buds. “When in Darjeeling, he does visit our shop. At times, he orders our momos to the hotel he checks into. However, since swearing in as chief minister (in 2019), he has not visited our shop,” says Tashi Gyalpo, 40, the owner of Neeni Aji Ko Dokan who comes from an apolitical family. Tamang probably discovered the place during his stay in Darjeeling in his younger days. It is the quality of momo and thukpa that attracts people to the restaurant and not marketing gibberish. Neeni, who was a friend of Tashi’s mother, used to always focus on quality, he said. Neeni died about two decades ago. The blink-and-you-miss restaurant is located on the ground floor of Rai Building in Darjeeling. There is no signage on the shop, nothing to suggest that it is a restaurant. It is neither spick or span nor “modern”. It has wooden cabins where not more than 20 people can sit at a time, but the shop sells more than 1,000 momos a day. Politicians would do well to listen to Tashi when he speaks about how the shop has stuck to traditions and not gone looking for greener pastures. “We still prepare our momos as we did in the past. We probably are the only restaurant in Darjeeling that makes momos on firewood. We want to stick to our past, stick to quality and provide the same taste,” Tashi says. Many customers say momos prepared on firewood have a “distinct taste”. “So is their achaar (pickle), which is hot and blends well with the steaming momos,” says Mohan Lama, a regular. The shop is run by four staff members and two of Tashi’s family members — Nima Norbu, 74, and Mingma Lamu, 72. “We serve the common people of Darjeeling. Our customers are common people from the town, from villages and we fear that if we change our looks, they might be overwhelmed and might feel uncomfortable,” Tashi says. Four pieces of beef momo costs Rs 50, so does a bowl of thukpa. Gorkhas are predominantly Hindus, some follow both Hinduism and Buddhism. In Darjeeling, beef is not anathema among locals. “We are known in most villages of Darjeeling. Even if they don’t recognise our faces, the moment we say we are from Neeni Aji’s place, they recognise us,” says Tashi. Darjeeling has been sending a BJP representative to the Lok Sabha since 2009. The party has promised a “permanent political solution” to the statehood issue and tribal status for 11 hill communities in its election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Lack of industry a key factor||Name: Soumitra Saha Occupation: IT professional Age: 26 Education: Graduate Annual income: Rs 6 lakh Size of family: Five — parents, elder brother and sister-in-law Seat: Dabgram-Fulbari (Jalpaiguri) Is there any issue that is deciding how you will vote? There can never be one issue. However, I would definitely say the huge shortage of jobs and the lack of industrial development in the state will play on my mind when I go to vote. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? This question generates mixed feelings. I might be inclined to say yes. I still have hopes from the party. Three things which Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. I would like to rephrase the question as which initiatives have helped me and which have helped the people in general. For me and several others, development of road network has helped to streamline commuting to a large extent. Also, for others, the setting up of super-speciality hospitals in backward areas and the array of social schemes for students and youths have helped society at the grassroots. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. There are a number of issues that she should have taken care of. It includes scams in government jobs and the absence of a regular recruitment process for youths. Also, she often loses her temper and there are instances of her appeasing a section of the people while gagging dissent. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She has done several things for the poor. I do not see her as a part of the elite. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? First she was our “Didi”. The term  “Pishi” has been recently coined in political circles. I don’t completely buy the theory that she is only a “Pishi”. We should also keep in mind that she is the only serving woman chief minister of the country. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. Initiatives like Digital India, Start-up India, Make in India, Ayushman Bharat and monthly pension for farmers. Also, relations with other nations have helped Indian companies to grow their business. In the past seven years, we have seen development of road and rail infrastructure, banking facilities have been extended to people across the society, the poor have got homes, and there has been a nationwide cleanliness drive. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you. The Centre has taken certain “Tughlaqi” measures. First was the demonetisation that took more than 100 lives, then the privatisation of PSUs and the plan to implement “one nation, one language”. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? I don’t believe it but yes, the government gives priority to certain private players. Issues like the hike in the prices of petroleum products should be addressed immediately. The government should work more on education, health and employment instead of installing statues. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? More or less it is the same. There have been some development but even today, employment opportunities are lacking. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? The Left has committed a blunder by joining hands with the ISF. They are now trying to launch some fresh faces. This might help them to win some seats. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Absolutely, we all are the same in Siliguri. As per my knowledge, there has been no news of Hindu-Muslim differences in the city for decades now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||North East||Officials rule out Assam lockdown||Coronavirus cases are rising in Assam but officials involved in the management of the pandemic in the state have ruled out the possibility of a lockdown to contain its spread while neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland planned to involve religious and community leaders to curb the disease. “Over 500 cases are being detected daily in Assam but this is because we are testing more — about 1 lakh per day since April 12, a positivity rate of about 0.06 per cent. It would have been worrying had we tested 5,000 a day. The situation in the Northeast is not as worrisome as elsewhere in the country. It is still considered a green zone but we need to strictly implement the safety protocols. This will happen after the Bihu holidays,” one of the officials said. Bihu festivities got under way on Wednesday amid tight safety protocols and fears of a surge in Covid cases. Assam on Tuesday recorded 590 positive cases, taking the number of active cases to 2,924, mostly people with travel history. The death toll since the outbreak last year has risen to 1,119 till Tuesday, prompting the government to make rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests mandatory upon arrival at any airport in the state. A health department notification said a passenger will have to undergo an RT-PCR test upon arrival if the free rapid antigen test comes positive by paying the government approved rate of Rs 500. Officials said all possible efforts will be made after Bihu to strictly implement the Covid safety protocols like wearing masks and maintaining distance by dealing strictly with violators, including imposing fines and regulating public and private gatherings. They admitted there was laxity in implementation of the safety protocols during back-to-back BTC and Assembly polls. “When there was a fine (for violation of protocols), compliance was better. It got hit during the elections but we are once again toning up everything to contain the spread. The vaccination drive will also normalise in the next 10-15 days but there are no issues with the second dose. As far as the lockdown is concerned, we are not thinking about it at the moment. Assam will be the last state to impose a lockdown going by the present trend but things will hopefully not come to such a pass. We are waiting for the Bihu festivities to get over,” one of them said. In neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh, governor Brig. (retd) B.D. Mishra held a videoconference on Wednesday with religious leaders, urging them to participate in the fight against pandemic. Mishra urged the leaders to advise the people in observing SOPs (standard operating procedures), that is, putting on face masks, maintaining social distancing, frequent washing of hands, avoiding mass gatherings and motivating the eligible members of their fold to get vaccinated at the earliest. Mishra stressed that the enforcement of SOPs should not be left to the district administrations, police personnel or the state government. The day also saw Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi hold a sensitisation-cum-consultation meeting with all the tribal hoho leaders, recalling their significant contributions and cooperation to the state government in combating the first wave of Covid-19. The governor appreciated the valuable practical suggestions given by the tribal leaders based on their experiences and observations. “The suggestions will be conveyed to the state government for necessary action,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
15-04-2021||Opinion||In chains: Pedagogy on a leash||Autonomy is turning out to be a cuss word in this democracy. The elected regime in power has, on several occasions, made its displeasure known towards autonomy by acting against the advocates of independent thought. Now — the irony must not be missed — ‘autonomous’ institutions are turning against the principle as well. The independence of the Indian Institutes of Management is sanctified by law. Now consider the provisions of the proposed draft code at IIM Calcutta, which seek to regulate the conduct of faculty members. Red flags have been raised against the criticism of the government or the institution, participation in protests that hurt “public order” or “decency”; there are curbs on approaching the media, seeking redressal in courts as well as signing petitions. The formulation of the draconian code may have an immediate context: the faculty had approached the government to complain against the director and the board that saw the dismissal of the former. But that is not the full story. The service rules of IIM Bangalore reportedly include the provision on criticism of the institution while teachers of IIM Ahmedabad are expected to be ‘politically neutral’. The crux of the matter, clearly, is about putting institutions and, in the process, critical thinking and pedagogy on a leash. IIM Calcutta’s draft, as has been rightly pointed out by teachers, is in violation of several stipulations. The Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, the guidelines government personnel and bureaucrats are expected to adhere to, cannot be applied to teachers. There is legal precedent for this: some years ago, India’s highest court had upheld this distinction. The order was a heartening recognition of the special role that educators occupy in society. Teachers and faculty cannot be seen as inculcators of vocational skills. They germinate unbiased thought, encourage critical examination of realities by their wards, and serve as a bulwark to protect the tradition of creating and disseminating knowledge. A university or, for that matter, an IIM, remains the very embodiment of the assurance of such freedoms in the academic domain. It is now abundantly clear that academic institutions can no longer take their autonomy for granted: not just the government but even the University Grants Commission seems to be exceeding its brief in some cases. The whittling down of the agency of teachers and the institutions they serve comes at a time when India’s National Education Policy has recognized that excellence in academics is predicated upon the ability to think freely. New India never ceases to puzzle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||Beat the heat: Global warming||Sir — A joint study conducted by researchers from India and Brazil has found that one of the reasons for the deadly heatwaves in India — this leads to several deaths every year — is the rise in temperature in the Arctic region as a result of global warming. Given the alarming rate at which the Arctic is warming, this is a serious concern. Yet, several countries continue to downplay the far-reaching implications of global warming. India must reach out to other nations and encourage them to take collective measures to mitigate the situation. Sneha Chaudhury,Calcutta Swift action Sir — Mud-slinging has now become common in election campaigns, but things can quickly spiral out of control when political leaders incite their supporters to indulge in questionable acts (“CEC exits with 24-hour gag on Mamata”, April 13). In this regard, the decision of the Election Commission to ban the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, from campaigning for 24 hours may have been necessary. But this also raises some questions. The EC swiftly imposed a gag order on Banerjee when she stepped out of line — she allegedly told people from the minority community not to divide their votes and asked women to gherao Central force personnel who intimidate them — but when it comes to the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, such alacrity is missing. Several BJP leaders are guilty of inflammatory speeches, but they are rarely held accountable for their actions. In fact, Bengal’s BJP chief, Dilip Ghosh, had stated that unless people behave, more incidents like the violence that erupted in the fourth phase of polling in Cooch Behar — four people were shot by Central Industrial Security Force personnel — are likely to happen in the upcoming phases. So far, the EC has only sent Ghosh a show-cause notice. The EC must be more proactive in its approach towards curbing inappropriate behaviour during elections. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The death of five people, including the four who were shot by CISF personnel in Sitalkuchi, during the fourth phase of polling in Bengal last Saturday was unfortunate. Undoubtedly, it will be an uphill task for the EC to ensure that peace prevails in the state over the next three weeks. The decision of the EC to debar politicians from entering the trouble-torn Cooch Behar district for 72 hours following the incident was taken to help defuse the tense situation. Similarly, the EC wasted no time in imposing a gag order on Mamata Banerjee for 24 hours because of her inappropriate comments after the incident. Now it must take strict action against Dilip Ghosh for his hateful remarks regarding the firing at Sitalkuchi. The EC also rightly banned Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours — the BJP leader allegedly remarked that not four but eight people should have been shot by the CISF. Leaders of both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP must exercise restraint in their words and deeds. Khokan Das,Calcutta Need for change Sir — The Federation of All India Medical Association recently wrote to the prime minister, Narendra Modi, expressing concerns about the prevailing ‘VIP culture’ in government hospitals amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The association pointed out that there are separate VIP counters at several government hospitals run by the Centre that offer Covid testing only to politicians and ministers. In contrast, doctors themselves have to stand in queues to get tested. The doctors also alleged that many politicians call them at their residence for treatment; this further reduces the medical manpower available at government hospitals, which is already stretched thin. This behaviour is shameful. The prime minister must take note of the matter and address the concerns of the doctors immediately. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Sir — That political leaders are being offered special treatment at hospitals at a time when common citizens are dying of Covid-19 on account of inadequate medical resources is unfortunate. This must be stopped. Riya Pal,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||All’s fair for the Election Commission||When the task of an institution is to ensure free and fair elections, it has to take hard decisions. One such decision, presumably, was the Election Commission’s 24-hour ban on campaigning imposed on the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. According to the EC, Ms Banerjee violated the model code of conduct by asking the minority community in a campaign speech not to divide their votes; she also repeatedly raised doubts about the impartiality of the Central Armed Police Forces. The EC penalized Ms Banerjee for her ‘insinuating’ and ‘provocative’ remarks that could seriously disturb the election process. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders accused her of ‘polarizing’ communities. The EC must have caught the nuances of this definition of polarization, but perhaps it is not always as sensitive to complaints from all parties or to worries regarding electronic voting machines and their security. Threatening remarks made by the West Bengal BJP chief to artists joining politics are permissible — a small example — as is the derision in the rudest terms and tones directed at the West Bengal chief minister by BJP leaders, even their tallest. By the same logic, the EC must believe that Yogi Adityanath’s frankly divisive campaign speeches are part of the model code. Its impartial role in the Sitalkuchi killings by the Central Industrial Security Force was communicated for the most part by silence. Contrasted with its eager dutifulness after the death of a BJP leader in the same district earlier, the EC’s absence there after the CISF killed four voters, CCTVs disappeared and BJP-conducted social media sites put up fake videos in the CISF’s defence is rather striking. But it is an impartial institution: it banned the BJP leader, Rahul Sinha, for threatening remarks and gave notice to the state BJP chief for saying that there will be more Sitalkuchis if others act like the ‘naughty boys’ killed by the CISF. Another leader, who talked of Bengal becoming mini-Pakistan if the Trinamul Congress won, was not mentioned. Is Mr Sinha’s ban meant to balance the chief minister’s? That is a funny sense of proportion. Perhaps the EC, like the party in power at the Centre, seriously believes that people are fools. Free and fair polls in parliamentary democracy are predicated on respect for the voters. It is their government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||Something is rotten in the schools||My work email inbox often looks like a marketplace where I am exhorted to buy goods or services — supposedly for the betterment of my school. One look at the kind of mail that I receive will convince you of the rot that is setting in in our schools today. I have selected two emails to demonstrate this. “Dear Sir/Madam, Amid Covid-19 we are giving a Flat [sic] 50% discount with a nominal sponsorship of 30k+GST for the above benefits. Please do let me know if you are interested in this.” This is part of an offer made by a “global, educational magazine” after announcing that our school had been placed among “The 10 Best International Schools in India, 2021”. The seven “benefits” that were listed all boiled down to publicity for the school in India and abroad. “We hope you will allow us to serve your organisation and maximise visibility on a global platform,” continued the representative of the said magazine in her email to me. You may well wonder what is so ‘rotten’ about this offer. The explanation is simple. Our school has just introduced its international programmes. To be precise, the International General Certificate of Secondary Education programme was introduced last year, and the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme in 2018. One wonders how on earth we can be adjudged ‘One of the 10 Best International Schools in India!’ Far from feeling elated, I felt insulted that those offering the wonderful “benefits” perceive school authorities to be dim-witted, conceited or corrupt, or all three combined. Another common business strategy is for organizations to hold glittering ceremonies where awards are presented in various categories to institutions and individuals. The event is customarily held in a five-star hotel and to entice people to fill up the nomination forms, the names of those who would grace the occasion are cited in advance. They are usually VVIPs from the ministry of education, with a ‘celebrity’ thrown in for good measure. I quote from an email: “This side [sic] Madhu [name changed]. We had this conversation the other day [false]. Kindly fill up the form free of charge. Last day today.” Invariably, the “last day” is generously extended and a reminder is sent daily — for weeks on end. It is abundantly clear that the hunger for publicity of certain schools — upcoming or otherwise — is being cannily exploited by the business world. The truth is that this rot has been setting in for a while. Schools have been steadily corporatized and are now almost entirely market-driven. Many believe, however, that there is nothing wrong in regarding a school as a business and education as a product to be bought and sold. Nonetheless, it upsets many to see schools being marketed like five-star hotels or brands of detergent. The reputation of an educational institution is built over the years as a result of the way it has been run, the way it has attended to the holistic development of every student and the sincerity with which it has carried out its pastoral duties. The well-rounded alumni of such schools contribute in turn to the reputation of their alma mater through their achievements. No matter how much a school projects itself through paid publicity, it is an established truth that no institution can buy a solid reputation: it has to be backed by genuine credentials. Here I hasten to say that some ‘reputed’ institutions run on momentum and the magic of the ‘old school tie’. Only insiders know how rotten some of these institutions have become in many ways, besides the abandonment of ethics, which have taken a back seat anyway in a commercialized world. The brand continues to yield returns and the ‘old school tie’ undeniably is handy when it comes to building careers and doing business. The second email from my inbox indicating the rot reads: “Sir/Madam, do you know that we can reduce cheating in exams by 95%? The options offered are live proctoring, auto proctoring, recorded proctoring. It is extremely difficult to cheat in an online proctored exam due to the advancements in online proctoring software.” It is indeed a sorry state of affairs that we need artificial intelligence to detect cheating. Academic dishonesty is widespread among students and is, shamefully, aided and abetted by adults. A lack of educational understanding in the way students should be assessed has encouraged plagiarism, which has become an all-pervasive practice. I have a strong feeling that this, too, has stemmed from the same origin: the commodification of education. Our consumer society is steeped in materialism; all that parents and schools are interested in is getting their children to obtain dazzling board examination results, never mind the means. The irony is that when students reproduce answers that have been prepared by others or turn in ‘cut and paste’ jobs, they are rewarded with excellent marks. The concept of plagiarism is non-existent in our learning system. So, when it comes to tests and exams, ‘invigilation’ becomes a heavy-duty job for teachers while sophisticated technology provides efficient policing. Rampant cheating would not happen if we overhauled the assessment system. The need of the hour is to shed cynicism and make a concerted effort to inculcate values in our students. Condemning children is unfair and futile while policing does not touch the root of the problem. Plagiarists and cheats, it is hoped, will eventually find reason to regret their lack of knowledge while schools will realize that ostentatious publicity will not get them far. The money spent can be much better utilized in improving the school itself. In the ongoing elections, those candidates who have relied only on self-projection and publicity instead of serving the people are unlikely to win. Let us hope that politicians who hoodwink people are taught a lesson. But the rot in politics is too deeply entrenched; we must focus instead on stopping the rot in our schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||On borrowed wings||The intra-democratic debate about Joe Biden’s presidency, so far, pits a growing camp of Biden enthusiasts who are harking back to liberalism’s golden age — comparing the new president’s free-spending ambitions to Franklin Roosevelt’s and Lyndon Johnson’s — against a shrinking cadre of leftists who insist that Biden is still just another neoliberal centrist, another Bill Clinton or Barack Obama. Here’s a somewhat different, more provoking, way of thinking: we should regard Bidenism, in its current outline, as an attempt to build on Donald Trump’s half-formed, never-finished policy agenda, in the way that elements of Jimmy Carter’s programme found their fullest expression in Ronald Reagan’s presidency. I’m borrowing this idea from the Bloomberg opinion columnist, Karl W. Smith, who recently called Biden’s economic proposals “the coherent manifestation of MAGAism in the same way that Reaganism was a coherent manifestation of Carter-era deregulation”. But the analogy rests on more than just regulatory policy: much of what we remember as the Reagan agenda was anticipated in Carter-era policies and debates. For instance, the Reagan military build-up really began under Carter after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan: it was Carter’s CIA that armed the mujahideen, and Carter who fatefully involved the United States of America in the Persian Gulf. In addition to pushing through the deregulation of major industries, Carter nominated Paul Volcker, the crucial figure in the Reagan-era crackdown on inflation, to be chairman of the Federal Reserve, and feuded bitterly with his party’s left wing. Even supply-side economics, associated decisively with the right after the Reagan era, initially had Democratic partisans and Republican opponents. Basically you could say that in the late 1970s there was an opportunity for a politician who could credibly promise to restore US strength abroad while whipping inflation and unleashing dynamism at home. That leader could have been a Democrat had the Carter presidency turned out differently, had Carter managed his own coalition more effectively, made better policy choices, enjoyed better luck. Instead Reagan took the opportunity and ran with it, creating a multi-decade realignment. In a similar way, you might say that in the middle of the 2010s there was an opportunity for a politician to promise a kind of American rebuilding effort — a turn against globalization and overseas nation-building, in which deficit hawkishness would be discarded, industrial policy would make a comeback and there would be redistribution from the new economy’s winners to the American worker and working-class families. That opportunity was the basis of Trump’s 2016 campaign and, at times, his presidential agenda tried to seize the chance: in his support for a loose-money, full-employment monetary policy; in his tax bill’s child tax credit expansion and its stealth tax increases (via caps on the home-mortgage and state-and-local-tax deductions) on the blue-state professional class; in his trade protectionism; and in his attempts to draw down US commitments in Afghanistan and Syria. But like Carter before him, Trump couldn’t make it work. His congressional party preferred its old agenda of business tax cuts and Obamacare repeal, he preferred bigotry and bluster to policymaking of any kind, and instead of consolidating a new majority, he ended up defeated. So now comes Biden, in a sense, to simply scoop up elements of Trumpian populism and try the trick himself. He’s entrenching protectionism in trade policy and arguably broadening the last administration’s China hawkishness. He’s trying to do the trillion-dollar infrastructure plan that Steve Bannon promised but the Trump administration never delivered. And he’s taking the Senate GOP’s inchoate ideas on family policy and outbidding them with new child spending. Because he’s a Democrat, there’s no anti-tax pledge to fall afoul of, so he can do all this while promising explicitly to raise taxes on the rich. But he’s also ditched the deficit anxieties of past Democratic administrations, he’s got a full-employment Federal Reserve behind him and, following Trump’s lead, he’s just going to run up deficits until inflation finally bites. You can tell that these moves are well-suited to the political moment because the Republicans don’t know how to counter them. They’re stuck betwixt and between, unable to fully revert to their pre-Trump positioning as deficit hawks (who would believe them anymore?) and unsure how to counter Biden when he just seems to be making good on Trump’s promises. So you get Republican attacks on the infrastructure proposal for including too much non-infrastructure spending or conservative attacks on the family benefit for undermining work incentives. These are detail-oriented critiques, and sometimes reasonable ones — but they effectively concede a lot of ground to Biden’s general vision instead of setting up a sharp ideological contrast. Are there any limitations on this fulfil-Trump’s-promises approach? The immediate one is in immigration policy, where Biden’s coalition won’t permit him to co-opt Trump’s hawkishness or even revert to the policies of the Obama era. So it’s the Biden White House that’s caught between approaches, trying to deliver both a humanitarian welcome and enough border security to keep the flow of migrants manageable. The Biden bet seems to be that you can have a version of economic nationalism without its usual anti-immigration component — that protectionism via tariffs and industrial policy can go together with a looser immigration policy. If unemployment rates get low enough, this might be right. But a plausible liberal nationalism still probably requires a sense of basic order and stability at the border, which is eluding the Biden team for now. Then the longer-term issue with Bidenism as Trumpism 2.0 is that since the Democratic Party increasingly represents the winners of globalization, from wealthy suburbanites to Wall Street and Silicon Valley elites, a politics that requires these interests to sacrifice for the sake of redistribution will eventually create fissures inside its coalition. Yes, Biden can probably get a modest corporate tax hike and a higher tax rate on the highest earners. But his party’s eagerness to restore the state and local tax breaks that Trump curbed tells you something important about where power lies in liberal politics, and how little appetite there is among Democrats for tax increases that really bite the upper middle class. So just as Trumpism depended on deficit spending to avoid any conflict with his party’s donors and anti-tax activists, Bidenism depends on deficit spending to avoid having to soak his professional-class constituents. That such spending is possible, that inflation is just a rumour, is the crucial precondition for both men’s styles of populism. But whether Biden can simply expand upon his predecessor’s agenda without putting his own coalition to the test — well, that depends on just how long we stay in an era of money for nothing, and populism for free. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro containment zones ineffective ||The residents of the district are concerned with the lack of sanitisation and Covid-19 tests after 45 micro-containment zones were declared by the administration. Bokaro has witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases in the last 12 days. At present, there are more than 600 active cases in the district. An administrative officer said, “micro-containment zones have been declared in 25 places in various sectors of Bokaro Steel Township, 15 places at Chas Municipal Corporation, apart from Swang of Gomia block, Petarwar block and Kurpaniya areas of Bermo block.” “The virus in the second wave is said to be more contagious in comparison with last year, but still no sincere steps are being taken to control spread of virus in declared micro-containment zones of the town,” said Manoj Kumar, a resident of the township. Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh declared the Containment Zone in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section 34 (B & C) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The DC said sanitisation of the houses and surrounding areas of infected individuals is being carried out and asked for co-operation from citizens. According to the directives issued by the government, the border of the infected person is declared as the center point, with the place of residence of the infected person as the focal point. Residents claim the guidelines are not being followed by the administration. A citizen residing in a containment zone in Sector 3 said the administration is not following the protocols set by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad launches sanitisation drive across district as Covid cases surge||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has launched intensive sanitisation drive across 55 wards of the district, spread over five circles, including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand, using an array of machines and vehicles., The civic body used two recently procured water sprinkler vehicles, eight tankers and around 308 hand spray machines to carry out the drive on Thursday. The water sprinkler machines loaded with sodium hypochlorite solution sanitised the Randhir Verma Chowk, Sadar Hospital Road, Sadar Hospital, SDM court and Civil Court areas as well as other prominent roads of coal town. On the other hand, eight tankers fitted with pressure machines were used on the main roads of the other four circles. Hand spray machines were used at narrow streets and congested areas, where heavy machinery cannot enter. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation City Manager (sanitation) told The Telegraph Online that they have been sanitising the buffer and the containment zones of the district ever since the second wave of Covid-19 kicked in. “However, now we have extended the drive to all the 55 wards irrespective of the fact whether they are containment zones or not,” he added. “PPE kits and other protective gears have been provided to our staff engaged in sanitisation works,” the official said. Raj informed that the two water sprinkler vehicles were originally being used for coal dust suppression, but have now found a new role. The corporation has also purchased the sodium hypochlorite solution from a supplier this year, unlike the previous year where they used to make it on their own. “This drive will continue everyday in different parts until the situation normalises in the district. We will focus on such places which witness greater footfall,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Steel city imposes curfew-like curbs at night ||The steel city administration has imposed restriction on movement of people after 8 pm from Thursday as Covid-19 cases continue to rise. Shops and other business establishments will remain closed after 8pm. "If anyone is found loitering on the street or at any public place, then he or she should be ready to face prosecution. There will be police and administrative officials on the street across the city for implementation of the new order,” said Nand Kishore Lal, Additional District Magistrate, East Singhbhum, to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out such restrictions will remain in effect from 8 pm to 5 am every day to prevent the spread of Coronavirus infection. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died of Covid at the steel city. Eight of them died in Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital, the ninth victim, a 60-year-old man succumbed to his illness in an ambulance. The victim, a resident of Golmuri, was unable to get a bed at all hospitals in the city. During this period, 368 Covid cases were detected thus taking the total number of cases to 22,001.  The number of Covid deaths has reached 407. The city is also facing a shortage of plasma donors. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said,"Stock of plasma is nil. Hardly any donor is turning up for donating blood for the plasma." Lal said the number of deaths would have been fewer in number if there were enough donors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||JFC on talent hunt for next ISL season||Jamshedpur FC have begun preparations for next edition’s Indian Super League (ISL) in the right earnest by tapping players for the upcoming season of the cash-rich tournament. The Tata Steel-owned club does not want to lag behind when it comes to signing top players for the franchise and the club is negotiating with former India defender Anas Edathodika and young winger Komal Thatal. "Both Anas and Thatal are on our radar. Negotiations are on at the moment but we are keen to sign these two players,” a JFC team management member said on the condition of anonymity. Anas, who is from Kerala, was part of Jamshedpur side during the club’s ISL debut in the 2017-18 season while Sikkim’s Thatal was with ATK Mohun Bagan in the last season. He was in the Indian team for the under-17 World Cup in 2017. Sources said JFC’s head coach Owen Coyle and CEO Mukul Choudhari are busy negotiating with probable players, including foreigners. Choudhari could not be reached for comments. Jamshedpur, who stitched out a crack unit in the last ISL by signing top players, including goal-machine Nerijus Valskis, managed an ordinary show by finishing sixth in the tournament held in Goa. The club is keen to put the past in the backburner and start afresh. Lithuanian forward Valskis has been signed on a two year contract while other foreigners like Peter Hartley (United Kingdom), Stefen Eze (Nigeria) and Alex Lima (Brazil) had been roped in for a year. It remains to be seen if JFC again goes for them in the upcoming season. Valskis, on the other hand, is free to play for other clubs who will have to only pay the transfer fee. But that situation is unlikely since Coyle had brought in Valskis from Chennaiyin FC the last season. Both have great understanding between them. Scotland-born Coyle also has great faith in the leadership qualities of English defender Hartley who captained the side the last season. Hartley may very well turn out in JFC colours once again. Meanwhile, forward Aniket Jadhav has left Jamshedpur FC. The under-17 World Cupper has moved to Hyderabad FC for the forthcoming ISL season. Jamshedpur have not been able to reach the play-offs after making ISL debut in 2017-18 season. The club has experimented with four coaches Steve Coppell, Cesar ,Antonio Iriondo and Owen Coyle in a bid to change the fortunes of the team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren at Prakriti Parva Sarhul Festival ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand board likely to cancel Class X and Class XII exams||A day after the Centre cancelled CBSE class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams, the Jharkhand Academic Council is likely to make changes in their exam schedule for board exams in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Around 7 lakh students are set to appear for the board exams to be conducted by JAC from May 4. The exams, as per the existing schedule, will be held at over 2000 centres across 24 districts in Jharkhand. “Given the current situation, it would be difficult to hold the exams. However, the state government will take a final call on whether we need to postpone the exams or cancel them,” said JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch (JAM), the largest parents’ association in the state, shot letters to JAC and ICSE on Thursday seeking necessary changes in the exam schedule in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in the state. In the letter addressed to the JAC Chairperson, JAM has demanded cancellation of all board exams for the time being. “Parents are concerned about the wellbeing of their children as they would have to travel to exam centres and appear for the papers amid growing cases of Covid infection. The JAC exams, set to begin on May 4, should be cancelled for the time being,” the letter stated. Ajay Rai, the president of the parents’ body, said that it would be unfair on ICSE and JAC students if they are asked to appear for their board exams at a time when the CBSE has cancelled its class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams. “The rules should be the same for all students irrespective of their board. We cannot ask ICSE and JAC students to appear for exams at a time when CBSE has made changes to their exam schedule,” said Rai, adding that safety of students should be paramount for any board and the parents’ association in Jharkhand will press for postponement of exams. The developments come at a time when the Covid-19 situation in the state is turning bad to worse. In the past 48 hours, Jharkhand has reported around 6000 Covid cases and 60 Covid deaths, reveals government data. The state is also battling a crisis of drugs and hospital beds after the sudden spike in the active caseload. The JAC already started the practical exams for class 10 and 12 on April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs over 3,000 fresh Covid cases, 31 casualties in a day||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported more than 3000 cases of Covid-19 infection and over 30 casualties, which took the active caseload closer to the 20,000 mark and the Covid toll up at 1292, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi accounted for 1273 of the 3198 cases and seven of the 31 fatalities on the day. On the other hand, East Singhbhum, the districts with highest reported cases of Covid deaths, accounted for nine casualties and 368 fresh cases, the NHM bulletin further stated. Government records reveal that the fresh cases and casualties reported on Wednesday were the highest reported in a day this year. While Ranchi was the only district to report more than 1000 cases on Wednesday, at least seven districts – Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Koderma, Hazaribag, Ramgarh and Sahebganj – reported more than 100 fresh cases of Covid infection. As per NHM data, Dhanbad reported five Covid fatalities on the day, while Dumka, Bokaro and Koderma reported two deaths each. Chatra, Simdega and Sahebganj reported one death each. Wednesday’s findings take the Covid toll in Ranchi to 330 and that in East Singhbhum to 388. A recent genome sequencing confirmed that both these districts have presence of the UK mutant and double mutant strains of the virus. While the fresh cases broke all past records of 2021, the state also recorded its highest Covid recoveries in a day on Wednesday. As many as 1798 Covid patients, including 1212 in Ranchi alone, recovered from the viral infection in the day. However, the active caseload in Ranchi was still 7648 – the highest in Jharkhand – despite the recoveries on Wednesday. The active caseload in East SInghbhum was up at 2,285 as the district reported 368 cases against 156 recoveries in the past 24 hours. As per government data, the state tested swab samples of 31,797 people on Wednesday, and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,47,792 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and around 86.59 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate of infection in Jharkhand further dropped to 45.33 days against the national average of 80.05 days on Wednesday. As per government data, the growth rate of infection in the state was 1.54 per cent against the national average of 0.87 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 76,431 people and the second dose to 7,215 beneficiaries on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
15-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand private schools want exams put off ||On a day when the CBSE Class X exams were cancelled and Class XII exams deferred because of the nationwide surge in Covid cases, an association of private schools in Jharkhand made the demand for postponement of the matriculation and intermediate examinations of the state board which are scheduled to commence from May 4. A delegation of the Jharkhand Gair Sarkari Vidyalaya Sangh, led by its state president Mohammed Tahir Hussain, on Wednesday met the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) secretary Mahip Singh and submitted memorandum requesting the deferment of the exams considering the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “We have come to know that hospital beds are almost full and the number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly every day. If the CBSE can take a decision to cancel its Class X exam and defer the Class XII exam so can our state board considering the poor healthcare scenario and the difficulties of poor students in coming to exam centres amid the Covid threat. We have asked for deferment of both the matriculation and intermediate exams,” said Hussain. He further said that due to Covid restrictions they have sent their memorandum to chief minister Hemant Soren, principal secretary, education and literacy, Rajesh Sharma and Arvind Prasad Singh, chairman of the Jharkhand Academic Council, on their official email accounts. “We have sent copies of the memorandum with our demands to the official emails of the chief minister, principal secretary and the JAC chairman. However, we would also try to meet the chief minister in a couple of days and speak to him about the situation and implore him to postpone the exams,” said Hussain. Nearly 5 lakh students from 6,000 high schools and 3 lakh students from 1,700 intermediate colleges in the state will be appearing for their board exams scheduled from May 4. The JAC has set up around 100 centres for the conduct of the exam. The evaluation of answer papers is likely to begin by June 15 while the result can be out by the end of July or the first week of August. Sharma told The Telegraph they will be taking a decision on the exams soon. “We are keeping a close watch on the Covid scenario. We would be taking a decision on the examinations soon keeping in mind the interest of the students,” he said. On Tuesday, the state registered 2,844 new positive cases and 29 deaths due to Covid-19. The total number of positive cases stands at 1,44,594, of whom 1,26,178 patients have recovered, while 1,261 have died. The mortality rate of Jharkhand is 0.87 per cent, lower than the national average of 1.20 per cent. However, the recovery rate of the state stands at 87.62 per cent, which is less than the national average of 89.50 per cent. The virus growth rate of 1.43 per cent is worrying as it is more than the national average of 0.82 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-81
