16-04-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to remain closed on April 16 for sanitisation ||Jadavpur University has decided to keep the campus close on April 16 to undertake sanitisation following reports of Covid-19 cases at the institution. Registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice announcing the closure after a number of officials, non-teaching employees and research scholars tested positive. “After the sanitisation drive, the situation will be assessed over the weekend and a decision will be taken on whether the closure needs to be extended,” Basu said. The university had earlier shut down various offices for a few days for sanitisation. “But a surge in cases has prompted the university to sanitise the entire campus,” said a JU official. Among the employees who have tested positive is pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, who is in home isolation. A notice issued by the secretary of the faculty of engineering and technology and the faculty of interdisciplinary studies, law and management, says: “This is for information of all concerned that in view of the increasing trend of the COVID19 pandemic, the physical verification of documents for undergraduate and postgraduate students (Day and Evening): session 2020-21 under FET & FISLM scheduled to be held on 19th and 20th of April, 2021 is hereby postponed till further notice.” The campus has been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year. The university since early March this year has allowed undergraduate and postgraduate students to access the central library. An official of the university said the use of public transport by employees to commute to office and back home could be the reason for the spread of infection among the staff. According to him, non-teaching employees had appealed for pick-up and drop-off service so they could avoid public transport. “But it is not possible to provide the service to the 1,000-odd non-teaching employees,” the official said. The university had told its non-teaching employees early April that they could attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as told earlier, following the surge in Covid cases in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Medicines for Covid-19 patients in short supply||A crisis of drugs that are needed to treat Covid patients is being felt across hospitals in Calcutta and doctors said the problem, if not resolved soon, could hit patient management. Shortage of remdesivir, a drug widely used to treat patients with severe symptoms, is worrying hospitals the most. Some other drugs like tocilizumab and doxycycline, too, are in short supply. Some doctors said Covid has multiple lines of treatment but remdesivir, tocilizumab and doxycycline are widely used to treat the disease. “We have 20 patients in our hospital now who are requiring remdesivir. Each patient has to be administered six doses of remdesivir, which means we will need 120 doses. But we have only 35 doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, a doctor who is treating Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. “If the number of patients who need remdesivir sees a sharp spike in a couple of days, how will we manage? In such a situation, we may have to even stop administering the drug before the six-dose course is completed,” said Mitra, also the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital, he said, is also facing a shortage of tocilizumab and doxycycline. Alok Roy, a doctor and chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, echoed Mitra. “Remdesivir is a crucial drug for treatment of Covid but there are issues about its supply. There is also a shortage of tocilizumab. We have communicated it to the state health department and they have promised that there will not be any problem in getting medicines required for treating Covid patients,” Roy said. “We are increasing the number of Covid beds but if the supply of essential medicines is hit, it will become difficult to treat patients,” said a senior official of a private hospital. A doctor who has been treating Covid-19 patients since the beginning of the pandemic said tocilizumab was mentioned in the treatment protocol issued by the state health department. “The drug reduces inflammation. It is administered to patients with high levels of inflammation, which can disrupt the functioning of organs,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at the Beleghata ID Hospital. “Doxycycline has anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and possibly antiviral effects, and so is considered as a potential treatment for Covid-19.” At an online meeting with the state health department on Thursday, private hospitals raised the issue of non-availability of remdesivir. Officials of several pharmaceutical companies attended the meeting. An official of a private hospital said representatives of drug companies said the supply of remdesivir could improve from next week. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said: “I am not aware of the shortage of doxycycline. Also, there are antibiotics that can be used in place of doxycycline. Tocilizumab is a drug that is very rarely used.” Hospitals also said there had been a sharp rise in the price of pulse oximeters, used to measure blood oxygen saturation. A pulse oximeter cost about Rs 1,500 last year. The price has since doubled, said an official of a hospital. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,360, to 36,981, on Thursday. The state recorded 6,769 new infections and 2,387 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Suman Mukhopadhyay presents new version of Mephisto to underline election situation ||Ace director Suman Mukhopadhyay has done it again. Recalling the phenomenal response to his first staging of Mephisto during the Gujarat riots of 2002, he has presented a completely new version of the play last Wednesday to underline the do or die election in Bengal. The political message of the play is straight and simple — support the inclusive and secular, not the divisive and sectarian. Fascists and semi-fascists are mortally afraid of thinkers, intellectuals, creative writers and artists. They try their best to bludgeon them into abject submission; or, they simply try to eliminate them. How can we, even after so many years, forget the irrefutable fact that the great poet, Federico Garcia Lorca, was eliminated by General Franco, the military-fascist ruler of Spain? While Lorca was gunned down, pivotal German writers like Thomas Mann, Bertolt Brecht and many others had to leave their country to save themselves and their creativity. Indeed, this despicable tradition of Fascism found yet another malignant voice in Calcutta last week when the abrasive BJP leader, Dilip Ghosh, threatened: “Let them be busy with acting and singing. That we shall tolerate. But if they try to engage in politics, we shall rub them severely, and we know how to rub.” Still, stubborn poets, singers, artists and intellectuals simply refuse to be cowed down. Rejecting Dilip Ghosh’s horrendous threat, they staged the memorable and evergreen anti-fascist play Mephisto at Rabindra Sadan on Wednesday evening. This play has a glorious history. Not only was it performed in Berlin and other German cities in the turbulent 40s of the last century, but also in this very city when the scandalous pogrom in Gujarat was advancing in the first decade of the present century. The hall was packed that afternoon at the Academy of Fine Arts and everyone greeted the director and the artistes after they had put up a splendid performance. I pointedly requested the illustrious director of the drama staged last Wednesday, Suman Mukhopadhyay, to comment on the searing relevance of the play here and now. Suman replied: “We were overwhelmed by the fervent response when it was staged when Gujarat was burning in 2002. Now, in the present-day reality, the relevance of Mephisto is again being felt acutely. That is why we have staged it again to forewarn people of the impending catastrophe, if it genuinely occurs.” When I asked him to comment on Dilip Ghosh’s diatribe and outspoken threat, his firm answer was: “We refuse to be disturbed by what he spouts. Let him try to rub us in the wrong way severely, but we shall persist with our creative protest. We and the fully packed auditorium are not bothered in the slightest by his threat.” The play itself, based on a novel bearing the same title and written by Klaus Mann (son of Thomas Mann), depicts how a superb and ambitious actor gradually succumbs to the Nazi power-machine. His downward slide marked by growing servility is brilliantly dramatised. Moreover, Anirban Bhattacharya gave a stellar performance in the role of Mephisto, the submissive and purchased protagonist. As we watched the dramatic performance, one scene unfolding onto the other — we could not but compare our own situation with the one graphically etched in the play. The message also was clear and distinct: “Resist now or never. Eliminate the evil power which wants to stifle us into submission, without any further delay.” The Calcutta audience, when it first saw the play, during the Gujarat massacre was thoroughly charged. So also on Wednesday – the huge auditorium of Rabindra Sadan was full to the capacity and each and every face reflected a stern promise, which said, “No more, that’s enough”. The thunderous ovation which followed the end of the play clearly showed on which side the audience stood. The half-educated purveyors of Fascist culture in our state and country have clearly forgotten (or perhaps they are unaware of) the basic premise that the unsullied aesthetic dimension is always layered with the flow of redemptive politics. In point of fact, creativity and intellect cannot thrive without the indispensable political accent. And, precisely, this accent was heard and felt on Wednesday at Rabindra Sadan. The play will be repeated on 17th this month at Girish Mancha and on 23rd at Madhusudan Mancha. This month is crucial for us in Bengal. We have the golden opportunity and chance to reject Golwalkar, Godse et al. Shall we do it? The play, on its part, reminds us of our own responsibility and simply urges us to do the needful in the polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||International Baccalaureate cancels May exams, moots alternative||The International Baccalaureate (IB) has cancelled exams across the country because of rising Covid-19 cases. The exams had been scheduled for next month. The decision was taken on Wednesday and heads of schools were informed over email late in the evening. “Following continued conversations with our schools, associations and education boards, the IB can confirm that all IB schools in India will follow the non examination route for the Diploma Programme...,” said an email sent to the heads of IB schools. Three schools — Calcutta International School, The Heritage School and Modern High School for Girls — offer the IB diploma programme (for Classes XI and XII) in the city. “The IB has informed schools of our decision not to hold exams in India due to the rising cases of Covid-19 and following ongoing conversations with our schools, associations and education boards. We intend that the results of students in India should be awarded using coursework marks and predicted grades for the May 2021 session, as described in the awarding model outlined in February,” said a statement from an IB spokesperson. School heads in the city had been in touch with the IB office in Singapore in the wake of rising cases of infections in the country. “We had meetings about the Covid situation in India,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. Students’ results will be based on the non-exam route. “The non-examination route considers predicted grades, internal assessments and IB core components. Students’ results will be on the basis of that,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, principal, Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans rally to harp on Bengal’s culture on Bengali New Year||In Bengal, the word Ram first brings to one’s mind Rammohan and not Lord Ram. The “Ishwar” people of Bengal are familiar with is Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. The Sonar Bangla that people in Bengal dream of is the Sonar Bangla that Rabindranath Tagore wrote about in the song that is now the national anthem of Bangladesh. On the first day of Bengali New Year, scores of Calcuttans assembled outside Jorasanko Thakurbari, the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore, to walk in a rally till College Street, known for its culture of debate, dissent and learning. The choice of the start and end points was intentional, said organisers. It was meant to harp on what is at the core of Bengal’s society — a tradition of liberalism, acceptance of diversity and standing up against hatred. Students, elders, working professionals, activists, academics and people from various other fields joined the rally. Poushali Chakraborty, who finished her MSc in biotechnology from Jadavpur University this year, was among the participants. “I thought it was more important to join this rally than spend a holiday at home because the basic values of Bengal are under threat,” she said. Poushali was also angry at the attempt to give the impression by a set of people that they were going to rescue Bengal. “Some people are saying they will create a Sonar Bangla, as if there is nothing in Bengal and they will do everything for us. They sound like they are going to be the protectors of Bengali culture,” she said. “One of their leaders said they will form anti-Romeo squads to protect women. This statement itself is an insult to the women’s struggle for years, an insult to all those women who fought hard and earned their own rights. Who are they to protect the women of Bengal?” Anshumita Sengupta, an HR professional, had come from Nagerbazar in Dum Dum. “The day I heard about this rally, I decided to attend it. We the people of this state have to preserve our culture and fight to protect it. If we sit idly, we will lose our traditions and culture,” she said. Images of icons of Bengal — Rammohan Roy, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain, Kadambini Ganguly, Pritilata Waddedar, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sukumar Ray, Sishir Bhaduri, Satyajit Ray, Satyen Bose, Prafulla Chandra Ray and Uday Sankar, among others — were carried by the participants. “The British had tried to cage Bengalis into a mould of clerks, but they failed. Just see the icons whose images we are carrying with us today. It is not possible to have everyone’s picture. But among the few we are carrying are scientists, writers, thinkers, feminists, social reformers, entrepreneurs and so many,” said an organiser. “The new invaders are thinking that they will be able to build the narrative of Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan in Bengal. But Bengal is diverse. It has never accepted any domination. It will not accept this time, too.” The rally went past a few places that have become iconic because of their association with people who represent the true spirit of Bengal. It crossed Swami Vivenkananda’s birth place and Vidyasagar College, which was founded by Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. The participants were mostly in traditional Bengali attire. Organisers said Bengal’s culture did not mean Bengali culture. Bengal has always welcomed foreign cultures and traditions, and even imbibed some of them in Bengali traditions. But the same people have always resisted anything imposed on them by force, or any domination from outside, they said. “Look at our favourite foods, the most popular dresses. So many of these are taken from other cultures but have become a part of Bengal’s culture. Bengal as a place has always accepted people speaking various languages, belonging to different religions. That is Bengal and there is now an attempt to tamper with that tradition,” said Amlan Hazra, one of the organisers. “By Ram, we mean Rammohan. Our Iswar is Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar.” Participants sang Ore Halla Rajar Sena, Banglar Mati Banglar Jol and Amar Sonar Bangla Ami Tomay Bhalobashi, Tagore’s song that is now the national anthem of Bangladesh. “Who knows if the BJP is elected to power they will say that singing Amar Sonar Bangla is anti-national, because it is the national anthem of a country that has a majority Muslim population. They will ban any performance of the song. This is a real threat. To stop that from happening we have to be united,” said a participant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Elections 2021: Social media ‘star’ against Kamarhati’s ‘local boy’||The Kamarhati Assembly constituency, which had been a Left stronghold for several decades, saw a growing support for the BJP in eight years, from about 1,700 votes in 2011 to more than 45,000 in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Trinamul Congress, which had in 2019 regained the lead it had lost in the 2016 Assembly polls against the CPM, is trying hard to maintain its winning streak in the seat, which goes to the polls on Saturday. Madan Mitra, who had wrested the seat from the CPM’s Manas Mukherjee in the 2011 Assembly elections, is pitted against the BJP’s Raju Banerjee and the CPM’s young face, Sayandeep Mitra. The constituency, on the northern fringes of Calcutta, has a mixed population. The Kamarhati Assembly constituency lies on both sides of BT Road. On the west is Dakshineswar, an old neighbourhood along the Hooghly. On the east, there are colonies where residents are mostly settlers from the erstwhile East Pakistan or their descendants.They formed a strong vote bank for the CPM for several decades. The tables had turned in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee came to power. Madan Mitra had defeated the CPM’s sitting MLA Manas Mukherjee by more than 24,000 votes. Mitra became transport minister in Mamata’s cabinet. The BJP’s Shikha Sarkar had secured 1,699 votes in 2011. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mitra, who was fighting the polls from behind bars, lost to the CPM’s Mukherjee by 4,198 votes. The BJP had started making its presence felt as the party’s candidate Krishanu Mitra bagged 10,797 votes. He, however, finished a distant third. Mukherjee got 62,194 votes and Mitra bagged 57,996 votes. But the CPM’s vote bank started waning and the BJP gained a foothold in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The TMC secured a lead of 17,000 votes against the BJP’s Samik Bhattacharya in the Kamarhati Assembly segment, which is part of the Dum Dum Lok Sabha constituency. The BJP had polled 45, 631 votes against the TMC’s 62,356. TMC: Madan Mitra BJP: Raju Banerjee CPM: Sayandeep Mitra Madan Mitra is contesting for the third consecutive time from the seat. Originally a resident of Bhowanipore, Mitra had shifted to Dakshineswar before the 2011 elections. Apart from the campaigning door to door and addressing street-corner meetings and large rallies, Mitra has taken to social media to further expand his outreach. “I wanted to connect with the young and first-time voters and the best way to do so is through social media,” said Mitra. Mitra’s recently released music album “Oh Lovely” has gone viral. It is a song about how politicians are switching from the TMC to the BJP allegedly for personal gains. “Since February, when I had posted it on YouTube, it has garnered over one lakh views,” Mitra said, smiling. “When I am going out for a campaign, people are asking me to sing and I readily oblige.” He is also doing Facebook Lives to reach out to voters. Mitra said he was confident of retaining the lead his party had in the Lok Sabha elections. “In 2016, I was part of a conspiracy and I was put behind bars. The jerseys were the same and so were the players. But the captain was missing. This time, the captain will play again,” said Mitra, claiming that his personal popularity in the area and Mamata’s charisma would see them through. But Raju Banerjee differs. “People are fed up with syndicates and cut-money culture in the land of Dakshineswar Kali temple and Adyapith Kali temple. Once a thriving industrial belt, there are hardly any industrial units here,” said Banerjee, the BJP’s vice-president in Bengal. “Basic amenities like potable water, drainage and good roads are missing,” said Banerjee, who said he grew up in the locality playing football in Belghoria. The CPM has pitched a new face after a bad show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — Sayandeep Mitra is fighting his first poll battle. “There was a shift towards the BJP during the Lok Sabha elections because some of our supporters and workers felt the saffron brigade was the only alternative to the Trinamul,” said Sayandeep. “The same supporters have now seen the Trinamul candidate of this constituency celebrate Holi with three actor-turned-BJP nominees on board a vessel on the river Hooghly. People have realised that the Left is the only alternative in Kamarhati.” Once an industrial belt, with factories and jute mills, Kamarhati has a sizeable population of Muslims and Hindi-speaking voters who will play a crucial role this time, said all the three parties. Communal politics, jobs, corruption among councillors, lack of civic amenities and the personal charisma of Madan Mitra, residents say these issues will determine the winner. “Hindus, Muslims, Bengalis and Hindi-speaking people have been living together for years without any major problem. But this time, the BJP is trying to drive a wedge and we are scared,” said a 65-year-old resident of Kamarhati who did not want to be named. Civic issues are equally important. “If you talk to people here, you will learn about scarcity of drinking water across parts of Vivekananda Nagar, BL Ghosh Road and May Dibas Pally,” said Arun Chakrabarty, a resident of Culture More in Belghoria, the Assembly’s border in the east.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Poll battle between one-time colleagues||Bidhannagar MLA and fire services minister Sujit Bose’s biggest challenge is to win over the 19,000-odd votes the BJP had got in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and defeat Sabyasachi Dutta, who was once his colleague in Trinamul but now fighting the Assembly elections as a BJP candidate. Trinamul’s Bose had won the Bidhannagar Assembly seat in 2016 by 6,988 votes, defeating Arunava Ghosh of the Left-Congress alliance. The BJP’s Sushanta Ranjan Pal had come third, polling 21,735 votes. The BJP had turned the tables in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — its candidate from the Barasat Lok Sabha seat, Mrinal Kanti Debnath, was ahead of Trinamul’s Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar by 18,916 votes in the Bidhannagar assembly segment. The Left finished a distant third. A swing of more than 19,000 votes is needed for Bose to retain his seat, which goes to the polls on Saturday. A third candidate in the fray is Abhisek Banerjee of the Congress. Bose, in his bid for a third successive win from Bidhannagar, has been trying to woo residents of planned areas like Salt Lake as well as those living on fringe areas like Duttabad, Dakshindari and added areas behind Bangur and Dum Dum. At multiple rallies he has assured residents of Duttabad, Dakshindari and the areas behind Lake Town and Bangur that they are not “outsiders or encroachers”. The Trinamul has been promising these people benefits like patta — or land rights  — and highlighting state government schemes such as Swasthya Sathi, Kanyasree and Sabuj Sathi. The BJP’s Dutta, a former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, has said he would carry out eviction and demolition drives to free pavements of encroachments. “I will give land pattas to those who are living in Duttabad for years without any security. I will also provide all civic services to the area…. On the other hand, the BJP candidate, who used to be the mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had tried to evict these people and even tried to snap their water supply and electricity lines,” Bose told Metro on Thursday. Duttabad has more than 10,200 houses, most of which are single-storeyed. Though more than 50,000 men and women live there, the voters total 8,500. Most of them used to vote for the CPM during the Left Front regime for security and to ensure that no eviction drive was launched. A Trinamul member who used to be a CPM councillor said that during the Left regime, they would bank on these votes to counter those cast by residents of planned areas like Salt Lake. The BJP, on the other hand, has run a campaign to negate the image of being an outsider, often questioning their nationality and terming them as “Bangladeshis with forged documents”. On Thursday, Dutta, the outgoing Rajarhat New Town MLA, who switched sides from Trinamul to the BJP in 2019, said: “This vote is a walkover match for me. In the 2019 general elections, there was a 5-7 per cent vote swing because of Narendra Modiji’s image. There was no alternative to him as people sought a stable government. This time the issues are local and Bose is also chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, where very little actual development has taken place. He has only focussed on organising pujas.” Drinking water is a major issue in several wards in South Dum Dum Municipality, Dutta said. Drainage is a problem in areas behind the Haldirams bus stop on VIP Road. The entire stretch gets waterlogged after showers. Several huts behind Central Park were demolished in 2017 for the Calcutta Book Fair. Dutta alleged that Bose had helped the evicted settlers settle on a plot near City Centre. “This is a prime piece of land in one of the poshest areas of Salt Lake and Bose helped encroachers, who are Bangladeshis, settle there. I had decorated Salt Lake in the run-up to the FIFA Under-17 World Cup,” said Dutta. “We were also selected to be a Smart City under a central scheme but that was scrapped. If I win, I will focus on providing world class facilities and developing the entire area from scratch. I will also set up hawking zones in places where people will be able to sell things. At the end of the day’s sales, they will have to take away their wares.” Many residents of Salt Lake, however, are opposed to the “outsider” plank because people from multiple places have settled in the township. “Salt Lake per se has no original residents. When people started pouring in, a new community was formed. Nearly everyone who stays here was once an outsider,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, a member of the Salt Lake Residents’ Association who stays in GD block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: I have served here for 38 years, says Tapash Chatterjee||Tapash Chatterjee is fighting the Assembly battle on familiar turf. As former deputy mayor of the now defunct Board of Councillors at Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and earlier, as the then chairman of Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality, and also a resident of Rajarhat, he knows the area like the back of his hand. He faces a two-way fight with an energised BJP and a youthful CPM. ⚫ The race has reached the last mile. How confident are you? I am quite confident. Everyone is expecting the battle to be easy for me. I am a son of this soil. I have served this area for 38 years. My party has a strong organisation here. I find no difference in the situation between the first mile and the last mile of the race. ⚫ How do you rate your main opponents? The profile of the BJP candidate (Bhaskar Roy) is being perceived as a misfit for the electorate in this constituency. He is an unknown face. As for Gautam Deb’s son (Saptarshi, the Left Front candidate), he is known by his father’s name, not his own. Neither of the two was visible last year, during the lockdown or the Covid crisis. ⚫ Had the outgoing MLA, your former party colleague, Sabyasachi Dutta contested from here, would it have been a different ball game? He knew he had done little work here over 10 years. He knew I might contest from here. So he got scared and ran away from this seat (to Bidhannagar). ⚫ As Bidhannagar mayor, Duttahad left you without any portfolio for months though you were the deputy mayor. How would you rate him as mayor and MLA? He would fail to get any marks. He neither approved a single trade licence as mayor nor took any pro-poor measures. Corporation ke dubiechhen. Uni kajer manush-i na. Name a single job he has done in Rajarhat as MLA! He left the party (in 2019) but clung on to the post. Had he resigned, we could have done some work here in the last year and half. ⚫ Will his alleged non-performance be a liability for you? He was elected on your party’s ticket, after all. People were upset with his inaction as was the party. O lokta okejo lok. People have understood that. Next door, Sujit Bose did so much for Lake Town. But he (Sabyasachi) did nothing here. He was a liability. He is past now. It would have worked in my favour if he contested from here against me. That’s why he fled (to Bidhannagar). ⚫ What about New Town’s infamous Syndicate? The chief minister has managed to rein in the Syndicate. It was at its worst in his (Sabyasachi’s) time. We have been able to make the local boys involved in the construction business understand that hooliganism will not be tolerated if they continue in the business. So things are much better now. ⚫ What are your election promises? I will run the Patharghata hospital properly. (At present there is a primary health centre). There is space already allocated for it. I will start work. I will offer free medicines to the poor by introducing a mobile van with a doctor. Every fortnight, it will visit a ward. I will build an electric crematorium in Rajarhat. It will be a Rs 2.5 crore project. There is a facility on land donated by a private donor by a canal but it is a primitive one, using wooden logs (Hajratola burning ghat in Golashia). Locals prefer to go all the way to Nimtala. I also plan to distribute reference text books among students. I tell people that they will not find a Hindu like me as I have built a temple in Narayanpur and organise Durga puja and several Kali pujas in my locality. Also they will not find a Muslim like me as I have developed and beautified a burial ground for them and run a school for their children. ⚫ Rajarhat has a sizeable Muslim population. Are you worried at the possibility of Muslim votes getting divided? This election will not just decide the 2021 Assembly result but also reflect what will happen in 2024 (Lok Sabha election). BJP won more seats than its proportion of voteshare. We know that 68 per cent voters did not vote for BJP. If we can consolidate that vote, we need not worry about victory. We need to tell voters not to bother about Hindu-Muslim issues but think about the dire strait of the economy. Our main enemy now is communalism. In Bengal, since Trinamul Congress is the main anti-communal force, people should support us, just as in Tripura, since CPM is the main anti-communal force, they should be supported to keep the BJP at bay. I used to know CPM to be a secular, anti-communal party when I was a part of it. It has joined hands with a communal force (Indian Secular Front, led by cleric Abbas Siddique of the shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly) now and become BJP’s B team. ⚫ Which party will be the runner-up in this seat? Though the candidate is weak, I think BJP will be second. ⚫ Though New Town has less than 11,000 voters, what will you say to voters of New Town? The cornerstone of development today is participatory planning. Many educated citizens live in New Town. I will seek their suggestions. We will sit with NKDA and figure out a way to let residents have a voice since the township still does not have the numbers to have an elected civic authority. Some areas are still under the panchayat. But what development will the panchayat do there? We will also request Hidco to take care of the fringe areas as a township cannot prosper in isolation. ⚫ The Covid-19 situation is going from bad to worse, especially with gatherings occasioned by political campaigns. Your comments? The Election Commission of India should have thought about this. They should have sat with political parties at the very start and figured out a way. Instead, it spread out the election in Bengal over so many phases over a month and a half! Had it not been for their decision, the election would have been over by now. Development has been brought to a halt. Election holey jomayet jonosobha hobe.Supporter-ra lorai er hujuge thake.There is a lot of emotion. What is the alternative? Had they told us not to hold rallies, we could have thought of other ways like going door to door or doing digital campaigns. Vote-er porer din theke amra eta niye nambo Corporation theke. ⚫ Your parting message to voters. Late into the night at 1am, there are three entities who will answer your call — the police, the street dog and Tapas Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Priority for local youth in local jobs, says Bhaskar Roy||Bhaskar Roy recites Thomas Hardy’s elegy In Time of The Breaking of Nations and highlights his Bengali medium schooling to impress upon his Rajarhat voters how he has risen from the ranks. He names multi-national companies where he has held high posts to further boost his aspirational image. The BJP candidate resides on the fringes of New Town, just outside NKDA area. Here are snatches from his speeches delivered at street corner meets across Rajarhat and at a meeting with local party workers uploaded on the party’s local unit social media page. ⚫ Huge buildings have come up in New Town — Uniworld City, Rosedale, Elita Vista, DLF… They have everything — sewerage, drainage, drinking water, roads… But New Town and Rajarhat are like Suorani and Duorani. The Left Front built the place and Trinamul Congress ruled for 10 years. Could they not include these fringe areas under Hidco as added area, at least in terms of civic services? Could the earlier Trinamul MLA (Sabyasachi Dutta) not have tried to get this done? He has realised his mistake. He too had to work within the structure of his party. So he has quit his party and joined us. ⚫ There is no scope of livelihood here except brokerage and building materials syndicate. Youngsters here do not know how much they will earn at the end of the month, This is an entirely unorganised sector. The Trinamul government has done nothing to create jobs here. Look at Eco Park. How many local youths are employed there? Not even 10. There is an IT Hub in Action Area III. How many Rajarhat boys have got work there? All the chief minister does is hold a Global Business Summit where foreigners come. I develop software and export to 14 countries. I too have been invited to that summit in Eco Park. If I win, I will make sure local lads get priority in jobs here. Not everyone needs to be B.Tech or M.Tech. There can be job-oriented crash courses. These offices will need all kinds of people. I will create an employment bank so that new offices that come up can contact and employ local youth. ⚫ It is perfectly acceptable if local boys pool in funds and start a business in supply of building materials. If any house or boundary wall is coming up in the area, they could even approach with a request, saying: “Kaku ba Dada, Apni toh baire theke jinish kinben kono dokan theke. Amra toh parar-i. Apni amar thekeo nite paren.” But the decision will rest with the owner. Backed by police or political leaders, if they go and demand that building materials must be taken from them, that will not be allowed. Je syndicate manusher jibon durbisoho kore tole, shei syndicate hote debo na. ⚫ The Left Front had this principle of langol jar, jomi tar (land belongs to him who ploughs the land). They took away land from farmers and redistributed it (among share-croppers as part of Operation Barga, the land reforms programme). As a result, farmers here have small parcels of land which does not allow them to even get bank loans. The system has collapsed. They imported communism to replace our 5,000-year-old Hinduism. During their regime, Hidco took away lands of local villagers paying Rs 5,000 to 5,500 per cottah. Now land in New Town is worth Rs 30-35 lakh per cottah. Their leaders are so old that they cannot see. I am telling you who their projected chief minister candidate is — Mohd. Salim. He is contesting from Chanditala. (The LF has made no such announcement). ⚫ There is no hospital here. Those who have money go to Apollo (Gleneagles Hospitals) or AMRI Hospital and those who do not, have to go all the way to RG Kar or Nil Ratan Sircar (Medical College and Hospital). Even there you don’t get beds. I plan to build a super speciality hospital, either a government one or one on public-private partnership model. ⚫ The place also needs good government schools. I will work to improve the condition of the local Bengali medium schools. ⚫ They have fielded a namesake of mine as a dummy candidate. So there is another Bhaskar Roy (from Bahujan Samaj Party) right under my name on the ballot paper. But people will look for my symbol and vote. Even if six Bhaskar Roys are fielded they will not be fooled. This is a war between Ram and Rahim. There is a need for consolidation and polarisation of votes. We want to build a Hindu rashtra though we do not neglect other religions. But if anyone refuses to chant Bharat Mata ki jai, he will be treated as minority. ⚫ My campaign starts at 6.30am with a cha chakra with people. From 7.30am till 1pm, I am going door-to-door. There are drawing room meetings scheduled from 3pm to 4pm. There are again door-to-door campaigns in the afternoon. Street corner meetings take place in the evening. After 9.30pm, I hold organisational meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Return to Left Front vision of New Town, says Saptarshi Deb||Saptarshi Deb, the 33-year-old Left Front candidate fielded by the Sanyukta Morcha, may be fighting his first election but the Presidency University alumnus who stays in New Town has politics in his genes. ⚫ Your father Gautam Deb has a link with the birth of New Town. Yes. As housing minister in the Left Front government, he had spearheaded the New Town project in 1998. An unplanned urban explosion was happening in Calcutta and middle class residents were getting pushed out of the city due to economic reasons. An urban housing crisis was looming. The housing department took up MIG complexes along the Bypass to mitigate the crisis. But my father realised more needed to be done and proposed a township, which Jyoti babu (Basu, the chief minister) encouraged. The Major Arterial Road was the first construction. Along it, complexes like East Enclave and Eastern High started coming up. My father says the road was the first advertisement for New Town as people started using it to reach the airport. ⚫ What was the development vision for the township? Development was to take place phasewise, hence the action areas were demarcated. In a few years, Buddha jethu (Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) became chief minister. It was a boom time for the IT industry. Sector V took off. DLF 1 and 2 happened, Candor Tower, Unitech.... IT parks started opening one after another. The vision for New Town was it would not be a sleeping city, like Salt Lake, where people come to sleep after spending the day elsewhere at work. It would have its own vibrant economy, which would be based on soft industries like FinTech and IT. The financial hub, which was supposed to have come up, was to have share trading, banking… A smart city which would give employment opportunities to the city’s educated youth. We want to return to that vision. New Town will be a prominent part of the industrial development plan we have for Bengal. ⚫ Will you revive Special Economic Zones (SEZ), which the Trinamul government has abolished? Our party policy makers are the right people to comment on that. But SEZ was a part of the Left Front industrial plan, so it could be in our plans. We have seen flight of industry, with the departure of the Tatas (from Singur). SEZ hok na hok, that trust has to be revived. The Silicon Valley (opposite City Centre 2) is a farce. We want to see what is happening within its walls. It is not enough to hand over land. You have to create an investment-friendly atmosphere. Hassle-free land acquisition has to be offered. Take Shapoorji Pallonji (Sukhobrishti). It was to be Asia’s biggest mass housing project. The government had mobilised land for it. No private player could do it on its own. ⚫ Why has work got stalled there? It must be the company’s internal problem in recent times. Back then, Hidco’s initiative had paved the way for 22,000 flats to come up. When it will be complete, it will be a Grade II municipality on its own, housing a lakh people. The space opposite Eco Park was to have been the central business district. The hotels came up but post-Singur, post-Left Front, the investments dried up and the businesses never materialised. ⚫ What are you saying in street-corner meets? Public transport is a problem in New Town and totos cost Rs 50-60. If the solution is owning a car, then it does not help the middle class. There is no government hospital. There are no government schools. Even Salt Lake has Bidhannagar Municipal School. The property tax is exorbitant. Residents are voiceless with regard to development policies. NKDA and Hidco are accountable only to the state government and not to any elected body. A city council could be formed with elected block-wise representatives. Do not let them handle the NKDA funds but let them have a voice. ⚫ The Left Front has fielded several young faces like you. Even a month and half ago, I did not know I’d contest (smiles). In my constituency, 50 per cent voters are below 40. So it is giving me an edge. I am talking of employment and getting great resonance. I am much more approachable. Khub hnatchhi. I am going door to door almost like panchayat elections. I have also created a three-minute digital introduction for social media. Life is hectic but nice. Since I have been fielded from my home constituency, I can come home (in BF Block, New Town) at night and get to meet neighbourhood uncles and aunts doing their morning walk when I leave for the day. ⚫ Who will come second? BJP is not a factor here, though the contest will not be bipolar as it was in 2016. They did get 37 per cent votes from this Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, thanks to post-Pulwama patriotic wave, while we got 10 per cent but we have always done badly in Lok Sabha polls since 1977. The seat has 35 per cent Muslim voters and TMC’s Muslim support base is fast eroding since 2019. ISF (Indian Secular Front, led by cleric Abbas Siddique of the shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly) is with us. They are a youth-driven organisation. We are focusing on booths where we did well in 2016 but not in 2019. In New Town, we did much better than in the rest of the Assembly segment in 2019, getting 20 per cent votes. I think 37 per cent will be a winning aggregate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town road perch for migrant mother idol||An idol at a Behala puja modelled on migrant workers who travelled for miles after the country-wide lockdown experiencing immeasurable hardships, was applauded far and wide last autumn. Now it has found space in full public view on a New Town street. The 8ft fibre idol was worshipped at Barisha Club in 2020 and was chosen to be preserved by chief minister Mamata Banerjee who had inaugurated the puja. The idol has been placed on an island near a pavement on the road connecting EcoSpace to Akankha More, near FinTech hub, that runs parallel to the Major Arterial Road. “We brought it in January and it was installed in March,” said a Hidco official, adding that it would be lit up. The decision was taken when the results of the state government’s puja contest Biswa Bangla Sharad Samman were announced. “At the virtual meet, we had requested the chief minister that the idol be placed in an open-air public place where future generations can learn about the struggle of the migrant labourers amid the Covid crisis. She suggested a few areas and asked minister Firhad Hakim to do the needful,” said Barisha Club puja president Sudip Polley, the local councillor. Artist Rintu Das was unaware that the installation was complete. “This is my first work to be exhibited on a road,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||City’s second CNG station opens in New Town||As petrol and diesel prices remain skyhigh, a new fuel has made its appearance in New Town. A Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) pump has opened behind Axis Mall. “We opened on March 22. Several car makers have launched CNG variants of their models. There are three-four cars that come for refill per day,” said an official at Champion Hub, the gas station which so far dispensed only petrol and diesel. CNG was selling at Rs 67.67 per kg on the day The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the petrol pump. “This is our second pump after one in Garia which had opened on the same day,” said an official of Bengal Gas Company, which is a joint venture of GAIL (India) Limited and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Limited, a state government entity. Two more gas stations are set to open near Shapoorji Pallonji in Action Area III and at Chinar Park once all permissions are in place. The company also plans to set up its own station opposite City Centre 2. “They have been given temporary permission to operate a pump there. In the long run, they are supposed to provide piped supply,” said a Hidco official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Taste of Bengal with tribal flavours||A breeze comes wafting across the paddy fields yonder, caressing a few krishnachura, palash and atashi flowers along the way. Cicadas sing in a monotone. A dim lamp or two in the courtyards of distant huts highlights the gathering darkness. Perfect setting to lounge outdoors and munch on muri and telebhaja. The ambience of rural Bengal can be experienced right in the heart of New Town, with Banglar Gram having come up over three acres, next to the herbal garden near Gate 6 of Eco Park. Now you can have a meal of dishes served in rural homes of Bengal or enjoy tea in a clay cup with traditional snacks seated in the midst of it all. “Many urban youngsters have little idea how villages look, how paddy is sown or how mustard flowers look. Banglar Gram, which came up a couple of years ago, helps them get that feel. But many visitors used to ask for a taste of Bengal’s villages too. That is why we have come up with an eatery serving tribal cuisine, called Dhamsa,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, at the inauguration on Sunday. The restaurant, named after the Santhali drum, owes to it both its name and shape.  The structure is 22ft high and has a diameter of 35ft at the top. “If you take an aerial photograph, it looks like a dhamsa even from above,” said Anirban Das, a Dum Dum Park resident who is one of the city's best-known Durga puja theme-makers and is behind prominent pujas like Chetla Agrani. “It has a steel structure over which we have used tensile fabric, imported from France. The wooden look of the sides is actually fibre,” adds his partner Samiran Krishna Dey. The two had started work in 2016. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had come up with the idea of Banglar Gram and asked me to work on it after she saw a dhaner morai I had created at the Book Fair. We finished work in 2017,” he said. Dhamsa, he points out, was the chief minister's idea too. “She wanted the seats to be created out of stumps of trees and put us in touch with the forest department. We travelled to north Bengal in search of them,” Das says. There are three thatched hay roofs supported by carved wooden pillars under which the seats are placed around wooden tables. In spring afternoons and evenings, these are the best places to savour the meals served. Sen says there are plans to add more outdoor shelters once the tribal kitchen becomes popular. The indoor restaurant is air-conditioned and seats 18. The walls are done up elaborately with Warli paintings, a tribal art typical of Maharashtra, drawn on cane mat (sheetalpati). Dhamsa serves dishes soaked in the flavours of Bengal’s districts.  Currently it runs according to the park’s timings — 2.30pm to 7.30pm on weekdays, and 12.30pm onwards on Sundays. (Monday closed.) So two menus have been drawn up — for lunch and afternoon snacks.  The lunch menu serves five kinds of thali. One has Panta Bhat with alu bhorta, tomato bhorta, shaak, piyaji, kucho machh bhaja and papad. It costs Rs 178 (the vegetarian option costs Rs 135). Black rice is served in the Purulia thali, named after Pakhi Pahar in the Ayodhya hills. “It is slightly sticky and high on starch. It is cultivated mostly in Assam and Manipur. If the feedback is not good, we may shift to dhneki chhnata chal,” said Snehasis Sinha, additional general manager, tourism, Hidco. It comes with shak bhaja, alu bhorta, musur dal, khosha chochchori, kochu lotir ghonto, dimer mamlet dalna, buno murgir jhol, chutney, papad and payesh. It costs Rs 188. Certain specialities from the districts can be ordered separately too — like dumurer dalna or chochchori, kochur loti ghonto or jhal and anajer khosha chochchori or bhaja. Tribal touches have been added in dishes like Banspora Machh, Murgi or Mutton, where marinated fish or meat is stuffed within a hollow bamboo stem and chargrilled (priced Rs 167, Rs 157 or Rs 198, depending on the main ingredient). Another village favourite, Gugli, is also on the menu. Collected from the edges of ponds, gugli will be cooked as jhal, posto or chochchori (all dishes priced Rs 156). From 5pm to 7pm, there are three platters on offer, each costing Rs 95. The Muri Telebhaja platter has beguni, alur chop and piyaji. One called Kopai-er Jolkhabar has Kumro Phooler Bora, Alur Bora and Beler Morobba. The third features an assortment of papad - papad chura, sabu papad, masala papad, chaler papad with morobba. A la carte options at snack time include Egg Devil, Fish Chop, Fish Fry, Fish and Chicken Kabiraji Cutlet, all priced in the range of Rs 105 to 200. The costliest is Prawn Cutlet at Rs 252. There are plans to extend the restaurant timings to serve dinner as well in future. For that, a separate entrance independent of the park will have to be worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer meals delivered at home||If you want a light Bengali meal suited to soothe the body in this heat without stepping out of home, it is just a call away. Women from self-help groups are cooking such dishes at Mrittika Bhavan in DD Block, as part of an initiative of the West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, under the department of panchayat and rural development, which is also arranging for home delivery of orders across Salt Lake, New Town, Kestopur, Lake Town and beyond, till the airport. A panta bhaat platter is becoming popular. It has panta bhaat made of aromatic rice soaked overnight, alu bhate with knacha lonka pora, sorsher tel-pneyaj diye posto bata, mourola machher chochchori and aamer chutney. It will cost Rs 225, and be reached at the customer's doorstep. Some summer special side dishes have also been introduced. Vegetarian ones like tok dal, jhinge alu posto and shukto cost Rs 50 on an average. Options in fish include Rui Machher Tok, Pabdar Jhol, Kajri Jhol and Doi Katla, costing Rs 80-90 each. A light Deshi Murgir Jhol, with potato and three pieces of meat, comes for Rs 170. Tok Doi can also be ordered separately for Rs 35. A basic thali costs Rs 40, with rice or three rotis, a vegetable and a fry. One can add the stand-alone dishes with this. Orders can be placed at 9163123556. “Since customers in Salt Lake and New Town are mostly aged, we have to keep their preferences and health conditions as well as the heat in mind,” said Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, CADC. The corporation has registered a Rs 2.1 crore turnover in 2020-21 through home delivery in the pandemic-hit year. “We are ready with adequate supplies if any restrictions are imposed due to the worsening Covid-19 situation,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher after a volatile session on Friday amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 28.35 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 48,832.03. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.25 per cent to 14,617.85. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, ONGC, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech and Nestle India. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, L&T, TCS, Infosys and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. A continued surge in second wave of COVID-19 cases in the country, which already crossed 2 lakh daily cases, has certainly posed a risk to sustainability of rebound of earnings momentum, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. While the government's strong effort to expedite vaccination progress and absence of complete lockdown in Maharashtra and Delhi offered some comfort to equities, the risk of other states taking steps of wider economic restrictions continues to persist, which may continue to weigh on investors' sentiments in the near term, he noted. "Unlike last year, states seem to be reluctant this time for complete lockdown due to wider ramification on economic activities. "Further, current level of mobility restrictions imposed at different states and government's focus to improve supply of vaccine in the country should be helpful to contain outbreak in coming weeks and essentially should not lead to large economic damage," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 67.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
16-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Asian Paints and HCL Tech amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 160.43 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 48,964.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 63.35 points or 0.43 per cent to 14,644.80. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, HCL Tech, HDFC, Tech Mahindra and M&M. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 259.62 points or 0.53 per cent higher at 48,803.68, and Nifty advanced 76.65 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,581.45. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 979.70 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "A continued surge in the second wave of COVID-19 cases in the country, which already crossed 2 lakh daily cases, has certainly dented investors' sentiments. "However, the government's strong effort to expedite vaccination progress in the country by allowing multinational vaccines in domestic markets and absence of complete lockdown in Maharashtra and Delhi offered some comfort to equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Equities on Wall Street too ended with gains in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 66.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
16-04-2021||Business||Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry settles civic tax dispute||Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCC&I) has put an end to the three-and-half decade long tax dispute with Calcutta Municipal Corporation, clearing the air of uncertainty over the oldest business chamber in the country. BCC&I, which is owner of the iconic Royal Exchange building at Dalhousie, dipped into its internal reserves and arranged special funding from external sources to pay off Rs 9.61 crore in municipal taxes. The chamber took advantage of the waiver scheme announced by the Bengal government to clear the dues. Under the scheme, a taxpayer could get a 100 per cent waiver on penalty and interest, leaving them with the option to pay only the outstanding principal amount. The scheme was operational till March 31. BCC&I owed Rs 30 crore to CMC in unpaid taxes, including penalty and interest. Last year, Calcutta High Court had rejected the chamber’s plea seeking relief from the payment of municipal taxes. The chamber, formed in 1853, had contested CMC’s tax claim on the property which was built in 1919 on the same premises where Lord Richard Clive, the first governor general of India, used to live. CMC and the chamber have been sparring on municipal tax claims since 1987. The property, a fine illustration of the ionic order of Grecian architecture with long columns holding the roof, was declared a heritage property in 2004. “The Bengal Chamber has resolved its property taxation matter with CMC in respect of its heritage Royal Exchange premises. The matter remained unresolved for over 30 years and despite possessing requisite tax clearances from CMC, the issue had sustained for decades,” said Deb A. Mukherjee, president of BCC&I. BCC&I is a not-for-profit organisation which earns revenue from membership fees, seminars, workshops and meetings, sponsorships and consultancy services. It also earns rent by letting out a part of the property. Apart from two banks on the ground floor, the tenants include the eastern region office of CII, Indian Tea Association and Indian Jute Mills Association. Even though BCC&I had managed the last fiscal well by cutting down cost, given the pandemic dried out a lucrative revenue stream of physical meetings, paying off CMC came at an ‘immense cost,’ it said. “The chamber has arranged for special funding and settled the entire property tax burden with the support of and in continuous dialogue with CMC while looking forward to working together with CMC in maintaining preserving and developing its own heritage property and that of the city in the evolving urban sustainability sphere,” Mukherjee added. The dispute CMC, under the mayorship of Trinamul Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee, accorded heritage status to the building, which has about 50,000 square foot built up space, on June 2, 2004. Thereafter, the corporation and the chamber decided to enter into an understanding to promote and develop Calcutta and Bengal. A letter dated May 6, 2005 from the municipal commissioner stated that in view of the public-private partnership arrangement between the chamber and corporation, BCC&I would be exempted from paying municipal tax. A further communication from the commissioner on the same day noted a draft PPP agreement has been approved. The MoU was later signed by the chamber and sent to the corporation where it remained. Calcutta High Court held that there was no final agreement which the petitioner can enforce in a court of law. Under Section 425K of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation Act, CMC can exempt the owner of a heritage property from payment of tax or fees. However, a specific agreement must be forged for that. Now that the tax dispute is behind it, the chamber may make a fresh attempt to get tax exemption. BCC&I spends close to Rs 90 lakh a year to maintain the property. While a decision is likely to be taken up when a new board is in place after the municipal election, the chamber may also seek a relook at the valuation of the property, which it believes is significantly less that what has been ascribed now by the civic authority. Glorious past Apart from Lord Clive, the other notable resident on the premise was Philip Francis, who fought the famous duel with Warren Hastings. Oriental Bank Corporation bought the premise in 1842 and occupied it till 1893. BCC&I bought the premise from the bank, pulled down the building later and constructed the premise as seen today. Formed in 1833 by 25 merchants, the Chamber by then required a much bigger space for sprawling activities and a large number of members. The Chamber commented and provided input on several legislations of pre-independent India, including Indian Electricity Bill, 1902, Life Assurance Legislation, 1910, Customs Act among many others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Facebook signs deal with CleanMax to source renewable energy||Facebook has signed a deal with Warburg Pincus-backed CleanMax to source renewable energy. The deal is part of the environmental sustainability efforts of the US-based technology firm. The collaboration includes a 32-megawatt wind power project located in Karnataka and is part of a larger portfolio of wind and solar projects that the two companies are together working on to supply renewable power into India’s electrical grid, a joint statement said. This will be followed in other states where the tech major is operational. About half of the project capacity has been commissioned and is already generating power. CleanMax will operate the projects, while Facebook will buy power off the grid using environmental attribute certificates. Facebook’s head of renewable energy, Urvi Parekh, told Reuters that the company does not own the power plants but signs long-term power purchase agreements with the renewable energy companies. This helps the projects secure requisite financing. “This partnership with CleanMax will enable new solar and wind power to be generated in the near future, contributing to the decarbonisation of Indian electrical grid,” Parekh said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Amazon announces $250-million venture fund for India||Amazon.com Inc on Thursday announced a $250-million venture fund for India, focused on bringing the country’s small businesses online, as the company comes under fire from local retailers. The new fund will focus on the digitisation of small and medium businesses, innovation in agri-tech and health tech, the company said. “We are very passionate about trying to enable acceleration of small and medium-sized businesses, in fuelling innovation and the economy in India,” the company’s incoming CEO Andy Jassy said at Amazon India’s event “Smbhav”. Jassy, who oversees Amazon’s fast-growing cloud computing business, will take over as CEO from founder Jeff Bezos later this year. Cleartrip buy Walmart-owned Flipkart on Thursday said it will acquire Cleartrip, an online travel technology company. Cleartrip operations will be acquired by Flipkart and Cleartrip will continue to operate as a separate brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Wipro meets Street estimates, posts 27.8 per cent growth in net profit||Wipro on Thursday met Street estimates when it posted a 27.8 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. Net profits of the IT services firm rose to Rs 2,972 crore from Rs 2,326 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Companies such as Wipro have been reaping the benefits of enterprises across industries and geographies investing in technology amid the pandemic. Wipro said during the quarter, it continued the momentum of winning large deals. It closed 12 large deals resulting in a total contract value of $1.4 billion. Given the positive business environment, Wipro saw its revenues rising to Rs 16,245 crore, a rise of 3.4 per cent over Rs 15,711 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Its IT services revenue stood at $2.15 billion, a growth of 3.9 per cent over the preceding quarter and 3.8 per cent from the year-ago period. Wipro forecast that revenues from its IT services business will be in the range of $2,195-2,238 million during the quarter. This translates to a sequential growth of 2-4 per cent. “We delivered a third consistent quarter of strong revenue growth, deal wins and operating margins. We also announced our largest ever acquisition of Capco that will bolster our global financial services sector. We are excited with this wave of business momentum that we are witnessing. All key markets are now growing on year on year basis and this provides us a solid foundation to build on next year growth rates,” Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director, said while commenting on the results. The quarter saw operating margins at Wipro coming at 21 per cent which marks a sequential 70 basis points over 21.7 per cent in the previous three months. For the fiscal, operating margins stood at 20.3 per cent, up from 18.1 per cent in the previous year. In terms of sectors, banking, financial services & insurance or BFSI showed a growth of 30.5 per cent during the quarter. Other verticals like consumer, health, energy, technology and manufacturing also witnessed growth of upto 17 per cent. During the quarter, the company concluded the buyback of 23.75 crore shares for an aggregate amount of Rs 9500 crore billion ($1.3 billion), excluding buyback tax. For the year ended March 31, 2021, Wipro had net cash of around Rs 26,217 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Wholesale price inflation zooms to eight-year high of 7.39 per cent||The wholesale price inflation zoomed to an eight-year high of 7.39 per cent on rising crude and commodity prices. Economists expect inflation to touch double digits in the near term, which will dim the prospects of any policy rate cut, as economic uncertainty looms large amid a second wave of coronavirus pandemic engulfing the country. “The annual rate of inflation stood at 7.39 per cent (provisional) for the month of March 2021 over March 2020,” the commerce and industry ministry said. Such a high level of WPI was last recorded in October 2012, when inflation was 7.4 per cent. This is the third straight month of up-tick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI) based inflation. Wholesale inflation rose to 7.4 per cent in March against 4.17 per cent in February and 2.51 per cent in January, data showed. Its retail price counterpart — the consumer price index - also saw inflation surging to a four-month high of 5.03 per cent in March on the back of a sharp rise in the food and core segment. The low base of March last year, when data was computed with a low response rate because of the nationwide lockdown, contributed to a spike in inflation in March 2021. This is the third straight month of up-tick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI) based inflation. “WPI inflation has printed much higher than our expectation of 6.1 per cent, with faster than anticipated upticks in inflation of core items and fuel. We expect the headline and core WPI to rise further over the next two months, peaking at about 11.0-11.5 per cent and 8-8.5 per cent, respectively, in May 2021,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra Ratings. She said, “The expected trajectory of WPI inflation, and its partial transmission to CPI inflation going ahead, supports our view that there is negligible space for rate cuts to support growth, in spite of the growing uncertainty related to the surge in Covid-19 cases, localised restrictions and emerging concerns regarding migrants returning to the hinterland.” Wholesale inflation in primary articles has risen to 6.4 per cent in March 2021 compared with 2.2 per cent in March 2020. Inflation in the food group rose by 3.3 per cent in March 2021 compared with 1.4 per cent in February 2021 and 4.6 per cent in the corresponding month last year on account of higher prices of pulses  and fruits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Plea in Supreme Court seeks fresh stimulus for MSMEs||A company on Thursday moved the Supreme Court, seeking fresh stimulus for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and a plea to direct the RBI to issue guidelines to provide interim relief because of the sudden outbreak of a second wave of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown. The plea has been filed by Maharashtra-based Amaltas Apparel and Accessories Pvt Ltd through advocate Abhigya but is yet to be placed before the apex court or to be admitted by it. According to the petitioner, the earlier circular issued by the RBI last year to extend  the moratorium on all loans till August 31, 2020 came as a huge relief to such entities as it otherwise would have become a huge financial burden for the borrowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Citibank to exit the consumer banking business in India||Citibank, the largest foreign lender in India by assets and profits, is exiting the consumer banking business in the country as part of a global strategic review. The consumer banking business comprises credit cards, retail banking, home loans and wealth management. However, India is not the only country where the lender will say goodbye to retail banking. The lender will exit 12 other nations — China, Australia, Bahrain, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Poland, Russia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Incidentally, this is not the first time that the banking major is announcing such a big exit. Back in 2014, it had announced its intention to leave consumer franchises in 11 markets that included Japan, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guam, Guatemala, Hungary, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Korea. Citi on Thursday said the review will allow it to direct investments and resources to the businesses where it has the greatest scale and growth potential. It has now decided to focus its global consumer bank presence in Asia and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) on four wealth centers — Singapore, Hong Kong, the UAE and London. Citigroup CEO Jane Fraser said that the decision was taken as the bank did not have enough scale to compete effectively in these markets. “We believe our capital, investment dollars and other resources are better deployed against higher returning opportunities in wealth management and institutional businesses in Asia,’’ Fraser added. Citi had entered India in 1902 and started the consumer banking business in 1985. It has 35 branches in the country and employs around 4,000 people in the consumer banking business. Following the exit from consumer banking, Citi will focus on the institutional business in India where it has a strong presence across various segments. Citi India is amongst the largest commercial banking units focussed on mid-sized corporates across its global operations. It is also a dominant player in investment banking. Further, it has the maximum number of MNC clients in India within corporate banking. It is also a major player in custodial services. All these businesses will continue in India. While the exact nature of the exit from India is yet to be ascertained, the key focus will be on its credit card business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||RBI completes first tranche of bond purchases under G-SAP 1.0||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday completed its first tranche of bond purchases under the G-sec acquisition programme, or G-SAP 1.0. However, its exercise did not have the desired impact on the markets with yields on the benchmark 10-year security rising by 10 basis points to 6.12 per cent — the highest in a week. Under G-SAP, the central bank had said it will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchase of government securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve amid a huge market borrowing by the government. This is for the first time that the central bank is committing its balance sheet to the conduct of monetary policy. The central bank had announced that it will purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the current quarter. Within this, the first purchase for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 was conducted on Thursday. As part of the purchase, the RBI purchased five securities — 4.48 per cent GS 2023, 5.15 per cent GS 2025, 6.79 per cent GS 2027, the benchmark 5.85 per cent GS 2030 and 6.22 per cent GS 2035. Against the notified amount of Rs 25,000 crore for all these bonds, the amount offered stood at Rs 1,01,671 crore. However, its purchase of the 10-year paper left much to be desired. The RBI accepted only 19 offers of Rs 7,511 crore (total amount offered were at Rs 21,655 crore) at a cut-off yield of 6.03 per cent. Bond markets were expecting the RBI to purchase Rs 15,000 crore of these bonds. Amid the huge government borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore in this fiscal, the RBI has been looking to cool down long-term bond yields. However, fears of higher inflation has thwarted its efforts in this direction. The market’s apprehensions over the inflation front were confirmed again on Thursday when the wholesale price inflation (WPI) shot up to an eight-year high of 7.39 per cent in March. This news along with the lower amount accepted by the RBI for the 10-year bond led to yields on this benchmark paper rising to 6.12 per cent. Regulatory authority The RBI has set up the second Regulatory Review Authority (RRA 2.0) to streamline regulations and reduce the compliance burden of regulated entities. Deputy governor M. Rajeshwar Rao has been appointed as the Regulations Review Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Government mulls more stimulus options||The government is not ruling out the option of coming out with another round of stimulus measures focused on small and medium enterprises and helping out the poor and vulnerable sections of society as it continues to assess the economic impact of the spurt in the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Sources said all possible measures were being discussed with finance ministry officials coordinating and assessing the spurt in the pandemic and its impact with PMO officials being kept in the loop. The finance ministry is discussing the economic impact with the ministries of commerce, labour, MSME, social justice and agriculture. The ministry is also in touch with the RBI. The government does not want any large-scale disruptions to happen because of the restrictions imposed by different states and the lockdown announced by some state governments. On Tuesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made it clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and only resort to local containment. Sources indicated the focus of the package could be to provide relief to the poor if the second wave of the pandemic disrupts their livelihood and also pre-empt large scale migration like last year. The possibility of increased funding for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme could also be considered, they said. Union Budget 2021-22 had allocated only Rs 73,000-crore under MGNREGS, a dip of 34.5 per cent compared with 2020-21, which will suffice to fund only around 260 crore person days of work. For 2020-21, the government had allocated Rs 61,500 crore (BE) to fund the MG-NREGS, but later raised the allocation in two tranches to Rs 111,500 crore. The government announced an economic stimulus-cum-relief package between March 26 and May 17 last year to jump start recovery after strict Covid-19 curbs severely hit business activity. While Maharashtra has announced lockdown from Wednesday, more than 10 states including Delhi, Punjab and Haryana have imposed night curfew or weekend curbs which businesses said have already hit transportation and raw material supplies. Brake on Chetak Within 48 hours of re-opening bookings for its electric scooter Chetak, Bajaj Auto on Thursday put the brakes as it stopped taking bookings due to supply chain uncertainties. “A large number of confirmed orders were placed by customers requiring the company to cease acceptance of bookings within 48 hours. The company will review the supply situation and announce the next round of booking opportunity,” Bajaj Auto said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Union minister Prakash Javadekar tests positive||Union minister Prakash Javadekar Friday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and urged those who came in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested. Javadekar, who holds the key portfolios of Environment, Forest and Climate Change; Information and Broadcasting; and Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises; informed about it on Twitter. "I have tested #COVID positive today. All those who have come in contact with me in the last 2-3 days may please get themselves tested," he said. Javadekar had received the first shot of COVID-19 vaccine at a private hospital in Pune on March 5. He had appealed to all the citizens to get vaccinated as and when they become eligible. Javadekar has been busy with engagements related to his ministries till recently, including a bilateral meeting with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and an event at the French Embassy on Wednesday. Several top political leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, have also tested positive for coronavirus recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||UK home secretary approves Nirav Modi's extradition to India ||UK Home Secretary Priti Patel has signed off on the order to extradite Nirav Modi, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges related to the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, senior Indian diplomatic sources in the UK said on Friday. Modi, 50, who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, has 14 days to apply for permission to appeal against the Home Secretary's order in the High Court in London. Back on February 25, the Westminster Magistrates' Court had concluded that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts, leaving the sign off on the order with the Cabinet minister. He had allegedly perpetrated the fraud in the Punjab National Bank in collusion with his uncle Mehul Choksi. After a two year long legal battle, District Judge Samuel Goozee had ruled that Modi only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. He also dismissed the human rights concerns that Modi's medical needs would not be addressed as per several Indian government assurances. "I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which NDM [Nirav Deepak Modi] could be convicted in relation [to] the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. A prima facie case is established," the judge noted. A prima facie case to have been established on all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence, he had said. Under the UK Extradition Act 2003, the judge sent his findings to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. It is the UK Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The CBI had registered the case on January 31, 2018 against Modi, Choksi and others including then officials of Punjab National Bank on a complaint from the Bank on the allegations that the accused had hatched a criminal conspiracy amongst themselves to defraud the public sector Bank by fraudulently issuing Letters of Undertaking. Letters of Undertaking are a guarantee that a bank gives to banks abroad where its client approaches for credit. The figure swelled to Rs 13,000 crore when similar frauds by companies of his uncle Mehul Choksi, an alleged co-conspirator, came to light, officials said. Investigation showed that the accused officials of the Punjab National Bank, in conspiracy with said owners of the firms and others, had fraudulently issued a large number of LoUs to overseas banks for obtaining Buyer's credit in favour of said three firms without any sanctioned limit or cash margin and without making entries in the core system of the bank. The first charge sheet was filed on May 14, 2018 against 25 accused including Modi. The second charge sheet was filed on December 20, 2019 against 30 accused people including the 25 chargesheeted earlier in respect of 150 outstanding fraudulent LoUs which had resulted in wrongful loss of nearly Rs 6,805 crore to PNB. It was also alleged that Modi in conspiracy with other accused had siphoned off the funds obtained as buyer's credit through dummy companies established by him in Dubai and Hong Kong which were shown as exporter of Pearls to three Nirav Modi firms and importer of Pearl studded jewellery from his firms. Modi had escaped from India on January 1, 2018 before registration of case in CBI. A non bailable arrest warrant was issued by the trial court against him followed by a red corner notice in June 2018 by Interpol. He was arrested by the UK Police in London in March 2019 and his repeated applications for bail, were rejected by the Westminster Magistrates' Court and High Court, London. After second charge sheet was filed, additional evidences were submitted to the Court in London for the total fraud amount of Rs. 6,805 crore (approx.). In addition, second extradition request for the offences of intimidating the witnesses and destruction of evidence was also submitted to the UK government. In extradition requests, CBI submitted voluminous oral and documentary evidence to substantiate the charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misconduct by public servants, destruction of evidence and criminal intimidation of evidence. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after considering a number of further issues. Under the provisions of the act, the Secretary of State had to consider the possible imposition of the death penalty, in which case extradition cannot be ordered; the rule of specialty, which prohibits a person being dealt with in the requesting state for matters other than those referenced in the extradition request; and whether or not the person was in the UK following extradition from another state, in which case that states permission must be obtained before extraditing to a third state. If these factors do not prevent extradition, the minister had two months within which to sign off on Judge Goozee's February 25 order. The Home Secretary's order rarely goes against the court's conclusions, as she has to consider only these very narrow bars to extradition which did not apply in Nirav's case. However, as witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya who remains on bail in the UK while a confidential matter, believed to relate to an asylum request, is resolved there is still some way to go before Nirav can be formally moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India. The judge had informed Nirav Modi of his right to seek an appeal in the High Court and has up to 14 days to make that application after the Home Secretary makes her decision known. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London. It is also possible to appeal to the UK Supreme Court but this is only possible if the High Court certifies that the appeal involves a point of law of general public importance, and either the High Court or the Supreme Court gives leave for the appeal to be made. Nirav's legal team did not immediately confirm if he intends to appeal against order and he will remain behind bars at Wandsworth Prison on judicial remand until the next stage in the legal process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||ICSE, ISC exams deferred till June in view of Covid-19 surge||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Friday deferred its Class 10 (ICSE) and Class 12 (ISC) examinations until June in view of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, the board said in a statement. “In the light of the nationwide surge in Covid 19 cases, CISCE has decided to defer the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class 12) board examinations scheduled to be held from May 4, 2021,” board Secretary Gerry Arathoon said in the statement. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the examinations will be taken by the first week of June 2021,” he added. The statement further said that while the ISC examinations will be held on a later date, the candidates for the ICSE examinations will be given the option to write the offline exams with the Class 12 students or not write the offline exam. “In view of the ICSE candidates opting for the second option, the CISCE will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates,” the statement said before closing. The decision came two days after the Centre cancelled the CBSE Class 10 board exams and postponed the Class 12 test for the same reason. The situation will be reviewed on June 1 before a decision is taken on the Class 12 exams of the CBSE. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the exams. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Sunday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had written to the education minister seeking a cancellation of the CBSE exams. She followed this up with tweets repeating the demand. Rahul Gandhi also called on the government to reconsider its decision to hold the exams, as did Arvind Kejriwal and the Shiv Sena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Nadda raises question over Mamata's administration skills||Slamming Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her "gherao central forces" remark, BJP president JP Nadda on Friday wondered how she has been running the administration for so many years and alleged that she failed to protect the Constitution of the country. Speaking at an election rally here in the Purba Bardhaman district, he claimed that Banerjee's government has done nothing to provide adequate security to women as the state has the "maximum" number of cases relating to rape, acid attack and domestic violence. "She has been saying three words 'Maa, Mati and Manush' (mother, land and people) since the time the TMC came to power. What happened to Maa? West Bengal has the maximum number of cases relating to rape, acid attack and domestic violence. Her government does not send crime records to the Centre, and it is clear why it does so," he said. Attacking Banerjee for "not building" agriculture- related infrastructure in the state, he said this place is known for paddy and potato but farmers are deprived of remunerative price for their produce. "How many cold storages and warehouses are here? Middlemen have been exploiting farmers. There is no irrigation facility here," the BJP leader claimed while taking a dig at the TMC's 'Mati' slogan. Nadda also criticised the TMC supremo for depriving 'Manush' of benefits of central schemes such as 'Ayushman Bharat'. He also alleged that the 'Amphan' relief fund was siphoned off by the leaders of the ruling TMC. Criticising Banerjee's 'gherao central forces' remark, the BJP leader said, "If this is her comment, I wonder how she has run the administration for so many years. Her duty is to protect the Constitution, but she has not done that." If the BJP is voted to power, people of the state will get rid of extortion, appeasement politics, dictatorship and cut money culture, he said. Exuding confidence over the saffron party's triumph in the ongoing assembly elections, he said the new year will usher in a real 'Paribartan' (Change) in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Monsoon to be normal this year, predicts IMD||The Southwest monsoon, which brings more than 75 per cent of rainfall to the country, is expected to be normal this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The Long Period Average (LPA) will be 98 per cent with an error margin of plus and minus 5 per cent, said M Rajeevan, secretary of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. Rainfall in Odisha, Jharkhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh and Assam is likely to be below normal, but normal or above normal In the rest of the country, he said while releasing the first Long Range Forecast for the four-month rainfall period from June to September. "The monsoon will be 98 per cent of the LPA which is normal rainfall. It is really good news for the country and will help India have a good agriculture output," Rajeevan said at a virtual press conference. The news augurs well for economy, battered due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Southwest monsoon is one of the primary drivers of the country's economy which is largely based on agriculture and its allied activities. Large parts of the country rely on the four-month rainfall season for agriculture and also for filling reservoirs. This is the first time the IMD has made a specific forecast on spatial distribution. Rajeevan said the IMD will also issue month-wise forecasts during the next four months. The country has recorded above normal rainfall for the last two rainfall seasons. The La Nina and El Nino factors major influence on the Indian monsoon. The former is associated with the cooling of the Pacific waters and brings good rainfall while the latter is linked to the heating of Pacific waters and could lead to deficient precipitation. "There are less chances of formation of an El Nino," Rajeevan said. LPA, the average of the season's rainfall across the country from 1961-2010, is 88 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Modi calls for increasing production of medical grade oxygen to tackle Covid surge||Amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday undertook a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country and called for ramping up its production. With cases hitting a new peak in several parts of the country, the demand for medical oxygen has increased as it is a critical component in the treatment of COVID-19-affected patients. Prime Minister Modi took a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Inputs from ministries like health, steel, road transport, and the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) were also shared with the prime minister during the review, it said. Prime Minister Modi stressed that it is important to ensure synergy across ministries and state governments, the PMO said. He also took a detailed review of the current situation of oxygen supply and projected use in the coming 15 days across 12 high-burden states -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The PMO said that an overview of district-level situation in these states was presented to the prime minister. He was informed that the Centre and states are in regular contact and estimates for projected demand have been shared with states as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, it said. The PMO said, accordingly, 4,880 MT , 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT have been allocated to these 12 states for meeting their projected demand of medical oxygen as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, respectively. The prime minister was briefed about production capacity in the country to meet the rising demand, it said. He suggested increasing oxygen production as per capacity of each plant. It was discussed that surplus stocks of oxygen supply in steel plants are being offered for medical use, the PMO said. The prime minister also asked officials to ensure seamless and free movement of tankers carrying oxygen throughout the country. The government has exempted all inter-state movement of oxygen tankers from registration of permits to enable easier movement, the PMO's statement said. Prime Minister Modi was informed that states and transporters have been asked to ensure tankers move round the clock with drivers working in shifts to ensure faster turnaround and adequate capacity to meet the surge in demand. Cylinder filling plants will also be permitted to work for 24 hours with necessary safeguards, the PMO said. The government is allowing industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, it said. Similarly, nitrogen and argon tankers will be automatically allowed to be converted to oxygen tankers to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. During the review, officials also briefed the prime minister about the efforts being made to import medical grade oxygen, the PMO said. India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
16-04-2021||India||Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19 for the second time||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday tested positive for COVID-19 for the second time in eight months, and was being shifted to a private hospital for treatment. The 78 year-old Yeddiyurappa was earlier hospitalised on August 2, 2020 after he tested positive for coronavirus. "Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advice of doctors," he later tweeted. He requested all those who had come in contact with him recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine "As the Chief Minister was suffering from fever, he had gone to Ramaiah hospital for general checkup, where COVID test was conducted and as the report has come positive, he will be shifted to the Manipal Hospital," the CMO said in a statement. Yediyurappa was last year admitted to the same Manipal Hospital for nine days, and was discharged on recovery. The chief minister had cut short his campaign programme for bypolls in Belagavi on Thursday, due to high fever and exhaustion, official sources said. Earlier on Friday, he had chaired an emergency meeting with Health Minister K Sudhakar and top officials for about one-and-half hours regarding COVID situation in the state and had addressed the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Lockdown across Uttar Pradesh on Sundays to curb rising Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced a lockdown across the state on Sunday. To enforce wearing of masks, the state government has doubled the fine to Rs 1,000 for those caught without masks for the first time and 10 times the fine amount for those caught again. "There will be a weekly closure in all rural and urban areas of the state on Sunday.Only sanitation, sanitisation and emergency services will operate during this period. Necessary awareness works should also be done in this regard," an official statement said here quoting Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath . "A fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed if someone is caught without a mask for the first time. If caught for the second time, a penalty of ten times the fine amount should be imposed," he said. The state on Thursday reported 104 deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, pushing the fatality count to 9,480 and the total infection number to 7,66,360. The chief minister said that last year, the MLA development fund proved useful in the work related to the spread of the virus. This year also, according to rules, the funds can be used in Covid management on recommendation of legislators. He said the first phase of panchayat elections was completed in a very peaceful manner and strict legal action should be taken against those involved in breaching peace at some places so that it can set an example for other phases of the polls. Earlier in the day, Adityanath also ordered the establishment of a 1,000-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Lucknow to tackle the rising number of coronavirus cases. The Chief Minister made the direction for setting up the hospital during a review meeting with divisional commissioners, district magistrates, chief medical officers and his Team-11 (a core team of 11 officers). "A 1,000-bed Covid hospital should be established in Lucknow. The venue of the Defence Expo may be a good place for this," said a government spokesperson, quoting the Chief Minister. He directed the officials to review the availability of medical oxygen on a daily basis. "Continuous supply of oxygen to Covid hospitals in all districts must be ensured. The control room set up by the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department in connection with this, should remain active 24 hours, he said. The department should ensure adequate availability of Remdesivir, he said, adding: Its monitoring should be done by the Chief Secretary's office. Additional Remdesivir should be purchased while assessing the situation for the next one month. Adityanath directed the officials to ensure smooth operation of ambulance services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt's Covid strategy||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said its strategy to fight the COVID-19 pandemic consisted of imposing a 'Tughlaqi lockdown, ringing bells and singing praises to the Lord. The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in fighting Covid-19. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "The Central government's Covid-19 strategy -- Stage 1- Impose a Tughlaqi lockdown, Stage 2- Ring bells, Stage 3- Sing praises to the Lord." The Congress leader on Thursday attacked the govt as well, saying the Centre is indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'. He also alleged that there is no testing, no beds in hospitals, neither ventilators or oxygen and vaccine is also not available. Gandhi also took a jibe asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were given to the fund for handling Covid-19 situation. "There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?" he asked. The Congress in the past also has compared some of the government's decisions to those taken by Delhi Sultanate ruler Muhammad bin Tughlaq, to allege that they were arbitrary and not well though out. The Congress has also taken swipes at the government over its 'taali-thaali' call last year in which people across India clapped, rang bells, blew conch shells and beat metal plates in solidarity with health workers fighting the novel coronavirus. Gandhi's attack on the government came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the country with a record 2,17,353 new infections taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases keep rising as over 2.17 lakh is infected in the last 24 hours||India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,74,308 with 1,185 new fatalities, the highest since September 19, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 37th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 15,69,743, comprising 10.98 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate dropped to 87.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,25,47,866, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.22 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,34,76,625 samples have been tested up to April 15 with 14,73,210 samples being tested on Thursday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 61,695. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 22,339 while Delhi reported 16,699 new cases. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (349) followed by Chhattisgarh with 135 daily deaths, Delhi with 112, Uttar Pradesh 104, Gujarat 81, Karnataka 66, Madhya Pradesh 53, Punjab 50, Rajasthan 33 and Tamil Nadu 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Covid pyres make Uttar Pradesh build iron curtain  ||Lucknow’s biggest crematorium is being covered on all sides with tin sheets, sparking allegations that the Uttar Pradesh government is trying to hide the spike in Covid deaths. A Lucknow civic official said Baikunth Dham was being covered because passersby were finding it uncomfortable seeing pyres burning. The number of bodies at Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat has gone up sharply in the past few days, with staff members saying most were Covid patients. The two electric incinerators at Baikunth Dham have not been enough. On Wednesday afternoon, 60 beds of firewood had been laid at the two crematoriums. On Thursday, the number of bodies at Baikunth Dham was 78, up from 60 a week ago and 20 a month ago. The rise in the number of bodies has prompted allegations that the government was trying to hide the actual Covid toll. Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 104 coronavirus deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. Only Maharashtra has reported more daily cases. On Thursday, many social media users uploaded videos and pictures of labourers putting up blue tin sheets along the waist-level grille boundary of Baikunth Dham. Surya Pratap Singh, a retired IAS officer, wrote on Twitter: “An effort is on to hide the dead bodies. Bhainsakund is being covered so that people cannot take its picture. Humanity is dead.” Baikunth Dham is also known as Bainsakund. Singh tagged Narendra Modi and asked: “Prime Minister @narendramodi ji, it was this state which had given you power, why are you behaving like this with us?” Juhie Singh, a Samajwadi Party leader, said: “The government is not ready to accept that it has failed to honour the dead and now it wants to hide this. The government is busy in virtual meetings and at the same time is trying its best to suppress the truth.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has tested positive for the coronavirus, has said he will now hold virtual meetings with officials while being in quarantine. A senior official of the Lucknow Nagar Nigam said on the condition of anonymity: “The incarceration chambers are covered. But these temporary pyre beds are in the open. People had complained to us that they were feeling uncomfortable at the sight of bodies burning while passing by Baikunth Dham. So we decided to cover the premises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Over 1,300 devotees Covid positive, Kumbh to continue ||Over 1,300 devotees, sadhus and officials have tested Covid-positive since Tuesday at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, marking a surge amid a second wave of the pandemic countrywide. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, however, made light of the situation on Thursday, saying his administration was following every protocol and boasting how efficient management had ensured a “peaceful” Ganga bath by 13.5 lakh people on Mesh Sankranti, Wednesday. State chief secretary Om Prakash dismissed speculation about an early closure to the Kumbh, scheduled to run till April 30, saying: “We have no such plan.” While the Centre had said that every visitor to the Kumbh would have to carry a Covid-negative certificate, pilgrims say the rule has not been implemented strictly — an allegation that Uttarakhand officials privately corroborate. Visuals from the congregation show teeming crowds milling about on the Ganga’s banks, with no signs of masks or physical distancing. Some 30 lakh pilgrims and sadhus have visited the Kumbh, gathering since mid-March although the event officially started on April 1, and over 20 lakh are currently there. According to the state health department, some 1,854 people at the Kumbh had tested Covid-positive over the past fortnight, including 1,300 since Tuesday. “We are increasing the tests in the Mahakumbh area and making adequate arrangements to prevent the spread of the virus,” Haridwar chief medical officer S.K. Jha said. The chief secretary said three of the four Shahi Snans (auspicious days for sadhus to bathe in the Ganga) had been organised successfully and the last one would be held on April 27. Rawat dismissed the social media comparisons of the government’s attitude towards the Kumbh and the Tablighi Jamaat gathering of less than 3,000 people in Delhi’s Nizamuddin from March 13 to 15 last year. Hundreds of Indian and foreign Tablighis had been arrested across the country — and later acquitted by the courts — although the gathering had police permission and had taken place before the nationwide lockdown. Union and state ministers from the BJP had demonised the Tablighis, blaming them for the epidemic’s spread in the country, while Right-wing trolls accused them — and Muslims in general — of deliberately infecting people. In contrast, the Centre and the Uttarakhand government have turned a blind eye to the danger the Kumbh poses amid a coronavirus resurgence in the country. Rawat’s logic was that the Kumbh was being held in an open area while the Tablighi congregation was organised within a building. “It’s wrong to compare the two religious congregations. People were living in the same building (at the Tablighi event), sharing beds and other things, whereas the Mahakumbh has been organised in a huge area where people live in different tents,” he said. The bigger tents, however, accommodate several dozens of people each. Of those infected, more than 200 are monks, including many Naga sadhus. Narendra Giri, head of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, an umbrella organisation of sadhus, tested positive three days ago. The test report of Kapil Dev, mahamandaleswar of the Ani Nirvani Akhara, came positive on Thursday, three days after he had died at Kailash Hospital in Dehradun, hospital director Pawan Sharma confirmed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Supreme Court directs probe into Isro frame-up||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the CBI to further investigate the alleged attempt by Kerala police and officials to frame then Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) scientist S. Nambi Narayanan in an espionage case in 1994. It asked the CBI to conduct the probe on the basis of a confidential report prepared by a committee headed by a former Supreme Court judge, Justice D.K. Jain, and submit a report within three months. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Krishna Murari passed the directive after examining the sealed-cover Jain report, which has found certain “acts of omission and commission” by some officials in the then Kerala administration. “The committee has submitted a report saying it is a serious issue requiring further investigation,” Justice Khanwilkar said. The bench said a copy of the report would be given to the acting CBI director but the report would not be made public, and not even Narayanan would be entitled to see it. Narayanan, now aged 79, had been arrested in 1994 and acquitted of all charges in 1998. On September 14, 2018, the apex court had awarded Rs 50 lakh in compensation to him and signalled that “malicious prosecution” would not be tolerated. The apex court had at the time formed the Justice Jain committee to determine the appropriate disciplinary action against the accused investigating officers. Among those accused of framing Narayanan were S. Vijayan, then an inspector with the Special Branch, Thiruvananthapuram; K.K. Joshwa, then deputy superintendent, CB-CID, Thiruvananthapuram; and S. Siby Mathews, then DIG (crime) of the special investigation team that probed the espionage case. Justice Jain’s report came up before the bench on Thursday. While awarding Rs 50 lakh in compensation to Narayanan, the top court had clarified that this would be independent of the Rs 1 crore defamation suit he had moved in a Kerala civil court, which is still pending. During Thursday’s hearing, advocate Amit Sharma, appearing for Siby Mathews, had complained that the Justice Jain committee had not examined his client. However, Justice Khanwilkar underlined that the committee was not supposed to adjudicate but only to inquire. Its purpose was only to help the court decide whether a further probe was needed, he added. Sharma said that since certain adverse findings had been made against his client, it would not be proper to make the report public. “My request is, let the report not be published in the media,” he said. The bench agreed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Amit Shah’s remarks putting down Bangladesh rile Dhaka again||Union home minister Amit Shah’s remarks putting down Bangladesh have riled Dhaka again, with the neighbouring country’s foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen describing such statements as unacceptable and potentially harmful to the bilateral relationship. Momen was referring to Shah’s interview with the online edition of Anandabazar Patrika, in which the Indian home minister said that development had not reached the grassroots in the border areas of Bangladesh and, therefore, the poor there still did not get food. “That is why (it’s one of the reasons) infiltration is happening. And the infiltrators are not staying only in Bengal; they are spreading to various states, even Jammu and Kashmir,” Shah had said. Asked for a reaction by Prothom Alo, a newspaper based in Bangladesh, Momen was quoted as saying that such remarks were unacceptable and could create misunderstandings, especially when relations between Bangladesh and India were so deep. “There are many wise people in the world who do not see even after looking, and do not understand even after knowing. But if he (Shah) has said something like that, I would say his knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited. No one dies of hunger in our country now. There’s no monga (seasonal poverty and hunger in the northern districts of Bangladesh), either,” Momen said. Momen seized the opportunity to drive home the fact that Bangladesh was ahead of India on many social indices, particularly picking on the Narendra Modi government’s pet project of building toilets. While almost 90 per cent of people in Bangladesh use fairly good latrines, over 50 per cent of Indians do not have proper toilets, he said. Urging Indian ministers to expand their knowledge, Momen said while there was a shortage of jobs for educated people in Bangladesh, it was not so for the less educated. Besides, over 100,000 Indians work in Bangladesh, he said, emphasising that Bangladeshis do not need to go to India. In the latest edition of the Global Hunger Index — released in October last year --- India was ranked 94 among 107 countries, way below Bangladesh and Pakistan which were at 75 and 88, respectively. Shah’s rhetoric against Bangladesh -- including his reference to Bangladeshis as termites in the past -- has often upset Dhaka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the country last month to mark the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh was marred by violent protests that left 10 dead. This was a first for an Indian Premier in a country that acknowledges India’s role in its emergence as an independent nation. In November 2019, the former Bangladeshi high commissioner to India, Syed Muazzam Ali, had said at a media interaction that the “people of Bangladesh would prefer to swim the Mediterranean and go to Italy than come to India”. His contention was that India does not have much of a pull factor for Bangladeshis as is often projected here, particularly since the difference in the per capita incomes of the two countries is narrowing at a trot. At the time he said this, the Asian Development Bank had just updated its Asian Development Outlook to revise Bangladesh’s GDP growth for 2019 upwards from 8 per cent to 8.1 per cent, and downwards for India from 7.2 per cent to 6.5 per cent. Also, the growth forecast for Bangladesh was retained at 8 per cent while India’s was downgraded from 7.3 per cent to 7.2 per cent. In December 2019, Momen had cancelled a visit to India after openly questioning India’s decision to include Bangladesh in the list of countries where minorities are being persecuted. This was in reference to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which fast-tracks citizenship for minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. Last year, the IMF’s Economic Outlook said Bangladesh had overtaken India in GDP per capita, and that the per capita income of an average Bangladeshi would be more than that of an average Indian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Covid: ‘Brutal’ second wave casts glare on Centre||India’s counts of new Covid-19 cases rose for the first time by over 200,000 on Thursday, reflecting what some health researchers have called a “brutal second wave” for which, they said, the Centre should take responsibility and stop blaming people and states. Health authorities recorded 200,739 new lab-confirmed cases, raising the total number of active Covid-19 patients nationwide overnight by over 100,000 to 1.47 million, about 40 per cent higher than the peak counts of active patients during the previous wave in mid-September. A group of public health researchers and scientists have urged the Centre to stop blaming the second wave on laxity among the public, pandemic fatigue among health workers and incompetence by states. “Blaming people and states for this crisis … is disingenuous, hypocritical and even dangerous, serving only to enable the Centre to evade responsibility for the present situation and give itself an excuse for future inaction or failure,” the All India People’s Science Network has said in a statement. The Union health ministry has cited reports from central public health teams visiting the hardest hit states such as Maharashtra and Punjab flagging public laxity on face masks and crowd avoidance and pandemic fatigue among health workers leading to inefficient control measures. The All India People’s Science Network — a member of the non-government Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (People’s Health Movement), a network of public health experts — has said that while people have become “extremely lax”, the question that emerges is whether the government encouraged this. As daily new cases sharply declined during January-February, reaching a trough of about 9,100 on February 15, the network said, there was an opportunity to attack the shrinking epidemic through rigorous containment and mitigation actions, including expanded vaccinations. “But the government lowered its guard and missed the chance,” the network said. “Encouraged by signals from the Centre, authorities everywhere relaxed restrictions, with offices, malls, restaurants, cinemas, passenger airlines and public transport functioning… virtually in a life-as-usual mode.” Experience from different countries had underlined the importance of continued vigilance and ensuring that precautions against Covid-19 continue. However, the government had itself suggested through a so-called National Covid Supermodel that the epidemic would vanish by February 2021. “Even today, in the midst of this dangerous second wave, huge crowds are attending potentially super-spreader events such as massive gatherings at the Kumbh Mela and rallies and road shows during the state elections frequently addressed by topmost government leaders who are themselves responsible for Covid-19 control measures,” the network said in its statement. India’s epidemic has grown to a point where about half of the medical oxygen the country is producing daily is being consumed by hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, forecasting a steep rise in demand over the next two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||Water academy in Odisha soon||In the first of its kind initiative, the Odisha government has decided to set up a Centre of Excellence ‘Odisha Water Academy’ in Bhubaneswar. The academy will function as a pioneering training and capacity building institution in the field of water and wastewater service provision. The main objective of the institution is to enhance the quality and service levels in the sector for customer satisfaction and for better health and environment outcomes, officials said. Minister for housing & urban development, panchayati raj & drinking water, Pratap Jena, said providing safe drinking water and wastewater service provision to each urban household in the state is a priority of the government. The training and capacity building undertaken by the academy will be for both managers and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-208
16-04-2021||India||For migrants, hunger deadlier than Covid||Aslam Ansari has had no work for the past four days. The migrant worker wants to go back home not for fear of catching Covid but to escape starvation. The tailor and his family of six live in a one-room dwelling close to Kalwa police station in Thane, near Mumbai. On Thursday, the family from Dumri block in Giridih, Jharkhand, had rations to last just three to four days. “Once the food runs out, we’ll return to Jharkhand. I have tried very hard; there’s no work now,” said Aslam, who worked at a factory, stitching clothes for small children and earning about Rs 15,000 a month. The Centre claims it has implemented a “one nation, one ration card” scheme to enable migrant workers to secure subsidised food from their nearest fair-price shops under the public distribution system. But Aslam said he does not receive subsidised food in Thane. “We are not scared of the corona(virus); our main worry is the unavailability of work. We cannot survive here without an income. There’s no help from any quarter,” Aslam said. Labour economists have highlighted how the loss of work and the absence of government support are forcing migrants to leave their workplaces, especially in states where restrictions and curfews to contain the second wave of the pandemic have constrained economic activity. Small establishments have stopped operations and construction has been hamstrung in these states over the past two to three weeks. Railway stations and inter-state bus terminals in the major cities are crowded with home-bound migrants. According to data released by the private research group, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the national unemployment rate increased from 6.65 per cent to 8.58 per cent between March 28 and April 11. Urban unemployment rose from 7.72 per cent to 9.81 per cent while the rural figure jumped from 6.18 per cent to 8 per cent. Amitabh Kundu, a Distinguished Fellow at the Research and Information System, said migrants were returning home primarily because their earnings had stopped or were likely to stop in a few weeks. They didn’t want to be trapped like they or their peers were last year when the pandemic broke out. “Migrant workers cannot survive even a month without work. They have to pay Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 as rent every month besides meeting other daily expenses,” Kundu said. “Unless they earn at least Rs 10,000, they cannot live in a city like Mumbai. Their major concern is not the coronavirus but job losses.” Kundu said the formal sector too would be hit by the pandemic’s resurgence because of a “lack of demand for their products in the market, poor labour supply and non-availability of cheap intermediate outputs from the informal sector”. He said that when Covid had first arrived from abroad, it was confined largely to the rich, middle classes and the elderly. It spread sluggishly during the initial months since these groups’ social interactions with the working class were limited. But now the pandemic had penetrated habitations with dense populations, such as slums with their congested dwellings where people share toilets and taps, Kundu said. The 2011 census found 39.4 per cent households in rural areas and 32.1 per cent in urban areas living in one-room dwellings. Kundu underlined the need to strengthen insurance schemes for the workers and the jobless. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the four labour laws passed in Parliament over the past two years do not provide for an allowance or insurance for the unemployed. “The government has not learnt the important lessons from its experiences in dealing with the first phase of Covid. There is no provision in the social security code for an unemployment allowance,” Sundar said. “The government missed a golden opportunity to design a universal unemployment assistance scheme and unemployment insurance scheme.” In his recently published book, Impact of Covid-19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights, Sundar has highlighted India’s lack of macro-scale social security measures. The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) does provide its members — formal-sector workers who earn below a cut-off — with social security benefits such as medical care and an unemployment allowance under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana and the Rajiv Gandhi Shramik Kalyan Yojana. However, although the ESIC covers about 3.49 crore workers and their families, only 10,728 people claimed and secured the unemployment allowance between 2007 and 2017, Sundar said. He said this would be a very small fraction of the unemployed ESIC members. He blamed it on “a lack of awareness about the existing ESIC unemployment allowance among its members” and “stringent conditions that make most workers ineligible” for the dole. Sundar said that under the repealed Industrial Disputes Act, a worker retrenched from a large establishment (one that had over 100 workers) was entitled to a severance allowance worth 15 days’ wages for every year he or she had been employed by that establishment. But the current Industrial Relations Code exempts establishments with up to 300 workers from this allowance, he said. “Migrant workers lack the wherewithal to survive after job losses. Whatever savings they had they exhausted during last year’s lockdown. Now they have decided to leave,” Sundar said. “The state governments are asking them to stay on without any credible assurance about job opportunities.” Sundar has for several months been suggesting that the government provide money directly into the hands of the poor. This, he argues, will not only help the working class survive but also sustain demand and consumption, which is necessary for the economy to revive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Congress slams government for Covid ‘crisis’||The Congress leadership believes the second wave of Covid-19 acquired dreadful dimensions because the Narendra Modi government didn’t anticipate a relapse and failed to undertake the vaccination drive on a war footing. Pointing out the Centre’s casual approach after the infection graph dipped early this year and vaccines were developed, many leaders say the critical advantage of time and resources were frittered away as the government lowered the guard instead of seizing the moment. The Congress feels that the lack of planning manifested in the slow and non-serious launch of the vaccination drive and export of vaccines. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “There is neither testing, nor hospital beds, ventilators or oxygen. Even vaccines aren’t there. But there is a pretense of ‘utsav’ (festival). PMCares?” Rahul was referring to the Prime Minister’s suggestion to hold a four-day-long “tika utsav” (vaccination fest) at a time when tragic scenes from hospitals and crematoriums have shaken the country. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Pracharjeevi (one who survives on publicity), you have amazing achievements in the last seven years. Hospital admission is not available to the alive and crematorium is not available to the dead. Tell us if this happened even in the last 75 years after Independence? Modi hai to mumkin hai.” Asserting that this dreadful crisis was avoidable, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told The Telegraph: “We strongly believe it is the Modi government’s incompetence, arrogance, inefficiency and premature celebration that has landed us in this crisis. Instead of consolidating the gains where our infections dipped, the reckless chest thumping falsely convinced people all is well. From phrases like ‘the end game’ to ‘bending the curve like Beckham’, irresponsible statements made by the Modi government are responsible for the kind of mayhem we are seeing on the streets today.” Shrinate added: “The government lost precious time in the last one year and instead of augmenting our capacity and preparedness for a second wave, it focused on politics, it took its foot off the pedal and as a result we are seeing the complete collapse of our healthcare infrastructure.” Taking strong objections to the Centre’s denial of vaccine shortage, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “I never expected somebody like Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to make an untrue statement that there is no shortage. It is absolutely wrong to say that the states have mismanaged the vaccination drive. Instead of lying, the Centre could have assured the states that enough vaccines will be made available soon. ” Maharashtra minister Sunil Kedar told this newspaper: “ That we vaccinated only three lakh people per day in February and now we are doing over 35-lakh daily proves we started slow and allowed the virus to strike back. It is sad we didn’t kill the monster despite having the potent weapon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Weekend curfew in Delhi to check Covid surge ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew on Thursday to stem the surge in Covid cases in the national capital that touched a new daily high on Tuesday. After meetings with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and cabinet colleagues, Kejriwal said in a webcast onThursday that total curfew would be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday. “Malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums will be closed. Cinema halls will run at 30 per cent capacity. Weekly markets will be allowed in per-day-per-zone format. We will also monitor crowds at weekly markets and release guidelines pertaining to this as well. Dining at restaurants will no longer be allowed. One can avail of home delivery and takeaways for now,” Kejriwal said. He said those who needed to undertake important travel could apply for curfew passes. “Even on the weekend, we understand that there might be important travel that one needs to undertake. For instance, people working in the essential services, people going to the airports, railway stations, marriages that have been planned and arrangements made months in advance. For this, we will be giving out curfew passes and allowing movement. Those who need can apply and we will, in a prompt manner, ensure they are made available,” Kejriwal added. Till the filing of this report, the government didn’t clarify if existing night curfew passes would be valid for the weekend. On Tuesday, 17,282 cases were recorded in the capital along with 104 deaths. The Covid-positive rate stood at 15.92 per cent and there are 50,736 declared Covid patients in the capital. Essential services that include several categories of government staff, medical personnel, production, processing and sale of food, medical consumables, fuel, power, communication facilities, e-commerce deliveries, banking, passengers to and from stations, bus terminuses, airport, journalists, diplomats, those seeking medical help and public transport ferrying the above categories of people are exempt from the curfew. Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramazan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority notification to close down places of worship. The court also noted that there was “no clear stand” of the central government as to whether religious congregations or gatherings were permitted in other places of worship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Covid: Six states defer board exams||The Haryana and Punjab governments on Thursday cancelled their Class X state board examinations and deferred the Class XII exams amid a rapid rise in Covid cases across the country. The Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh governments have deferred both the exams. The International Baccalaureate has also cancelled its board exam for Indian students this year. Last year, too, the board had cancelled its exam and awarded marks on the basis of internal assessment. The Odisha government said in a media release that it would review the situation in the first week of June before taking a call. Both the exams were supposed to be held in May. In the CBSE-affiliated schools, the Class X board exam have lesser significance as the students study in the same school for the next two years. But in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, Classes XI and XII are part of junior colleges, which admit students on the basis of Class X marks. The Gujarat government announced that the students of Classes I to IX and Class XI would be automatically promoted to the next class. The board exams for Classes X and XII have been postponed. In Punjab, Class X students will be promoted to the next class. A decision on Class XII exams will be taken later. Madhya Pradesh has also postponed the tests. The CBSE has already cancelled its Class X exams and deferred Class XII exams. The ICSE board will take a decision soon. The Meghalaya board will hold its tests from Friday as scheduled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Covid: Night curfew in 20 Odisha districts||The Odisha government on Thursday announced night curfew in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Puri and other urban areas in 20 districts from Friday. The night curfew will be in force from 9pm to 5am. Night curfew is currently in force from 6pm to 5am in 10 districts of the state bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra told a media conference: “Last year Odisha had fought Covid-19 well. But in view of a sudden spike in Covid cases, the state government has decided to take a number of measures to contain the surge. Complete shutdown on Saturday and Sunday will be enforced in urban areas in the 10 districts bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand from the next weekend.” The bordering districts are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Baragarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Malkangiri and Koraput. However, essential services will be permitted during the night curfew. The state government will no longer give permission for any kind of political and religious rallies. All inter-state bus transport will be cancelled from April 19. Cinema halls will operate at 50 per cent capacity. The state government also capped the number of guests at marriages and funeral-related events to 50 and 20 respectively. “All the government offices will run with 50 per cent staff. We will soon issue instructions to private offices and banks to reduce their staff. Heads of the offices will be responsible for maintaining Covid regulations,” said Mohapatra. The chief secretary said the government has also decided to postpone the Class X and XII state board examinations, scheduled to commence from May 3 and May 18 respectively, following the surge in Covid-19 cases. It has also announced that all the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to the next class. Earlier, in a media release, the chief minister’s office said the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to Class X and XII respectively without appearing for any kind of examination. It said the decision to hold the Class X and XII examinations will be taken following a review meeting on the pandemic situation in the first week of June. The decision to postpone the state board examinations was taken just a day after the CBSE decided to cancel its Class X examination and postpone the Class XII exam. The state government also announced that all schools and hostels in the state will remain closed from April 19. Odisha registered 2,989 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike this year. It also recorded two deaths, taking the total number of fatalities due to Covid-19 to 1,935. Meanwhile, Plus-II students of BJB Autonomous College, Maharshi College and some other colleges on Thursday staged a demonstration demanding the conduct of examinations online. The Nuapada district traders’ association decided to shut down their market for nine days from Friday. Only shops providing essential services will be allowed to remain open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Nitish hints at lockdowns with rising Covid cases||With Covid-19 on a rampage in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday indicated that tough steps could be taken to control the continuously deteriorating situation in the state. He also said that the people who want to return to Bihar should do so quickly. These could include curfews and lockdowns because several curbs like the closure of religious places, educational institutions, only 33 per cent staff allowed in offices, ban on functions at public places, and restricting the number of people in personal ceremonies are already in place as part of the government efforts to tackle the pandemic. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested that all-party meetings on Covid should be called on the level of state governors. We requested the governor and he agreed. The all-party meet will be held on April 17 under his leadership. Several suggestions will come at it. We will consider them and take the necessary steps in a better manner,” Nitish said. “We are keeping a tab on everything. Our officials are in touch with people in other states also. Those who want to return from outside should come back as soon as possible. As far as taking steps in our state is concerned… if the situation keeps deteriorating like this we will take whatever steps are required,” Nitish added. The chief minister was talking to media persons after getting the second shot of Covishield vaccine at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna. Nitish had earlier said that the state government will consider imposing curfews if the situation warranted so. Sources in the government told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity that imposition of lockdown and curfew was being actively considered for the past one week, but Nitish thought about playing politically safe, and postponed the decisions in this regard till the all-party meeting on Covid took place. A large number of migrant workers have already started returning to Bihar from industrialised states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. They are taking the special trains being run by the railways and also hiring buses and trucks to reach their native places. Bihar is at present in the throes of the coronavirus pandemic with the infections rising phenomenally this month. Altogether 4,786 new cases were detected on Wednesday, while 21 people lost their lives to the disease. Several senior officials, ministers and legislators have become infected, and are currently either in hospital or in isolation. The state has witnessed around 3 lakh coronavirus positive cases so far. The number of active cases is currently over 26,000. The recovery rate of patients that was around 99 per cent in the first week of March has now slipped to 91.4 per cent. Nitish expressed concern over the movement of people from different parts of the country to Bihar and the spread of coronavirus to rural areas also. He emphasised on the need for getting them tested to detect whether they are infected, as well as, to safeguard others. The chief minister also stressed on the necessity for increasing tests and vaccination of the people. The pace of vaccination in Bihar is much below than the desired level. The state had aimed at vaccinating 16 lakh eligible people between April 11 and 14 in the light of the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) called by the Prime Minister. However, only 5.44 lakh people could be vaccinated during this period. Several vaccination centres faced the shortage of doses and had to stop giving shots to the people for a couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||S.A. Bobde says it is time for a woman to be appointed as CJI||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Thursday said the time had come for a woman to be appointed as the Chief Justice of India, but added that many women lawyers do not take up judgeship because of domestic compulsions. Justice Bobde, heading a bench also having Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, made the oral observation in response to a plea by lawyer Sneha Kalita that more women be made judges. “We think the time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India…. The experience of chief justices of high courts stated that when women lawyers are asked to come in as judges in the bench, they refuse saying they have domestic responsibilities or their children are in Class XI or XII and thus these things have been communicated to me,” CJI Bobde said. Kalita submitted that the memorandum of procedure governing the appointment process of judges does not have anything on women judges being appointed. “We have the interest of women in mind, there is no attitudinal changes in us. It is only that we need capable candidates,” Justice Bobde said. Another advocate, Shobha Gupta, appearing for the Supreme Court Women Lawyers’ Association, also pleaded that women lawyers be given adequate representation in the appointment of judges for high courts and the Supreme Court. CJI Bobde agreed to consider the suggestion positively. Over the past few years, there have been demands for the appointment of more women judges and also for the selection of a woman CJI. No woman has held the post of CJI in independent India. Justice Ruma Pal had served in the Supreme Court from January 28, 2000, to June 2, 2006, but did not become CJI. She retired as the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court. On Thursday, the court was dealing with the issue of appointing retired judges as additional judges to clear over 55 lakh pending cases in various high courts and also expedite the appointment process of regular judges of high courts. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal assured the bench that the government would expedite the process of judges’ appointments. He said a decision would be taken within three months on 10 names approved by the Supreme Court collegium. The Centre has been sitting on the names despite the collegium’s clearance. Of these, five candidates are from Calcutta. “Mr Attorney, I think this case can be brought to a conclusion if the Centre tells us the timeline which will be adhered to each stage of judges’ appointment,” CJI Bobde said. “We need to know the timeline by the Centre to respond to the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendations…. Please intimate the timeline to us at the next date of hearing,” Justice Kaul told the attorney-general. On December 10 last year, the top court had expressed serious concern over nearly 40 per cent vacancies in various high courts. The Supreme Court had directed the Centre to come out with the details of the pendency of the appointments process so that it could expedite the process. The court had passed the orders after taking on record the preliminary data submitted by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal which showed that against the sanctioned strength of 1,079 high court judges, the working strength was only 669.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||India||Editors Guild of India’s jab plea for journalists||The Editors Guild of India has urged the Centre to declare journalists as frontline workers and be allowed priority vaccination regardless of age against the coronavirus. “News organisations have been relentlessly covering the pandemic, elections and other current affairs in an effort to ensure that the flow of news and information to readers continues unabated. News media is included in essential services. Therefore it will only be fair that journalists be given this cover of protection, especially in the face of number of infected rising to astronomical levels,” the Guild said in a statement. The statement has been signed by Seema Mustafa, Guild president, Sanjay Kapoor, general secretary, and Anant Nath, treasurer. “Without the protection of a vaccination, media persons are finding it very difficult to discharge their professional responsibilities. Therefore the EGI calls on the Union government to immediately get all journalists, regardless of age, vaccinated so that there is no disruption in their work during this critical time,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-209
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Nepali song speaks out against fascism||A day before the fifth-phase of polling in Bengal, a Bengali song that spoke out against Fascism has found an echo in the hills of Darjeeling. “Ma katai pani jaadina, yahi desh mai basnechhu (I won’t go anywhere else, I will live in this country),” says the Nepali song, almost literally translating the Bengali song in Nepali, and also sharing the visuals from the original. The Bengali song “Nijeder mote nijeder gaan (Our views, our songs)" speaking out against the politics of hatred had created a flutter. In the Bengali version, Rabindranath Tagore’s 1923 play Raktakarabi (Red Oleanders) inarguably his strongest protest against authoritarianism and exploitation, had featured prominently.  The Nepali version has been performed by Laaliguraas, meaning red rhododendrons, a socio-cultural organisation that has been at the spearhead against Fascism. Some of the most prominent faces from Bengali cinema, theatre and music like Rudraprasad Sengupta, Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Parambrata Chatterjee, Anirban Bhattacharya, Suman Mukhopadhyay, Anupam Roy and others had participated in the Bengali song. The Nepali version was performed by artistes from the tea gardens of Darjeeling and Kurseong. On Thursday, the Laliguraas members trekked five kms from Sonada till Maragaret Hope Tea Garden where at the residence of a member Prasidh, the song was recorded. After processing the video footage through the night, the song—an abridged version of the original—was released on Friday morning. Of the 45 seats that go to polls on Saturday, the BJP is ahead in 22 going by the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This includes the three Hill seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong. For over three decades, since the days of Subhash Ghising and later his protégé turned bete noire Bimal Gurung, the diktat of the hill outfit has writ large on the voters in these three constituencies. The BJP could get outsiders like the late Jaswant Singh and the current Raju Bista elected to the Parliament riding on the Gorkha votes. This time, however, the Hills are a divided lot with Gurung and another faction of the GJM led by Binay Tamang backing Mamata, while the GNLF is with the BJP, making a split in the votes inevitable. Even with both factions of the GJM backing her, the sailing may not be smooth for the Bengal chief minister. The fifth phase of polling will be held exactly a week from the blood-spilled fourth phase when five villagers in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi were killed in two separate incidents. The campaign for the fifth phase which ended on Wednesday has been one of the most acerbic ones, with both the Trinamul and the BJP hurling invectives. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, both were banned for 24-hours in this week. The fifth phase also comes at a time when the Covid pandemic has reached alarming proportions in Bengal along with several other states. In this phase, Mamata’s Trinamul Congress is ahead in 23 of the seats mostly in the south Bengal districts of North 24-Parganas and Burdwan. Both the parties need to hold on to their strongholds while looking to gain from the other. A task easier said than done. Like in the north, where the Trinamul has been on a downward slide, in the southern constituencies too the party is facing uncomfortable questions especially on corruption during the Amphan cyclone relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||At all-party meet, CPM, BJP say they're against clubbing last two phases||The Left Front and the BJP on Friday told an all-party meeting called by the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) over the alarming Covid-19 situation in Bengal that the poll schedule should be maintained and they were against the clubbing of the remaining four phases of the election. Out of the eight-phase Assembly elections in the state, four phases have been completed and the remaining four are scheduled to be held between April 17 and 29. "Our point is that the schedule should be maintained,” CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said after the all-party meeting. “The election is in motion. There is no question of a change of schedule at this point of time," Bhattacharya said. Bengal CEO Aariz Aftab called the all-party meeting following the Calcutta High Court’s direction to him and all district magistrates of the state to ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol during campaigning for the remaining phases of the election. Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Election Commission to think about conducting polls for the remaining assembly seats at one go. The EC had dismissed questions of such a possibility on the day. On Friday, too, the Trinamul Congress sought clubbing of the last three phases of the elections. Emerging from the meeting, TMC Secretary General Partha Chatterjee said that in order to save the lives of people and to control Covid-19 infections while allowing candidates ample time for campaigning, a balance has to be drawn by the Election Commission. "We have told the commission that in order to give the people proper healthcare facilities amid Covid situation, the last three phases may be clubbed into one, while ensuring that the democratic rights of the people are upheld," Chatterjee told reporters. Bhattacharya, however, said that it was agreed upon at the meeting that campaigns, including public meetings, for the coming phases of the elections can be held abiding by the Covid-19 protocol. He said that clubbing of election dates was not on the agenda. "Someone wanted to raise the issue, but it was not discussed in detail," the CPI(M) leader said. Bhattacharya said that the Left Front has told the meeting that it is adhering to the Covid-19 protocol during campaigning and will continue to do so. "There is no allegation against the Left Front that it is not following the Covid guidelines," he said. BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, who represented the party in the meeting, said the party does not want any step that would affect the "democratic spirit", echoing sentiments of the CPI(M). "We said that our party will abide by all Covid-19 protocols put in place by the Election Commission, and urged that no steps be taken that discriminate those voting in the next phases from those who have already exercised their franchise. "We have not said anything about clubbing (of phases),... we feel that the elections will be held in eight phases," Dasgupta told reporters after the meeting. Asked about the rising number of infections and deaths due to Covid-19 in the state along with the rest of the country, he said that campaigning cannot be stopped, and also wondered how the rights of the contestants and the voters can be taken away. Dasgupta said that virtual election meetings for the remaining phases are not possible as half of the eight phases have already been held. "A level playing field has to be maintained...We have advised the Election Commission to balance the need for a robust democratic culture with safety norms. "It is up to the Election Commission to tell us what exactly the political parties must do. We have assured the EC that under all circumstances, once it has laid down the procedures, the BJP will adhere to the norms faithfully." He said that the saffron party will provide masks to its supporters and workers at public meetings to ensure that health protocols are maintained. Against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission on Friday put in place restrictions on campaigning by political parties, including curtailing its time, for the Bengal Assembly elections. In an order, the poll panel curtailed the time for campaign up to 7 pm. Earlier it was up to 10 pm. Now there will be no campaign between 7 pm and 10 am on campaign day in the state, the Election Commission said. It also extended the silence period from 48 hours to 72 hours in each of the remaining three of the eight phases of the Bengal polls to be held on April 22, 26 and 29. During the silence period, which is usually for 48 hours, parties and candidates cannot hold rallies and meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Will ask EC to stop BJP from bringing outsiders for poll campaign, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday she will call upon the Election Commission to stop the BJP from bringing "outsiders" during campaigning, squarely blaming the saffron party for exacerbating the Covid-19 situation in the state. Mamata, during a public meeting at Nabadwip in Nadia district, said the BJP brought people from "worst-hit" states like Gujarat for erecting marquees for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's poll rallies. "I will tell the EC to stop the inflow of outsiders from states like Gujarat who are responsible for the Covid-19 spread in Bengal. "We have nothing to say if the PM or other leaders come for campaigning... Why should the BJP bring people from worst-affected states to set up podiums and pandals for rallies," she said. The Trinamool Congress chief said local labourers and decorators can be engaged for the purpose after necessary Covid-19 tests. The chief minister on Wednesday, too, had blamed the BJP for contributing to the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the state by bringing "outsiders in large numbers" for campaigning during the ongoing Assembly elections. She was speaking at a rally in Jalpaiguri on the day. Referring to her injury, the chief minister said the BJP wanted to stop her from canvassing by "targeting her leg", but she has managed to come out triumphant. "They had targeted my leg, but I proved them wrong with the blessings of people. The injury has healed 75 per cent," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Shah blames Mamata for denial of citizenship to Matuas||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of denying citizenship to Dalit Matua and Namsudra communities as her "vote bank would not like it". Reaching out to the two numerically strong communities which can infuence the outcome of assembly elections in many seats, Shah said a Rs 100 crore fund will be created for their welfare if the BJP is voted to power in the state. He also mocked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "tourist politician". "These Matua and Namsudra families are living here for 50-70 years, for three generations. But Didi says they will not get citizenship, why? Because her vote back would not like it," he told an election rally in Tehatta in Nadia district. Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi who addressed his first two election rallies on Wednesday after keeping off the campaign in the state where his party is contesting in alliance with the Left while fighting against it in Kerala, Shah branded him a "tourist politician". "A tourist politician arrived in Bengal after almost the entire poll got over and questioned our DNA. BJP's DNA is development, nationalism and Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. Flaying "dynasty politics" in the TMC, Shah said while the BJP wants to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers in Bengal, "Didi only wants Bhaipo (nephew) Samman Nidhi". Top BJP leaders have been accusing Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee of wielding "unwarranted influence" over the government machinery and running "extortion syndicates". "After people's mandate on May 2 (counting day), nobody will be left to take cut money, the government of syndicates will be no more there, the government that works for Bhaipo will be gone," he asserted. The home minister assailed the TMC government for "failing to check infiltrators who take away the jobs of our youths and food of our poor". "Let alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter Bengal. Not the TMC, neither the Left, nor the Congress....only BJP can stop infiltration," he asserted. He claimed the demography of Nadia district, which shares border with Bangladesh, had got altered because of infiltration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Special Investigation team of CID to probe Sitalkuchi killings||Bengal CID Friday took over the case of killing of four people in firing by the CISF during polling in Cooch Behar district on April 10, a senior government official said. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has been constituted to conduct the probe in the incident which happened during the fourth phase of polling at Sitalkuchi. The incident had set off an acrimonious war of words between the ruling TMC and challenger BJP, and triggered public outrage. Investigators will visit booth number 126/5 in Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency where CISF personnel had opened fire after they allegedly came under attack from a group of villagers. The TMC has claimed those killed were its supporters who were gunned down when they were standing in queue to cast their votes. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the TMC chief, had called the incident a "genocide". Besides talking to witnesses and recording their statements, the SIT will also go through video footage of the incident. A video clip has emerged on social media, the officer said, adding a forensic test will likely be conducted to establish its authenticity. The SIT will also talk to officers and personnel of the local police station who rushed to the scene soon after the incident. The Election Commission had cancelled the voting at the polling station after the incident and imposed a ban on entry of politicians into Cooch Behar for 72 hours apprehending trouble. Mamata had visited Sitalkuchi on Wednesday and met the families of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Crorepati candidates contest from a poor district||More than a dozen of candidates with assets of over Rs 1 crore are contesting from various Assembly constituencies in Malda, one of the poorer districts of the state. The statements of assets, furnished in affidavits submitted by candidates during nomination, reveal this surprising fact. All three major political parties — Trinamul, the BJP and the Congress — have a number of multi-millionaire candidates in Malda while the cumulative value of assets of only one of the three CPM candidates is nearly Rs 1 crore. While some candidates own most of the moveable and immoveable assets themselves, others have spouses richer than them. Matiur Rahaman, the BJP candidate from Harischandrapur, is a Class VIII pass-out. He possesses moveable assets valued at Rs 3.77 crore and immoveable assets worth another Rs 1 crore. His wife has moveable assets worth Rs 23.85 lakh. Rahaman, a businessman, has also said in his affidavit that he purchased an immoveable property of Rs 99.84 lakh and spent another Rs 35 lakh to develop it. Dipankar Ram, an LPG distributor and BJP’s candidate from Chanchal, has moveable assets worth Rs 1.37 crore and immovable assets of over Rs 4 crore. His wife has assets of over Rs 40 lakh. Abdur Rahim Boxi, who defected from the Congress to Trinamul, and is contesting from Malatipur, owns assets of over Rs 50 lakh. His wife, an ICDS worker and a businesswoman, has assets worth Rs 3.83 crore. Samar Mukherjee, a retired primary schoolteacher and Trinamul candidate from Ratua has assets of Rs 1.25 crore in his name and his wife owns assets worth Rs 84 lakh. Mukherjee won as an MLA four times as a Congress candidate from the same seat.Ujjwal Choudhury, who switched from the BJP to Trinamul and is in fray in Malda. Owner of a fuel station, he has properties worth over Rs 7 crore. “Many areas of Malda are backward where most people struggle to arrange two square meals. In such a district, many of those contesting the polls  are multi-millionaires. It is a sharp contrast,” said Rishi Ghosh, a social researcher. A retired schoolteacher in Malda, Radhagobinda Ghosh, said “crorepati” candidates are bound to make some voters uncomfortable. “Some voters will surely wonder if wealthy candidates can really relate to the needs of the common man,” said Ghosh. Among others on the list are Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of Malda; Krishnendu Choudhury, the Trinamul candidate from Englishbazar; Sabina Yeasmin and Shyam Chand Ghosh, the Trinamul and BJP candidates of Mothabari; Gour Chandra Mandal, the BJP candidate of Manikchak; Mottakin Alam, the Congress candidate of the same constituency; Isha Khan Choudhury, the Congress candidate of Sujapur; and Payel Khatun, an Independent  from Ratua. Some of the candidates came up with their own clarifications. BJP’s Ram claimed he inherited most of his assets. Trinamul’s Mukherjee claimed his assets were both inherited and purchased by taking loans. His party colleague Choudhury said that he came from a family of erstwhile affluent landlords.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress nominee Rezaul Haque dies after testing Covid-positive||The Congress candidate from Samserganj Assembly segment, Rezaul Haque, died after testing postive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Calcutta early on Thursday within hours of being admitted there. Haque was 46. Haque apart, a few other candidates such as RSP candidate from the Jangipur Assembly segment in Murshidabad Pradip Nandy, Trinamul candidate from Goalpokhor in North Dinajpur Gulam Rabbbani, and Trinamul candidate from Jalpaiguri P.K. Barma have tested Covid-19 positive. They are either admitted to hospital or are in home isolation. Samserganj Assembly seat’s election is likely to be deferred because of the death of a candidate. In case of other segments where candidates have tested Covid-19 positive, elections would be held according to schedule but the candidates would not be able to go out to campaign, sources said. “We have informed the Election Commission about the death of a candidate in Samserganj and will await its directive regarding the election scheduled for later this month,” said district magistrate and returning officer Sharad Dwivedi, adding that the last date for the withdrawal of candidature had ended. Responding to Haque’s death, Congress MP Adhir Chowdhury said: “We mourn the loss of our colleague and are ready to accept whatever the EC decides for the upcoming election.” Following Haque’s death, Trinamul candidate and incumbent MLA Amirul Haque said he would join the campaigning of other party candidates in other constituencies. Haque was a popular businessman in Murshidabad’s Dhulian, with business interests spread across sectors like education, automobile spare parts and betel leaf trade. Senior health department officials said infections among the candidates were a headache for the administration. “If candidates are getting infected, it is clear that political rallies are gradually turning into Covid-19 hotspots, which was being feared. This is why we were requesting political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols during rallies and campaigns. But the protocols continue to be flouted despite the EC’s orders,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul leader in Nanoor tries to stop CPM candidate from campaigning||A Trinamul leader in Birbhum’s Nanoor allegedly tried to stop sitting MLA and CPM candidate Shyamali Pradhan from campaigning on Wednesday and threatened that hands of those daring to vote for the CPM would be chopped off. Pradhan on Thursday lodged a complaint with police and the Election Commission in connection with the threat. She has accused Trinamul of preventing her from campaigning and creating an environment of fear in the run up to the polls. Nanoor is scheduled to vote on April 29. Sources said Noorman Sheikh, husband of Trinamul panchayat member of Nanoor’s Agartore village, had come in the way of a group of CPM workers who were campaigning in the area along with Pradhan. Sheikh accosted the CPM MLA and asked her why she had come to seek votes at the village after five years. He accused her of doing nothing for the area. This led to an argument between Pradhan and Sheikh. Pradhan said she could do little for the village because the local panchayat had refused to carry out work undertaken by the MLA. At one point during the argument, Sheikh allegedly said no one would vote for the CPM. “He then added if anyone dared to vote for the party, their hands would be chopped off,” said a CPM source. “There is no vote for the CPM. If anyone votes for the CPM, I will chop off the person’s hand,” Sheikh was heard saying in a video that circulated in social media. The Telegraph, however, did not independently verify the authenticity of the video. A source in the Election Commission said an EC team accompanying Pradhan during the campaign had also recorded the incident. The video that went viral was not the one recorded by the EC, the source added. CPM leaders accompanying Pradhan said it was a deliberate act to hinder the party’s campaign and create a fear psychosis among the voters. “He first asked me why I had visited the village after a long time and accused me of not doing any work. He said the road had been constructed by Trinamul. I explained to them that the Trinamul-run gram panchayat did not accept any money from my local area development fund as I represented the CPM,” said Pradhan. Pradhan also asked the Trinamul leader why the people could not cast their votes in the last panchayat polls. “This visibly embarrassed him and he lost his cool,” said the CPM source. Birbhum is one of the districts where most of the gram panchayats were won uncontested by Trinamul. “There are many villagers who are our workers and supporters. The Trinamul leader backed out under protest by a large number of villagers. I have lodged complaints with both police and the Election Commission,” Pradhan said. District Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal did not agree with his party leader’s attempt to stop Pradhan from campaigning. “Every political party has the right to campaign before the polls and it was not right to stop anyone. However, people are angry with the CPM at Nanoor as the party had killed 67 persons under its rule.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department declares Tiger Hill a plastic-free zone||Tiger Hill, the famed sunrise-view point in Darjeeling perched at an altitude of more than 8,000 feet, has been declared a plastic-free zone by the state forest department. Tourists and local residents alike will now need to deposit all plastic items at the entrance gate of the sanctuary. The Darjeeling Wildlife Division has in fact declared the entire Senchel Wildlife Sanctuary, some 12km away from Darjeeling town, as a plastic-free zone. However, there are hardly any visitors to other places in the sanctuary except Tiger Hill. S.S.S.S. Sherpa, the DFO of the Darjeeling Wildlife Division said that they were stressing on awareness programmes among people to implement the plastic-free initiative rather than imposing fines, at the initial stage. “We are holding talks with various stakeholders like drivers, travel agents, tea sellers and even vendors selling puja items in front of the Senchel Devi temple to help us implement this initiative. Puja item vendors and tea sellers have already started selling and using plastic items,” said Sherpa. “We can think of fines at a later stage.” Senchel Devi temple is a famous temple for the people of this region. The forest department has also set up drop boxes at the entrance of Tiger Hill. “Anyone carrying plastic items, or even food packets, will have to deposit the same at the entrance. They can collect the articles on their way back to the entrance,” said Sherpa. During the tourist season, there is a huge rush among people to catch the sunrise. Local residents also go to Tiger Hill for picnics. The forest department last Sunday organised a mountain bike rally from Jorebunglow to Tiger, a distance of some 4km, to spread awareness among people about the new rule and to keep the area clean. The cyclists also organised a clean-up drive at Tiger Hill. “We have tied up with various social organisations like Scavengers and TIEEDI (Take It Easy, Easy Does It) to clean up the area and also to spread awareness among people to keep the place clean and not litter,” said Sherpa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Test for Trinamul Congress in no-trust motions at panchayats in East Midnapore||No-trust motions have been moved against the chiefs of three Trinamul Congress-run gram panchayats in East Midnapore district by their colleagues in the party. Trinamul sources in the district said the developments marked the continuation of a trend that had begun months ago when certain leaders were suspected to have links with the BJP while they were still in the party ruling the state. “A handful of rural leaders worked for the BJP in the Assembly polls which concluded in the district earlier this month,” said a Trinamul source. On Tuesday, Tamluk subdivisional officer received a letter of no-confidence against Sahid Matangini gram panchayat chief Dibakar Jana. The letter carried the signatures of 25 out of 30 members of the Trinamul-run body. In a separate letter, 10 out of 12 members of the Raghunathpur 2 gram panchayat signed a letter of no-confidence against pradhan Shiladitya Adak. In Nandakumar block, the BDO on Tuesday received a letter of no-confidence against Kumarchowk gram panchayat pradhan Basudeb Mantri. In the Khakarda gram panchayat in the district, 14 of 21 members moved a no-trust motion against deputy chief Nikunj Manna. “During the elections, we saw several Trinamul panchayat members working for the BJP. We are appealing to district authorities to remove them from their posts at panchayats,” said Trinamul’s Sahid Matangini block president Sharad Meta. Panchayat law dictated no-confidence motions could be taken up against office-holders only after half of the five-year term ended. The current boards of the four panchayats where the no-trusts motions were moved complete two-and-a-half years this month. “We will fix the dates of the no-trust votes soon,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Fences turn fetters at Chit Sakati village on India-Bangladesh border ||Nur Rehman Sarkar, an octogenarian and his relatives at Chit Sakati, a village located in South Berubari of Jalpaiguri district, need to visit the government hospital in Panchagarh district of Bangladesh in case any of them needs medical care. Similarly, other residents of the village that is located at the India-Bangladesh border and is beyond the fences prefer to visit the markets at the adjoining localities of the neighbouring country to buy grocery and other items. “For decades, we have been living here without infrastructure or basic facilities. As our village is located beyond the fences, we have to go through a number of formalities to enter the mainland. It takes time and hence, we prefer to go to the adjoining areas of Bangladesh for medical emergency and other errands,” said Nur. The village is located 50km from Jalpaiguri town and spread over 153 bighas. Altogether, 26 families consisting of 165 people live at Chit Sakati. Of them, 81 are voters. To reach the village, one has to reach the border outpost of the BSF in Jhapartala of South Berubari. Once the identity proof is established, the security personnel will open the gates and let the person enter the village. On the way to the village, he/she has to cross the Kurum stream that lacks a permanent bridge. “We have to trudge through knee-deep water to reach Chit Sakati. Occasionally, we ourselves make a temporary bridge, particularly during the rains. We fail to understand why the central and state governments do not take initiatives to build a permanent bridge and proper roads here,” said Bablu Sarkar, a resident. He pointed out that if someone fell ill, the same route — via the stream and the gate — had to be taken to shift him to hospital in the adjoining Haldibari block or in Jalpaiguri. Even to cast their votes — elections will be held in Jalpaiguri on April 17, the villagers have to take the same route to reach a primary school that is on the other side of the fence. “It takes time and also, it is tough to carry a critical patient and cross the stream. That is why in such cases, we go to Bangladeshi hamlets like Mushipara, Bhatiapara and Nekipara for medical help. It seems we live in Bangladesh and India is a foreign land. The governments should take initiatives to address our issues,” added Bablu. He has said while the super-specialty hospital of Jalpaiguri is 50km away, the district hospital of Panchagarh district in Bangladesh is just 14km away. Annakanta Das, a Trinamul member of South Berubari panchayat, admitted the problems. “Earlier, we had helped the villagers build a temporary bridge. The village needs better roads and anti-erosion work on the banks of the stream. Those needs will be met in due course. As far as the protocol for their movement is concerned, we do not have much to do,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission bars Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours||The Election Commission on Thursday banned Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours and showcaused the party’s office-bearer Sayantan Basu for provocative remarks on the CISF firing in which four youths had been killed during voting in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10. Ghosh was found guilty of violating two clauses of the model code of conduct that prohibit incitement of hatred between communities and intimidation. He had said “dushtu chhele” would be shot like the way the central forces had done at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The EC said: “Now, therefore, the Commission hereby sternly warns Shri Dilip Ghosh and advises him to desist from using such statement while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force and imposes a ban of 24 hours from 7 pm on 15th April 2021 to 7 pm on 16th April 2021.” The EC also sent a showcause notice to BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu whom it quoted as saying on a private Bengali channel on April 12: “We will play the game of Shitalkuchi. They killed 18 years old Ananda Barman, a first time voter, in the morning. He was the brother of the BJP’s Shakti Pramukh. We did not have to wait for long....(Barely audible) Four of them were shown the way to heaven. There was a dialogue in the film ‘Sholey’ you know — if you kill one we will kill four of you. Shitalkuchi witnessed it — if you kill one we will kill four of you.” The EC gave Basu 24 hours to reply to the notice, saying: “Whereas, the above statement made by Shri Sayantan Basu, has been examined in the Commission and the same has been found to be in violation of the clauses (1) & (4) of Part I of ‘General Conduct of Model Code of Conduct for the guidance of political parties and candidates’, and the provisions under Section 123 (3A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and Section 153 (A) (1) (a) of Indian Penal Code.” Four youths had been killed when Central Industrial Security Force personnel had opened fire outside a booth when voting was going on in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Old-timers recall 1982 result rerun in Darjeeling||Two days before Darjeeling votes, old-timers are suddenly recalling the 1982 Darjeeling Assembly election which had been won by CPM candidate Dawa Lama by a margin of just 309 votes. “Darjeeling’s present political situation reminds me of the 1982 election. I was a first-time voter then and today, Darjeeling seat remains as open,” said Poonam Kumar Sharma, a lawyer who is now 58 years old. Many old-timers recollect that the 1982 election was a watershed moment in many ways and the same is being talked about the result of the upcoming election. Amar Lama, a political commentator, said: “After that election, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (which was a force to be reckoned with till Subhash Ghisingh emerged in 1986) could never win any major election and completely lost its sheen.” In the 1982 election, CPM’s Dawa Lama was pitted against ABGL’s J.D.S. Rai. Another group in the hills, Pranta Parishad, had, however, called for election boycott demanding a separate state. Following the boycott call, 60,012 votes representing 59.4 per cent of the total votes were cast. While Lama polled 29,165 votes, Rai got 28,856 and the number of rejected votes were 1991. The result was not bereft of twists and turns. “J.D.S. Rai and his supporters came out of the counting hall celebrating their victory only to be told a few moments later that he had lost the election. There was some confusion in the counting which I cannot recollect exactly,” said Govind Chhetri, general secretary, CPRM, who was with the CPM then. In this election, the existence of three regional political groups, two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang and the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), hangs in balance. The two Morcha factions are supporting the Trinamul Congress but are competing against each other. The GNLF is supporting the BJP. “Going by the crowds that the three groups are drawing, one cannot rule out a close contest similar to 1982,” said lawyer Sharma. The ABGL is now divided into three camps with two of the factions competing against each other. No other Assembly election till now has been as close as the 1982 polls. In fact, with the emergence of the GNLF and later, Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, Assembly elections always became a one-sided contest in the hills. Take the 2011 Darjeeling Assembly seat results. Trilok Kumar Dewan of the Morcha won the seat by a margin of 1.05 lakh votes. Dewan secured 79 per cent (1,20,532) of the total votes polled, while his rival Bim Subba of the GNLF secured only 9 per cent (13,977) votes. This one-sided trend most old-timers said is changing in Darjeeling in this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid spike: Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal on tenterhooks||Stakeholders of the tourism industry across north Bengal are on tenterhooks because of the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across the country during the past few weeks. In north Bengal, tourism is the second major industry after tea. Around five lakh people are associated with the sector. In fact, during the past 10 years, it is this sector that has generated the highest employment in the region. The industry, which had taken a beating last year amid the pandemic and the consequent lockdown, had been limping back on the path of revival during the past four-five months when Covid cases had been on a steady decline. However, the sudden rise in the number of infections since mid-March has posed a fresh crisis for the industry. “It seems like a repetition of what we had faced in most of 2020. These days, most of the communications that we are receiving are for cancellation of trips,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. According to him, the occupancy rate in hotels, resorts and homestays across the region — both in hills and in the Dooars — has come down to 15 per cent or so these days. Last year, the tourism industry had grappled with the pandemic crisis from March to November. “From December onwards, tourists started coming, initially from other parts of Bengal and gradually from other parts of the country. Things had just returned to normality and people in the sector had started making some earnings...and now comes this second wave of Covid-19. We really don’t know what is in store for the tourism industry in the coming days,” added Sanyal. Those running hotels in the region said the occupancy rate had increased to 90 per cent during the Christmas holidays last year. “Till February, the inflow of tourists was on the rise. But over the past couple of weeks, there has been a decline, and particularly in past seven days, cancellations have risen considerably. If this situation persists, we doubt how many of us will be able to run our properties or bear regular costs like staff salaries,” said Biswajit Saha, a lodge owner of Madarihat near the Jaldapara National Park. Transporters, whose vehicles stayed off roads for months last year as tourists stayed away, are again facing a similar crisis. “During the past few months, we had started hoping again. But given the present situation, there is an apprehension that the situation may become like last year,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter based in Siliguri. “Bhutan has closed its doors for tourists. A large number of tourists visiting Bhutan used to move through north Bengal, and their trips have stopped. “Haven’t we faced enough already?” Majumdar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Polarisation can’t break Bengal family, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed confidence that “the large family of Bengal” would stand together regardless of the BJP’s attempts at polarisation, casting the Assembly elections as a battle to preserve “Bengal’s peace, culture, civilisation, identity and existence”. “I still think the people of Bengal are standing together. Bengal is one large family, of Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes — everyone is united. The family cannot be broken, despite all the attempts at polarisation,” Mamata told the ABP Ananda news channel in an interview on Poila Baisakh evening. “On the occasion of the Bengali New Year’s Day, I reaffirm my unflinching faith in Bengal’s people, who know this is the election to save Bengal, its honour and everything it stands for… its complex ethos. Women and the youth are playing a huge role in it this time, I believe, as are farmers, workers, teachers,” Mamata said. The chief minister acknowledged that the saffron camp had succeeded in polarising the electorate considerably when it made unprecedented gains in Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “But as Abraham Lincoln famously said: ‘You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’.” Asked if she had witnessed signs of polarisation at the grassroots this time during her extensive campaign across the state, the chief minister gave a detailed answer. “See, this the BJP has done. The BJP went to the Matuas and pledged loyalty; it went to the Rajbanshis and pledged loyalty; but it is actually not loyal to anybody…. The BJP keeps going to various sections of the people and saying different things, trying to woo them, trying desperately to create tiny little fragments in the electorate to suit themselves. That’s a fact,” Mamata said. She said her personal assessment was that Trinamul would win a two-thirds majority this time despite what she described as the BJP’s attempts to divide through polarisation and identity-based politics. She asserted that despite being extremely religious personally, she would never stoop to adhormo (sin) in the name of dhormo (religion) like the saffron camp. Mamata said the people of Bengal were standing up to the BJP this time to beat back the “invasion” of the state. “I think the people are standing firm to prevent the invasion of Bengal by Gujarat. Bengal will not be handed over to Gujarat,” Mamata said, alluding to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah by their home state rather than names. Mamata said: “Otherwise, in future there will be nothing left of Bengal’s peace, culture, civilisation, identity, existence…. That is why this is a prestige battle for the people of Bengal. The BJP will be decimated in this election, that is my assessment.” Asked how many seats she believed her party would win, Mamata said: “The Trinamul Congress will, I believe, get two-thirds majority.” The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats, with 148 being the majority mark. Winning a two-thirds majority requires 196 seats. The BJP, led by Prime Minister Modi and Shah on the campaign trail, has been projecting a tally of at least 200 seats for itself. Mamata accused Modi of dog-whistling to polarise voters, alleging he was saying things without being explicit. “Who are you trying to fool, bhai?” she asked. “Our Hindus, in Bengal, are intellectually rich, culturally, they do not differentiate between castes like elsewhere. Everyone believes in Bengal, its soil, its water… raised on a diet of glorious schools of thought, such as that of Rabindranath Tagore, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna Paramhansa, Sarada Devi, Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose,” she said. “They (the saffron camp) are not real monks, they only dress like that to play the part. It suits thespians, not politicians…. They destroy in the name of religion. They lie in the name of religion. They do not even adhere to the religion themselves.” Asked why she chanted Hindu hymns at her campaign rallies, Mamata said she did it “selfishly”. “I used to chant the Chandi Path and many other hymns for at least an hour during my two-hour daily workout on the treadmill. I bow my head in humble reverence to all gods….  Because of that injury to my leg, I haven’t been able to walk on the treadmill for a month…. I think I have been putting on weight as well,” Mamata said, laughing. “My daily prayers for the well-being of everyone were getting hampered. So I chant the hymns from the dais. So that’s my own work getting done…. For instance, my Bagalamukhi Ma must never think that Mamata doesn’t remember her, as that might make her angry…. I don’t want to have these doubts.” Mamata asserted that she was “very religious”, more than most people. “But I’m not adharmik (unrighteous) or a bokdharmik (sanctimonious hypocrite),” she said. “Everyone is equal to me. I feel ashamed to underscore my caste, whenever I give out my last name, in this day and age. If we aren’t able to rise even above such basic differences — even after decades in politics — it’s a matter of shame.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Suggestions to club last two phases amid Covid surge||A Congress candidate has died after testing positive for Covid-19, deepening fears that the long-drawn-out election process in Bengal has turned perilous in the middle of a second wave of infection and prompting suggestions that at least the last two phases of polling be clubbed. The demand is likely to come up on Friday at an all-party meeting, scheduled by the Election Commission on the Covid situation in the wake of the death of Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate from the Murshidabad seat of Samserganj. But a spokesperson for the Election Commission in New Delhi told PTI in response to a question whether some phases could be merged: “No such plan of clubbing phases.” Four of the eight phases are over in Bengal and the fifth is scheduled on Saturday. At least three other candidates have tested Covid-positive: they are the RSP’s Jangipur (Murshidabad) candidate Pradip Nandy and Trinamul’s Goalpokhor (North Dinajpur) candidate Gulam Rabbani and Jalpaiguri nominee P.K. Burma. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggested clubbing of the last two phases, conceding that it might harm her party since the areas involved are Trinamul strongholds but declaring she would accept such a move in the people’s interest. “The fifth phase has to be held as scheduled on Saturday as only 48 hours are left. The Election Commission might (also) have to hold the (sixth phase) as scheduled, on April 22, as all the formalities have been completed,” she said. “If they can club the last two phases (scheduled on April 26 and 29), we have no problem as it would give the people some relief during the pandemic.” Mamata blamed the deterioration in Bengal’s Covid-19 situation on the polls being drawn out into eight phases and the BJP bringing in outsiders. “There was no reason to hold elections in eight phases in Bengal.… It is an insult to Bengal, particularly when polls were held in one phase in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and in two phases in Assam,” Mamata said. Mamata added: “Besides, the regular entry of outsiders from states where the (Covid) situation is grim has turned the situation critical. During the Prime Minister’s rallies, many people from other states come in.” Mamata said she would not accept any Election Commission decision to curb large rallies ahead of the remaining phases. The poll panel is expected to announce some anti-Covid measures at Friday’s all-party meeting. “Four phases of the polls have already been held. If we are now asked to hold street corners ahead of the remaining phases, we can’t accept it,” the chief minister told ABP Ananda during an interview. She suggested that any restrictions on large rallies ahead of the next phases would give the BJP an unfair advantage. It was in this context that Mamata signalled she was open to the number of phases being reduced by merging them. “The elections will now be held in areas where we have strong bases. In the first four phases, (when polling was held in places) where the BJP had won some seats (in the 2019 general election), all types of rallies were allowed,” she said. “We cannot now accept any restrictions on large rallies. We will follow all guidelines and protocols during the meetings.” Mamata was responding to a question on the CPM’s decision to do away with large rallies. Poll panel sources said that merging the remaining phases was extremely unlikely. “Saturday’s polling cannot be deferred since all the arrangements have been made. It’s not possible to bring the last three phases forward as that would require the deployment of another 1,500 companies of central forces and cut down campaigning time for the candidates,” a source said. Another official said that deferring some of the phases to April 29 would not help, either, as the poll panel would have to allow campaigning till April 27 at all these seats, leading to an overall increase in rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge: Health officials in south Bengal districts scout for private hospitals||Health officials in several south Bengal districts are urgently scouting for private hospitals after fresh Covid-19 infections registered a sharp spike across the state in the past fortnight, with 6,769 new infections being reported on Thursday alone. Sources said that during the first wave of pandemic last year the health department took over several private establishments to turn those into either isolation wards or Covid hospitals, but when the number of infections decreased, the government released those establishments. But now, Covid’s second wave has again necessitated an infrastructure upgrade to admit the increasing number of patients. Bengal has 36,981 active cases as on Thursday. “The second wave of Covid has hit us. Districts have been asked to keep healthcare establishments ready depending on the number of new cases reported,” a senior health official said. In Birbhum, the health department inspected a new private hospital in Bolpur to convert it into a Covid hospital on Tuesday. Sources said more two such establishments will be found very soon. “We have identified a private hospital in Bolpur. As the number of cases is increasing, we are planning to convert it into a Covid hospital. Our officials inspected the hospital in Bolpur on Tuesday,” said Jayanta Sukul, the deputy CMOH-III of Birbhum. During the first phase of the pandemic, there were six centres, including hospitals, to take care of Covid patients in Birbhum. The corresponding figure for East Burdwan was eight. Now the two districts have one and two centres, respectively. In Birbhum, over 350 Covid-19 cases have been detected in the past 24 hours and the rate at which numbers are increasing is alarming, an official said. Sources said the Birbhum administration has reopened the isolation unit at the Niramoy TB sanatorium in Dubrajpur. In East Burdwan, there are only two healthcare centres to treat Covid patients. One of the centres is at Krishi Bhavan and the other is at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. Sources said the two centres can treat only 100 patients. Already, 30 patients were admitted there. There is a need to augment the infrastructure in view of the rise in cases, sources added. “We have already increased testing and will set up private facilities as infections are increasing fast,” said Pranab Roy, the CMOH of East Burdwan. The state government has fixed a testing target for each Bengal district depending on its population and the number of Covid patients reported since mid-March. In an order issued by the health department on Monday, all districts were given specific targets of Covid-19 tests. Right now, the testing target is 36,000 a day across Bengal, including the RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. “Earlier, districts were conducting only 100-250 tests per day as vaccination started. But as the Covid situation has begun to worsen alarmingly, we have fixed a target of 300-1,400 per day for each district. The number of tests will depend on the population of the district and their Covid active case trend,” said a senior health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Audio clips surfacing on social media heightens embarrassment of Malda BJP ||Two audio clips surfacing on social media have heightened the embarrassment of the Malda district BJP leadership that is desperately trying to bring dissidents, including those contesting as Independents against the party’s official candidates in many seats, into its fold. In those clippings, two persons, supposedly BJP leader Abhijit Mishra and district party president Gobinda Chandra Mandal, are heard trying to fervently appease two dissident candidates of Manikchak Assembly seat — with cash and promises of a zilla parishad seat nomination, respectively. The Telegraph has not independently verified the authenticity of any audio clip. Mishra purportedly is heard offering Dalim Mandal, a dissident contesting from Manikchak, Rs 2 lakh in cash to withdraw and help the official BJP candidate avert defeat. Mishra denied the voice was his while at the same time claiming there was nothing wrong in pursuing a dissident. “The audio is doctored. My voice and tone have been imitated. I did not ask anyone to withdraw candidature against money. But even if it is my voice, there is nothing wrong in pursuing a dissident worker to help the official BJP candidate,” he said. He will not file any complaint with the police in this regard, Mishra clarified. In the other recording, a person calling himself district BJP president Mandal is heard offering a Bharatiya Jana Sangh-backed Independent candidate Anil Chandra Mandal, also contesting from Manikchak, a nomination in the Zilla Parishad seat in future if he withdraws his nomination. District BJP president Mandal is purportedly pleading repeatedly with the dissident to sit for a discussion. The dissident is purportedly spurning the appeals. Mandal, when asked, said he did not recall calling up any particular individual. But he added that he found nothing wrong in calling up a veteran party worker who “is annoyed over some issue” and contesting against the party’s official candidate. “I cannot recall if I had called up any individual in particular. But I have spoken to all those who have expressed their grievances after the BJP candidate list was published. It was my duty to speak to them, understand their feelings and motivate them to work for the BJP, keeping aside their individual issues. A few candidates, who were initially upset, have already withdrawn their (rival) candidatures,” Mandal said. For the Manikchak seat, the last date for withdrawal of candidature was April 12. Elections will be held in the seat in the final phase, that is, on April 29. In Manikchak, the BJP has fielded Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad, a Trinamul turncoat who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections. Dalim, one of the dissident candidates, said Gour’s selection left them disappointed. “We are not against the BJP. But we revolted against Gour’s candidature. We can’t accept him as he used to harass us when he was with Trinamul,” he said. Gour, however, ignored these dissidents. “They will not be able to create any impact in these elections. The principal contest is between Trinamul and BJP and we will win this seat,” said the Trinamul turncoat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC lodges complaint with EC accusing Babul Supriyo of defiling Constitution||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday lodged a complaint with Bengal’s chief electoral officer, accusing Union minister of state Babul Supriyo of defiling the Preamble to the Indian Constitution. Supriyo, who is also the BJP’s Tollygunge candidate, had tweeted a picture of the Preamble to the Constitution on April 14 on the occasion of the 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, the father of the Indian Constitution. The tweet also had a picture of Ambedkar. According to the complaint, the picture of the Preamble posted by Supriyo “has omitted the words ‘Socialist’, ‘Secular’ and ‘integrity of Nation’ that were inserted in the original Preamble with the 42nd Amendment to the Indian Constitution in 1976”. “What Supriyo has done is defiling the Constitution. He has taken an oath under the Constitution but after this he should be stripped of his ministerial position and arrested for inciting people to defy the Constitution,” said Trinamul MP and spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy Trinamul has alleged that Supriyo also insulted Bharat Ratna Babasaheb Ambedkar and that such defiling of the Constitution is an offence under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, which is punishable by imprisonment. “... it seems Supriyo, himself being a member of the parliament and a Union Minister, believes in a Constitution that does not have the words “secular”, “socialist” and “integrity of nation,” the Trinamul complaint reads. According to experts, the Constitution has been amended for around 130 times in the 71 years since it was adopted on January 26, 1950. In 1976, the 42nd amendment to the Constitution was introduced, which changed the description of India from a “sovereign democratic republic” to a “sovereign, socialist secular democratic republic”, and also changed the words “unity of the nation” to “unity and integrity of the nation”. The saffron ecosystem, with its idea of India as a Hindu nation, has for long tried to establish that these words were introduced in the Constitution during the Emergency by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. However, Roy negated such claims and said that both the Houses of Parliament had adopted these amendments and nothing was forcefully imposed. “The BJP would say Indira Gandhi had used the Emergency to amend the Constitution, but that isn’t the case…And if they have such problems with these words, they should counter those constitutionally,” Roy said. Speaking to The Telegraph, constitutional expert and former Supreme Court justice Ashok Kumar Ganguly echoed Roy’s words. “If someone is tweeting a picture of the Constitution or its Preamble, it has to be the full picture. One cannot make a selective post in case of the Constitution. Irrespective of whether the person is a Union minister or an ordinary citizen, he has to follow the Constitution.” Babul Supriyo said: “I have no reaction or comment to make till I receive a copy of the complaint.” Sinha repeats taunt Former state BJP president and candidate for the Habra seat, Rahul Sinha, on Thursday justified his comments on the Sitalkuchi firing. As the duration of the ban on his campaign expired on Thursday, Sinha told an election rally: “Vivek Dubey has made a clear statement…if the central forces are attacked, the forces will fire again. This means that what I had said, the representative of the Election Commission had said that same thing. I’m saying again, if the central forces are attacked…if people are not allowed to vote…the central forces should fire, doesn’t matter who dies in that…” The Election Commission had banned Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours for his inflammatory speech. He had said that the central forces should have shot dead eight people, instead of four, at Sitalkuchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Posters mimic Modi's 'Didi'  taunt||#Raag Keno Didi? Next to a cartoon featuring a contorted face of Mamata Banerjee is a question with a hashtag: Why the anger, Didi? There is no mention of who is asking it. Dozens of such framed hoardings, measuring about three feet by a foot-and-a-half, line a section of Central Avenue and beyond, from Central to Esplanade Metro stations, hung strategically at the pedestrians’ eye level. One is on a red backdrop and has a female figure in white sari with thin blue border, holding a mike in one hand and gesticulating with the other. The other on a black backdrop is just a face, cheeks puffed, eyes flashing, teeth bared and lips parted in the act of hollering. Despite there being no indicator, a look at the visuals triggers a voice in the head of the informed passerby, one that intones: “Didi, O Didi”, taunting and jeering and relishing the act and its perceived effect. Indeed, once that association is made, it is easy to connect the dots backwards. The hoardings made their appearance late on April 6. Exactly a month ago, on March 7, the same words were heard in course of the Prime Minister’s Brigade Parade Grounds speech. “Didi, aapko itna gussa kyun? Raag keno, Didi? Eto raag keno, Didi?” Narendra Modi had asked. He had quoted a part of a sloka from the Bhagwad Gita: Krodhat bhavati sammohah, sammohat smriti — vibhramah…. From anger, delusion arises, and from delusion the bewilderment of memory. The rest of the sloka, which he did not quote in original, describes how when memory is bewildered, intelligence is lost and causes one’s downfall. He had described the process in Hindi. “…Phir usse confusion ho jata hai, confusion me insaan galti karta jata hai, bura karta hai, bura sochne lag jata hai, aur apna hi sab kuchh gawa deta hai.” The “Didi, O Didi” jibe that has become a leitmotif in every Modi speech is possibly meant to agitate the chief minister and provoke her into reacting along similar lines. But it also seems to be part of a bigger scheme. The day after the Prime Minister’s rally, a music video was uploaded on YouTube with a Bengali rap song, playing on the words Raag keno Didi, and footage from both Modi’s and the chief minister’s speeches. That has not gained traction yet, having garnered just about a thousand views in a month. A week ago, at the Prime Minister’s Uluberia rally, several supporters were spotted wearing T-shirts with the same words: Raag keno Didi? There, too, the Prime Minister harped on Didi’s “anger”. “Aap ka gussa, aap ki narazgi, aap ka vyavhar, aap ki vani — inn sab ko dekh kar ek bachcha bhi bataa sakta hai ki aap chunav haar chuki hai… (Your anger, your disenchantment, your behaviour, your words — seeing all this even a child can say you have lost the election).” On April 2, #RaagKenoDidi appeared on Twitter, with the likes of BJP member and former Film and Television Institute of India chairman Gajendra Chauhan using it. BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya used the hashtag with a video clip of another speech of the Prime Minister, again asking “Eto raag keno Didi?”, on April 3. With the election bandwagon rolling into the city, the hoardings now make an appearance on an arterial central Calcutta street. Angry, frustrated, bewildered and defeated, that is the image of the tallest leader of the rival camp that the BJP is seeking to plant in the electorate’s mind. And the cartoons add a visual dimension to the taunt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
16-04-2021||North East||HC voids election of Manipur legislator||High Court of Manipur on Thursday declared the election of former Congress legislator Okram Henry Singh from Wangkhei under Imphal East district in the 2017 Assembly polls null and void for concealment of personal details in his election affidavit. The single-judge bench of Justice M.V. Muralidaran not only ruled in favour of petitioner Y. Erabot Singh of the BJP but also “declared that the petitioner is duly elected as a member of 15-Wangkhei Assembly Constituency”. Henry had won the polls on a Congress ticket by bagging 16,753 votes to Erabot’s 12,417. Erabot had challenged the election of Henry for violating the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, while filing his nomination in 2017 on the ground that he had misrepresented his education qualification and had concealed information about criminal cases. The 99-page court ruling said that Respondent No. 1 (Henry) failed to disclose the name of his spouse and his dependents, pending criminal cases and educational qualification. “As such, non-disclosure of such information would constitute a corrupt practice falling under heading ‘undue influence’ as defined under Section 123(2) of the RP Act, 1951,” the court said. The hearing concluded on March 17 but the court had reserved its ruling. Henry, nephew of former chief minister and Congress leader Okram Ibobi Singh, was among the six Congress MLAs who had resigned soon after the N. Biren Singh government won the trust vote in the Assembly in August 2020. Henry was inducted as a minister in October last year. However, since he could not get himself elected as an MLA within the mandatory six-month deadline, his stint as the minister for social welfare, cooperation and municipal administration, housing and urban development (MAHUD) ended last month. Henry told The Telegraph on Thursday evening that he is no longer an MLA/minister and that he would contest the high court ruling in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
16-04-2021||North East||Congress single largest party in Garo Hills polls||The Congress on Thursday emerged as the single largest party in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council polls in Meghalaya but it may not be enough to check the ruling National People’s Party (NPP) from forming the next council with help of the BJP and Independents. The Garo Hills council election results threw up a hung house with the Congress winning 12 of the 29 seats, the NPP 11, the BJP 2, the Garo National Council (GNC) one and Independents three seats. The Congress had contested all the 29 seats like the NPP while the BJP had contested 21 and the United Democratic Party (UDP) eight seats. Though senior Congress leader and former chief minister Mukul Sangma exuded confidence of forming the next council, NPP general secretary B. Sangma told The Telegraph that the BJP, the GNC and the Independents have already extended support to his party. The BJP is part of the NPPled state government. The BJP improved from one seat in 2015 to two in 2021, senior BJP leader A.L. Hek told this newspaper. “The results are very encouraging and we have a good chance of winning 810 seats in the next Assembly polls. Garo Hills have 24 seats,” he said. DoNER minister Jitendra Singh tweeted: “#BJP has made its mark in #Meghalaya by winning two seats in ‘Garo Hills Autonomous Council’. Congrats Sh Bernard Marak. Congrats Sh Pramod Koch.” Bernard Marak, sources said, is in the running for the deputy chief executive member’s post in the council. The results, however, are a wakeup call for the NPP before the 2023 Assembly polls, party insiders said, while pointing to its defeat in the prestigious Tura seat and the loss of the incumbent chief executive member Dipul Marak to an Independent candidate Arbinestone Marak. The Garo Hills council, which covers five districts, is considered an NPP bastion while Tura is the home turf of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma who had also campaigned for Dipul. “We may form the council but we need to do serious introspection on why we lost and the BJP’s win in Tura. The BJP had made corruption a key poll plank. We were ruling the council and we are ruling the state. Garo Hills is where our strength lies,” one of the NPP insiders said. The NPP was ruling the council before it came under governor’s rule following the expiry of its term and polls could not be held because of the Covid19 situation. Elections were finally held on Monday, registering a turnout of nearly 70 per cent. The Congress had lost the Garo Hills council after the NPP came to power in 2018 following a crossover by most of its members. If the NPP forms the council, this will be the second time since 2018 that the ruling party would have beaten the Congress in stitching up postpoll alliances. The Congress had failed to form the government despite emerging as the single largest party in the 2018 Assembly polls with 21 MLAs in the 60member House. The NPP cobbled up a majority with the UDP, the BJP, the People’s Democratic Front, the Hill State People’s Democratic Party and Independents to stake claim and lead the state government. “We respect the people’s mandate. We were expecting to cross the halfway mark but this has been the trend in the past elections too. There was strong antiincumbency against the NPPled council. As a party we need to look into our performance moving forward,” chief minister and NPP national president Conrad said on Thursday evening. “We are hopeful of forming the council… we are in talks with others but the verdict has also sent a message that we need to strengthen our organisation before the next polls,” Conrad said. Mukul Sangma said the Congress was also confident of forming the next council and will soon stake claim as the single largest party. All eyes are now on governor Satya Pal Malik as he will decide which party gets the first shot at forming the council, political watchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
16-04-2021||Opinion||Follow the rules: Kumbh Mela amid Covid surge||Sir — It is a shame that while a number of people blamed the Tablighi Jamaat held last year for the spread of the coronavirus, not many are being equally vociferous about the Kumbh Mela gatherings. The fact that the devotees participating in the event are being blithely unmindful about preventive protocol is not surprising. What is perplexing is the logic behind the government’s decision to allow a congregation of this scale at a time when the pandemic is at its worst in the country. Surely the educated political class did not think that such a show of blind faith would help alleviate the situation. The only answer, then, is that the Centre could not afford to disappoint the religious majority, especially when the assembly polls in Bengal are not yet over. The number of infections has certainly spiked during the Kumbh Mela gatherings — over 1,000 people have tested positive in just 48 hours in Haridwar. But the authorities have said that there are no plans of cutting the festival short. This, along with the crowded rallies that are taking place in various parts of Bengal without any precautions, might prove to be disastrous beyond measure for the country. Who, then, will take responsibility for the lives lost? People throwing caution to the wind should remember that no amount of clanging pots and pans this time is going to make up for the deaths of medical professionals who have sacrificed their lives. Jahnabi Mitra,Hooghly Sir — The leniency shown by the government towards the organization of the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar has resulted in the violation of all preventive rules. This is a matter of serious concern. The congregation of devotees as well as the akhadas revealed their callous attitude towards the pandemic during the shahi snaan. The devotees have been requested time and again to adhere to safety norms. But owing to their carelessness, India has now recorded the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world. Had the government imposed preventive measures with the same strictness it had shown during the first wave of the pandemic, the situation would not have spiralled out of control. Owing to a sudden spike in active cases, the idea of another lockdown is now looming large. This has naturally triggered panic among migrant workers, leading them to leave their workplaces. It is likely that another job crisis will emerge in many sectors. This is not a good sign for the economy, which has already been tumbling downwards over the last few years. To mitigate the situation, the government should speed up the vaccination drive and conduct routine check-ups. Otherwise, it will face a heavy challenge, and the common people will have to have to face the music. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — It is a matter of grave concern that, on the one hand, the number of Covid-19 cases continues to surge and claim lives, while, on the other, political rallies and religious gatherings like the Kumbh Mela are being permitted. The prime minister is advising the people to save lives by wearing masks and observing physical distancing. But scenes from his public meetings do not reflect adherence to his words. Holding elections and capturing power seem to be a greater priority than saving lives. Perhaps after this spell of elections is over, the administration will come up with more stringent measures — even a lockdown may follow. Winning the seat of power should not turn into a predatory affair. Nitesh Mandwariya,Neemuch, Madhya Pradesh Sir — The surge of new Covid-19 cases in India — Tamil Nadu, too, has noted a spike — is disturbing. This increase has undoubtedly been caused by the violation of preventive norms by the common man and, more particularly, by political leaders who are bringing lakhs of people to attend their election rallies, without care for any protocols. Now, lakhs of devotees are attending the Kumbh Mela and other religious festivals, flouting all norms. At the Kumbh Mela, over 100 pilgrims and 20 seers tested positive for Covid-19 within a day. Television channels showed devotees disregarding social distancing norms and not wearing masks. Fortunately, the Indian Premier League has debarred spectators this year. Otherwise it would have led to a catastrophe. When will people learn to follow rules for the safety of their own country? N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — It is disappointing that the Kumbh Mela was allowed to take place. Now the entire country will suffer from the spike of cases that the congregation will cause. Mallika Gupta,New Delhi  Step forward Sir — For a comedian, caricature is a daily tool of the trade. But a joke can soon turn sour if such comedy leads to stereotyping. This was the case with the character, Apu, a supermarket clerk of Indian descent in The Simpsons. Voiced by Hank Zakaria, Apu’s mannerisms and accent, although iconic, had become infamous for contributing to a narrow, racist view of Indian-Americans. But Zakaria has now apologized for his part in perpetuating the stereotype. This step taken by the white voice actor — he admitted to having learnt about racism through conversations and seminars — could help create a more equal society. Joyeeni Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
16-04-2021||Opinion||Speed up Covid vaccination||An unprecedented crisis requires unconventional strategies to contain it. India is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 with the country registering two lakh daily new cases recently. The pace of infections, unless it is arrested, threatens to overwhelm India’s uneven health infrastructure, ushering in a massive crisis. The recommendation by an expert panel to expedite the approval of vaccines that have met prescribed regulatory stipulations in the United States of America, Europe, the United Kingdom, Japan as well as those drugs that are part of the World Health Organization’s emergency use inventory needs to be seen in the light of the deteriorating situation. The fast-tracking of drugs, in theory, comes with its own advantage. It would hopefully infuse fresh momentum into India’s inoculation endeavour that is, at present, not covering enough ground. It has been reported that less than 8 per cent of Indian citizens have received a single shot; the US and the UK have managed to vaccinate almost 50 per cent of their populations. Worryingly, several vaccination centres are suffering shortfalls even though the prime minister has declared open India’s Tika Utsav. The fast-track approval would also ease some of the pressure on the supply of the two drugs — Covishield and Covaxin — that are being used at the moment. The challenge, however, does not end with expediting drug approval. One of the risks of fast-tracking new drugs is the relative paucity of ‘bridging trials’ — the collection of data pertaining to safety and immunogenicity is likely to remain skeletal. The Union health ministry has directed only the first 100 beneficiaries to be assessed for seven days before the new drugs are rolled out. The Centre must also ensure that foreign vaccine manufacturers remain enthusiastic about making their products available commercially at the earliest. Pricing and other relevant aspects would need to be smoothened. Till these prickly issues are sorted out and the drugs actually make it to the domestic market — Sputnik, the Russian vaccine, is likely to be available only in May — India must adhere to the basic protocols of pandemic management. This would involve ramping up testing and tracing mechanisms, increasing hospital beds and related medical infrastructure and — this is most important — make India’s apathetic citizens comply with the regulations. India cannot afford to be complacent at this dark hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||Jump right in: Restriction for namaz at Nizamuddin Markaz||India has become bizarre. The Delhi High Court rejected the submission of the Centre and the Delhi police that only 20 people be allowed to enter the mosque at Nizamuddin Markaz for prayers during Ramadan from a police-verified list of 200. The court reportedly said that there cannot be a fixed list of devotees since no other place of worship has it. Prayers will be offered according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority protocols for Covid-19 control, with correct distancing inside the mosque. But all devotees can enter when their turn comes. Here it is bizarre that the Centre and the police persist in keeping a particular memory alive: the premises hosted the Tablighi Jamaat meeting last year and its members were arrested for deliberately and negligently spreading the Covid-19 virus. The accusations were dismissed in court and the media were severely admonished for making scapegoats of the participants who belonged to the minority community. By keeping the premises out of bounds and then going to court about prayers in the mosque there, the Centre and the police are trying to invest the site with negative associations, although their basis has proved to be non-existent. That the Delhi High Court reportedly said that nobody can take away the building could not be without a reason. The real bizarreness, though, lies in the contrast with the huge press of devotees at the Kumbh Mela. The Centre’s concern for limiting worship in order to control the virus is invisible here, so the majority religion’s sacred event has become one of the main causes of the frightening rise in the number of infections. No imposition of order on entry assumes that testing will be difficult and social distancing impossible. Do Bharatiya Janata Party leaders believe, along with the worshippers, that the Ganga will save the bathers from Covid, or are they allowing the devotees free scope only for votes — let the virus take who it may? Whatever their beliefs about the cow, they must know that Covid does not pick and choose faiths. So, over one thousand people tested positive in 48 hours at the mela. This is possibly just the tip of the iceberg in what is now a superspreader event. But inequality of treatment is now open and unashamed; infections are secondary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||The past is present||A dear friend claims that she once had two unfailing landmarks on Fern Road, between Ballygunge Terrace and Kasba bridge: one turn past an istiriwala and the next past a brown-and-white cow. They worked splendidly, till one day, mysteriously, the landmarks disappeared, never to return again. Maybe, in this city of disappearing landmarks, this was not so mysterious after all. Better known and, one would imagine, less mobile landmarks such as the Parama statue at the Science City crossing or the cannon at the centre of New Market had just disappeared one day. Not to mention entire heritage buildings. They have a habit of disappearing without a trace from the city. In such circumstances, I am proud to report that I have a personal landmark that has stood by me for years. It does not stand, really. It flies. It is a red flag bearing the CPI(M) symbol. When I saw it first, more than a decade ago, it was stuck into a shed at the corner of a lane that leads to an apartment block in south Calcutta where my uncle lives. This is one of the new residential areas that have come up off the E.M. Bypass, towards Santoshpur. The neighbourhood has not been planned much and the construction seems haphazard. Moreover, the buildings look very much like each other. They are generally three- or four-storeyed apartment blocks built along one side of a canal in what can be called the contemporary Calcutta style for three- or four-storeyed apartment blocks. Because the buildings look so similar, it is easy to miss the right turn to arrive at the right one. So I used to look out for the red flag with the sickle, the hammer and the star. I am no supporter of the CPI(M), nor was ever. But its flag became the tool for me to negotiate my way to my uncle’s house. I was told the shed from which it was flying was a CPI(M) party office once. In 2011, Bengal changed hands. With a new party in power, I wondered what would happen to the flag in that corner. To my surprise, it remained, though no one seemed to be around to protect it. The shed looked lonely, the flag looked forlorn, but it was there, and I reached my uncle’s house without any problem. Since more buildings were coming up every day, the locality was becoming more confusing and the flag was becoming more important for me. I would stress more about missing the right turn, and be relieved on finding the flag again, a little more faded every time, but stoutly there. Then one day, three or four years ago, after the Trinamul Congress had won its second term, I was overjoyed to see a bright new red flag having replaced the old, worn-out one. By that time the flag had become less a party symbol for me and more like an old acquaintance who, you were afraid, would not be there the next time. It was also that ever-fixed mark in a city where architecture is anarchic and ugly and aggressive, swallowing up every bit of free land or water that is available — and is inevitably a reflection of the changing politics. It was reassuring to see an innocuous bit of red not only not removed, but replenished when much else in the city was being coloured white and blue. The shed, however, was brought down later and, at the initiative of local residents, a Shiva temple was built in its place. I was astounded to see that the red flag was still there, flying now from the temple wall, almost shining like a beacon and showing me the way. I do not know who is tolerating whom more: the Marxist flag or the Hindu temple. But tolerance it is. Now that Bengal is voting again, one wonders what is going to happen to the state. I hope the flag stays on, because the past, whatever it was, should not be undone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||Open secret||In so adversarial a relationship, there is no sphere of activity left untouched by the impact of India-Pakistan frictions. The recent U-turn by the government of Pakistan on the import of sugar and cotton yarn from India is the obvious example. Trade contestations, however, go back to the founding moments of both countries. Much like the issue of river waters, Kashmir and other territorial issues represented by accession disputes and divergent ideological moorings, trade, too, has been a minefield. In the late 1940s, amidst the powerful dramas of the Kashmir war, the Partition massacres and disputes over water sharing, numerous tensions over bilateral trade were also seething just below the surface. These erupted into the open in September 1949 when the United Kingdom sharply devalued the pound. Many of its major trading partners and former colonies, including India, followed suit immediately. Curiously, or so it appeared to many in India, Pakistan did not. A major distortion in the exchange rate followed. Raw jute from East Pakistan imported by jute mills in India became much more expensive. Pakistan’s gamble was that it could get additional profits from higher jute prices that India would have to pay. Things did not work out in quite this way, and exports to India fell precipitously along with trade turnover as a whole, with potentially disastrous results for Pakistan’s — especially East Pakistan’s — economy. However, a quite unrelated factor intervened, almost providentially, to Pakistan’s advantage. The Korean war broke out in June 1950. Jute was suddenly in huge demand, and Pakistan was able to diversify its markets and also make huge profits. The gamble to not devalue had, in effect, paid off because of an unrelated geopolitical event. Perhaps the first but by no means the only time that luck, rather than the right judgment call, had worked in Pakistan’s favour. Within Pakistan, the handling of the devaluation crisis was viewed with satisfaction: cheaper imports marked the beginning of Pakistan’s industrialization process. Moreover, it showed Pakistan exercising its economic sovereignty in not following India into devaluation. But most of all, it demonstrated that trade would never be absent in India-Pakistan contestations. For the next half century, trade remained subject to all the vagaries of the India-Pakistan ecosystem restricted by quotas, lists and controls. In Pakistan, limiting trade with India was seen as an essential aspect of cementing its economic sovereignty. The 1965 and 1971 wars led to a nine-year-long trade suspension. The emergence of Bangladesh meant that economic complementarities between India and Pakistan reduced; by the late 1970s, the two economies had drifted apart. There were efforts to expand trade volumes, but the odds were against any substantive increase. What changed in the 1990s was the new mantra of globalization and the growth spurt the Indian economy began on. As the 50th anniversary of the emergence of sovereign India and Pakistan approached, economic engagement seemed to offer a platform that could help reduce, if not resolve, the enduring political divides. This was certainly the sentiment that was prevalent in India and, to a great extent, there was substantial support for this across party lines. Soon after joining the World Trade Organization, India extended ‘most favoured nation’ treatment to Pakistan — a routine step in international trade at the time, but a significant moment in the evolution of India’s Pakistan policy. In Pakistan, feelings were more mixed. Some saw the emergent potential of India with its economy opening up. Yet, resistance was fierce, with concerns that larger imports from India would damage Pakistan’s industry and agriculture. Others felt that forward movement on trade unaccompanied by substantial progress on ‘resolving Kashmir’ was a betrayal of Pakistan’s founding principles. Finally, there was a revanchist and ideological position that objected to considering India a ‘most favoured’ nation quite irrespective of the international context in which this technical term was used. This three-toned alloy of resistance has remained in place for the past quarter-century. It endured in spite of the emergence of the South Asian Free Trade Area agreement, which Pakistan chose not to fully accept. The reluctance to bite the bullet of MFN notwithstanding, trade between India and Pakistan did increase substantially in the first two decades of this century, although it remained far below potential. About eight to nine years ago, there appeared a brief moment when it seemed that Pakistan would finally agree to fully normalize trade with India by treating it the same as other trading partners. This was through the euphemism of ‘non-discriminatory market access’ — MFN treatment without using the ‘most favoured’ word! Meanwhile, two new grounds of resistance to normalizing trade with India had appeared. The first of these was the growing trade imbalance — Indian exports to Pakistan were six or seven times larger than its imports. For most Pakistanis, this was unfair and reflected market access issues and barriers that their exports faced in India. In this view, in spite of the strong optics that made up the unilateral grant of MFN by India to Pakistan, the fact remained that Indian exports to Pakistan were growing much faster than Indian imports. The second objection was a more general one, and greatly influenced by the strength of the then prevalent globalization discourse. Pakistan’s market and its geopolitical location offering access to Afghanistan, Iran and Central Asia was, in this view, the prize that India sought. In the late 2000s, there was also a real push from the United States of America for the liberalization of India-Pakistan trade and opening up a South Asian market for Afghanistan using Pakistan as transit. The joke at one stage was that the US government had more people working on India-Pakistan trade than the governments of India and Pakistan had, put together. The view gained ground in Pakistan that the ‘wily Indians’ with a western concert to back them were extracting something very valuable, the importance of which ‘simple Pakistan’ was unable to gauge. Highly inflated estimates of the potential of India-Pakistan trade if restrictions were removed added to these concerns. Therefore, for Pakistan to ‘give’ on trade without getting something in return was seen as naïve, and the question became a larger one of the concessions that Pakistan must seek. These new perceptions entered and strengthened the old alloy of resistance further. In the recent U-turn with regard to the import of sugar and cotton yarn from India, it is possible to see the imprint of these old debates. Nevertheless, the situation has changed a great deal. Pakistan banned all trade with India post August 2019 as a response to the legislative changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India, after the Pulwama terrorist attack, had withdrawn the 1996 MFN treatment given to Pakistan. Yet, there are differences from the trade stoppage of the 1960s and 1970s. Formal channels of trade are now supplemented by others. In spite of the ban, trade through third countries continues and even grows. This ‘open secret’ reveals much of India-Pakistan relations. What it also suggests is that the current setback notwithstanding, with incremental improvement in political atmospherics, the trade agenda will resurface again in some time. The author is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Power cuts disrupt water supply to over 5 lakh coal town residents||Irregular power supply has affected the water supply from the Jamadoba based plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority  and Bhelatand based water treatment plant of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Water supply remained suspended for three days in different localities of Jharia including Sabzi Mandi, Hetli Bandh, Poddar Para, Koiri Bandh, Fatehpur lane, Jharia Main road, Ghanudih, affecting more than five lakh residents. In Dhanbad’s Putki area, water supply from the treatment plant of JMADA at Jamadoba was affected in the first week of April. Md Aslam, in-charge of the Putki based water supply network of Dhanbad said,“despite our best effort to ensure regular water supply we often fail to do so due to erratic power supply.” “For filling up of the intake well of Jamadoba based water treatment situated on the bank of river Damodar continuous power supply for at least eight hours is required but due to frequent power cuts, filling of intake well is affected and thereby the water supply is also affected,” said Aslam. The situation is similar at the Maithon Lake water supply carried out by the Drinking Water and Sanitation Department on behalf of Dhanbad Municipal Corpoation. Manish Kumar, executive engineer of Damodar Valley Corporation, which is looking after the water supply of Maithon lake on behalf of DMC said, “We have tried for uninterrupted water supply arrangement for Bhelatand based Water Treatment plant but the process did not reach any conclusion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant convenes all-party meet on Covid on Saturday||Chief minister Hemant Soren has convened an all-party meeting on Saturday to discuss plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, his decision coming after the state reported on Thursday close to 3,500 cases, the highest single-day spike of cases since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Fatalities are also increasing by the day with the state's health infrastructure coming under stress, battling both resource and manpower crunch. Hemant will hold a virtual meeting at 6.30pm and has appealed to all political parties to attend. In a statement, he said, “An all-party meeting has been fixed through online mode at 6.30pm tomorrow (Saturday) to discuss the ways to combat Covid-19 in the state. I also appeal to everyone in the state to stay safe and practice Covid appropriate behavior.” Soon after returning to Ranchi on Thursday after his marathon election campaigning for Madhupur bypoll on April 17, Hemant held a meeting with the state disaster management authorities at his residence. In attendance were state health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and other top officials. Speaking to reporters after the deliberations at Thursday's meeting, Hemant said it was time to take tough decisions to control the worsening situation. The government will in all likelihood postpone or cancel state board exams scheduled from May 4 as  Jharkhand Academic Council terminated ongoing practical examinations with immediate effect on Friday. Hemant said that since CBSE and other state boards announced postponement of exams, Jharkhand  would also take a call soon. On restrictions being planned, Hemant said that they were evaluating the situation and considering all options. “I anticipate more cases in coming weeks as The Union  government is running special trains from Covid hotspot to states like Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Also, there is an issues of pending test reports. We are setting up six more RT PCR labs and buying high-end machines to reduce pendency of reports. We are also working out places to double bed capacity, especially in the  ICU at RIMS in Ranchi,” he had said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told the media in Lohardaga on Friday after a meeting with the district administration that while a total lockdown wasn't required in Jharkhand, there was a need for more curbs to break the transmission chain. “We have to see how we can balance lives and livelihood,” he commented. Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) instructed all its affiliated bodies on Friday to ensure that advocates appear in person before any court for any judicial work till further orders. JSBC secretary Rajesh Pandey sent letters to all district bar units in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city installs new Covid checkpoint||A new checkpoint for conducting Covid-19 tests will be functional on the Marine Drive in Sonari from Saturday. Health department officials said the new checkpoint was set-up amid a rise in Covid-19 cases. East Singhbhum district registered a record number of 492 positive cases in the past 24 hours and four deaths. Nand Kishore Lal, ADM (Law & Order), inspected the checkpoint close to the new Domuhani bridge on Friday. "All those coming to our district from neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan through the Domuhani bridge will have to undergo the mandatory Covid test. They will be allowed if they are found negative. Apart from this, those commuting on the Marine Drive would also have to undergo RT-PCR test," said Lal. The health department staff with officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and district police will be manning the checkpoint round the clock. According to health department sources, another checkpoint will be established soon on the Tata-Kandra Road that connects Jamshedpur with Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Headmaster introduces art and technology for tribal students||The headmaster of a government-run primary school in Tilaiya Panchayat of Govindpur block is implementing technology and adding an aesthetic ambience to educate children of farmers and daily wage earners of Pargho village. Niraj Mishra, 40, of Prathmik Vidyalaya is using  technical gadgets like projectors and a public address system at the school. He has also installed a fountain, wall paintings, depicting poetry scenes, charts of body parts, wild life all across the campus of the single-storey building. “Through the public address system, I run audio of rhymes for one class and simultaneously instruct students of other classes to complete their homework,” said Mishra. Mishra joined the school in 1999 and served the school single handedly till 2006 before the appointment of  para teachers. “Serving the school single handedly for seven years  sometimes I found it difficult to manage the students of standard I to V seating in different classrooms  and thus developed the public address system on my own for different classrooms investing around Rs 8000 from my salary,” said Mishra to The Telegraph Online. “As majority of students are Santhali speaking so initially after joining I faced a lot of difficulty interacting  with them  as they do not understand even a single Hindi word,” said Mishra. “I made two different interventions to interact with them including one by making stamps of various animal, birds, trees and things lying in their surroundings by printing the figures made on the stamps and later I bought a projector on my own which is used to play the video of lessons taught in class room,” he said. During the lockdown, he used to teach the children of his school by uploading his lessons on his Youtube channel, digital e gyan. Asha Devi, a para teacher and former student of the school, said “inspired with the self less work of Niraj Mishra sir we also launched  some innovative work and have grown several vegetables in the school’s kitchen garden to meet the vegetable requirement of the school for mid day meals etc.” Praveen Kumari, Head Mistress of Kanya Prathmik Vidyalaya, Kharni said, “When i first visited the school of Niraj Mishra sir I could not believe that it is a government school as the facilities were better than any private school and stands tall as an example of dedication towards his mission to educate common children” Santosh Mahto, a former student of the school, presently posted in Ranchi as civil engineer said, “the strong foundation received under the guidance of Niraj Mishra sir helped me to excel in life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata climber gearing up for Mount Everest challenge||Climbing mountains, running and stretching exercises at a height of 4,500 ft above sea level is a daily routine for Asmita Dorjee as she prepares for a Herculean task. The 37-year-old Jamshedpur-based climber has been selected by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) for next year’s Mount Everest expedition. She is training hard at Kaflo, the base camp of the premier adventure outfit, near Uttar Kashi in Uttarakhand. Asmita is aware that the Everest expedition would be a tough task and she will come across challenges. But training and confidence boosting talks from legendary mountaineer Bachendri Pal is helping her to keep her moral high. “I am training alone at the base camp.  Climbing nearby mountains with a load of 20 kg, running and a bit of stretching exercises make up my day’s routine.  The training starts at 7 am and concludes by 9 am. I will gradually start taking extra load while climbing mountains,” Asmita said over phone from Kaflo. Asmita is the daughter of Sherpa Ang Dorjee who was part of Bachendri Pal’s Everest expedition in 1984. Asmita is working as a senior instructor at the TSAF in Jamshedpur. “I would shortly start training under the guidance of my mentor madam (Bachendri Pal). Her (Pal) guidance is necessary when you prepare for a challenging task,” the Everest-bound climber said, adding though taking on the 29,029 ft was tough but she was confident of reaching the peak. “I will have to deal with heavy snowfall and wind during the Everest expedition.  And, of course, I will also need luck to achieve success. Climbing is in my blood and I am aware about technique involved in it. This makes me confident,” she explained. Asmita, however, said the second wave of pandemic has forced her to keep fingers crossed.  The Everest expedition is scheduled next year and she has ample time to prepare herself. TSAF, her employers, will also be organising expeditions once the Covid-related situation improves. “I think the pandemic should be a thing of the past before I proceed for the Everest expedition. I will continue with my training and hope for the best. I need to be physically and mentally fit to take on the challenge. In fact, I am excited and looking forward to climbing the world’s tallest peak,” Asmita said. Asmita has been part of  summer and winter outdoor expeditions organised by TSAF in the Garhwal Himalayas. She was also one of the members of all women team comprising employees of Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) which went for an expedition to Kedarkantha (12,500 ft) in Gahwal Himalayan range of Uttarakhand in early March last year. She was also a part of an expedition to Leh-Ladakh organised by TSAF in 2018. So far, 11 TSAF candidates have climbed Mount Everest. They include Bachendri Pal, Premlata Agarwal, Rajender Singh Pal, Binita Soren, Meghlal Mahto, Susen Mahto, amputee Arunima Sinha, Hemant Gupta, Sandeep Tolia, Swarnalata Dalai and Poonam Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP plans free food service for Covid patients||Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth of the BJP has announced a free food delivery service to Covid patients from Sunday, taking the lead among elected lawmakers of the state capital to help residents at a time when coronavirus cases and fatalities are rising across Jharkhand that is part of the national battle against a brutal second wave of the virus. Seth unveiled three Whatsapp numbers, 09431352397/06203009003/09835718119, on Friday, asking Covid patients, especially the elderly, pregnant women or those living alone, to send their Covid tes report, residential address and contact number and register themsleves for the  service from Sunday. “Considering the exponential rise of Covid cases, I am coming across instances where the entire family is infected and unable to take care of each other. Also, poor people, or many working professionals living alone, are down with the virus with no one to take care of their food requirements.  I have decided to mobilise resources on my own and use volunteers to help them get hygienic food free of cost,” said Seth. He said he would try and continue the service till each registered beneficiary gets well and tests negative. “Based on the number of registred beneficiaries, my volunteers will deliver food or other edibles that are required at the doorstep everyday,” Seth said, adding that this service would be restricted to city limits. Several residents have alo come together to help people amid the deepening crisis. For instance, Jharkhand Open Coffee Club (JOCC), a group of entrepreneurs and activists, formed a digital platform (https://localsay.in/beds) on Wednesday to reach out to people via various social media platforms to find out about requirements like hospital beds and coordinate with local authorities to ensure admission. A club member said that about a dozen people were admitted in hospitals using this network. “Every hour, we are tabulating data and sending to the district administration to help them with hospital admissions. All of us are doing it on voluntary basis but ironically, we aren’t getting much help from the local administration,” he rued. Of the 24 districts of Jharkhand, Ranchi remains the worst affected, both in terms of new infections and fatalities. While the entire health system is under immense stress, the district administration’s Covid management seems to have run out of steam. Despite the government’s claim of reserving 50 per cent beds in hospitals for Covid care, admission to hospitals continues to remain the biggest concern. Also, those in home isolation but requiring other services like ambulance, doctors or hearse vans, are being charged random, escalated rates. Such is the furore among the public that all political leaders, including the chief minister Hemant Soren,are facing a daily backlash on social media for failing to stand by the people at the time of the pandemic. Of the 20,000 active Covid cases in the state, Ranchi accounts for close to 9,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Homicide charges against Palamau doctor for road accident||Daltonganj: Palamau police have registered a criminal case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against a renowned doctor for the death of a Jharkhand Armed Police force jawan and his wife. Gaurav Agrawal was allegedly driving in an inebriated state when his car hit the bike of the jawan. His wife was riding pillion. Assistant superintendent of police, Vijay Shankar, said police have lodged the case under section 304 of the IPC, a non-bailable offence. On Thursday evening, the JAP 5 battalion jawan Gopal Singh, 45, and his wife Poonam Devi, 43, were travelling to Kechki under Barwadih police station in Latehar district when the doctor's vehicle from the opposite direction hit the bike resulting in the death of the jawan on the spot while his critically injured wife succumbed to her injuries after some hours. Sources said the accident occurred near the Chiyanki air strip on the National Highway 75. Vijay Shankar said the doctor, Gaurav Agrawal, tried to make his driver confess to the crime. However, police managed to unearth the truth and booked the doctor for the accident. Agarwal has been missing since the time of the accident. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Around 28 people were discharged from a Covid ward in Koderma district on Friday. Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar and civil surgeon A.B. Prasad handed roses to each one of them. Kumar chaired a meeting with bank officials asking them not to entertain people and encourage them for cashless transactions. He asked officials to conduct a Covid test of every bank employee and administer vaccine shots. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Barhi police seized duplicate Patanjali Ayured products from a house in Barsot area 46kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. A representative of the Baba Ramdev owned company, Abhishek Pathak, had received complaints from wholesalers about fake products flooding the local market. Police seized duplicates of many other companies other than Patanjali from the abandoned house. No arrests have been made in the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A new air-conditioned 70 bed Covid-19 ward with supported oxygen facility will be operational on the campus of Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal's media incharge Ranjan Choudhary reached here to inspect the facility. “I want to request district administration to make it ready as soon as possible seeing the surge in cases here,” Choudhary said. Contractors said only few works left right from power connection to other facilities. Installation of a  transformer going on, added they. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A joint team of police and Jaguar jawans engaged in a gunbattle with Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee members since Friday morning recovered 132 live bullets, bags and party propaganda books in Padampur village of Tandwa block. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha rushed with a team to Padampur forest situated on the border of Chatra and Latehar after receiving information about the presence of TSPC members. The rebels opened fire on the police team before escaping into the forest. Jha urged rebels residing in the area to surrender or face consequences. He said police will find them from their hideouts. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Chatra: District Superintendent of Education Jitendra Kumar has been summoned by Deputy Collector Chatra Santosh Kumar Sinha for a probe in connection with corruption charges levelled against him by a teacher. Kumar, who has been asked to join the probe on April 22, was accused of demanding money for the verification of educational and other documents of newly recruited teachers. According to the complaint, the DSE had also demanded money from a team that came to the district to check the quality of mid-day meals in government schools and had forcefully made teachers attend schools on a holiday.. In view of the complaint, Deputy Commissioner Divyanshu Jha asked Sinha to start an investigation, the Deputy collector said. The report of this investigation will be forwarded to Jha if Kumar is found guilty. Kumar has rubbished all these charges and said it was an effort to tarnish his image, adding that there was no teacher amed Viremdra Kumar Singh in the district. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 3,500 fresh Covid cases, 28 casualties in a day||The Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 1.5 lakh mark, while the active caseload jumped above 20,000 on Thursday as the state reported close to 3,500 Covid cases and 28 casualties in 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The 28 deaths reported on Thursday took the Covid toll in the state to 1320. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least nine of the 28 Covid victims were Dhanbad residents, while five deceased were from Ranchi. East Singhbhum reported four casualties on the day and Koderma reported two. At least five districts – Simdega, West Singhbhum, Ramgarh, Godda and Deoghar – reported one Covid death each. Ranchi continued to report the highest share of Covid cases among the 24 districts on Thursday. As per NHM data, as many as 1393 cases in the districts took the active caseload here to 8,666. Ranchi accounts for around 40 per cent of the 20,651 active cases in the state. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum also reported 492 cases against 264 recoveries on the day. The active caseload there reached 2,504 on the day. At least five other districts – Hazaribag, Koderma, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Bokaro – reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. Ranchi and Dhanbad, however, continued to lead in terms of Covid casualties in the state. Thursday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 335 and that in East Singhbhum to 392. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 36,349 Jharkhand residents and around 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,51,272 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 85.47 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. In the past couple of weeks, the growth rate of infection has seen a spike while the doubling rate has dropped in Jharkhand. On Thursday, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 1.67 per cent against the national average of 0.91 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 41.85 days against the national doubling rate of 76.16 days. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 30,054 people, about 41 per cent of those registered. The second dose was administered to as many as 7439 people, only 3 per cent of the over 2.7 lakh registered for the jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Tree hurdle for commuters||Hazaribagh: A mahua tree on the Hazaribagh-Chatra road via Gidhore has been an impediment to commuters specially bikers. The road was widened but the tree not removed while the construction work was in progress. Villagers in Salimpur have asked the deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha to take down the tree. Jha said he has instructed forest department officials to take necessary steps. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: The dead naked body of a 55-year-old man was found from the backseat of a car parked on Baba Path in Hurhuru mohalla on Thursday. The owner of the car had left it on the main road after it developed a technical snag. Officer-in-charge of Bara Bazar outpost, Yogesh Mishra said investigation has been started but will wait for the postmortem report to know the actual reason behind his death. The body was sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Mishra said he had gathered information that the man was seen loitering around a government bus stand in town and looked mentally unstable. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib on Thursday confirmed he had Covid-19 despite taking the vaccine. Waquarib said he has isolated himself and urged those who met him in the last four days to undergo a Covid test. He said he took the second jab dose on March.8 and was following all guidelines. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
16-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists detect MGNREGS fund scam in Jharkhand||A survey by rights activists in Jharkhand has detected the presence of mule accounts allegedly used by middlemen to siphon off Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme funds in Latehar district. Mule accounts are either set up through false paperwork by using a stolen or manipulated identity or belong to a legitimate customer who has allowed criminals to use the account. The survey carried out under the aegis of NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Latehar, revealed that bank accounts of beneficiaries who have not done any work under the rural job scheme are being used by middlemen in the district to siphon off MGNREGS funds. “We noticed the scam during a detailed verification of MGNREGS works in the Manika block (nine blocks in Latehar district). We inspected 14 MGNREGS scheme sites between April 12 and 13 this year and measured the amount of work done. “Comparing these measurements with the official records (in cases where the worksites could be identified in the information management system of the scheme), we found that the muster rolls had been inflated with abandon,” said Jean Dreze, a Belgian-born economist and rights activist based in Jharkhand and one of the survey team members. The other team members included James Herenj, convener of NREGA Watch Jharkhand, Amardayal Singh, Pachathi Singh and Sabhil Nath Pakira. The team found as many as 13 mule accounts in Manika block which had been allegedly used to siphon off MGNREGS funds. “Direct inspection and verification of the ‘muster rolls’ revealed that they included names of many people who had done no work at these worksites. Many of them openly admitted before us that they had withdrawn MGNREGS money from their accounts on behalf of a middleman in exchange for a commission — typically around 10 per cent of the amount withdrawn,” added Dreeze. Herenj cited the example of one beneficiary called Birender Prasad. “Birender explained how a middleman named Vinod Yadav had told him that MGNREGS wages would be credited to his account at the standard rate of Rs 1,164 per week (wages for 6 days of work at the rate of Rs 194 per day). Birender said Vinod gave him Rs 100 each week and kept the rest for himself. According to Birender, many people in the same neighbourhood have a similar arrangement with Vinod,” said Herenj. The team members later found that the charges made by Birender were true. Many other beneficiaries had also withdrawn MGNREGS money credited to their account on behalf of Vinod in exchange for a commission. “The investigation also revealed that the scam had been facilitated by rampant violations of scheme guidelines. For instance, none of the MGNREGS worksites inspected by the team had a proper information board. Similarly, none of them had a mate (supervisor), muster rolls are never kept and junior engineers rarely visited the worksites,” alleged Herenj. The survey further threw light on the fact that scams of this sort are difficult to expose. “The names of middlemen like Vinod do not appear anywhere in the records. The holders of mule accounts are also reluctant to testify against them since that would be an admission of their own role in the scam. Exposing this sort of scam requires careful investigation by a reliable team,” said Dreze. He said they have already met Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran and apprised him about their findings. “The Latehar deputy commissioner has promised to set up a joint inquiry team. We will also be meeting chief minister Hemant Soren, principal secretary, rural development, Aradhana Patnaik and MGNREGS commissioner Aditya Ranjan as a similar scam could be taking place in other districts as well,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-80
