17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: A confluence at a place of worship in Calcutta||A handful of men sat on the floor of a small mosque in Barasat in North 24-Parganas on Thursday evening to break bread together after fasting since the early hours for Ramazan. A 47-year-old man, a Hindu, munched on puffed rice, fruits and telebhajas along with the rest. Partha Sarathi Basu was not just another visitor at the mosque. His family has owned and cared for the mosque for over 50 years. Standing on a four-cottah plot in a neighbourhood some 26km north of Calcutta, Amanati Masjid can be a blink-and-miss structure for the uninitiated. In reality, it is a shrine to Bengal’s culture of inclusiveness, especially when the politics of religious polarisation is rearing its ugly head in the state. Partha’s grandfather shifted to Barasat’s Nabapally in the aftermath of the 1964 riots, swapping his family land in Bangladesh’s Khulna with that of a Muslim family in Barasat’s Nabapally. After shifting base, the Basu family found a “barren and almost desolate” mosque standing in the middle of the land. The property documents had no mention of the structure. Many Hindu neighbours had suggested that the Basus raze the mosque. But the family did not. Instead, they renovated the mosque and nurtured it with love. Today, the mosque is the praying place for hundreds of people in the area. “I am a practising Hindu from the Gautam gotra (gotras are lineage segments tracing their origins to seven ancient seers). But my religion teaches me to respect all other religions. The elders of my family have given their sweat and love in running this mosque. It is a part of our identity and I will preserve it,” Partha told Metro on Thursday. He stressed the “need” to preserve the identity because he was worried about the emergence of the politics of “division and hatred”. “Hindus and Muslims have lived peacefully here for years. But recently, the Jai Shri Ram cries get louder when a political rally passes by the mosque. I have also had visitors from certain Muslim organisations offering to buy the land on which the mosque stands to build a much bigger structure,” said Partha, who looks after his father’s kerosene dealership business. Partha is active on social media. “I have been taunted as Mohammed Partha Sarathi Basu by a certain section of people,” he said. The mosque falls under the Barasat Assembly seat, which votes on Saturday. The mosque is named after Shah Amanat, an 18th-century ascetic in Chittagong, worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike, including Partha’s family. Amanati Masjid is among many such shrines that uphold the syncretic nature of devotionalism in Bengal. In March-end, this reporter had visited Ghutiari Sharif in South 24-Parganas to find Hindu and Muslim women dipping their palms together into a pond in the shrine compound, praying silently to have their wishes (manat)  fulfilled. Social scientists have pointed out that the deep-rooted syncretism in Bengal’s culture would challenge any political party seeking to polarise voters. Amanati Masjid, a single-storey structure with a tin roof, is not only revered by Muslims but by several Hindu families in the neighbourhood. On Thursday, some women turned up to light candles and incense sticks at the base of a tree inside the compound in the evening. A stop at the mosque is a must for a new bride stepping into the Basu family. After a death, the body is brought to the mosque on its way to a crematorium. Students halt at the shrine before an exam irrespective of their religion, residents said. Two boards with the name of the mosque stuck to its walls also have the three words written on them — “Prabhuke pranam koro (Pray to the Lord)”. “Prabhu is usually used in a church and pranam is a Hindu tradition. The first imam of the mosque, Abubakkar Siddiqui, had suggested the phrase because he wanted this place to be a refuge for all,” said Partha. His family home stands right opposite the mosque. His uncles still live there. Partha and his father, Dipak Kumar Basu, have shifted to an apartment in Barasat’s Dak Bungalow More. Basu senior is 71. Till a couple of years ago, he used to open the doors of the mosque every day in the morning and mopped the floors himself. “Diner por din haath e jhnaata niye sompriti rokkha korechhi. E jinish harale cholbe na. (I have preserved religious harmony with a broom, day after day. We cannot afford to let this go),” Basu senior told this reporter, sitting at his apartment in Dak Bungalow More. “When we saw the mosque in 1964, it was almost in ruins, replete with snake skins and thick shrubs. Many neighbours asked us to tear it down. But my mother, who was a staunch believer in Shah Amanat, lit a candle in the mosque compound one day. She felt an instant connection with the place,” the septuagenarian added. Abdul Akhtar, the present imam of the mosque, said the mosque drew visitors from far and near. “People come from all faiths. Everyone is equal in front of Baba (Shah Amanat),” he said. Sheikh Azharuddin, 24, is a regular at the mosque. A master’s in history from Rabindra Bharati University, Azharuddin has recently landed a job with the state police. He said he owed “his success to the mercy of Shah Amanat”. Shilpi Roy, a resident of the area, visited the shrine on Thursday evening. “Baba khali haath e pheraye ni kokhono (Baba has never returned me empty-handed),” she said. “Half a century ago, when the grandfather crossed over to this side, they were persecuted. They wanted this mosque to be a refuge for all those who were persecuted and who needed healing. We will neither let go of this place, nor this principle,” said Partha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government sends doctors to Covid hospitals ||The health department is sending doctors, nurses and medical technicians to government hospitals in Calcutta, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas, which are the worst-hit districts in the second wave of Covid surge in Bengal. All these hospitals have been asked to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and Swasthya Bhavan has assured them to provide additional personnel. The doctors and others who are being deployed in the hospitals in Calcutta and the three adjoining districts are from districts where the case counts are comparatively less, health department officials said. Calcutta has been witnessing the highest number of new Covid-19 cases every day, followed by North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and Howrah. Apart from attending to patients, the additional personnel will enable the hospitals to run three shifts, instead of two, and boost surveillance of Covid patients, health department officials said. “Over 80 doctors from districts including Birbhum, Jhargram and Kalimpong have been asked to join the Covid-19 hospitals in the four districts in the next few days.The decision has been taken following requests from several hospitals for additional hands,” an official of the department said. “In some of the Covid hospitals, including the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata, doctors in critical care units and medical technicians overseeing functioning of ventilators have tested positive, resulting in a shortage of personnel,” said an official of the health department. “We have set up a pool of doctors and others who are trained in handling Covid-19 patients. The postings are being made from that pool based on an assessment of the situation.” A health official in South 24-Parganas who oversees the running of two Covid hospitals, MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge and KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur, said: “We don’t have enough doctors and other personnel to tackle the rush of patients. The health department has come to our rescue by sending additional doctors, nurses and technicians.” On Friday, the health department requested officials of ESI Hospital in Howrah’s Baltikuri to increase the bed count since it is the only Covid-19 hospital in the district. “As many as 32 medical officers and specialists from various districts have been asked to join the ESI Hospital in Howrah immediately,” said Bhabani Das, chief medical officer of health, Howrah. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,066 on Friday to 41,047. The state recorded 2,818 recoveries and 6,910 new infections during the day, resetting the record for the highest intra-day infection count yet again On Friday, Calcutta recorded 1,844 new cases, followed by North 24-Parganas with 1,592 cases. Howrah recorded 420 new cases and South 24-Parganas 402 cases. After five months of gradually climbing down from 37,190 to 3,110, the total active cases is now at its highest this pandemic, beating the October 26 level by nearly 4,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
17-04-2021||Calcutta||No Covid beds, patients turned away in Calcutta||A 45-year-old woman, a resident of Mukundapur off EM Bypass, tested positive for Covid on April 10, along with her husband and other family members. Her condition has been deteriorating since Thursday evening and she had to be put on oxygen support at home. Family members called up several private hospitals but failed to arrange a bed for the woman, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, till late on Friday. A man in his late 40s, who suffers from chronic kidney disease and undergoes dialysis, tested positive for Covid earlier this week. Relatives took him to the private hospital off EM Bypass where he undergoes dialysis. “After making us wait for the entire day, the hospital told us that no Covid bed was available,” said a relative of the patient, who is a resident of Kasba. Many Covid patients across Calcutta are being denied admission at private hospitals and officials of several healthcare units said the number of beds was far inadequate compared with the number of people testing positive daily. And the number of Covid beds cannot be increased beyond a point because non-Covid patients, too, are queuing up for admission in large numbers. On Friday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission held a meeting with private hospitals and asked them to augment the Covid bed count by at least 20 per cent compared to what it was during the epidemic’s peak last year. “We have asked the private hospitals to take their Covid bed strength to a level that is between 20 to 25 per cent more than the number of Covid beds they had reserved last year,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The hospitals will inform us within 24 hours the number of beds they are going to add and by when. Based on today’s discussion, it emerged that there could be an increase of 500 beds,” said Banerjee. “We have also asked the hospitals to put on hold planned surgeries, which can wait, for two weeks. The hospitals had gradually converted the Covid beds into non-Covid ones after the number of Covid cases started going down last year. A lot of non-Covid patients are admitted and the hospitals have to wait for their discharge (to increase the Covid bed count),” Banerjee said. The crisis of Covid beds at private hospitals is so severe that at several healthcare facilities, patients are either turned away or have to wait for hours before being admitted. At AMRI Hospitals in Dhakuria, Salt Lake and Mukundapur, at any point, 10 to 12 Covid patients are waiting in the emergency wards for admission. Several hospitals said they were in a fix on how to further reduce beds for non-Covid patients and convert them into Covid wards. There are many patients who have undergone surgeries and are recovering. Many patients who had deferred surgeries for months because of Covid are now in hospital waiting for the procedures. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 550 beds, out of which 110 are for Covid patients. All were occupied on Friday evening. "As advised by the health regulatory commission, we will try and increase the bed strength by another 10 per cent over the next few days to take the count up to 121,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. According to Venkatesh, there are around 100 patients who are recovering after surgeries. And there are another 120-odd patients awaiting admission for surgeries and other procedures in the next three to four days. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has increased the Covid bed count from 80 a week back to 201. “All beds were occupied on Friday evening,” an official of the hospital said. Peerless Hospital has 43 Covid beds, of which seven are critical care beds. Of the total 360 beds at the hospital, 335 were occupied on Friday. “The pressure of non-Covid patients is very high,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC exams put off till June in view of Covid surge||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams have been deferred at least till the first week of June, the ICSE council announced on Friday. The ICSE candidates will be given the option of writing an offline exam along with Class XII students or not writing, a choice that several teachers said was “unfair” and will further “confuse and stress out” students. The ICSE council said the Covid situation would be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be “reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the board exams be taken by the first week of June”. “While the ISC examination (Class XII) will be conducted at a later date, the candidates for the ICSE (Class X) examination will be given the following options: i) To write the offline examination, along with the Class XII candidates ii) Not to write the offline examination," reads a statement issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). The statement has been signed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. Teachers and parents said the council should come out with one decision rather than giving students a choice. “Students are as it is stressed because of the pandemic and the delay in exams. The choice will add more stress and confuse them,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. The ICSE and ISC exams were scheduled to begin on May 4. “In view of the ICSE (Class X) candidates opting for the second option, the CISCE will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates,” Arathoon’s statement said. Students are anxious about how they will be assessed because schools followed different modes of examination in the pre-boards and some schools offered different modes to its own students. “Schools have followed different modes of examination and the evaluation of students have been different across institutions and sometimes different even within institutions,” the head of a reputable school in the city said. “The system (of preparing the results) should be adopted that would maintain parity across institutions. It should not be based on one particular exam but should be based on the year-long assessment of students,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Many students and parents felt that the exercise of choice will depend on circumstances in their neighbourhood or family. “Some students may prefer to write the offline exam but cannot afford a private vehicle to go to school,” a teacher said. Many people are avoiding public transport amid a renewed surge in pandemic. One school head said there were different ways of assessing a student and promotion should not be based only on one two-hour pen-and-paper exam. Schools also felt that the delay in the decision on examinations will eat into the class time of Class XI. Usually, the session for Class XI starts before the results of Class X exams are declared. The council has not specified  how many days students will get between the announcement of the dates and the start of the examinations. The CBSE has mentioned that a notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations. “A clear decision would help schools to start Class XI and save the loss of learning time for the year ahead,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: No sign of protocol at Salt Lake EVM centres||Covid-19 cases are rising alarmingly but there was no such alarm at the centres where thousands of polling and police personnel had gathered to collect EVMs before being sent to their respective polling stations in buses and cars on Friday. Many were not wearing masks, many had them hanging on their chins or ears and no social distancing was being followed. Polling material and EVMs for three Assembly constituencies — Bidhannagar, New Town-Rajarhat and Rajarhat-Gopalpur — which go to the polls on Saturday, were distributed at Bidhannagar College near City Centre. There were crowds both inside and outside the college. The polling personnel had laid out mats and were sitting very close to one another under a large temporary shed on the campus. There were no temperature checks being carried out at the entry points to the college. No easily visible facilities to wash or sanitise hands had been installed on the premises. Inside, there was a rush among the polling personnel to collect EVMs and polling material, including masks, sanitisers and gloves. This led to massive crowding in front of the counters where the items were being handed out. Many polling officials were spotted chatting among themselves with their masks hanging on their ears or necks. Some had tucked their masks into their pockets to have tea and biscuits that were being distributed at a counter. An assistant professor at a womens’ college, who has polling duty at a booth in Salt Lake, said that although she had been wearing a mask, she was apprehensive because many around her in the crowds were not. “With the number of cases going up dangerously, we had expected people to become aware and behave responsibly. Here, we had no choice but to wait for hours in a large crowd where many were not wearing masks. I am worried as I have a child at home,” said the professor who did not want to be named. Excuses for not wearing masks were many. “I have a mask but I cannot wear it all day and talk to people. It is suffocating... I have already taken the Covid-19 shots so I am not worried,” said an official of the state education department deputed as the first polling officer at a school in Salt Lake. Health experts have stressed the need for people to adhere to the norms even after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. A senior official of the Election Commission of India at the distribution centre said that they faced an uphill task ensuring that everyone turned up wearing masks. “We have made announcements and held sessions about Covid-19 protocols during the training... It is also true that we are distributing polling material and EVMs from a limited number of counters and the area was crowded so maintaining distance was a challenge,” the official said. Asked if the polling personnel would follow the norms on election day, the official said that they had repeatedly asked the personnel to adhere to the Covid protocols. “All the polling stations will have cameras and our observers will also keep a check.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta students vacate hostels early||Most first-year MBA students of IIM Calcutta, who had been set a deadline of April 18 to vacate the hostels, have already left the campus. On April 5, the institute had set the deadline for the students of the two-year MBA programme to vacate the hostels since the final term exams — being held on digital platforms — would be over on April 17. The students, who had been recalled last year so they could use the net facility on the campus, were supposed to write the exams online from April 15 to 17 from the hostels. But most of them have vacated the hostels before time following a spike of Covid-19 cases, said an IIM-C official. “Since the exams are being held online, it does not matter where they would be writing the exams from. If they decide to write the exams from home, it is their prerogative,” said an official, who is part of the Covid task force on the campus. As many as 70 students have tested positive on the B-school campus till this week — a rise that prompted the chief administrative officer of the institute, Alok Chandra, to set the deadlines for vacating the hostels. The students usually stay at the hostels for a period of 10 to15 days after the exams. Students of the one-year MBA executive programme and the second-year students of the two-year MBA programme left the hostels on April 10 and 11 respectively, a day after completing their exams in consonance with the deadline. According to the notice, the first-year students of the two-year MBA programme were to vacate the hostels by April 18 — a day after their exam got over. But many of the students did not take any chance. According to sources, 90 per cent of the 450-odd students have already vacated the hostels. Those who stayed back have serious connectivity issues at their place of residence. They will leave on April 18. A professor said, many students feared that travel restrictions could be imposed any day and wanted to reach home as early as possible. “Students come from states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka. Many feared what if travel restrictions were put in place as a preventive measure against the renewed surge in cases,” he said. The infected students have been quarantined in a special facility. Another official said since the students have vacated the hostels, the facilities would be  sanitised before students return after the summer break in June. Since the sanitisation process will take some time and those who are quarantined will take time to vacate the campus, the 15th batch of the one-year MBAEx programme will start their classes online from April 23. “Although it is a residential programme, we cannot allow any one a stay on the campus now,” said an official. The annual convocation of IIM-C will be held online on May 15 to discourage any assembly on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Business||Quess Corp to buy Rs 208 crore stake in Conneqt Business Solutions from Tata Sons||Business service provider Quess Corp on Friday said it will acquire the remaining 30 per cent equity stake in Conneqt Business Solutions from Tata Sons for Rs 208 crore. With this transaction, Conneqt will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quess, the company added. “This will accelerate Conneqt’s transition to non-voice services,” said Suraj Moraje, group CEO and managing director of Quess Corp. Quess had acquired 51 per cent of Conneqt in November 2017, and further increased its stake in Conneqt from 51 per cent to 70 per cent in May 2019, via infusion of primary capital, which was used to fund the acquisition of Allsec Technologies Ltd. Quess Corp said this investment will provide it full and complete ownership over Conneqt, allowing it to better realise synergies between its various divisions, Conneqt and Allsec. It will also strengthen Quess’s position in the IT/ITES space, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Sebi issues notice to Fortis subsidiary in funds diversion case||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has issued a notice to Escorts Heart Institute and Research Center Ltd — a Fortis Healthcare subsidiary — in a case arising from the allegations of fund diversion by the erstwhile promoters. “Sebi has issued a notice under Rule 4 of Sebi (Procedure for holding inquiry and imposing penalties) Rules, 1995 read with Section 15-I of Sebi Act, 1992 in the matter of Fortis Healthcare Ltd to, among others, Escorts Heart Institute and Research Center Ltd (EHIRCL),” Fortis Healthcare said in a regulatory filing on Friday. Fortis Healthcare added that this notice was received on Friday. “The management and board of the company that was newly constituted after NTK Ventures Pte Ltd (a wholly-owned subsidiary of IHH Healthcare Berhad) became promoters of the company, are evaluating the notice received by EHIRCL, in consultation with its legal advisors,” Fortis Healthcare added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rejects all bids for 10-year bonds||The Reserve Bank of India’s first series of bond purchase under its G-Sec acquistion programme (G-SAP 1.0) on Thursday failed to cool down bond yields, raising questions over the efficacy of the programme. On Friday, the RBI rejected all the bids received at an auction of the benchmark 10 year paper. Over the past few weeks, the bond markets and the central bank have been engaged in a tussle of sorts with the former seeking higher yields whereas the RBI has been keen to cap the 10 year benchmark bond at around 6 per cent. However, factors such as rising inflation and apprehensions over the huge market borrowing from the government have not yielded much success to the RBI in cooling down yields. On Friday, auctions were conducted for the 5.85 per cent GS 2030, the 3.96 per cent GS 2022 and 6.76 er cent GS 2061. Among them, the notified amount for the benchmark 2030 bond was for Rs 14,000 crore. While the RBI received bids for over Rs 28,000 crore, it did not accept any one of them which were made at the higher rates. However, the auction of the other two papers saw the government borrowing Rs 5,090 crore from the 2022 bond and over Rs 6,230 crore from the 2061 bond. Bond market circles are of the view that the RBI should either enhance its level of support to the market via bond purchases or allow the markets to find its level. On Thursday, yields on the benchmark 10 year bond had risen to 6.12 per cent from the previous level of 6.01 per cent despite the first round of its G-SAP 1.0 of Rs 25,000 crore. In Friday’s trading, yields on the bond rose further to 6.17 per cent during intra-day trades. However, it settled lower at 6.08 per cent Under the G-SAP 1.0 programme, the RBI had said that it will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki hikes select model prices by up to Rs 22,500 ||Maruti Suzuki on Friday hiked prices on select models by up to Rs 22,500 with immediate effect to partially offset the impact of a rise in input costs. Barring the Celerio and the Swift, all the models of the company will be dearer, industry officials said. The company sells various models ranging from the Alto to the S-Cross, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). “The weighted average price increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across models is 1.6 per cent. The new prices are effective from April 16, 2021,” Maruti said. The carmaker retails 14 models, five of which are sold through Nexa showrooms. “It has become imperative for the company to pass on some impact of the additional cost to customers through a price increase in April 2021,” it added. The price rise will vary for different models, it added. A steady rise in prices of global commodity and raw materials such as steel has increased costs for original equipment manufacturers. There is also a shortage of semiconductors in the global market and has also resulted in higher costs for the auto manufacturing industry. The Maruti Suzuki share closed at Rs 6,633, down Rs 11.25, or 0.17 per cent, on Friday on the BSE. It touched a high of Rs 6,606.05 and a low of Rs 6,784.85 during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Foreign and private sector lenders eye Citi’s consumer banking franchise: Analysts||Foreign and private sector lenders may vie for the consumer banking franchise of Citi India, particularly credit cards, analysts said. On Thursday, Citbank said it would exit the consumer banking business in India and 12 other countries. The consumer banking business covers credit cards, retail banking, home loans and wealth management. Analysts said the business could generate interest from both big and small private sector banks apart from foreign lenders such as StanChart and HSBC who would be keen to expand their presence through such an acquisition. Last year, Lakshmi Vilas Bank merged itself with DBS Bank India Limited, the wholly owned subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Group. The acquisition boosted DBS’s base of retail and SME customers. According to the analysts at Jefferies, Citi India has $4.1 billion in retail assets. In India’s retail segment, Citi has built a stronger presence in credit cards where it has a 6 per cent share of total spends. Besides, 40 per cent of its retail loan exposures are in housing. “Citi’s exit from India (form and timing awaited) will be an opportunity for players in India to either acquire the existing stock of clients and/or gain market share in segments like credit cards, deposits and retail loans.” Jefferies said. “Private banks and credit card companies like SBI Cards can be key beneficiaries of market share gains in the credit card segment. Some smaller private banks might be interested buyers of the India portfolio as they are looking to scale-up in the segment. Foreign banks might also look to expand presence.’’ For the year ended March 31, 2020, Citi India had posted a net profit of Rs 4,912 crore, up from Rs 4,185 crore in the previous financial year. Further, its asset quality was stable with net non-performing assets standing at 0.6 per cent. In the year, Citibank India served 2.9 million retail customers with 1.2 million bank accounts and 2.2 million credit card accounts. The lender then had close to 6 per cent market share of retail credit card spends in the country, while average spends per card was 1.4 times higher than the industry average. A report from Macquarie Research said that the bank’s credit card base has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 1.6 per cent over the last 10 years, lower than the Indian credit card market. Its analysts added that given Citi India’s mix of premium cards, there could be a lot of interest among large players such as SBI Cards, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank and from others such as IndusInd Bank, RBL Bank, IDFC First Bank and DBS Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||SC issues norms for speedy disposal of cheque bounce cases, asks Centre to amend laws||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to consider amending the law dealing  with cheque bounce disputes to allow the clubbing of cases against a person into a single trial to be decided  within 12 months. The court said there was a “humongous pendency” of complaints under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. A preliminary report submitted by the amici curiae appointed by the court — Siddharth Luthra and K. Parameshar — in October last year said that there were 35.16 lakh cases pending in various courts under section 138 of the NI Act out of 2.31 crore criminal cases in the country. The criminal case that prompted the court to register a suo motu criminal writ petition captioned “Expeditious trial of cases under section 138 of the NI Act 1881” arose from  the dishonour of two cheques for an amount of Rs 1.7 lakh that has been pending for 16 years. The apex court said magistrates can no longer exercise powers under Section 258 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to stop proceedings in cheque bounce cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. The magistrates need to record reasons before converting a trial to a summons trial from a summary one. Summary trials refer to cases where the magistrate is not required to frame charges against the accused and can dispose of the cases in a quick manner without the elaborate requirement needed in  a regular trial. In a case tried summarily under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), if the accused does not plead guilty, it is sufficient for a magistrate to record evidence and deliver a judgment instantly. The Supreme Court said magistrates shall hold inquiry before issuing summons to the accused who resides beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the court. Evidence of witnesses on behalf of the complainant shall be permitted to be taken on affidavit, the apex court said. In suitable cases, the magistrate can restrict the inquiry to the examination of documents without insisting on examination of witnesses. The court said that the issues that it had not dealt with would be considered by a committee headed by Justice R.C. Chavan, former judge of the Bombay High Court. On March 10, the top court had constituted the committee to submit a report in three months specifying the steps to be taken for early disposal of cheque bounce cases across the country. It said a three-judge bench would now take up the suo motu matter on ensuring early disposal of cheque bounce cases after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||State Bank of India proposes changes to certain saving schemes||The research wing of the State Bank of India has proposed radical changes to certain saving schemes amid a rising share of the senior citizen population, falling interest rates and lack of comprehensive social security cover in India. In its Ecowrap report, the SBI researchers said that as a first step, the government ought to offer a full tax rebate on interest earned on Senior Citizens' Savings Scheme. If that isn't possible, the rebate could be capped at a certain threshold. “Under SCSS, a senior citizen can deposit Rs 15 lakh and the current interest rate is 7.4 per cent. However, the interest on SCSS is fully taxable. The February 2020 outstanding under SCSS was Rs 73,725 crore,” the report said, adding that a full tax rebate will have nominal impact on the exchequer. Second, introducing an age wise interest rate structure with rates linked to long term bank deposit rates till a certain age group, and offering higher than market rate over that age group. This could ensure a lower lending rate structure, adequate returns for senior citizens, lower interest expenditure and an alternative to floating rate deposits. Third, the removal of the 15 year lock in period of Public Provident Fund Scheme. “As small savings rates are adjusted in every quarter, the government should ideally remove the 15 year lock in period for PPF and give the investors the option to withdraw their money within a stipulated time,” the report said. PPF scheme allows scope of partial withdrawal subject to certain conditions. The share of individuals above 60 years in the total population is estimated to increase from 8.6 per cent in 2011 to 15.9 per cent in 2041. In absolute numbers, the projection is that the senior citizen population would go up to 23.9 crore by 2041 from 10.4 crore in 2011. This poses a challenge for the policymakers as unlike developed countries, India is fiscally constrained to provide a comprehensive social security cover to its senior citizens. Small savings are still a preferred option among many investors, including seniors, particularly in states with low per capita income such as Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar. The government had decided to withdraw steep cuts in small savings amid ongoing assembly elections in certain states, including Bengal which commands the highest share in small savings collections in the country. “As the small savings rates are benchmarked with 10 year Gsec, the changes in rates was imperative as 10 year Gsec yield has been reduced by 37 basis points to 6.05 per cent (average Q4FY21) from 6.42 per cent (average Q4FY20),” the report said adding that the government’s decision to hold back a rate cut will reduce Covid19 burden on the people. The report added that because of rigidity in small savings rate, the divergence between bank deposit rates and small savings rates have increased leading to the prospect of increasing inflow into these schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||IMD predicts normal rainfall for India in 2021||India’s 2021 monsoon rainfall will be normal, the India Meteorological Department predicted on Friday, stirring optimism among crop researchers and economists amid lingering uncertainty posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout. The quantum of monsoon rainfall during the June-September season is likely to be 98 per cent of the long-period average, the IMD said, forecasting a 40 per cent probability and a third straight year of normal rainfall. Meteorologists label rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent as normal. Economists said good rainfall would help curb food inflation, boost rural income, and push overall demand for agricultural products and consumer durables. But both crop meteorologists and economists cautioned that the geographic spread of the rainfall will determine its impact. “Our analysis shows the maximum probability of 40 per cent for a normal monsoon,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, a senior meteorologist and earth sciences secretary. “This will be good for the country, this will help agricultural output.” The monsoon is crucial for the country as around 60 per cent of about 1.3 billion people depend directly or indirectly on agriculture, which accounts for about 18 per cent of the national economy. A good monsoon would bolster rural gross domestic product, but appropriate spread, especially in the rain-fed regions that rely significantly on the seasonal rainfall, would be critical for crop output. “How the monsoon behaves in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand which have relatively lower irrigation cover will determine how much the monsoon would help the country’s agricultural growth,” said D.K. Joshi, chief economist at Crisil, a rating agency. “A normal pattern of rainfall would help rein in food inflation, although the global trends in prices of edible oil and domestic demand-supply disruptions for perishable items such as vegetables, will play a critical role,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist with ICRA, another rating agency. The IMD, introducing the spatial distribution of rainfall as an added feature in its 2021 long-range forecast, has predicted that parts of Bengal, Haryana, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha are likely to receive below normal rainfall. “These states would need to prepare a contingency plan to take care of less than normal rainfall,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at the India Ratings & Research. “But good rainfall will help stable rural demand which is struggling under the shadow of Covid-19,” Pant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||India||Delhi short of oxygen, remdesivir supply; situation serious, says Kejriwal||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the pandemic situation in the city has become "very serious and worrisome", with oxygen stock, remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs for patients in short supply. The number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly with 24,000 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, he said in an online media briefing. This is the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date. A day before, 19,486 Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths were reported. "The cases of Covid-19 are rising fast in Delhi. In the last 24 hours, around 24,000 fresh cases have been reported. Within a day, the number has gone up from around 19,500 to around 24,000. So, the situation is very serious and worrisome," Kejriwal said. On Thursday and Friday, the city had recorded 16,699 and 17,282 cases, respectively. The chief minister also said he has spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and requested him for augmenting supplies of oxygen stock, and remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs for Covid patients in Delhi. Kejriwal said that the number of beds are also running out fast and the Delhi government is trying to escalate beds on a large-scale in the coming days. "Our biggest target is to augment beds with oxygen supply attached," he said. In the next 3-4 days, the government will add 6,000 more beds, including 1,300 at Yamuna Sports Complex and 2,500 at Radhaswami Satsang premises, he said. Kejriwal warned strict action against hospitals that are denying patients beds despite showing availability on Delhi government's Covid app. He also demanded from the Centre to reserve 50 per cent of the total pool of beds in hospitals run by it in Delhi for Covid-19 patients. The district magistrates have also been directed to keep a tab on the labs and ensure that no new samples are collected by them if they already have pending samples of Covid-19, the chief minister said. Some labs have lifted more samples of Covid-19 suspects than their capacity leading to a delay of 3-4 days in test reports, Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu gets bail in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court has granted bail to actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day. Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen granted relief to the accused on Friday on a personal bond of Rs 30,000 and two sureties of a like amount. Sidhu was arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during a farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. The court noted that the accused was in custody since February 9, 2021, with 14 days of remand in police custody. It said that a police plea for further incarceration for the sole purpose of voice sampling was not justifiable. “The prosecution's case rests largely on the contents of video recordings and footage available and accessible to all on social media sites in public domain, and there is therefore a remote possibility of the accused-applicant being able to interfere with the content on such a platform,” the judge said. Rejecting the prosecution's contention that the accused might abscond if released on bail, the court said, “The accused as per the own case of the prosecution is a well-known public figure with deep roots in society and such apprehensions are capable of being allayed by imposing stricter conditions.” It further said, “It would violate and infringe the fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed to the accused, if the accused is denied bail in the present case on such nature of accusations and material only on the ground that the investigating agency is yet to establish the identity of the several other members of the unlawful assembly.” While granting the bail, the judge directed the accused to deposit his passport with the investigating officer and appear before the police station as well as the court as and when required. He shall not influence, threaten, intimidate witnesses nor tamper with evidence in any manner whatsoever, the court said. The court, meanwhile, said that while it was beyond the realm of dispute that dissent and dialogue is fundamental to democracy where the absolute power vests in the people exercised by the people through its elected representatives and that the Constitution of India guarantees the right to protest, the present FIR however is not impinging upon this fundamental right to protest in any manner. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO in Delhi from the Ghazipur border clashed with police, the agency claimed in its FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, adding that many of them who were driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. In the FIR, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||At CWC meeting, Sonia slams Centre’s attitude towards issues related to Covid-19||Accusing the Modi government of "gross unpreparedness" and "adhocism" in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday made a slew of suggestions to the Centre to deal with the pandemic such as reducing the immunization age to 25 years and providing income support to people. In her opening remarks, while chairing the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi also accused the Centre of giving preferential treatment to some states while maintaining "thundering silence" on requests of states ruled by the Congress and opposition parties. The Congress has always believed that fighting the Covid-19 pandemic is a national challenge that should be kept above party politics, she asserted. "We have extended our hands of cooperation right from February-March, 2020. We cannot, however, lose sight of the fact that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the country with fury. Despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again," Gandhi said. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions of the opposition, Union ministers are pressed into service to attack leaders of opposition for giving those suggestions, she said. "This convoluted 'me versus you' debate is childish and totally unnecessary," Gandhi asserted. Making a host of suggestions to the government, she said the Centre must also reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunisation age to 25 years and above as also all younger persons with at-risk health disorders like asthma, angina, diabetes, kidney and liver diseases and other similar ailments. "In the course of my talks with our chief ministers, the question of GST (Goods and Services Tax) came up. They felt that as a preliminary measure, all equipment, instruments, medicines and support required to prevent and treat Covid-19 should be made free from GST," Gandhi said. It is a matter of grave concern that life saving drugs like Remdesivir and medical oxygen as also other basic supplements are subjected to 12 per cent GST, the Congress chief said. "As the central and state governments move ahead to control the situation by resorting to partial curfews, travel restrictions, closure and lock downs; we will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people, especially the poor and the daily wagers," she said. It is, therefore, imperative to provide monthly income support and transfer an amount of Rs 6,000 in every eligible citizen's account, Gandhi said. Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true 'Rajadharma', she stressed. The CWC meet was also attended by former party chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretaries, other permanent invitees and state in-charges of the party.  Addressing a press conference after the meet, Congress' senior spokesperson P Chidambaram said concrete suggestions made by CWC members would be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a letter by former prime minister Manmohan Singh. "We charge the central government with colossal mismanagement of the war against the pandemic," a CWC statement said, accusing the central government of failing on 14 different fronts in handling the pandemic. "We regret to say that the nation is paying a very heavy price for the thoughtlessness and unpreparedness of the NDA government to tackle the gravest disaster that has hit the country and has affected millions of families claiming 1,75,673 lives so far," the statement passed by the CWC said. The working committee meeting, attended by Manmohan Singh and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, besides general secretaries and other senior leaders, said it is a shame that the country with the world's largest vaccine manufacturing capacity has earned the odium of being among the most affected countries in the world. "With a heavy heart, we caution the people that unless urgent corrective measures are taken the nation faces an unprecedented catastrophe. May wisdom prevail," the CWC statement said. Chidambaram said several Congress leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi have made valuable suggestions on how to tackle the situation. All of them would be collated by tomorrow and sent to the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||TMC broken, would be vanquished by the end of polling, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday claimed that the TMC has been broken in the first four phases of elections, and asserted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew would be vanquished by the end of polling in the state. Speaking at an election rally here, in the sprawling industrial town of Asansol, Modi also claimed the Trinamool Congress supremo has an old habit of doing politics with dead bodies and has been trying to politicise the "unfortunate" death of five people at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on April 10. "After four phases, TMC is broken to pieces and "Didi, bhatija will be vanquished after eight phases of elections (are completed)," Modi said. Polling is scheduled in the industrial town in the seventh phase on April 26. Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek have been spearheading the TMC's campaign in the assembly elections in West Bengal for a third consecutive term for their party. Holding that illegal coal mining has flourished in places around Asansol in West Bardhaman district, the prime minister said everyone knows where the proceeds of this trade went. Modi said the West Bengal chief minister's insensitivity was evident once again in connection with the Cooch Behar firing incident, while referring to an audio tape that went viral on Friday. Voices resembling Mamata Banerjee and TMC Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy, who is also the party's candidate for Sitalkuchi, are heard on tape discussing deaths of four persons in firing by central forces. Banerjee allegedly asked her district party leader to take out a rally. "The truth is that Didi thought of her own political gain from the death of people in Cooch Behar she has an old habit of doing politics with dead bodies," he alleged. Contending that Banerjee has not been attending most of the meetings between the prime minister and state chief ministers on one pretext or another, Modi said that she has also not attended two recent meetings over the emerging Covid situation in the country. The prime minister went on to claim his rival Banerjee has stood as a wall between West Bengal's people and central welfare schemes, depriving them of benefits, including from the PM-Kisan and Ayushman Bharat schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
17-04-2021||India||Not wearing masks on railway premises now punishable offence, can attract fines||Not wearing masks on railway premises and in trains can attract a fine of up to Rs 500, with the national transporter now incorporating it as an offence under the Railway Act, according to an order issued on Saturday. This is the latest in a slew of measures that the railways has taken to ensure compliance of the various Covid-19 protocols issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs to restrict the spread of the virus. "One of the specific guidelines is to wear masks in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for movement of trains as brought out by Indian Railways on May 11, 2020, says that it should be advised to all passengers that they shall be wearing face cover/ mask at entry and during travel," order issued by the railways said. The mandatory use of masks and the fine will now be listed under the Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, which also has the provision of fines for those found spitting on rail premises, it said. "In view of the Covid-19 situation, controlling spitting and act of similar nature due to any person not wearing mask and entering railway premises (including trains), is important to avoid creation of unclean and unhygienic conditions which may cause danger to life and public health, " the order said. "Accordingly, to prevent spitting and act of similar nature and thus, to ensure wearing of face masks or face cover by all persons at railway premises (including trains), fines (up to 500) under Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, shall be imposed by railway officials...," it stated. The order also said that this would come into immediate effect for a period of six months till further instructions are issued in this regard. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||I maintained my cool, says CRPF personnel captured by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||For CRPF commando Rakeshwar Manhas patience was the key to his survival as he spent five days in a Chhattisgarh jungle after being taken captive by Naxals following an ambush that killed 22 members of his team. "I did not lose hope in the most difficult situation and I maintained my cool," said the 35-year-old who returned to his home in Jammu on Friday. Manhas had gone missing during a deadly encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district on April 3. The gunfight left 22 security forces personnel dead and several others injured. He was released from captivity by the Naxals on April 8. Manhas was accorded a rousing reception by his family and villagers after he reached his native Barnie village on the outskirts of the city. He said his mother's prayers kept him alive while in enemy's custody. "I was not even sure if I would be released. I owe my second life to my mother. Her prayers gave me the fresh lease of life, as no one so far has come back alive from the captivity of Naxals, " Manhas said His mother Kunti Devi said, "I prayed to Mata Vaishnodevi for the release of my son. My prayers were heard and he came back to me safe and sound. It was a blessing of Mata that he is alive today," She said. As Manhas reached home, his family heaved a sigh of relief. His Daughter Raghvi was seen hugging him. His wife Muni said the ‘bad phase’ of their life has ended. "I am happy that my husband is back. It is because of the prayers of the family and hundreds of countrymen that he is with us today. I thank all of them," she said. The villagers expressed admiration for the soldier for his grit and determination while in the enemy's captivity. "We are proud of him. He has been fighting for the nation. We are happy that he is back in his village," said Dheeraj Chand. Manhas says he feels sad for the families of the fallen jawans. We cannot forget their supreme sacrifice. Each one among them is a hero," he said. Mahnas is hopeful to join the force soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Covid: India records over 2.34 lakh fresh cases, 1,341 casualties in a day||A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active COVID-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,26,71,220, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.21 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 26,49,72,022 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 14,95,397 on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Maharashtra reported 63,729, followed by Uttar Pradesh(27,426) and Delhi (19,486), according to the data. All three states registered the highest daily spike in the number of coronavirus cases since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. West Bengal, where Assembly polls are underway, also recorded the highest-ever daily jump of 6,910 cases. Maharashtra also reported the maximum number of fresh casualties at 398, followed by Delhi (141), Chhattisgarh (138), Uttar Pradesh (103), Gujarat (94), Karnataka (78), Madhya Pradesh (60), Punjab (50), Tamil Nadu (33) and Rajasthan (31).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Keep Kumbh participation symbolic, says Modi amid Covid surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the ongoing Kumbh in Haridwar should now have symbolic participation due to the COVID-19 crisis. Modi tweeted that he spoke to Swami Avdheshanand Giri of Juna Akhara over telephone and enquired about the health of saints, many of whom have contracted the infection, and also conveyed his appreciation for their cooperation with the local administration. "I prayed that two 'shahi snan' have taken place and Kumbh (participation) should now be kept symbolic. This will boost the fight against this crisis," the prime minister tweeted in Hindi. Yesterday, three akharas had appealed for the Mahakumbh in Haridwar to be closed immediately because of the surge in Covid cases and said they would be leaving from Saturday, their stand dividing the monks at the congregation and inviting attacks. The administration said it had no plans to prematurely wind up the Kumbh Mela, scheduled to run till April 30. Mahant Ravindrapuri of the Niranjani Akhara, one of the country’s 13 main akharas (monasteries), said on Friday morning: “We have decided to withdraw from the Mahakumbh on April 17 and vacate the mela (congregation or fair) area to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.” The Sri Panchayati Akhara and the Anand Akhara endorsed the stand of Niranjani, which chided the government for failing to take tough decisions despite the Covid surge. The Uttarakhand health department has detected 2,400  Covid infections in the Kumbh area since the congregation started on April 1. The ongoing Kumbh, which has seen people from different parts of the country attending the auspicious event in large numbers, has drawn flak from various quarters as the number of Covid-19 cases has zoomed at a rapid pace in the past few weeks. The event has also reported the coronavirus cases in large numbers. The ongoing Kumbh has already been shortened this year to just one month from April 1 to 30 due to the pandemic. In normal circumstances, the event, which comes once in 12 years, is held from mid January to April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||BJP shrouds itself in silence as Covid cases explode across India||The BJP has shrouded itself in silence as Covid cases explode across India, overwhelming not just hospitals but also crematoriums in several states in a second wave that the Narendra Modi government appears to have been little prepared for. As far back as February, the party had declared victory on Covid and hailed Prime Minister Modi for it. In a resolution, the BJP had said: “...It can be said with pride that India not only defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi…. The party unequivocally hails its leadership for introducing India to the world as a proud and victorious nation in the fight against Covid.” Modi himself had told the World Economic Forum’s Davos Dialogue on January 28 that India “not only solved our problems but also helped the world fight the pandemic”. Now, with India’s count of new Covid-19 cases rising for the first time by over 200,000 on Thursday and the country registering the second-highest number of infections in the world, the party has been silent. Led by Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda, most party leaders have immersed themselves in the single-minded pursuit of trying to win the Bengal elections. Even Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in whose state crematoriums are overflowing, was in Bengal campaigning till he himself tested positive. On Friday, Shah and Nadda were again electioneering in Bengal, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee had appealed for the remaining four phases of polling to be clubbed together in view of the sharp spike in cases. The BJP and other Opposition parties did not agree. Modi held a review meeting with various ministries to “ensure adequate medical-grade oxygen supply in the country” during the day, but is expected to be back on the campaign trail in Bengal on Saturday. At election rallies held by all parties, Covid protocols have been trampled with impunity. Barring minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, no BJP leader came out to counter Rahul Gandhi for slamming the Modi government for the Covid crisis. “Central Government’s Covid strategy: Stage 1 — Impose Tughlaqi lockdown. Stage 2 — Ghanti bajao (Ring bells). Stage 3 — Prabhu ke gun gao (Pray to God),” Rahul had tweeted. Naqvi responded: “In the pandemic period don’t spread political pollution, be a part of positive solution.” Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who repeatedly attacks the Congress leader, was quiet. He only posted a tweet urging people to adopt Covid precautions. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, who too is regularly fielded by the BJP to take on the Congress, merely re-tweeted his ministry’s tweets. In the evening, Javadekar tweeted that he had tested positive for Covid. Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa too tested positive, for the second time. Many have attributed the BJP’s silence to the dire situation in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, which are ruled by the party. Local media in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have reported that the state governments have been accused of trying to hide the actual Covid toll. There have been reports of long queues at crematoriums and mass funeral pyres. In Uttar Pradesh, a wall being built outside a crematorium triggered allegations that the government was trying to hide the burning pyres. In the past, BJP spokespersons and leaders had gone all out while attacking Opposition-ruled states, particularly Maharashtra, accusing them of failing to manage the Covid situation. The health minister had earlier this month lashed out at Maharashtra for complaining of a vaccine shortage. But as vaccination centres across different states had to suspend the inoculation drive as stocks ran out, it came to light that vaccine production in the country was half of what was needed now. BJP managers have tried to shield Modi at a time the Congress is ruining a Twitter campaign with the hashtag “WhereIsPM”. “Where is PM Modi, India asks,” one of the many tweets posted by the Congress said, highlighting how Modi was busy campaigning in Bengal while India struggled. To counter this, the BJP’s social media managers pushed the hashtag “Desh_Modiji_ke_saath_hai”. The counter-campaign claimed that Modi’s popularity remained intact. “As per Morning Consult’s latest global leader approval ratings @narendramodi ji has the highest approval rating of all the global leaders at 73% as on 15 th April, 2021,” BJP national secretary Y. Satya Kumar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Centre asks Chhattisgarh and UP to augment hospital beds, intensive care units and ventilators||The Centre on Friday directed Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh to augment hospital beds, intensive care units and ventilators, signalled plans to import medical oxygen and pledged funds to ramp up Covid-19 vaccine production as India recorded over 217,000 new infections. A senior public health expert tracking the country’s epidemic described those actions as similar to “digging a well after the house is on fire”. Top central government bureaucrats asked officials from Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh to address deficiencies in hospital infrastructure that health officials believe are contributing to inadequate treatment and high numbers of deaths in these states. The Union health ministry said Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh were the only states other than Maharashtra where the numbers of active Covid-19 patients now exceeded 100,000. “Both are reporting very high numbers of daily new cases and high deaths,” the ministry said. The seven-day average of daily new cases has spiked 105-fold over the past month in Uttar Pradesh, from 152 cases on March 15 to over 15,994 on April 15. In Chhattisgarh, the seven-day average has jumped 27-fold, from 476 to 12,800. Shortages of intensive-care-unit facilities and oxygen-supported hospital beds have meant that many patients have lacked access to critical care services. The health ministry said the states had been advised to increase hospital beds, plan for adequate oxygen supply, and curb mortality through early identification of positive cases and adherence to standard treatment guidelines. The 217,353 new Covid-19 infections recorded on Friday have raised the country’s total of active patients by over 97,800 to 1.56 million, about 50 per cent higher than the peak count of about 1 million during the previous wave last September. “It’s absolutely terrible, the numbers are overwhelming. My phone rings constantly for beds (that) we’re hardly able to provide,” a senior physician, who is also the medical superintendent at a leading hospital in New Delhi, told The Telegraph. In Faridabad (Haryana), the family of a 69-year-old Covid-19 patient whose oxygen levels had fallen to dangerously low levels spent hours on Friday unsuccessfully seeking a hospital bed across the National Capital Region. “We tried our best — doctors want to help but just can’t, there are just too many patients,” said Gita Nath, an acquaintance of the family. The patient was eventually admitted to a hospital in Ballabhgarh, a town neighbouring Faridabad. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met senior officials from the health ministry and other departments to review the nation’s oxygen supply status amid concerns that the demand for medical oxygen — now about 54 per cent of daily production — is likely to rise in the coming weeks. The government said it was allowing industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, and letting nitrogen and argon tankers ferry oxygen to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. Senior officials briefed Modi about efforts to import medical oxygen. Health experts have blamed the Centre’s policy makers of failing to anticipate the surge despite the public laxity on personal precautions, pandemic fatigue among healthcare staff, inadequate control measures and congregations such as election rallies and the Kumbh Mela. “When India’s cases had fallen, small clusters of infections should have been well-controlled. They were like sparks that needed to be extinguished as quickly as possible. Now the fire is everywhere,” a physician and public health expert said. “The actions now are like digging a well after the house is on fire.” The Centre on Friday announced Rs 130 crore to ramp up the production of Covaxin, the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine, from the current capacity of 10 million doses per month to 70 million doses by July-August and 100 million doses by September. The funds will go to Covaxin’s maker Bharat Biotech’s facilities in Hyderabad and Bangalore, the Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation in Mumbai, and two other vaccine-manufacturing units. Experts tracking vaccine development have said India should have foreseen the need for vaccines and ramped up capacity months ago. The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday announced it has no stock of Covid vaccines while chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting that 60 lakh doses be immediately sent. The Odisha government has sought at least 25 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in a single lot from the Centre. Maharashtra has sought 40 to 45 lakh vaccine vials every week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Coronavirus lockdown drags middle class to poverty||Ashish Anand had dreams of becoming a fashion designer. A former flight attendant, he borrowed from relatives and poured his $5,000 (Rs 3,73,900) life savings into opening a clothing shop on the outskirts of Delhi selling custom-designed suits, shirts and pants. The shop, called the Right Fit, opened in February 2020, just weeks before the coronavirus struck India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi abruptly enacted one of the world’s toughest nationwide lockdowns to stop it. Unable to pay the rent, Anand closed the Right Fit two months later. Now Anand, his wife and his two children are among millions of people in India in danger of sliding out of the middle class and into poverty. They depend on handouts from his aging in-laws. Khichdi, or watery lentils cooked with rice, has replaced eggs and chicken at the dinner table. Sometimes, he said, the children go to bed hungry. “I have nothing left in my pocket,” said Anand, 38. “How can I not give food to my children?” Now a second wave of Covid-19 has struck India, and the middle class dreams of tens of millions of people face even greater peril. Already, about 32 million people in India were driven into poverty by the pandemic last year, according to the Pew Research Center, accounting for a majority of the 54 million who slipped out of the middle class worldwide. The pandemic is undoing decades of progress for a country that in fits and starts has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Already, deep structural problems and the sometimes impetuous nature of many of Modi’s policies had been hindering growth. A shrinking middle class would deal lasting damage. “It’s very bad news in every possible way,” said Jayati Ghosh, a development economist and professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. “It has set back our growth trajectory hugely and created much greater inequality.” The second wave presents difficult choices for India and Modi. India on Friday reported more than 2,16,000 new infections, another record. Lockdowns are back in some states. With work scarce, migrant workers are packing into trains and buses home as they did last year. The country’s vaccination campaign has been slow, though the government has picked up the pace. Yet Modi appears unwilling to repeat last year’s draconian lockdown, which left more than 100 million Indians jobless and which many economists blame for worsening the pandemic’s problems. His government has also been reluctant to increase spending substantially like the US and some other places, instead releasing a budget that would raise spending on infrastructure and in other areas but that also emphasises on cutting debt. The Modi government has defended its handling of the pandemic, saying vaccinations are making progress and that signs point to an economic resurgence. Economists are forecasting a rebound in the coming year, though the sudden rise in infections and India’s slow vaccination rate — less than 9 per cent of the population has been inoculated — could undermine those predictions. The heady growth forecasts feel far away for Nikita Jagad, who was out of work for over eight months. Jagad, a 49-year-old resident of Mumbai, stopped going out with her friends, eating at restaurants and even taking bus rides, unless the trip was for a job interview. Sometimes, she said, she shut herself inside her bathroom so her 71-year-old mother wouldn’t hear her crying. Last week, Jagad got a new job as a manager at a company that provides housekeeping services for airlines. It pays less than $400 (Rs 29,800) a month, roughly half of her previous salary. It could also be short-lived: the state of Maharashtra, home to Mumbai, announced lockdown-like measures this week to stop the spreading second wave. If she loses her new job, Jagad is still the only support for her mother. “If something happens to her,” she said, “I don’t have the money to even admit her in the hospital.” India’s middle class may not be as wealthy as its peers in the US and elsewhere, but it makes up an increasingly potent economic force. While definitions vary, Pew Research defines middle-class and upper-middle-class households as living on about $10 (Rs 745) to $50 (Rs 3,725) a day. That kind of income could give an Indian family an apartment in a nice neighbourhood, a car or a scooter, and the opportunities to send their children to a private school. Roughly 66 million people in India meet that definition, compared with about 99 million just before the pandemic last year, according to Pew Research estimates. These increasingly affluent Indian families have drawn foreign companies like Walmart, Amazon, Facebook, Nissan and others to invest heavily in a country of aspirational consumers. Anil G. Kumar, a civil engineer, was one of them. Around this time last year, he and his family were about to buy a two-bedroom apartment. But when last year’s lockdown hit, Kumar’s employer, a construction chemicals manufacturer, slashed his salary by half. “Everything turned turtle within a few hours,” he said. Three months later, his job had been eliminated. Now Kumar spends his days in his home in a working-class neighbourhood in the western part of Delhi, searching for jobs on LinkedIn and taking care of his son. The family’s middle-class life is now under threat. They survive on the $470 (Rs 35,000)-a-month salary Kumar’s wife draws from a private university. Instead of holding a big celebration for their son’s 10th birthday at a restaurant, which would have cost nearly $70 (Rs 5,220), they ordered a cake and a new outfit for about one-fifth the cost. Kumar also cancelled his Amazon Prime subscription, which he hadn’t used in a while. “Every day you can’t sit on the laptop,” he said. “At times, you feel depressed.” India’s middle class is central to more than the economy. It fits into India’s broader ambitions to rival China, which has grown faster and more consistently, as a regional superpower. To get there, the Indian government may need to address the people the coronavirus has left behind. Household incomes and overall consumption have weakened, even though the sales of some goods have increased recently because of pent-up demand. Many of the hardest hit come from India’s merchant class, the shopkeepers, stall operators or other small entrepreneurs who often live off the books of a major company. “India is not even discussing poverty or inequality or lack of employment or fall in incomes and consumption,” said Mahesh Vyas, the chief executive of the Centre for Monitoring of the Indian Economy. “This needs to change first and foremost,” he said. Most Indians are “tired” and “discouraged” by the lack of jobs, said Vyas, especially low-skilled workers. “Unless this problem is addressed,” he said, “this will be a millstone that will hold back India’s sustained growth.” Anand, the prospective fashion designer, who lives in the industrial hub of Noida in southeastern Delhi, found himself at wit’s end during last year’s lockdown. The family fell behind on the rent. Two months into the lockdown, he collapsed in what he described as a panic attack. “We did not want to live,” said his wife, Akanksha Chadda, 33, a former operations manager at a luxury retail store who also hasn’t been able to find a job. She sat facing a photograph taken three years ago of her son and daughter sitting on a giant turtle at an amusement park. “I didn’t know if I would wake up the next morning or not.” The days when they could afford muesli for breakfast and pizza for dinner are gone, said Anand. On good days, they get some vegetables and banana for the kids. In January, Chadda sold their eight-year-old son’s bicycle to buy milk, lentils and vegetables. He cried for a solid evening. But she felt she had little choice. She had already sold her jewellery the month before. “When you don’t see a ray of hope,” she said, “you lose it.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Congress meet on Saturday to discuss worsening Covid situation||The Congress Working Committee will meet on Saturday to discuss the worsening Covid situation in the country, amid widespread criticism of the decisions to continue with the unrestricted election rallies and the Kumbh. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday flagged the issue of politicians’ role in spreading the coronavirus by saying: “On the one hand we ask people to follow Covid protocol and on the other hand crowds of lakhs of people continue to gather at election rallies and road shows. It has been going on since the Bihar elections. Politicians continued to aggressively campaign and the crowds kept on gathering. If politicians had wanted, they could have stopped the crowds by using options like virtual rallies.” Gehlot added: “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has rightly said that we politicians are also to be blamed to some extent for the spread of the corona infection. Now a new corona variant has appeared and there is a frightening situation in the country. Stringent measures like lockdown and curfew are being resorted to. “The Prime Minister should talk to the states in detail as he had done earlier. Even the judiciary and the Election Commission of India cannot shy away from their responsibilities. Despite opposition from the states, the Supreme Court and the high courts issued orders for holding panchayat and other local body elections. The Election Commission continued announcing polls simply to discharge its duty.” Sonia had said at a meeting with Congress chief ministers and senior leaders a few days ago: “Should not public gatherings, including election rallies, be cancelled? Mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid, for which all of us are responsible to some extent. We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own.” Sources said there was considerable unease among senior leaders about the abnormal involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in elections despite a dangerous surge in Covid cases. The CWC will raise this issue on Saturday. Rahul Gandhi posted an old video of himself on social media in which he had predicted the grim scenario last year with the comment: “One year later, our people continue to suffer, our infrastructure continues to crumble and our Prime Minister continues to turn away from his responsibilities.” He also tweeted: “Central Government’s Covid strategy: Stage 1 — Impose Tughlaqi lockdown. Stage 2 — Ghanti bajao. Stage 3 — Prabhu ke gun gao (Pray to God).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Covid: Three akharas appeal for the Mahakumbh to be shut immediately||Three akharas have appealed for the Mahakumbh in Haridwar to be closed immediately because of the surge in Covid cases and said they would be leaving from Saturday, their stand dividing the monks at the congregation and inviting attacks. The administration said it had no plans to prematurely wind up the Kumbh Mela, scheduled to run till April 30. Mahant Ravindrapuri of the Niranjani Akhara, one of the country’s 13 main akharas (monasteries), said on Friday morning: “We have decided to withdraw from the Mahakumbh on April 17 and vacate the mela (congregation or fair) area to prevent further spread of the coronavirus.” The Sri Panchayati Akhara and the Anand Akhara endorsed the stand of Niranjani, which chided the government for failing to take tough decisions despite the Covid surge. The Uttarakhand health department has detected 2,400  Covid infections in the Kumbh area since the congregation started on April 1. Swaroopanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of both the Dwarka Sharda Peetham in Gujarat and the Jyotir Math in Badrinath, dismissed Niranjani’s argument, saying: “The mela will continue till April 30.” His disciple Swami Avimukteshwaranand said: “The Mahakumbh…  dates are decided according to planet positions; nobody can change them.” Visuals from the Kumbh, now teeming with 20 lakh pilgrims and monks from across the country, show crowds milling about on the Ganga’s banks without masks and unmindful of physical distancing amid a second wave of the pandemic nationwide. Deepak Rawat, the IAS officer in charge of the Mahakumbh, told reporters: “We haven’t discussed truncating the month-long mela.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling case: HC quashes FIRs against ED officials||Kerala High Court on Friday quashed two FIRs registered by the state police’s crime branch against unnamed officials of the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly coercing suspects to name chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his cabinet colleagues in a gold smuggling case. The state police had booked ED officials after prime accused Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair alleged that they were forced to falsely implicate the chief minister and other ministers. The case is related to the smuggling of 30kg of gold from Dubai in July 2020. The petition challenging the FIRs was filed by P. Radhakrishnan, deputy director of ED’s Kochi zonal office. The high court ruled that police had no powers to register the FIR and that they could have approached the special court handling cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-206
17-04-2021||India||Guardians demand CBSE exam fee refund||Shanti Rana, 65, rears goats and stitches clothes to feed and educate her four school-going grandchildren. The family of five lives in the Madanpur Khadar slum in southeast Delhi, and the children are enrolled in a Delhi government school. The children’s father — Shanti’s son — is dead and their mother does not live with them. Last February, Shanti’s eldest grandchild, Kirti, paid Rs 1,800 to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to register herself for her Class X board exams, which were scheduled from May 4 to June 16. With the exams now cancelled because of the Covid surge, Shanti wants the board to refund the money. “I had arranged the fee with extreme difficulty. My granddaughter was studying well and I wanted her to find a good job in future. But now that the CBSE has cancelled the exam, it should refund us the fee,” Shanti said. It’s a demand echoed by many other parents and guardians of Class X CBSE students, particularly those not well off. Ashok Agrawal, member of Delhi University’s executive council and president of the All India Parents Association, said the board must refund the money since it does not have to pay the invigilators and examiners, or spend on setting up exam centres. “The fee covers all kinds of expenses related to the conduct of the exams. Since the board need not make these expenditures now, it must refund the fees,” Agrawal said. The CBSE charged exam fees of Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 per student depending on the number of subjects they had chosen and the number of practical exams they were to take. Nearly 21.5 lakh students were to sit for the Class X boards. A school principal who did not wish to be quoted said the board may have already spent a portion of the money preparing the question papers, but it should refund the unspent amount to the students. Many parents whose children go to private schools in the cities too have supported the demand for a refund. The CBSE has said it will work out a way of grading the students without a board exam, leaving many students wondering what criteria would be adopted for the allotment of streams in Class XI. The schools usually allot streams on the basis of the students’ board marks. A message sent to board secretary Anurag Tripathi seeking the CBSE’s stand on the refund demand remained unanswered. Teachers at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan schools have urged the government to restore the original schedule of their annual summer vacation, now that the CBSE has cancelled its Class X board exams and deferred the Class XII exams till June 15. Summer holidays for the teachers were to extend from May 3 to June 20 but the KVS administration later asked them to come to school till June 2 and help conduct the exams. In a letter to the Union education minister, the teachers’ association has demanded reinstatement of the original vacation schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
17-04-2021||India||Pandemic worsens plight of Bihar weavers||Fifty-year-old weaver Faiyaz Ahmad is constantly worried about what the future might have in store for him, his 10 family members and co-workers amid the coronavirus pandemic. Faiyaz is one of around 15,000 men, women and children who depend on the 650 handlooms at Sikori in Paliganj block of Patna district of Bihar. It’s been over a year since Covid-19 struck Bihar and the rest of the country. The lockdowns and the “unlocks” followed, but the weaving business did not return to its normal. And now, with the pandemic raging again, things have only worsened. The lack of the continuous clatter and click-clack of the looms that produce towels, bed sheets, lungis, curtains and shirt material tend to aggravate Faiyaz’s worries. “The supply of raw material, especially the threads that come from Tamil Nadu, has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus pandemic. The threads have become costlier too. Very few merchants are coming to buy our products. Only a fourth of what we produced was going to the market so we decreased our production. Our livelihood is at stake,” Faiyaz told The Telegraph. Faiyaz is not the only one facing problems. Over 1 lakh handloom weavers in Bihar are staring at joblessness as the pandemic has led to the lack of raw materials and buyers. And despite several “on paper” efforts by the central and the state governments for betterment of the weavers, they still remain essentially daily wagers or something around that. The state has several traditional hubs of handloom production, including Paliganj, Nawada, Biharsharif, Gaya, Banka, Siwan, Madhubani, Bhagalpur and Rohtas. The weavers, both Hindus and Muslims, are facing similar problems and fate. “Many weavers are leaving the occupation to become labourers, farm workers and construction workers. They don’t want to do so, but how will they survive if they don’t earn. Once the quality of our handloom products was famous in different parts of the country, but now people take pity on our condition,” Vijay Tanti, a weaver of Alinagar in Biharsharif, told this newspaper. Biharsharif is in Nalanda, the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar. The weavers of Biharsharif are famous for producing good quality tussar silk and cotton products like bed sheets, towels and dress material. “The coronavirus pandemic has hurt us in another way as well. The central government has stopped organising the national handloom expos because of the pandemic. Around 10 to 12 such expos were organised every year in different parts of the country. We used to attend these events and achieve good sales,” Vijay added. Whatever little work is available these days, chiefly includes the weaving of coloured bed sheets for use in government hospitals. The Bihar government has a unique policy of using bed sheets of a different colour on different days of a week. However, the government has not paid the weavers for the bed sheets they supplied since June last year, and the dues are around Rs 3.5 crore. In the meantime, the director of handlooms, a post that comes under the state industries department, issued a letter to the Bihar State Handloom Cooperatives Union (BISHCOTEX) asking why the health department did not pay for the bed sheets that were supplied and why the weavers and the union kept supplying them when the dues were mounting. “The Bihar government should have taken some steps to protect the weavers and their livelihood during the pandemic. It could have prepared their roster and provided some financial help during the crisis. A majority of the weavers are poor and the last one year has broken their back. There is no respite in sight,” BISHCOTEX chairman Naquib Ahmad told this newspaper. Naquib pointed out that several good schemes initiated by the Nitish-led government for the welfare of the weaving community never took off. These included mandatory purchase of handloom cloth for curtains and dresses for patients in government hospitals. “Had the government wished, it could have arranged for the marketing of handloom products and maintained a smooth payment cycle. It purchases paddy and wheat from farmers, but does not do anything for weavers. There is no option left for the poor weavers other than to become labourers,” Naquib said. Even the powerloom weavers and owners in the silk city of Bhagalpur are facing trouble. Silk and linen cloth worth several crores produced by them for merchants of other states are lying at their facilities because they (merchants) have asked them to wait because the demand for such goods is very little because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
17-04-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple will remain closed for devotees on weekends||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple in Odisha will remain closed for devotees on weekends in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday and Sunday, the temple will be disinfected. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Friday said the devotee restrictions will come into effect from April 24. “Mostly people come on weekends to the temple. In order to avoid unnecessary crowding, we have decided to shut down the temple for two days (in a week). If the situation persists, the Rath Yatra will be held this year without the participation of devotees like the previous year. The festival will be held in a restricted way where servitors who test negative for Covid will be allowed to participate in the Rath Yatra,” said a senior SJTA official. All devotees visiting the Jagannath temple from outside the state will be required to bring a Covid-19 negative certificate. The test (RT-PCR) must be done 96 hours prior to their visit to the temple or they will have to produce a report confirming they have already received the second dose of Covid vaccine. “All devotees will be required to bring a photo ID card like Aadhaar card or voter card or any other similar document for identification,” an official said. According to the standard operating procedures issued by the SJTA, lighting of diyas (earthen lamps) inside the temple by the devotees will not be permitted at all. “Devotees are requested not to touch the statue or idols inside the temple,” the SOP stated. It has also been decided that 300 servitors who are currently attending the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand will have to undergo Covid-19 test on their return. “Before entering the shrine, they will have to take the RT-PCR test. Everyone irrespective of whether they are devotees, servitors or the police entering the temple, will have to wear masks. We will impose a fine on those who fail to do so. It will be strictly implemented. We will also educate people on maintaining social distance,” said an official. Thousands of devotees have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Kumbh Mela. Odisha on Friday reported 3,108 Covid-19 cases — the highest daily count so far this year. In view of the rise of in cases, the higher education department on Friday announced the suspension of both theory and practical examinations for college students. The revised schedule will be communicated later to the students after consulting the vice-chancellors. All the hostellers have been asked to vacate their respective hostels by Monday. The state government is worried about the influx of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh where total cases have crossed the one-lakh mark. Besides a night curfew, adjoining Nuapada district on Friday clamped Section 144 of the CrPC in Khariar Notified Area Council (NAC) to prohibit unnecessary movement of people across the inter-state border. Earlier, the state government had announced a ban on religious congregations and political rallies. The Odisha government on Friday said that it received another three lakh doses of Covishield. The vaccines reached here on a special flight from the Serum Institute of India, Pune. So far 48,10,780 people in the state have been vaccinated, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
17-04-2021||India||Nalco granted mining lease of Utkal-E coal block||The National Aluminium Company Limited (Nalco), the Navratna CPSE (Central Public Sector Enterprises), and leading producer of alumina and aluminium in the country has been granted the mining lease of Utkal-E coal block. The lease has been granted by the Odisha government through a notification issued on April 12, Nalco said in a press release issued on Friday. According to the notification, the mining lease of Utkal-E coal block is over an area of 523.73 Ha in villages Nandichhod, Gopinathpur Jungle, Kundajhari Jungle, Kosala and Korada under Chendipada Tahasil of Angul district. The initial capacity of Utkal-E coal block is 2 million tonnes per year with a total mineable reserve of approximately 70 million tonnes, the press release said. Nalco has already executed the mining lease for the Utkal D Coal block in March 2021. “With the grant of Utkal D & E coal blocks, the total mineable coal reserve of the Company will be 175 million tonnes, which will be pivotal in meeting the coal requirement of its Captive Power Plant at Angul, Odisha,” the press release said. Chairman-cum-Managing Director (CMD), Nalco Sridhar Patra said: “The Nalco team is very optimistic on starting the mining operation from Utkal-D coal block in this financial year. With the grant of the mining lease of Utkal E coal block, the planned expansion activities of the Company will get a boost and will contribute significantly to the bottom line of Nalco.” It further said initially Nalco will be able to produce 4 million tonnes coal per year from the operation of Utkal-D & E coal blocks. The lease for Utkal-D & E coal block has been granted to Nalco for 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-207
17-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC uses infiltrators as votebank, BJP will solve problem, claims Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday claimed that the BJP is the only political entity which can stop infiltration and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee is concerned with "fake secularism". Speaking at public rallies at Ausgram in Bengal's Purba Bardhaman district and Chapra in Nadia district, the senior BJP leader alleged that infiltrators serve as the votebank of the TMC. "The Congress, the Left parties and the Trinamool Congress will not be able to stop infiltration in Bengal. The BJP is the only political party which can stop infiltration. "Didi (Mamata) is concerned with her fake secularism. She bothers only about her votebank," Shah said. Referring to a purported audio clip in which Mamata, also the state Chief Minister, is heard suggesting a rally with bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims, he claimed that she "indulges in politics over dead bodies". “People should be ashamed of her,” Shah said. Four persons were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", near a booth in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of polling on April 10. The BJP released the purported audio clip on Friday, on the eve of the fifth phase of elections. Shah said, "Mamata spreads the politics of hatred and that is why there is so much violence across the state." He said that no incident of booth capturing was reported during Saturday's polls and the BJP knows how to deal with the "TMC goons". The BJP leader claimed that the Mamata Banerjee government did not give citizenship to the Matua people, who are refugees from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), and justice to the Namasudras who are Dalits. "Let me say that if the BJP comes to power in Bengal, Matuas will be given citizenship by implementing the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act)," he said. The BJP leader alleged that the TMC government has become synonymous with syndicates, cut-money (bribe) and politics of appeasement. In Bengal, 'syndicate' means the business run by persons allegedly enjoying political patronage, who force promoters and contractors to buy construction materials, often of inferior quality, at high prices. "Don't you all feel that this government should go," he asked. Time has come for the exit of the Mamata Banerjee government and Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal) will be created after the BJP comes to power in the state, the BJP leader said. Shah claimed that once the saffron party forms government in Bengal, youths will not have to go outside the state to seek jobs. "We will ensure that one youth of each family gets employment in the state," he said. Shah said that after the BJP comes to power, state government employees will be benefited from the Seventh Pay Commission, teachers will receive higher salaries, and women will be given free transport service. Earlier, Shah held a roadshow at Amdanga in North 24 Parganas district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Amid polls, Trinamul raises oxygen crisis in Maharashtra||A crisis of oxygen cylinders in Maharashtra cast its shadow on the ongoing polls with the Trinamul Congress accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ignoring the pandemic-induced health emergency and focus on winning the Bengal polls. “Maharashtra CM @OfficeofUT called Modi requesting for urgent supply of oxygen for his State. Was informed that PM busy campaigning in Bengal. Will respond on his return,” tweeted O’Brien on Saturday while polling for the fifth phase covering 45 Assembly seats was on. According to sources, in the last 24 hours,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called the Prime Minister’s Office thrice but could not speak to him.The Covid crisis in Maharashtra  is growing into a full-blown standoff between the state and the centre. The NCP leader and Maharashtra minister, Nawab Malik, alleged the Centre had instructed the pharma companies not to supply medicines to the state. “It is sad and shocking that when Government of Maharashtra asked the 26 export companies for Remdesivir, we were told that Central Government has asked them not to supply the medicine to Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their license will be cancelled,” tweeted Malik. “This is a dangerous precedent and under these circumstances, Maharashtra government will have no choice but to seize the stock of Remdesivir from these exporters and supply it to the needy,” he wrote in another tweet. On Saturday, Modi called for a “symbolic” Kumbh mela in Haridwar where the restriction went for a toss for religious pandering. The Centre-Maharashtra standoff could have a bearing on the aftermath of the Bengal poll results. When the Maharashtra Assembly polls were held in 2019, the BJP and the Shiv Sena were alliance partners. Early one morning in October, the former chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, had even taken oath, but the Sena in a post-poll coalition with the Congress and the NCP, trumped Modi and Shah to form a government headed by Uddhav Thackeray. The Mahavikas Agadhi government has since been a thorn in the BJP’s crown. A similar scenario might unfold in Bengal if none of the parties get a clear majority, which is possible on paper. By raising its voice in favour of Shiv Sena, the Trinamul is trying to keep the non-BJP governments in other states by its side, in case the BJP makes any attempts to snatch power through the back door as it did in Bihar, Manipur, Goa, Madhya Pradesh. The Maharashtra crisis also helps the Opposition to target Modi for neglecting the needs of the people as it is with the agitating farmers in Delhi and now the Corona crisis that has hit hard even his home state Gujarat. On Saturday, Modi had two election campaign meetings scheduled in Asansol and Gangarampur, while Amit Shah held a roadshow in North 24-Pargana in Amdanga and held two public meetings at Chapra and Ausgram. Despite the global pandemic and a spike in Covid cases across the country in the past few weeks that have rendered both hospitals, crematoriums and burial grounds inadequate to deal with the volume of the ailing and the dead, the Election Commission has continued with the unprecedented eight-phase polling in Bengal. After Saturday, three more phases are to go, and the results will be declared on May 2. At an all-party meeting on Friday, the central poll panel announced restricting poll campaign from 7pm onwards, though the measure will have limited impact, as crowds will remain on the streets for the day endangering lives. The other political parties had criticised the central poll panel’s decision to hold elections in eight-phases as it helped the BJP utilise all of its resources in the poll campaign. The CPM had announced it would not hold any big meetings as part of the campaign but there have been reports of large gatherings in some of the meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee alleges her phone is being tapped, says will order CID probe||A day after a purported audio tape -- in which she is heard proposing a rally with the bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims -- surfaced, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged that her phone is being tapped and said she will order a CID probe into it. Addressing an election rally at Galsi in Burdwan, she accused the BJP of being involved in the conspiracy as the saffron party "cannot match" the ruling Trinamool Congress' campaigning on development programmes. "They (BJP leaders) are even eavesdropping on our everyday conversation. It seems they are tapping our phone calls on cooking and other household chores. "I will order a CID probe into the issue. I will not spare anyone involved in such snooping activities. I have already come to know who is behind this," the TMC supremo said. Mamata also claimed she has information that the "central forces are being involved in such acts with some agents". "It is clear that the BJP is behind it though they claimed they have no role in it," she said. A controversy erupted on Friday after the BJP released the purported audio clip in which Mamata is heard telling the Trinamool Congress nominee of Sitalkuchi to hold rallies with bodies of the four persons killed in CISF firing during polling on April 10. Claiming that such a conversation never took place, the TMC had described the audio clip as "bogus" and wondered whether the Centre was tapping a chief minister's phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Led by youth this time, Left hopes to lay the ground for long battle ahead||She is no fiery orator. She does not possess a trace of glamour. And almost everyone knows that her chances of winning are next to nothing. Yet Minakshi Mukherjee, the 33-year-old CPI(M) youth leader, has emerged as the unlikely new star of the 2021 Bengal elections. Videos of her quiet and determined campaign in Nandigram have gone viral; she is the most sought-after speaker at Left rallies throughout the state; and even those who have no allegiance to Left politics express a grudging admiration for the way she managed to make her presence felt in a high-pitched battle between Mamata Banerjee and her one-time protégé –turned-bitter adversary Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. But for all the publicity that has come her way, Minakshi is less about an individual than a phenomenon: one among a host of new young faces that symbolizes the efforts of the Left to rejuvenate itself at a particularly critical historical juncture. And the response she is getting also reflects a bigger trend which has been largely suppressed in the din created by the big players in this election: that despite an all-out effort by both the TMC and BJP to make 2021 a bipolar contest, the CPM-led Samyukta Morcha remains a factor in the politics of Bengal. With the BJP taking full advantage of the anti-incumbency mood and lacing it with its patented tactics of communal polarization, and Mamata Banerjee fighting back with even greater ferocity after the Sitalkuchi violence and its aftermath, the space for a “third force” is certainly limited. Besides, in the electoral arena, voters increasingly go for the “’winning side” which puts the Samyukta Morcha (or “jot” as it is colloquially termed) at a big disadvantage since no one expects it to win anywhere near a majority. Despite these factors, or perhaps because of them, the surprise element of this election is the number of people who seem to be looking towards the Left with more hope than despair. What makes it surprising is that both in perception and in reality, the once mighty CPM-led Left has been in a state of terminal decline – organisationally decimated by the TMC onslaught since 2011 and ideologically isolated after right wing Hindutva captured power at the Centre in 2014 and began rapidly spreading its tentacles into Bengal from 2016 onwards. The Left’s inability to withstand this twin assault has been reflected in the steady erosion of its vote share over the last ten years. When it lost power and was reduced to just 40 seats in that cataclysmic election of 2011, the CPM alone still managed to get over 30 per cent of the vote. That plummeted to less than 20 per cent in 2016. It reached near rock bottom in the Lok Sabha elections two years ago when the party failed to win a single seat and garnered a meagre 6.34 per cent vote share. The current assembly elections are taking place when the Bengal Left is at its lowest ebb ever. Apart from facing two formidable adversaries in the form of the TMC and the BJP, it is also the target of much criticism from secular and Left forces outside the state. After the BJP’s spectacular performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when it won 18 of the 42 seats with an over 40 per cent vote share, these sections felt that an enfeebled Left was in no position to check the BJP’s takeover of Bengal and should therefore back Mamata Banerjee. An intra-left debate between Left intellectuals and activists continues to rage in the virtual world of social media with many sharply critical of the CPM’s electoral tactics, including the setting up of the Samyukta Morcha. The story is different in the real world. With Left supporters being the main target of TMC violence over the years, any question of backing Mamata Banerjee in the election was untenable. Left leaders insist that the “Aage Ram, Pore Baam” slogan which gained much currency during the 2019 polls started out as a pernicious RSS whisper campaign aimed at confusing the Left voter. The media and the TMC amplified it and falsely claimed that it was a sanctioned Left tactic. Whatever be the genesis of the slogan, the fact is that large sections of the erstwhile Left mass base shifted to the BJP in 2019 -- many because the Left was in no condition to protect them from TMC “terror” at the grassroots level. Given this backdrop, Left activists point out, joining hands with the TMC in the name of “secular unity” would have only helped the BJP. The revulsion towards TMC’s corruption and violence is so great among Left sympathisers that such a tie-up would have ensured a further exodus of voters towards the BJP. Ideologically too, there appears to be a big difference in how Mamata Banerjee is viewed in Bengal and her image outside the state. For BJP critics in the rest of the country, the TMC supremo is regarded as India’s most formidable secular icon – singlehandedly taking on the might of the BJP. In Bengal, leftists of all hues, claim the opposite. They insist that Mamata Banerjee facilitated the rise of the BJP in multiple ways. Her attempt to establish an “Opposition-mukt” Bengal (by decimating the Left’s rural organisation and encouraging large-scale defections of Congress MLAs to TMC) coupled with her penchant for identity politics centred on caste and religion helped the RSS first, and the BJP thereafter to take advantage of the new fault lines that appeared in the social and political fabric of post-Left Bengal, they contend. But while the theoretical understanding of the need to fight the TMC as an essential element of the fight against BJP is one thing, to translate that into a meaningful exercise on the ground is something else altogether. In order to do that, the Left has adopted new electoral tactics in this election of which the most talked about is the “youth factor.” At its state committee meeting in January, the CPM decided that 60 per cent of its candidates would be under 40 years and barring exceptional cases, it would not field anyone above the age of 60. Minakshi Mukherjee apart, several of the youngsters such as former JNU students’ leader Deepshita Dhar in Bally, current JNUSU president Aishee Ghosh in Jamuria, state SFI secretary Srijan Bhattacharya in Singur, and SFI president Protikur Rahman in Diamond Harbour have attracted media attention. Youth is not the only factor that makes them different from the past. Many come from humble backgrounds such as Jhunu Baidya, the daughter of a sharecropper, who is fighting the Krishnaganj seat in Nadia district or Chandicharan Let, whose father runs a cycle repair shop in Bardhaman. “The truth is that after a very long time, a communist party has fielded communist candidates,” an old timer said. The CPM has not just fielded young candidates but has also left it to the youth to plan and execute the campaign. That has lent a freshness and vivacity to the Left’s outreach seldom seen before. Social media has been flooded with funny memes, catchy songs and snappy videos that have reached out to a whole new generation in the state. The take-off on a peppy film number (Tumpa Shona) before the Brigade rally in February may have come as a bit of a shock to older comrades brought up on a diet of IPTA-era revolutionary songs. But Tumpa proved a monster hit and signalled the Left’s makeover efforts even before the list of candidates was announced. The fielding of youth candidates, dismissed as a “publicity stunt” by both the BJP and the TMC, is much more than an electoral tactic. After decades of being in power, the CPM was seen as a party of the status quo, its leadership dominated by middle class bhadralok in starched white dhuti-panjabi even if the base comprised of poor peasants and workers. The crop of youth leaders who came up through mass movements in the 1960s and early 1970s were now old men. Those who joined later came to a party entrenched in power; when the terms “struggle” and “sacrifice” had long become empty shibboleths.  It is a different story today. With the Left at its weakest and with little hope of any overnight recovery, the young men and women who have joined the party are seen to be driven by a sense of idealism and conviction rather than the opportunism and careerism of yore; they know that fighting elections is only the first step in a long hard journey ahead. Another element of the new electoral tactic has been to focus on “livelihood” issues -- unemployment, price rise, hunger -- and steer clear of the emotive issues of religion and ethnicity that has come to dominate both the TMC’s and the BJP’s campaign. The third, and perhaps most controversial, has been the decision to form the Samyukta Morcha that includes not just the Congress but also the Indian Secular Front headed by Abbas Siddique, the peer of the famous Sufi shrine in Hooghly district, Furfura Sharif. CPM supporters may have got over their old anti-Congressism, but the decision to join hands with an “Islamic cleric” has not gone down well with many of them. Even though the ISF seeks to be a multi-faith platform of the “downtrodden” including Dalits and adivasis, and Siddique’s speeches have focussed on secular rather than religious concerns, many Left sympathisers are uncomfortable with the decision. A CPM leader said the decision to form the “jot” was to make the third force more “visible, credible and winnable.”  For now, it is has certainly made it more visible since Siddique (or Bhaijaan as he is known) has drawn huge crowds at every rally he has addressed. Whether it has made it more winnable won’t be known for another three weeks. And the credibility debate will continue for much longer. So is the Left’s new experiment working? The answer is both no and yes – in that order. After innumerable conversations in street corners and chai shops dotted across small towns, villages and in the big city itself, it is clear that the bipolar contest between the TMC and the BJP is the central leitmotif of this election. The “jot” is a factor in less than a third of the assembly seats. Being a “factor” does not mean victory. And if the mood for “poriborton” assumes the dimension of a wave, the chances of winning more than a handful of seats in a three-cornered contest become even slimmer. But elections are not only about winning. They are also about reaching out to people, making oneself heard, attracting new sections and converting hostility to goodwill. On that score, as we discover to our surprise, the campaign seems to be working. Even in seats where the Left has no chance, the names of their candidates come up in random conversations. In Domjur, for instance, where heavyweight TMC minister Rajib Banerjee is now fighting on a BJP ticket against TMC’s Kalyan Ghosh, we get talking to Sayan Naskar and Biswajit Bag, two young men watching Mithun Chakroborty’s road show. They will probably vote for “change”, they say, but on their own bring up the name of Uttam Bera – the CPM/jot candidate in the seat. “Uttam Bera is a very good man. He is always there to help,” Sayan says. His friend adds: “The CPM candidates are very good this time: they are educated, disciplined, sober.” It is a sentiment we come across in other places too. The words “shikhitto (educated)” and “bhodro (decent)” are used often. With the Left out of power for 10 years, the seething hostility towards the “Party” during the 2011 polls is now over. That Minakshi Mukherjee and Srijan Bhattacharya could campaign door to door for weeks on end in Nandigram and Singur respectively -- the two famous epicentres of the movement that felled the CPM -- is evidence of that. What is more remarkable though are the many voices asserting that the Left has a future – even if the present is bleak. Biswajit Datta, who runs a chemist shop in Jadavpur, says that Sujan Chakraborty is a strong candidate but even he may lose in the “poribortoner jhod (the storm for change)”. But he goes on to add: “The Left will come back. They must, they should.” Some distance away in Sonarpur, Pranab Ghosh says “Baam ashbe. Aaro unnoto baam aashbe. Ashtei hobe (The Left will return. A more rejuvenated Left. It has to).”  And a retired schoolteacher in Champdani in Hooghly district concedes that “Baam prochur bhool koreche. Kintu shaasti o peyeche. Aabar notun hoye uthbe (The Left made many mistakes. But it has been punished too. A new Left will rise).” Election strategists believe that the bulk of voters do not “waste” their vote on a party or alliance that is not a contender for power. This explains “wave” elections – a common phenomenon in other parts of India which has of late spread to Bengal too. But perhaps because Bengal had a long tradition of firm loyalties (towards either the Left or the Congress), there are still people (numerically more significant than in other states) who do not go with the “winning side” regardless of any ideological convictions. The rise of the BJP and the possibility of it gaining power have, in fact, drawn support for the “jot” from unexpected quarters. An elderly Sikh, at the wheel of an Uber taxi, does not know the names of any of the candidates in his constituency near Dum Dum. “Jo bhi jeetke aaye, Bangal mein bahut jhagde phasaad hone wala hain. (Whoever forms the next government, Bengal is in for turmoil)”. That is why, he adds, he will vote for the party he still associates with “discipline.” The concerns of more politically conscious citizens go beyond the possibility of immediate post-poll turmoil. They envision a long, drawn-out ideological battle against the Right. A middle-aged couple in a Ballygunge highrise who were unsure about who to vote for at the start of the elections have decided to vote for the “jot” because TMC is incapable of fighting a prolonged ideological battle, now or later. Sumit Chowdhury, a filmmaker and activist who was deeply involved in the movements in Singur, Nandigram and Lalgarh during the last term of the Left Front government, says there are many ideological differences within the various parties and groups that come under the broad “Left, secular, progressive” umbrella. These differences will remain and the debates will continue because that is what makes the Left a vibrant force unlike the monolithic Hindutva Right. But despite these differences, the time has come for a united battle to fight the new force that is taking over Bengal. “The real battle will start after May 2,” he says, a view echoed by several others in different parts of the state. The CPM’s decision to field fresh new faces untainted by their years in power, and experiment with new alliances to break the communal binary that threatens to engulf Bengal may yield modest electoral gains. The real test, it is clear, lies ahead: will the new seeds from an old tree be smothered in a field overrun by the lotus? Or do they possess the resilience, the stamina, the strength to sprout and grow and flower in an increasingly inhospitable environment? These elections are just the starting point for a much bigger challenge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Sporadic violence at some places during fifth phase of polls in Bengal||Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from some areas where polling took place during the fifth phase of the Assembly elections in Bengal on Saturday, while 78.36 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm, officials said. Polling was held in 45 seats in North 24 Parganas, Purba Bardhaman and Nadia in south Bengal, and Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in the north. The highest 81.73 per cent of voters' turnout was registered in Jalpaiguri district, followed by Purba Bardhaman (81.72 per cent), Nadia (81.57 per cent), North 24 Parganas (74.83 per cent), Darjeeling (74.31 per cent) and Kalimpong (69.56 per cent), he said. "By and large polling has been peaceful in Bengal today barring a few incidents of some violence," a senior official at the CEO said. "The security personnel are maintaining a tight vigil and they have addressed a few incidents that were reported," an official at the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) had said earlier. In the Shantinagar area of Bidhanagar, a clash broke out between TMC and BJP supporters with both sides accusing each other of stopping the voters from going to the polling booths. Bricks and stones were hurled, injuring eight people, officials said. A huge contingent of the central force was rushed to the spot to control the situation, they said. TMC MLA Sujit Bose and BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta visited the spot to take stock of the situation. In Siliguri, a scuffle broke out between TMC and CPI (M) supporters outside a polling booth. In Santipur in the Nadia district, the TMC alleged that personnel of the central forces were asking voters to go back, a charge rubbished by the authorities. Further, the TMC alleged that a polling booth in the Bardhaman Uttar constituency was captured by the BJP. The allegation was denied by the opposition party, while poll officials said that no such incident has happened. In Bijpur in North 24 Parganas, TMC and BJP supporters clashed after the Opposition party alleged that voters were being prevented from going to the booths. The BJP also alleged that some of its booth agents in the Minakha constituency of the same district were "kidnapped" by the TMC. The TMC said that the BJP does not have enough strength to depute agents in all the booths and that is why it was levelling such "baseless" allegations. A total of 1,13,47,344 people were eligible to vote. Of them, 57,35,766 are men, 56,11,354 were women and 224 are third gender. At many places, voters were seen without masks amid the resurgent coronavirus, raising concerns. The security forces ensured social distancing at the booths, while election officials provided masks, hand sanitisers and polythene gloves to the voters. The polling started at 7 am and continued till 6.30 pm in 15,789 stations across the six districts. The Election Commission had deployed at least 853 companies of the central forces for Saturday's polling. The strength of one company of central force is around 100 personnel including officers. The Election Commission on Saturday sought a report from poll observers on an alleged incident of firing by central forces in Deganga constituency of South 24 Parganas -- where voting is underway -- after such allegations were levelled by locals.  A senior election official said the office of CEO Ariz Aftab has received video footages, in which villagers are seen alleging that central forces opened fire near a booth in Kurulgacha area of Deganga to chase them away.  "We have sought a quick report on the matter from the poll observers there," he said.  However, a Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) officer posted at the booth, where the locals claimed shots have been fired, said the allegations made are "baseless".  "Everything is fine here. The voting exercise is going on very peacefully. There was no incident of firing anywhere in this area," he stated. A booth agent of the BJP died after falling sick at a polling station in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district on Saturday morning, prompting the Election Commission to seek a report, an official said. Abhijit Samanta, the BJP agent of booth number 107 in the Kamarhati assembly constituency, fell sick within an hour of the beginning of the polling, he said. Samanta was declared brought dead when taken to a hospital, he said. Voters waiting in the queue at the booth alleged that Samanta was not attended by poll officials and the central forces personnel initially even as he complained of chest pain and started vomiting. Meanwhile, an Independent candidate in the Chakdah seat in Nadia was detained after he was found carrying a firearm outside a booth, police said.  Koushik Bhowmick, the candidate, was found carrying the firearm outside booth number 44 and 45, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll teams protest chaos in Jalpaiguri||Protests, demonstrations and even a roadblock by government employees and others assigned various poll duties on Saturday — when elections are be held in seven Assembly seats of Jalpaiguri — were seen in the district on Friday, allegedly over administrative mismanagement. Trouble started at Nagrakata in the Dooars where polling personnel, supposed to reach the distribution-cum-collection centre that has been opened on the second campus of the North Bengal University on Jalpaiguri outskirts, could not find vehicles. Some 250 to 300 government employees waited in front of the BDO office in Nagrakata till 11am, when their patience ran out and they blocked a road in protest, bringing traffic to a standstill in Nagrakata. “We were instructed to reach the DCRC in Jalpaiguri by 7am, but because of administrative mismanagement, we had to sit idle for over four hours. We don’t know when we can reach our booths,” said Ramesh Chandra Das, a government employee. The BDO intervened and arranged some vehicles but even till 2pm, some employees could not make it to Jalpaiguri, said a source. Some 200 vehicle drivers of Cooch Behar, who have been brought at the DCRC here to carry polling teams and security personnel to booths, were also disgruntled saying that though they reached on Thursday they hadn’t been assigned their duties. “I came here with my vehicle from Dinhata, I spent my own money on fuel, and a whole day passed. Even now, we have not been told as if our vehicles would be engaged. Those managing the DCRC have also not paid us money for food. There is complete chaos. Basics like toilet and drinking water are missing,” said Raj Burman, a driver. He said at a time Covid cases were on the rise, the administration hadn’t given them masks and sanitisers. “We are totally clueless about whether we will be asked to take polling teams to booths or return home,” said another driver. The polling personnel who reached the DCRC also questioned the arrangements. They said one had to walk repeatedly from one end of the campus to another to finish all formalities and collect EVM, VVPAT and other items. “Those at the registration and inquiry counters lack information…. We have to move to multiple counters for any single information. Vehicles (for our transport) have not been parked according to Assembly constituencies but haphazardly, and we have to move around, searching for the vehicle,” said Arijit Das, a government employee. In Jalpaiguri district, 18.32 lakh voters will vote in 2,562 booths spread across seven Assembly seats. In all, 11,581 polling personnel have been engaged for the polls. Altogether, 145 companies of the CAPF will be deployed in the district on Saturday, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll personnel ascend three highest booths in Darjeeling||Polling personnel for three highest booths of Darjeeling district, which are located at an altitude of 12,000 feet, reached their destinations on Thursday, a day ahead of the polling staff of other booths. According to sources in the district administration, these booths have been set up in Srikhola Primary School, Daragaon Junior High School and Rammam Forest Primary School, all under Darjeeling Assembly seat where elections would be held on Saturday. “Altogether, there are 2,271 voters in these three polling stations. Like other voters of the district, they will also cast their votes on Saturday. But considering the locations of these booths, we have to send polling staff two days ahead of vote day so that they get adequate time to make preparations,” said an official. He said these primary schools are almost 100km away from Darjeeling town. The polling teams need to travel for around six hours by road to reach the booths. “Even a few years back, the teams would reach Rimbick, which is around 80km from Darjeeling, by road. From there, they would have to take pony rides. Things have improved now as motorable roads have been made to connect these locations,” the official added. Altogether, 12 polling personnel, along with security forces, have been sent to these three polling stations on Thursday. Darjeeling district administration and the police are making all necessary arrangements to conduct elections in its five Assembly seats. In Darjeeling district, around 12.39 lakh voters will cast their votes in 1,413 polling stations spread across three subdivisions, Darjeeling, Kurseong and Siliguri. “All preventive measures have been taken for a free and peaceful election. The personnel of central paramilitary forces have been deployed in different areas. They are conducting route marches in different corners of the district and will also man the booths. Also, the state police will be there to manage the law and order situation,” said a police officer. In the district, 96.5 companies of paramilitary forces would be deployed on the poll day, along with 4, 441 personnel of the state police. In neighbouring Kalimpong district, where polls would be held in the sole Assembly seat on Saturday, 2.09 lakh voters will exercise their right in 302 booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Polls crucial for four hill leaders not in fray||Unlike the rest of Bengal, the fate of four hill leaders who are not contesting the Assembly election will be at stake when Darjeeling votes on Saturday. The political futures of Bimal Gurung, Binay Thapa, Anit Thapa and Mann Ghisingh are hanging in balance in this election, more than the party candidates that they have fielded in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong Assembly seats. Gurung is the founder president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Tamang and Thapa formed a breakaway faction in 2017. Ghisingh — son of Subash Ghisingh who led the Gorkhaland movement in the 1980s and leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) — currently heads the party. No one knows which way the poll winds will blow this time. This situation has come to pass in the Darjeeling hills because of a perceived sense of “leadership crisis in the hills.” “Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa might have been in charge of the most important political setup in the hills, the GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration), but they have not yet received the public’s mandate as they have lost back-to-back elections,” said a hill observer. On the other hand, the BJP may have won both the Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly by-elections in 2019 but in the hills the role of its MPs and MLAs is limited because of the GTA, the observer said. “Moreover, Bimal Gurung had walked out of the BJP alliance last October (to join hands with Trinamul), which has further aggravated the leadership crisis. The hills are currently unsure who has the mandate in this present political complication,” the observer added. Sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba, who is a GNLF leader contesting on a BJP ticket, admitted that the Darjeeling elections were “not just about candidates.” “This Bengal 2021 election is not just about the candidates. It is more about the party, the ideology and about our issues,” said Zimba. “The future of Darjeeling is also dependent on the results of Bengal elections. If we (the BJP) win here and lose Bengal, it would be fatal. Even if we lose here but win Bengal that would make some sense for us,” Zimba added. If there is a change of guard, there will be significant changes in the hills. BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, have hinted that they would not carry on with the GTA if the saffron party comes to power in the state. Thapa, who was recently replaced as chairperson of the GTA, following the model code of conduct requirements, has said that he would not like to go back to the GTA as a nominated chairperson. This essentially means that in the event of Trinamul retaining power in Bengal but Thapa’s party losing in the hills, he may be reluctant to head the hill body as a nominated head. Moreover, arch-rival Gurung is also in alliance with Trinamul. Among the two Morcha factions, one headed by Bimal Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang, the one winning this election can be sure of their political career as they would be seen carrying the hill mandate. “The rivalry among these two camps is bitter and any party that loses this election will face a huge difficulty in reviving their support base,” said an observer. “Any party that gets the mandate of the hill people this time will receive a head start in the future elections,” admitted a Tamang-Thapa camp leader. The GNLF, which has been in political wilderness since long, has tied up the BJP and is also looking to revive its base in the hills. “A lot depends on the outcome of this election, else we have to go back to our strategy rooms,” said a GNLF leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: East Burdwan farmer poses questions for the BJP||Pradip Biswas, 54, a farmer who owns seven acres of land in Hatgobindapur village, has been looking out for senior BJP leaders these past few months to ask a few questions. In the run-up to Saturday’s polls in eight East Burdwan constituencies, scores of BJP leaders had visited the district to tell farmers that the Mamata Banerjee government had denied them the benefits of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. Among them were Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. “People like me heard them out, but some of our questions remain unanswered,” Biswas said. He reeled off his queries: ⚫ If the BJP government at the Centre is kind enough to give farmers an annual dole of Rs 6,000, why can’t it do something to control the prices of fertilisers, which have in the past six months risen between 55 per cent and 100 per cent? ⚫ If the Centre is so farmer-friendly, why can’t farmers like him get subsidised diesel? ⚫Could the Centre not show some compassion for the farmers agitating on Delhi’s outskirts since November end? Biswas, a graduate from Burdwan University, said these questions were not political — they were rooted in his lifelong experience of farming, an occupation that has become increasingly unrewarding, especially for those with smaller holdings. “I bought diammonium phosphate (DAP) at Rs 2,400 a quintal six months ago. Now I’m buying the same fertiliser for Rs 3,800 per quintal,” he said. “I need six quintals of DAP to cultivate the boro paddy on my seven acres of land, so I’m paying Rs 8,400 more. The prices of other fertilisers have doubled in the past six months.” Biswas says Modi’s attempts to provide relief to farmers is welcome but the farming community needs policies that make agriculture viable so that there is some incentive to till the land. “If the farm economics is in our favour, why should we beg for doles?” Biswas said. “What’s the reason for making all the farmers look like beggars?” The East Burdwan farmer’s sentiments echo those of the tens of thousands protesting the Centre’s new farm laws, which threaten to change the rules of the game in Indian agriculture. Biswas said he grows paddy at least twice a year. As the land’s productivity is linked to fertilisers and diesel (which runs the irrigation pumps), he is dependent on the Centre’s policies. “Ask any farmer and he will tell you he needs a favourable environment where his input costs are under control and his produce gets a fair price,” he said. “This government increases the input costs and reduces the chances of us getting a fair price by coming up with strange legislations. Then they offer us an annual dole of Rs 6,000. Isn’t it an insult to all the farmers?” Most of East Burdwan’s 4.55 lakh farmers — and their over 65 lakh peers elsewhere in the state — would not be as articulate as Biswas but there’s little doubt that many of them have the same questions for the BJP. The farmers of undivided Burdwan were with the CPM till 2011. The party’s farmer wing, the All India Kisan Sabha, still enjoys considerable clout in the region because of its regular campaigns for farmers’ rights. Over the last few years, however, the political equations have changed. Mamata Banerjee — often dubbed “more left than the Left” by CPM leaders — has reached out to the farmers with initiatives like the Mati Utsav, an annual programme that offers farmers a bouquet of benefits and incentives. Despite its stellar show across Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had secured leads from only 2 of East Burdwan’s 16 Assembly segments. This time, the BJP has laid special emphasis on (East and West) Burdwan, an insider said, adding that the party knew that winning Bengal was impossible without winning Burdwan. “East Burdwan is a district of farmers, who play a significant role in at least 12 constituencies. So, we have taken a lot of initiatives to woo the farmers since 2020,” a BJP leader in Burdwan said. “Our national president, Jagat Prasad Nadda, had started an outreach drive called ‘Ek mutho chaal’ (a door-to-door campaign seeking a fistful of rice) from this district. Now, a large number of farmers are with us.” Trinamul has not sat idle. Mamata has announced a Rs 10,000 annual allowance to counter the BJP’s central dole. At her rallies in East Burdwan, the chief minister has repeatedly cited how her government has helped farmers and resisted forcible land acquisition. Some farmers are, however, unhappy even with the dole of Rs 10,000 for they had expected subsidised electricity from the state government and higher minimum support prices, which lie principally in the Centre’s domain. “We don’t need any dole, from the BJP or from Trinamul,” said Sukanta Mondal, a farmer from Ausgram, East Burdwan. “No government seems to understand that farmers always want to earn money from their produce. It makes them happy. We need the government’s help to get a better price for our produce.” Amal Halder, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said: “The BJP has no idea what the farmers want; so its campaign is based on the promise of a dole.” He added: “The good thing is, the farmers have not been swayed by Modi’s promises. They want policies that lower the prices of fertilisers and diesel and give them a fair price for their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Development vs identity in Gautam Deb’s constituency||Identity politics and development cards are at play in Dabgram-Fulbari, one of the prominent Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016, is taking on the challenge posed by former Trinamul Congress colleague Sikha Chatterjee. She had left Trinamul and is contesting the polls on BJP ticket. Dilip Singh of the CPM is also in the fray. As Dabgram-Fulbari near Siliguri goes to the polls on Saturday, The Telegraph underscores the issues which have been highlighted by parties in campaign, the aspirations of local people and the promises made by leaders. The seat The Dabgram-Fulbari seat was constituted in the last delimitation and election was held for the first time in 2011. It is spread over 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. There are around 3.09 lakh voters who will exercise their franchise at 435 polling stations. In total, 10 candidates are in fray this time. Past results In 2011, Deb could beat Singh, who was the CPM candidate then also, by 11,236 votes. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had managed to secure a lead of 4,710 votes from this Assembly segment. In 2016, Deb doubled his winning margin and had won by 23,811 votes. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul suffered a major setback in Dabgram-Fulbari as BJP managed to secure a lead of 86,117 votes from this Assembly segment. Issues at play Like many other parts of north Bengal, identity politics is also being played in Dabgram-Fulbari. Both Trinamul and BJP have focussed on different communities like Rajbanshis, Matuas and non-Bengalis and have played their own cards. “This is probably the only seat where Trinamul has come up with a parallel phrase of ‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay’ campaign to draw Rajbanshi votes. Yellow ‘gamchas,’ a common accessory of Rajbanshis that is also used to greet and honour people, are being randomly used in poll campaigns. In fact, the minister is being seen posting videos in social media where he is addressing the electorate in different languages,” said Deepak Dutta, a schoolteacher and a voter of the constituency. The saffron camp, on the other hand, has taken the task to woo Matuas. Sikha Chatterjee, the candidate, along with a number of state and regional leaders, is being seen moving into areas where the community resides. Trinamul, however, is no ready to relent, particularly because it is a prestige fight for them as Deb, considered as the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal, is the candidate. “We have come up with specific details of the development works which have been carried out in this constituency. We doubt whether there is any other Assembly seat in north Bengal where the Mamata Banerjee government has spent 664 cores in past 10 years. A number of important infrastructure have come up in the area during this period,” said Debasish Pramanik, the Trinamul president of Dabgram-Fulbari unit.Among these are Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state, the Bengal Safari Park, new roads, bridges, marketplaces, fire stations and other facilities. The BJP, on the other hand, is flagging issues like highhandedness of land brokers in different areas of the constituency and highlighting how syndicates backed by the ruling party are active in places like New Jalpaiguri, where the largest railway station of north Bengal is located. “We are also referring to the recent vandalism at the Inland Container Depot by Trinamul backed miscreants. There are many people who have lost their land in the hands of these brokers,” said Sikha, the BJP candidate. Voters’ wish, promises The constituency is a mixed bag of rural and urban voters. Thus, their aspirations are different. While those dwelling in the municipal wards want improvement of civic amenities in their localities, those living at the panchayats want a separate civic body while highlighting the rapid urbanisation which has taken place in their areas. “Most of the areas of these four panchayats can no longer be considered as villages. Though these localities still bear the rural tag, there has been rapid urbanisation and hardly a handful of them are dependent on agriculture. That is why we want a separate civic body,” said Milan Chhetri, a Salugara resident. The demand has made the political parties to act and Deb was the first person to confirm that once voted to power, he would strive to see that a municipality is constituted by the state government. Chatterjee, the BJP candidate, is not behind and confirms that they too have similar plans. “We would also focus on private investments as there are a number of industrial areas in this constituency. There is a scope to set up new industrial units which can create employment for local youths,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC rules out possibility of clubbing last three phases ||The Election Commission of India on Friday ruled out the possibility of clubbing the last three phases of the polls in Bengal in view of Covid but banned campaigning between 7pm and 10am. The poll panel also extended the no-campaign window before the date of polling from 48 hours to 72 hours. The guidelines were announced after an all-party meeting in Calcutta, where the Trinamul Congress proposed the merger of the last three phases of polling. Invoking powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, Election Commission secretary Madhusudan Gupta said in an order: “No rallies, public meetings, street plays and nukkad sabhas shall be allowed on any day during the days of campaign between 7pm and 10am with effect from 7pm” on Friday. The silence period at night till Friday was from 10pm to 6am. “Silence period for rallies, public meetings, street plays, nukkad sabhas, bike rallies or any gathering for campaigning purposes shall be extended to 72 hours before the end of the poll for Phase 6, Phase 7 and Phase 8 in West Bengal,” the commission added. The commission issued a set of guidelines to ensure that Covid-19 protocols were followed at political rallies. The parties and the candidates have been asked to provide masks and sanitisers to all rally participants. The cost of the masks and sanitisers will be added to the expenditure limits for the candidates as well as the parties. The poll panel has given the responsibility of implementing the directive to the district election officers and returning officers. Partha Chatterjee, state education minister, represented Trinamul at the all-party meeting and argued in favour of clubbing the last three phases but the BJP and the CPM opposed any change. Swapan Dasgupta, who represented the BJP, said: “We congratulated the ECI for holding polls properly so far.… There is no need to change the schedule now.” A BJP insider later said: “So many rallies are planned by the Prime Minister and other senior leaders in the three phases in seats which are Trinamul strongholds.… We can’t afford a clubbing of the phases.” Besides, the merger of dates would have required the deployment of another 1,500 companies of central forces, which was not possible at such short notice. “Then state police would have had to be deployed in many booths, which we don’t want,” said a BJP source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP office torched, publicity materials damaged in Raiganj||BJP leaders and supporters resorted to protest and blocked the Raiganj-Hemtabad-Kaliaganj state highway for over an hour on Friday, after an election office of the party was torched and publicity materials damaged in the Pirozpur area under Kamlabari panchayat, on the outskirts of Raiganj, on Thursday night. Around 100 demonstrators burnt tyres on the highway and raised slogans against Trinamul accusing them of the arson. They have demanded immediate steps against those involved in the incident. “For past few days, some Trinamul supporters had resorted to highhandedness in the area and threatened our supporters. We suspect they are behind this incident,” said Ganesh Chandra Biswas, a local BJP leader. Trinamul leaders, however, have denied the charges. Raiganj will vote on April 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Cooch Behar police transfer probe to CID||The probe into the CISF firing outside a booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10 has been handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department, said Cooch Behar district superintendent of police Debashish Dhar. “We (district police) have handed over details of the case to the CID. They have started investigating the case,” Dhar told the media on Friday. After the firing, the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) filed a complaint at Mathabhanga police station. Local panchayat member of the Trinamul Congress Abdul Ghani also filed a complaint at the same police station against the paramilitary force. Based on the complaints, the police started an investigation. But there was an outcry for a CID probe. When chief minister Mamata Banerjee me the relatives of the four deceased youths, she herself said the CID would take over the probe once the polls got over. “However, the state police made the move earlier and it was decided that the CID would probe the case,” said a source in the administration. Residents of Jorpatki, who are still seething in anger, want exemplary punishment for the CISF jawans who had opened fire. “Since yesterday, CID officers have been collecting details from local people, including those who were injured in the firing,” said a villager. Arms seizure Cooch Behar district police have arrested four persons and seized a cache of firearms and ammunition from them, SP Dhar said on Friday. “We acted on a tip-off and conducted a raid on a private bus stand in Cooch Behar town. During the raid, a person was intercepted and we could seize four 7.6mm pistols, 20 rounds of live bullets and eight magazines from him,” the SP said. The police also arrested Manirul Islam, a resident of Dinhata, who is suspected to be a dealer of illegal firearms in the district. “Preliminary reports suggest he used to bring firearms and ammunition from Begusarai (in Bihar). We are interrogating him to know about other members of the racket,” the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Calcutta High Court asks CID to file status report by May 5||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Criminal Investigation Department to file by May 5 a status report on the firing by central forces during the April 10 polling in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment of Cooch Behar district. The order was issued by the division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee on two separate public interest litigations seeking a judicial probe. The CID had on Thursday taken over the probe into the firing by Central Industrial Security Force at Jorpatki village. Four youths had been killed in the firing. During the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday, CISF personnel deployed at Amtali MSK booth at Jorpatki had opened fire on a section of villagers. The counsel appearing for the Election Commission informed the court during the hearing on Friday that two complaints had been lodged with the panel on the firing. Besides seeking a judicial probe, the petitioners had also sought adequate compensation from the commission to the next of kin of the victims. The Bengal government’s counsel informed the court that the state administration had already expressed its desire to provide compensation to the bereaved families. The commission’s lawyer said his client was also ready to provide compensation to the family members of the victims but the amount would have to be distributed through the district magistrate in their capacity as the district election officer. The commission’s lawyer, however, did not refer to the quantum of compensation it would like to pay. The court then fixed the matter for hearing on May 5. On that date, the bench will take a further decision after going through the report submitted by the CID. Adhir files PIL Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday filed a PIL in the high court demanding a CBI probe into the firing under the supervision of the judiciary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee blames BJP for Covid surge||Mamata Banerjee on Friday squarely placed the blame of the worsening Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal — clearly in correlation to the intense, extensive campaign for the eight-phase mega Assembly elections in the state — on the BJP and alleged outsiders mobilised in large numbers for the saffron camp’s rallies. The chief minister said her party would appeal to the Election Commission to ban the entry of alleged outsiders without a negative RT-PCR test report for Covid-19. Addressing four rallies in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, Mamata said repeatedly that the Trinamul Congress would put forward the demand before the commission so that the criterion was applied, especially, to the badly hit states at the earliest. In all her rallies, Mamata lambasted the BJP for not only the “abject failure” by the Centre to curb the renewed surge in the outbreak but also for allegedly subjecting Bengal to the current situation by throwing Covid-19 caution to the wind for its campaign. “The Narendra Modi government neglected Covid-19, with only a view on these elections, which actually increased the positive cases across the country,” said Mamata. In her first rally of the day at Nabadwip, she alleged that the BJP had been bringing in countless “outsiders” to not only bolster its poll campaign but also to provide labour for Modi’s mega meetings, which require extra infrastructure. “People from other states, which are hit hard by a fresh spate of Covid-19 cases are coming freely to Bengal to erect pandals for the Prime Minister’s public meetings,” said the chief minister. “These people are spreading Covid-19 rampantly here, exposing our people to grave danger. We will appeal to the commission to ensure that whoever comes from an outside state should get the RT-PCR test done, and is allowed to enter Bengal only with a negative certificate. Nobody should be allowed in prior to this test,” she added, while repeatedly appealing adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols to the masses. Blaming the BJP-ruled Centre, Mamata said the Modi government should have made better use of the five-month period of relative relief in the pandemic till about the first week of March. “There had been a steady drop in Covid-19 cases. There was no great spike during those five or six months (from late October last year). During this time, Narendra Modi could have administered the vaccine widely to people,” she said. “They knew that Covid-19 was here to stay for at least two years. But they did not vaccinate people en masse…. Then, they compounded the problem with this outsider mess,” she added. The chief minister asserted that Bengal was yet to climb back into the 10 worst affected states — it is currently 11th — but Bengal was now unlikely to escape the pan-India spike. “How long will we be able to resist the surge? The BJP is bringing in tens of thousands of people for their political purposes. They are occupying hotels, guesthouses.... doing as they please, as if there’s no pandemic,” she said. “Nobody there has taken a Covid-19 test. Central forces are also coming for election duty from states badly hit, like Delhi and Maharashtra. Many of them are also Covid-19 positive,” she added. Mamata said she had no objection to Modi visiting the state as Prime Minister, or to the infrastructure necessary for his programmes. “But his party should engage local people to erect these pandals and whatnot for him, that too after the necessary Covid-19 tests. Why are people from Gujarat being brought in to do even that? Why are people from Uttar Pradesh being brought in? Why are people from Rajasthan and Jharkhand engaged?” she asked. The Trinamul chief also accused Modi of politicising the nation’s vaccination drive. “Such a long time ago, we had submitted a written appeal seeking permission for Covid-19 vaccination through the state infrastructure…. We would have done it free of cost,” she said. “But it is not clear why the permission was not granted. We planned to begin vaccination free of cost as long as stocks were available. We have begun this process,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Several parts of sub-Himalayan Bengal experience hailstorm on Friday afternoon||Many parts of the sub-Himalayan Bengal experienced intermittent bouts of hailstorm on Friday afternoon, hours before the fifth phase of the state polls. Hail and storms are likely in the region on Saturday too, weathermen have said. Large parts of the region — including Siliguri and Jalpaiguri — vote on Saturday. Friday’s longest hailstorm lasted for around 20 minutes here in Siliguri and left the streets swathed in white. It was accompanied by a number of brief but intense spells of rainfall, which continued till evening. Late in the evening, strong gusty winds blew in and around Siliguri. The hailstorm and gusty wind affected the movement of polling personnel to some booths. Publicity materials of political parties got damaged. The hailstorm, also reported in Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Gangtok left tea planters perturbed. “Hailstorms can cause considerable damage to tea leaves. After today’s (Friday’s) hailstorm, we suspect the quality of leaves will suffer in many tea gardens where production has just,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. “An upper air trough is hovering over north Bengal and Sikkim.  This contributed to the hailstorm and the shower as there was a strong moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal,” said Gopinath Raha, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre of Gangtok. The formation of hailstones, he said, could be because of the larger-than-usual volume of thunderclouds that, in places, touched the freezing troposphere. Weathermen have forecast more hailstorms, thunderstorms and showers on Saturday. “Isolated areas of north Bengal and Sikkim are likely to get hailstorms and thunderstorms on Saturday,” said a meteorologist. He added that the maximum temperature in the region was likely to hover around 30°C in the next two days. “We are keeping fingers crossed for a sunny Saturday. Adverse weather can discourage many voters from walking up to the booths,” said a senior political worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi and Amit Shah misleading Matuas, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Friday asserted yet again that members of the Matua community were very much Indian citizens and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah of misleading the community. The chief minister also questioned Modi’s recent visit to Orakandi — a holy site for Matuas, now in Bangladesh. “Every time (prior to this) Narendra Modi was invited to Bangladesh, he called me, knowing that (Bangladesh Prime Minister) Sheikh Hasina loves me. I accompanied him in the interest of bilateral relationship though I don’t like him,” she said. “But this time he went to Bangladesh silently, without informing me. It was politically motivated. He did not go there as a mark of true love for Bangladesh....It was to woo the Matuas,” she added. “I will visit Bangladesh alone the next time, not to do any politics.” Reaffirming that Matuas were Indian citizens, a refrain she has adopted ever since the BJP passed the contentious citizenship legislations in 2019, she said nobody would be able to rob the Matuas’ right to Indian citizenship. “The BJP has been misleading you by offering you citizenship. Everyone who came to India before March 1971 is an Indian citizen. It appears the BJP wants to say the Matuas are not Indian citizens. I’d like to ask Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to be categorical enough and speak on the issue,” she said. “They are playing games with the Matua people,” added Mamata in North 24-Parganas’s Habra, a Matua-dominated Assembly seat from where Trinamul veteran and minister Jyotipriya Mullick is contesting. “Should we learn about citizenship from the BJP?” asked Mamata, assuring people that the state government had ensured their right to remain in India. “I am not giving you fake assurances. I am a chief minister. I never say fake things,” Mamata added. However, she advised people to ensure that their names were included in the electoral rolls. “Amit Shah and Narendra Modi have been making different statements at different places. In north Bengal, Shah said he did not order the NRC. But in Assam on April 8, they issued a notice for detention camps. They have deleted 14 lakh Bengali people...So you must ensure your names are included in electoral rolls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Infiltrators take away employment of youths, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday spoke extensively at his election rallies on illegal immigration from beyond the border with a clear hint that Bangladesh foreign minister A. K. Abdul Momen’s rebuttal of his repeated stress on infiltration had no impact on the BJP leader. “I want to ask you, should infiltration inside Bengal be stopped or not…Friends, these infiltrators take away the employment of the youths. These infiltrators who come, snatch away the rice from the poor. Friends, if the situation of infiltration in Bengal remains the same, then mark my words, not only Bengal, the security of the entire nation will be in danger,” Shah said at an election rally in Nadia’s Tehatta. In a recent interview with the online edition of Anandabazar Patrika, Shah had said since development had not reached the grassroots in the border areas of Bangladesh and the poor there still didn’t get food, infiltrators reached not only Bengal but also other parts of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir. Shah’s argument drew sharp reaction from Bangladesh, India’s most trusted friend in the region that has shown stellar performance in economic growth in the last decade. Bangladesh has also won accolades from multilateral banks for its achievements in ensuring a better quality of life for its people, which gets reflected in its higher rankings, in comparison to India on human development indices. Reacting to Shah’s comments, Momen had said: “There are many wise people in the world who do not see even after looking, and do not understand even after knowing. But if he (Shah) has said something like that, I would say his knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited. No one dies of hunger in our country now. There’s no monga (seasonal poverty and hunger in the northern districts of Bangladesh), either.” Multiple BJP sources said although they were aware that Shah’s comments would not go down well in Bangladesh, the home minister had to talk about infiltration to pursue the party’s polarisation agenda in a bordering district like Nadia. According to the 2011 census, Nadia has a Muslim population of around 27 per cent and so the BJP’s poll plan is to consolidate the Hindu population. “Friends…(help us) form the BJP government on May 2, I’m assuring you that forget a human being, not even a bird will be able to fly in from the other side of the border…” Shah thundered during his address at Tehatta. It was clear that he was trying to woo the Matua community, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, as they play a key role in determining the electoral outcome in bordering areas of Nadia and North 24-Parganas. Wooing the Matuas on Friday, Shah said: “Our brothers from the Matua community, from the Namshudra community, shouldn’t they get citizenship or not? This Didi (Mamata Banerjee) says ‘as long as I’m here, Matua and Namshudra communities will not get citizenship’. Arey Didi, how long have you been here? Your exit is ensured on May 2,” said Shah. “Matua and Namshudra communities will be made Indian citizens with pride after May 2... Besides, a refugee welfare fund will be created with a corpus of Rs 100 crore and a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 will be provided to Matua leaders,” he added. Furthering his agenda of polarisation, Shah reminded the people of Tehatta about some incidents of communal flare-up in the area in 2012. “Friends, here in 2012, during Jagaddhatri Puja, the police had lathicharged, fired bullets... In all of Bengal, (one has to) move court for Durga immersion. I’m telling you (just) for once, elect a BJP government, then, no one will have to move court for Durga immersion…” Shah said. Later, at another rally in North 24-Parganas’s Barrackpore, Shah said the BJP would win more than 92 of 135 seats which had gone to the polls in the first four phases of the voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM politician with a Che Guevara tattoo jumps into the lotus pool||Shankar Ghosh has a tattoo of Che Guevara on his arm but makes a case for chanting Jai Shri Ram, ensconced in the company of BJP workers with tilak on their foreheads and saffron scarves around their necks. On the other end of the arterial Hill Cart Road in Siliguri, his mentor turned adversary, CPM veteran and sitting local MLA Asok Bhattacharya eases into a chair on the ground floor of the four-storey party office on a sultry April afternoon last week, making phone calls to comrades to finalise his campaign plans for the evening. Three-four youths in an adjacent room are hunched over computers while two middle-aged men wait in the corridor to accompany Bhattacharya on campaign trail. “I have opted for door-to-door campaigns in some areas,” Bhattacharya, former Siliguri mayor and minister, tells this correspondent, ambling along the corridor after some time. Siliguri votes this Saturday. Cut to the second floor of Joymani Bhavan, a commercial complex around 200 metres from the CPM office. Ghosh, once an aide of Bhatacharya who switched to the BJP from the CPM and was promptly made the Siliguri candidate for the Assembly polls, emerges from a buzzing room at one corner of a large hall. Around 100 people, some of whom have turned up at the office to formally join the BJP, are patiently waiting for instructions from their leaders. The moment Ghosh comes out of the room, some of them surround him, seeking his attention while the others discuss among themselves their leader’s campaign roster and the rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “So many things happening at the same time…. We have a host of programmes lined up,” says Ghosh, whose phone keeps ringing incessantly. Unlike the rest of Bengal, where the electoral battle is between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress, the contest in Siliguri — the biggest trade hub in the state after Calcutta and the most prestigious Assembly seat in north Bengal — appears to be centred around the CPM and the BJP. But Trinamul nominee Om Prakash Mishra cannot be written off by any stretch of the imagination. “The BJP has managed to create a hype by spending a lot of money…. I have served the people of Siliguri as an MLA five times. I have also served them as the mayor. I am tried and tested and that’s what I am telling the people here,” says Bhattacharya. The CPM senior is the architect of the “Siliguri model”, a tie-up experiment between the Left and the Congress that has now become a state-level template. Bhattacharya, who had been urban development minister in the cabinets of Jyoti Basu and Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, says his voters will not be swayed by the BJP blitzkrieg. Bhattacharya says that after Ghosh became a councillor in 2015, he had handpicked his then understudy to handle some key departments in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. “We knew that he had secretly been in touch with the BJP for the past few months to fulfil his greed and ambition…. The people of Siliguri haven’t liked this volte-face and will punish him,” says the CPM leader. Ghosh swats away such allegations. “I was keen to work for the people of Siliguri and I was not getting the opportunity.… I needed the hands of a new friend to fulfil my objective and that’s why I am here,” says the PhD in microbiology. Ghosh appears to make it a point to show that he is comfortable in the saffron ecosystem. “What’s wrong in saying Jai Shri Ram?” he asks, before stressing that he has full faith in the BJP’s “Nation First” policy. “This stress on India, Indian-ness and Indian culture is our strength…. Add to that our leaders’ pledge to develop north Bengal. I am cent per cent confident of victory,” Ghosh adds. Siliguri is an interesting mix — its 2.25 lakh voters include over 90,000 non-Bengalis. Marwaris, Biharis and Nepalese make up this segment. Bhattacharya, who used to be called Asok Agarwal behind his back by the hardliners in the CPM because of his proximity with the business community, had an undisputed sway over this section that ensured his electoral success in Siliguri, which is part of the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency that the BJP has been winning since 2009. Sources in the BJP claim the non-Bengali voters have swung to the saffron fold because of Modi’s appeal and repeated visits by senior party leaders like Shah, finance minister Niramal Sitharaman, tourism minister Pralhad Singh Patel and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “It will be difficult for Asokda to keep his support base among the non-Bengali population as the majority of them have switched loyalties to the BJP,” said a veteran observer of Siliguri politics. The heavy presence of non-Bengalis, a source in Trinamul said, was the reason behind Mamata Banerjee springing a surprise by nominating Mishra, a former professor of international relations at Jadavpur University. Although a section in Trinamul had initially been unhappy with Mishra’s nomination — some had even felt that Mamata had given a walkover to Bhattacharya by fielding a “lightweight — the ruling party has been putting up a spirited fight in the last leg of the campaign on the back of repeated visits by the chief minister. “Didi has urged people not to vote for the CPM anymore as she has been doing all the work here…. We are confident of wresting the seat from Asokda,” says Ranjan Sarkar, the Trinamul president of Darjeeling. According to him, the arithmetic is in favour of Trinamul. “The CPM got only 7 per cent of the votes (in Siliguri) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections while we more or less retained our 2016 vote share. The BJP was ahead in the seat….  This time, the CPM will increase its vote share by a few percentage points, which will affect the BJP and we will comfortably win the seat,” Sarkar says. Bhattacharya, a veteran of many elections, says the claims of his opponents mean little as his supporters will vote for him silently. “While it is true that the BJP has grown here, their presence is limited to three-four wards…. They don’t have an organisation either. And last but not the least, the non-Bengali population, the majority of whom are involved in business, are with us because unlike the rest of Bengal, Siliguri has been a peaceful city. People know that I have ensured peace here,” he says. The north Bengal city has indeed been an oasis of peace, which has encouraged the spurt in trading activities and boom in the realty and hospitality sectors. “Most people living in the Northeast, or even in neighbouring countries like Nepal and Bhutan, want to have their second homes in Siliguri and that’s why there is a boom in real estate…. The price of a cottah of land is in excess of Rs 60 lakh,” says a businessman. “It’s a cosmopolitan city and as it’s a trading hub, people here want the growth story to continue,” he adds. Aware of the people’s wishes, BJP leaders like Shah are promising a tea park, an IT park, an international airport and a super-fast highway connecting Siliguri to Calcutta. Trinamul’s thrust has been on Mamata’s delivery while the Left’s pitch is around Bhattacharya’s success in creating the base for today’s boom. In this competition of claims and counter-claims, the battle for Siliguri has become a cliffhanger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcutta High Court prods Election Commission on Covid safety||The Calcutta High Court on Friday expressed concern over the laxity of political parties towards Covid-19 safety protocols in their campaigns for the ongoing Bengal polls, directing the Election Commission of India to take “hard” measures for the safety of citizens for the four phases that remain. A division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee issued the order on Friday, following a petition that alleged mass gatherings in poll meetings convened by the parties were responsible for the sharp rise in Covid-19 numbers in the state. “We have noticed that norms laid down to check Covid-19 were not being followed in the political rallies. The numbers of the Covid-positive have reached a peak,” said Chief Justice Radhakrishnan. “At this time, maintaining social distance, use of masks and sanitisers are a must. But nobody is following the norms. The EC should be more alert and take hard steps to make the final four phases of the polls safe,” he added. The lawyer appearing for the EC assured the high court that an all-party meeting had been convened to discuss the issue and pursue necessary action. Chief Justice Radhakrishnan said the EC should try hard to convince the political parties to go for virtual campaigning. “They may also book time on television channels for campaigning,” he said. Later in the day, the BJP firmly opposed the idea. Sources said the EC was unlikely to change plans drastically for the rest four phases. The bench fixed April 19 for the next hearing of the case when the EC would inform the court about the outcome of the all-party meeting. When the polls were announced on February 26, Bengal had 3,343 active Covid-19 cases. As of Thursday’s figures — Friday’s bulletin was yet to be issued when the development took place in court — there were 36,981 active cases, a 10-fold increase. The day’s number of new infections is close to 7,000, compared to 200-odd in February. In 48 days between February 26 and Thursday, Bengal recorded over 62,000 new infections, outweighing the 28,000-odd recoveries. There have been 217 deaths of people who tested Covid-positive in that period. In these 48 days, the recovery rate fell from 97.63 to 92.55 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: RSP candidate Pradip Nandy dies after testing positive for Covid-19||The RSP candidate from the Jangipur Assembly seat in Murshidabad, Pradip Nandy, succumbed to complications after testing positive for Covid-19 at the Behrampore Covid Hospital on Friday evening. Nandy, who was 73, had been admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital on April 9 with symptoms of typhoid and had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 12. He was then shifted to Behrampore. A lawyer, Nandy had been with the RSP since 1967 and would have been a Vidhan Sabha election candidate for the first time this year. The Sanjukta Morcha had ceded the Jangipur seat to the RSP as a part of their alliance. Jangipur was to vote on April 26. However, under election norms, the seat will have a bypoll at a later date owing to the death of a legal candidate. Nandy’s opponent, Trinamul MLA Zakir Hossain, who on February 17 was injured in a bomb blast in Murshidabad, is still admitted to the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Builders of Bengal: Atul Prasad Sen||Atul Prasad Sen is remembered today for his songs, known as “Atul Prasader Gaan”, a body of devotional, patriotic or intensely romantic songs written and set to music by him. They occupy a special place in Bengali culture and in the hearts of Bengalis. But Sen was also a dedicated social worker, a very successful barrister, an endearing man, and, in his quiet way, a rebel. He was born in Faridpur district, currently in Bangladesh. After the early death of his father, he was brought up by his maternal grandfather Kalinarayan Gupta, a noted Brahmo Samaj reformer who was also a kirtan singer. His mother later married another Brahmo Samaj reformer, Durga Mohan Das. Sen, who followed the Brahmo faith, imbibed his love for music and also his spirituality from his grandfather, and his songs belong as much to Brahmo tradition as to the Hindu devotional style. Sen studied briefly at Presidency College in Calcutta and then left for England to study law. After becoming a barrister, he returned to Calcutta and set up his practice here. He was in love with his cousin Hemkusum, his maternal uncle’s daughter. The couple married in Scotland under Scottish law in 1900. Sen returned to India soon after and set up his practice in Lucknow. In Lucknow, he found great success at the Bar. He became involved in the nationalist movement and the Indian National Congress. He was a close associate of Gopal Krishna Gokhale. Sen’s contribution to education was considerable: he was part of the effort to set up Lucknow University and a girl’s school. He was close to Rabindranath Tagore. Sen was the youngest and much-loved member of Khamkheyali Sabha (the eccentric group) set up by Tagore. Sen was one of the organisers of the first Prabasi Banga-Sahitya Sammelan, the Bengali literature meet held by Bengalis living outside Bengal, held in then Benares in 1922. He was a lawyer by day, but would be immersed in music by evening. Bits of lyrics would be found among his legal papers. He brought to Bengali music a tantalising new element: the use of thumri. He wrote 200-odd songs, many of which are sung till today. His songs were very popular in the Brahmo community and its worship and outside these as well. Kazi Nazrul Islam was influenced by Sen’s music. Sen’s wife separated from him, living in a different house in Lucknow. His own experience of longing and loss is said to have been behind the deep anguish of his love songs. One of Sen’s celebrated patriotic songs invoking the spirit of India, “Otho go Bharatlakshmi”, was composed by him on being inspired by the Gondola rowers’ song in Venice when he was visiting Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dad, son guard Murshidabad’s Lalgola constituency for 50 years||The rest of Bengal may be gearing up for a cliff-hanger of a Trinamul-BJP fight in the Assembly polls, but residents of Murshidabad’s Lalgola constituency seem to be in a more relaxed mood. Save for a 15-year window dating back to the state’s first post-Independence polls in 1952, this constituency has been witness to a father-son duo sweeping 13 Assembly polls cumulatively. This time around too, seven-time nominee and six-time Congress MLA Abu Hena is sure-footed about his home turf. His father, the late Abdus Sattar, was a seven-time MLA and popularly championed for bringing the Congress government’s “Sabuj Biplab” seed programme to fruition as the minister of agriculture in the cabinet of Siddhartha Sankar Ray. In his long stint in politics, Sattar also held the posts of Opposition leader as well as Pradesh Congress president. “We are a family of politicians, and as everyone knows, my father has done a lot for the good of Lalgola. That is why we have such good relations with the people over here,” says Hena, who is the Sanjukta Morcha-backed Congress candidate this time. “If it wasn’t for the people’s approval and support, we could not have stayed on this long,” he adds. Hena’s confidence stems from the fact that even in the height of Left Front rule and then during Trinamul’s domination, the people of Lalgola have never deserted the Congress. While Sattar was the winner of the 1967, 1969, 1971, 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1987 polls, Hena won the 1991 elections, the year his father died, as well as those in 1996, 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016. Prior to Sattar, Congress candidate Sayed Kazim Ali Mirza had secured three successive victories starting in 1952. Pitted against Hena this year is the Trinamul Congress’s Mohammed Ali, 57, a high school headmaster and veteran party worker who is the son of the late Idris Ali, a former MP and three-time MLA. Ali was a founding party worker of Trinamul and was widely touted as a right hand for Mamata Banerjee in the district in the late 1990s. “I am a son of the soil and people here believe in me,” says Ali, who oversees the KN Lalbagh school. “Congress people are rooted in Calcutta. I have been fed and raised here, so the people’s faith is with me. The Congress’s stronghold here will end this year,” Ali adds with an air of surety. Ali’s confidence will be put to test on April 29 when Lalgola goes to the polls in the last of the eight-phase elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal health department to upgrade its telemedicine facilities||The Bengal health department has decided to upgrade its telemedicine facilities within a week or so as it was felt that providing physical treatment to so many patients is almost impossible in view of the pandemic. “This time, the patients can avail themselves of the facility through video calling. It will help the patients as well as the healthcare facilities,” said an official. The central medical store will be open round the clock to ensure steady supply of medicines. The state government has decided to convert all 12 police hospitals into safe homes for police personnel. The state government has  asked the district authorities to conduct tests on central force jawans who have come for election duty. The idea is to isolate infected jawans so that others don’t get the disease. As expected, the state government has decided to enhance Covid beds by at least 20 per cent than what it had during the peak of the first wave. “Private hospitals in and around Calcutta have been asked to increase Covid beds by 25 per cent compared to what they had in October last year. Government hospitals will  increase beds by 20 per cent for Covid patients,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
17-04-2021||Opinion||Cradle Tales||Nothing succeeds like success. The saying may be banal, but its manifestations are exciting. The coolest thing on the block nowadays is birthplace spotting, since aggressive viruses can hardly be called cool. It is best to look away from such transient unpleasantnesses and find instead that visionary gleam, those glimpses of unearthly glory, that a Western poet had once longed for. He had mourned their passing, but they have not passed in 21st-century India. They are manifested in the building of the Ram temple underway after it was established by faith and other means that Ram, the hero of an epic for some and a deity for others, was born at that exact spot in Ayodhya. With the determination of the right place was also established the enormous potential for success in birthplace spotting. If Ram is given his cradle, can Hanuman be far behind? Hanuman has been worshipped through the ages as the ideal devotee; the numberless bhakts peopling India today would naturally wish to visit his birthplace at a new pilgrimage site. It is a little awkward that the birthplaces of figures from mythology and the epics are not always easy to pinpoint in soil and stone. As a result, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are at loggerheads over Hanuman’s correct birthplace: each state is claiming that the site lies within its territory. Karnataka has thrown two sites into the fray, actually. But the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple among others in Andhra Pradesh — which is not a Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state, by the way — formed an eight-member committee of experts that will, presumably, analyse and organize the “mythological, astrological and scientific” evidence regarding proof of Hanuman’s birthplace. The committee boasts various professors and vice-chancellors of Sanskrit and Vedic universities, a senior scientist from the Indian Space Research Organization and a senior archaeologist. The wonder represented by this unique blend of faith and science surpasses comment. Karnataka, however, cut to the chase as soon as the TTD formed its panel. The state is planning a multi-crore religious tourism project for the spot it first identified near Hampi as Hanuman’s birthplace. Hanuman Janmasthala will thus become a pilgrimage site, although the second site being claimed at Gokarna will also have a temple, an image and all the paraphernalia of a pilgrimage by next Ram Navami. Not fair to believers of course, torn between two, nay, three, possible birthplaces, but who would give up the revenue coming in from religious tourism? Nothing, as was noticed earlier, succeeds like success. Andhra Pradesh might appear to be giving back the BJP a lesson in faith-harvesting in its own coin, but its conflation of faith and science is harmful, cynical and self-serving. With all these birthplaces popping up, the mothers who gave birth might have been expected to figure somewhere. Jesus’s mother has her own space. But this is India after all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||Fight on: Mamata's silent protest against EC ban||Sir — It was quite heartening to see the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, sit in silent protest by herself against the 24-hour campaigning ban imposed on her by the Election Commission. While her comments that prompted the ban have been widely discussed, it must also be remembered that she has been targeted in the vilest of language by the top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Her resolve to prevent the saffronization of Bengal in the face of misogynistic bullying by the ruling party at the Centre is commendable. The next couple of weeks will be crucial for preserving Bengal’s free, inclusive fabric. One hopes the state will vote wisely. Darshana Gupta,Calcutta Damage control Sir — Alarmingly, Delhi has surpassed Mumbai to become the Indian city that is worst hit by Covid-19. In the light of this, the weekend curfew in the national capital announced by the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, is a sensible decision (“Delhi weekend curfew”, April 16). In an effort to check the frightening surge in cases — the city recorded 17,282 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which is the highest single-day surge in the capital since the pandemic started — Delhi will be under weekend curfew till April 30, pending further orders. However, will this be enough to reverse the damage done as a result of weeks of carelessness, both on the part of citizens and on the part of political leaders? The foremost leaders of the land — the prime minister and the Union home minister — have been setting a terrible example for people all over the country by encouraging crowded Bharatiya Janata Party rallies in poll-bound states. No Covid-19 protocols are followed at these rallies; Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have also kept tellingly mum on the huge surge in cases in the gatherings at the Kumbh Mela. If these are the precedents being set by the two most powerful leaders in the country, it stands to reason that the coronavirus will spread like wildfire all over India, including — perhaps especially in — the national capital. Aarti Nair,Delhi Sir — Delhi has now overtaken Mumbai in the daily Covid-19 infection tally by a significant margin. Doctors and others in the medical fraternity are reportedly perplexed by the massive surge in cases, with many opining that new, more infectious mutations of the virus may have emerged. Given the steady rise in cases over the past few weeks when no one was paying proper attention, it was only a matter of time before the surge hit Delhi, which had already been groaning under the weight of cases during the first wave of the pandemic. It is heartening that the weekend curfew has been imposed and the government has taken other measures to break the chain of transmission. For instance, there will be no in-house dining in restaurants and cinema halls will be allowed to operate at only 30 per cent capacity. However, these measures should have ideally been taken a while ago. Instead, life in the capital and in other parts of the country was allowed to resume as though the pandemic had ended. This complacence was perhaps fuelled in part by the vaccine roll-out. With strict compliance, Delhi can still manage to overcome this latest hurdle, but the government and citizens should have been far more careful. Aranya Mitra,Calcutta Record maker Sir — It is a matter of pride for Indian cricket fans that the captain of the men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, has been named the ‘one-day international cricketer of the 2010s’ in the 2021 edition of the prestigious Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack. This is a stupendous achievement for Kohli, but his fans and lovers of the game will not be surprised. After all, Kohli, who is considered to be one of the best captains that Indian cricket has produced till date, has had an enviable record of playing in the past decade. There is no dearth of extraordinary performances if one looks at his career. Kohli has already made a name for himself as a cricketing legend. This new development bears testimony to that. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||Fast friends: Amartya Sen and Mahbub ul Haq||Even I can understand a simply written new book on economics which explains why gross domestic product is no longer the best way to measure how well a country is doing since it does not take into account other relevant factors, such as the environmental damage caused by a dam, for instance, or unpaid house work by women. But GDP: The World’s Most Powerful Formula and Why It Must Now Change by Ehsan Masood, a science journalist and senior editor at the journal, Nature, in London, also tells of the close friendship between Amartya Sen and the late Pakistani economist, Mahbub ul Haq. They first met as undergraduates at Cambridge in 1953 and collaborated in America in 1989 on the possible alternative concept of a “Human Development Index”. Haq, born in Gurdaspur in 1934, was lucky to escape across the border into Pakistan during Partition. When Haq died prematurely in 1998, Sen delivered an emotional eulogy, calling his old friend “one of the most distinguished — and humane — practitioners of applied economics in the contemporary world”. Masood, who was born in London to parents who moved from India to Pakistan in the 1940s before later settling in the United Kingdom, has dedicated his book to Haq. He should certainly submit his work for the 2021 Financial Times and McKinsey & Company’s Business Book of the Year Award. Incidentally, I have been asked by the FT to encourage Indian publishers to submit books for this premier prize, which welcomes all entries. Previous winners include Liaquat Ahamed’s Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World (2009); Raghuram Rajan’s Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy (2010); and Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global Poverty, by (then Nobel Laureates to be), Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo (2011). Trundling along Jonathan Glancey knows his way around Calcutta. As a journalist who has written about design and architecture for The Independent and The Guardian, he has often got into arguments with prickly Indians about the need to preserve the country’s dilapidated but beautiful heritage buildings. His father, Clifford George Alexander Glancey, was born in Calcutta in 1912 and came to England at 21, the same age at which Jonathan began discovering India through train travel. In 2011, he wrote Nagaland: A Journey to India’s Forgotten Frontier. His latest lavishly illustrated book is about the evocative logos used by the numerous railway companies in America — Logomotive: Railroad Graphics and the American Dream — which he has co-authored with designer Ian Logan. Today, there are few cross-country passenger trains in the US but in the old days, people enjoyed the romance of travelling in the Orange Blossom Special or the Burlington Zephyrus. Freight trains remain and can be more than a mile in length. Jonathan is mindful that Shashi Tharoor has accused the British of building the railways to facilitate getting loot out of India. But he points out there are Brits who have a passion for the steam locomotives of yesteryear. Jonathan recalls riding the footplate of a WP-class Pacific steam locomotive from Delhi to Chandigarh. And I remember Sir Mark Tully once telling me that if he didn’t get covered in soot on the footplate, “we would want our money back”. Mark now laments: “I am in Delhi, very frustrated, because I have not been allowed to get on a train for over a year and there is no sign of a change in that situation.” First class Ian Jack was, in his time, regarded as the best writer on India. Jonathan Glancey says that it was Ian, when he was editor of the Independent on Sunday, who sent him off to India to write about train travel. I got Ian to talk of the romance of the railways. “There’s really no comparison between the railways of India and the USA,” says Ian. “Outside the commuter belts of the big cities and the line that links New York to Boston and Washington, passenger trains in America have become the reserve of prosperous old people, eccentrics and tourists. Famous lines and handsome stations have been abandoned; the onboard food isn’t great; fares are expensive and booking a journey can be troublesome. In India... trains are still a vivid part of rural and urban life. More and more people use them, even though the upper middle class has abandoned them in favour of domestic flights. My most recent journey was Mumbai to Delhi via the Western Ghats and Gwalior. The vegetarian dinner was warm, plentiful — second and third servings if you wanted them — and delicious, and I woke up trundling across the misty fields of UP. If you can spare the time, they remain the best way to go.” Sharp tongue India does not have the equivalent of Sir Alan Duncan which is perhaps just as well. He is very rude about parliamentary colleagues in his just published, In the Thick of It: The Private Diaries of a Minister. He calls Boris Johnson, “a buffoon, an international stain on our reputation, a selfish, ill-disciplined, shambolic, shameless clot”, while Priti Patel is dismissed as “a nothing person, a complete and utter nightmare, the Wicked Witch of Witham (her Essex constituency)”. Footnote Prince Philip’s funeral today will see his coffin transported inside Windsor Castle not on a traditional gun carriage but in a converted Land Rover he designed himself. Jaguar Land Rover, which Ratan Tata bought in 2008 for $2.3 billion, drew attention to the Indian connection: “The Duke devoted his life to public service and made a significant contribution to UK manufacturing, engineering and design.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||New formula||Over the last few years, a lot of media commentary has diagnosed the main political battle raging across India to be one between a secular and a Hindu majoritarian idea of India. In reality, that contestation has long been over. The hegemony of Hindutva in the political and cultural domain is clear from the fact that no recent electoral opponent of the Bharatiya Janata Party — from the Congress to the Aam Aadmi Party to the Trinamul Congress — has dared to launch a frontal attack on the ideas of Hindu nationalism. The political and ideological battle set to define India over the next decade seems to be a different one — one between a federal and a unitarian idea of India. The Bengal election might well be seen in retrospect as its most powerful curtain raiser. In the midst of the Bengal elections, Mamata Banerjee wrote a strongly-worded letter to 15 Opposition parties, calling for a “united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution”. The letter listed evidence of the BJP’s designs to establish a “one party authoritarian rule in India”. This included the recent move of downgrading the powers of Delhi’s state government, the misuse of investigative agencies against Opposition politicians, and the withholding of funds towards non-BJP governments. Absent in the letter was any mention of communalism, secularism or Hindu nationalism. The omission is curious because the BJP’s assault on federalism is deeply linked to the ‘one-nation’ ideology of Hindu nationalism. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has long been an opponent of federalism since the days when M.S. Golwalkar opposed the linguistic reorganization of states, claiming that it would hurt national unity. However, Opposition parties (with the exception of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Kashmir-based parties) are loath to make the federal autonomy argument in terms of opposition to Hindutva lest it gives fuel to the communal polarization strategy of the BJP. Even on the campaign trail, while Mamata Banerjee has been defensive on the issue of Hindu majoritarianism, loudly proclaiming her Hindu identity to blunt the BJP’s attacks, she has been belligerent on the state-Centre divide. In fact, she has sought to make the defence of ‘Bengali identity’ and ‘Bengali pride’ in the face of an authoritarian Centre the fulcrum of her campaign. This strategy has been replicated in the other poll-bound states as well. In Assam, the Congress and the AJP-Raijor Dal regional front have framed the election in terms of protection of ‘Assamese identity’ threatened by a BJP that imposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on Assam. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK has portrayed the AIADMK as a supplicant of the ‘Hindi-Hindu’ BJP, focusing on Tamil nationalism to drive its support. While regional identities have been skilfully used in recent years by Opposition parties to neutralize the BJP’s appeal — in Delhi, Jharkhand and Bihar — these elections still represent a qualitative change, where the state-Centre tussle has progressed to the forefront of electoral competition. This renewed salience of the state-Centre divide in Indian politics, perhaps at its strongest since the early 1970s, is only likely to intensify in the years to come — for two reasons. First, the increasingly naked authoritarianism of the BJP. When the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014, it combined its strategy of repression with the co-option of regional elites. The role of regional parties such as the BJD, TRS and YSRCP in the construction of the authoritarian structure in India is often under-appreciated. The BJD, TRS and YSRCP supported the government on all contentious bills, including the RTI (amendment) bill, the triple talaq bill, the UAPA amendment bill, the Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation bill, and (with the exception of the TRS) the citizenship amendment bill. In exchange for their support in Parliament, the BJP has maintained a cordial relationship with these parties. However, as the next prized frontier of the BJP’s electoral machine shifts to Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, it won’t be surprising if the hardball tactics of investigative agencies and an over-intrusive governor are unleashed in these states. It must be remembered that the National Democratic Alliance is now just nine short of a majority in the Rajya Sabha, and victory in Bengal might inch them closer still. The ruthlessness with which the BJP clipped the powers of the state government in Delhi, in contravention of an express Supreme Court judgment, provides enough evidence that neither constitutional propriety nor past instances of support (the AAP had supported the J&K reorganization bill) would be enough to deter the BJP. India’s federal power structure was greatly strengthened in the 1990s, not out of conviction of the two main national parties — the Congress and the BJP — but as a result of a grudging accommodation of new political realities. No government at the Centre could function without alliances with regional parties that gave the latter enormous leverage with the Centre. The situation has now been completely reversed, with regional parties having few negotiating cards to play against the most powerful Central government since the time of Indira Gandhi. In proportion to its growing power, the centralization drive of the BJP has accelerated in virtually every domain — finance, law and order, education, health and agriculture. Second, state parties and leaders have been left with little ammunition to build their political support and, therefore, might find in regional pride an increasingly attractive mobilizing mechanism. The increased financial devolution since the 1990s ensured that many chief ministers had the funds to carve out political constituencies based on welfare spending. This financial room, already constricted by the fiscal centralization brought by the GST, has all but disappeared with the fiscal crisis brought on by the pandemic. Matters have been made worse by the aggressive centralization of welfare schemes under the Modi regime with voters more likely to attribute credit to Modi for welfare schemes implemented by state governments. If the leaders of the government of Maharashtra are taking regular pot-shots at the Centre, most recently over the ‘favouring’ of vaccine distribution towards BJP-ruled states, it’s also because they are struggling to implement a positive welfare agenda. It might be recalled here that one of the main reasons fuelling the anti-Congress, anti-Centre politics among regional parties in the 1970s was not just the authoritarian intervention of Indira Gandhi in non-Congress states but also her use of discretionary funds of welfare programs to favour Congress-ruled states. “The distributive politics (of welfare) under Indira Gandhi was intended to cause the opposition parties who formed state governments to fail both to meet popular expectations and repeat electoral victories,” wrote Chanchal Sharma and Wilfried Swenden in their book, Understanding Contemporary Indian Federalism. It wouldn’t be surprising if leaders like Naveen Patnaik, K. Chandrashekar Rao and Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy become less certain of their welfare-based political constituencies and become even more strident in their emphasis on Odia, Telangana and Andhra pride in the next round of state elections. Conversely, the BJP might double down on its welfare centralization and authoritarian tactics to make up for its weak organization in these states, as it has already done in others. The long-term threat for the BJP is if most of these state parties come together in an umbrella coalition to face the Modi government in 2024, as Mamata Banerjee called for in her letter. One of the reasons the BJP could command a substantial Lok Sabha majority with a 38 per cent vote share was the fragmentation of the national Opposition, which was at about the same level as 2014, even if there was relatively more Opposition unity in some states such as Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. This possibility of an anti-BJP umbrella coalition will depend on two factors. One, the performance of the BJP in these state elections, as any electoral weakness shown by the BJP will precipitate more calls for Opposition unity. And, two, the ability and willingness of the Congress to form a nucleus of a broad anti-BJP front. The growing enthusiasm of the Congress to cede space to regional parties, showcased both in its grand alliances in Bengal and Assam, is an interesting pointer in this regard. Whether such a broad anti-coalition materializes or not, what is clear is that the most potent resistance to the BJP’s authoritarianism is made not in terms of secularism or even civil liberties, but in terms of regional pride. This will likely be the metaphor grounding the next major battle over the ‘idea of India’. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bike accident kills one in Hazaribagh||Hazaribagh: Two brothers returning from Hazaribagh town to their home in Natrajnagar in Barkagaon block met with an accident on Saturday with one of them dying on the spot. The accident took place 13km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter near Phatha Chowk on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road. A tractor hit the bike killing the elder brother Sanjay Kumar Soni. The younger brother Pappu Kumar Soni sustained minor injuries and was admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Eyewitnesses said the tractor was travelling at a high speed and hit the bike at a sharp turn. Relatives of the brothers had blocked Phatha chowk demanding compensation but withdrew their protest after officials intervened. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: Around 217 individuals in Palamau with mild Covid symptoms have been asked to be in home isolation by officials. Epidemiologist Dr Anup Kumar said the individuals are gradually recovering and only two of them required hospitalisation. The epidemiologist has asked people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We have given strict instructions to the officials to keep a watch that people undergoing home isolation be kept indoors and not step out and mingle with others.” SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar on the other hand said police have been given strict instructions to ensure no one steps out during home isolation. Kumar said the violators will be punished under disaster management act and the IPC. SP said we know there are some hard souls who just don't understand the delicacy of the home isolation and for such souls there are other measures like lodging of the case under disaster management act and IPC as well. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Officials of Thriveni Sainik Private Limited, an outsourcing company of NTPC in Barkagaon on Saturday provided 30 high flow nasal cannula to deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand. Thriveni officials said HFNC is useful in Covid-related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in patients. Doctors are using HFNC oxygen therapy extensively as it has emerged as an alternative to ventilator support. HFNC therapy is an oxygen supply system capable of delivering up to 100% humidified and heated oxygen at a flow rate of up to 60 litres per minute. Anand said the company has promised to give 70 more from its CSR fund. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Pandemic no deterrent for Madhupur voters||Voting for the bypoll for Madhupur constituency in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district on Saturday registered 71.60 percentage, which was about two notches lesser than the 73.77 percent polling registered during the 2019 assembly elections. However, the district administration hailed the turnout considering the brutal second wave of Covid-19 pandemic that has hit the country. Of the 3.22 lakh electorates, female voters bypassed their male counterparts in terms of turnout at the polling booths. Female and male voter turnout remained at 73.71 and 70.07 percentage respectively, stated the district election officer and deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, during a press conference, which was organised after the conclusion of polling at 6 pm. Since morning, there was immense enthusiasm across all the voting booths despite the pandemic, he said, adding that entire election process remained hassle free and no untoward incident was reported at any place. Voting began at 7 am and ended at 6pm. “No untoward incident was reported at any of the 487 polling booths, and everything went as per the plan,” said the official adding that they had put in elaborate arrangements and had deputed enough officials at every polling booth to ensure necessary precaution was taken by the voters and polling agents. The bypoll was poised as a bipolar fight between UPA and NDA. While the ruling UPA comprising JMM, Congress and RJD put up incumbent minister Hafizul Hassan as joint candidate on this seat, BJP has put up Ganga Narayan Singh, an AJSU-P turncoat as the NDA candidate. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Hafizul’s father, a former minister in Soren cabinet in October last year. Madhupur is the third by-election for the incumbent regime since Soren government came to power in 2019. The results will be announced on May 2. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee thanked people for greater turnout. “JMM is more than confident of winning the seat back,” he reiterated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand governor tests positive for Covid||Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu was among the near 4,000 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday. The sexagenarian was admitted to Bagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi and is undergoing treatment under Dr. Vijay Mishra, who also treated Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto in Ranchi before he was shifted to Chennai. Doctors from the hospital said that Murmu was stable. However, she was kept under observation and administered the antibiotics and multivitamins prescribed to Covid patients. Meanwhile, as many as 30 Covid patients died during treatment on Saturday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1,406, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 3,838 cases against 1,234 recoveries took the active caseload to 25,619 on the day, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi alone reported as many as 1,410 fresh cases of infection on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district also reported five Covid casualties in 24 hours. On the other hand, East Singhbhum reported 521 cases and six casualties on the day, the NHM stated in its bulletin. While at least four Covid patients died in Bokaro, Sahebganj, Ramgarh and West Singhbhum reported two deaths each on Saturday. Dhanbad, Godda, Dumka, Khunti, Koderma and Pakur reported one Covid casualty each on the day. The active caseload on Saturday crossed the 10,000 mark in Ranchi, which is at least 7000 more than East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in terms of caseload. As many as 10,510 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday, while the count of patients in East Singhbhum was 3,373. As per government data, the state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 37,152 people and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 1.58 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Covid-19 and around 82.99 per cent of them have recovered. The second wave of Covid-19 has also triggered an unprecedented rise in the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand, reveals government data. On Saturday, the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 1.89 per cent against the national average of 1.03 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was down to 36.93 days against the national average of 67.94 days. On Saturday, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 37,243 people, hardly 37 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 8,819 beneficiaries, only 3 per cent of the nearly 3 lakh registered for the dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur gets charging hub for electric vehicles ||An electric car charging station has been set up by Tata Steel- owned Jusco in Bistupur. At present, the steel city has around 40 electric cars primarily being charged at the owners’ residence. Tata Motors is the producer of such cars. "Once the car-charging facility is launched, those who own electric cars will be able to get their vehicles charged in a very short period. The car-charging facility is plugged with 440 Volt power and a car can be charged in just one hour time," said Sukanya Das, spokesperson of Jusco, to The Telegraph Online. Manish Kumar, who looks after the electric car division at ASL Motors, said: "There is an in-built facility in such cars to get them charged at home also. At home, a car can be charged with 220 Volt, the power supplied for domestic consumption, but it will take seven hours for getting a 440 Volt power, the same vehicle can be charged in just one hour." "Though we have a charging station at our service center in Adityapur, setting up a charging station at the heart of the city in Bistupur will prove to be a boon for the electric car owners, "said the ASL Motors official. "It takes five units for the car to get fully charged. The cost of five units is about Rs 45. By getting the vehicle fully charged, I can travel up to 100 km with the air conditioning of the car on. Without AC, the car will cover another 20 km, "said Pawan, a resident of Bhuiyandih, adding that the only demerit of such a car is that one can not go for a long drive at a stretch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand state board defers Class X and Class XII exams||Jharkhand Academic Council on Saturday announced the postponement of class X and class XII board exams till June in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. JAC exams were scheduled to take place from May 4 where over seven lakh students were expected to appear at around 2200 centres. The state board joined the league of national boards which adopted similar measures to prevent the spread of the virus amid the raging second wave of the pandemic. JAC in a statement said that they will take a call on fresh dates after reviewing the situation on June 1. JAC secretary, Mahip Singh said, “Students will be provided at least two weeks advance time to prepare before rescheduling fresh dates.” The examination board had halted the practical examinations, which were on since April 6 on an immediate basis till further notice. Congress MLA from Mahagama Dipika Pandey had written a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren to defer the examinations. Parents’ bodies had also urged Hemant to cancel or postpone the exams for their children’s safety. “Cancelling the exams for now was the best option before us to prevent children from getting infected,” Hemant said during an all party online meeting held earlier on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||At all-party meet, JMM favours lockdown, but Congress disagrees ||The JMM demanded a complete lockdown for a few days to break the Covid-19 transmission chain at an all-party meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren online on Saturday evening. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “It is high time we go for a complete lockdown to break the virus chain. And reopening should be in a phased manner. Rest, whatever decision the government takes, the party will wholeheartedly support.” State NCP president Kamlesh Kumar supported the JMM. “Lockdown seems to be the need of the hour. If not a long lockdown, we must go for at least three days full lockdown in a week,” he said. Representatives of all parties in the state attended the meeting. The Congress, part of the ruling alliance in the state, however, didn’t back the government on a lockdown. State party chief and finance minister  Rameshwar Oraon said, “We are not in favour of an economic lockdown as it will affect the poor. But, yes, there is a need for social and religious lockdown.” He asked state BJP president Deepak Prakash to push the BJP government at the Centre to open up vaccination for all in hotspots of Jharkhand to prevent severity of infections. While Prakash did not air his views on a lockdown, he assured Hemant that his party would  upport the state government in its fight against Covid-19. “We certainly agree that there is a need for strict regulations to control the spread of Covid. Whatever decisions the government takes, we will back,” said Prakash, and went on to suggest a few measures. Prakash asked the state government to immediately set up 24x7 helplines in all districts for information on availability of hospital beds, timely testing and furnishing of reports. He also called for strict monitoring of patinets in home isolation. BJP’s ally, AJSU-P’s chief Sudesh Mahto asked the state government to immediately curb blackmarketing of medicines and beds in hospitals. He also wondered why Covid testing wasn't being ramped up. “Just yesterday, many people who returned from Maharashtra were tested at Ranchi station. The government has to step up monitoring and implementation on the ground,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: BJP MLA to be airlifted to Hyderabad ||BJP’s Sindri legislator Indrajit Mahto, undergoing treatment at Dhanbad for Covid-19, was rushed to Ranchi after his condition deteriorated on Saturday. He was scheduled to be airlifted to a Hyderabad hospital from the capital. Mahto was admitted to Jalan Hospital on April 12. He tested negative during the course of the treatment but developed a lung infection that required a more intensive treatment. Health minister Banna Gupta helped in arranging for Mahto’s treatment in Hyderabad. “The MLA accompanied by his wife, son and daughter, besides the district general secretary of BJP Nitai Rajwar; Rajar’s nephew and Principal of private B Ed College, Smriti Negi will be airlifted to Hyderabad for better treatment of lung infection,” said Sanjay Jha to The Telegraph Online. “We waited at Bokaro for around two hours but due to bad weather conditions the air ambulance could not arrive at Bokaro and instead went to Raipur,” said Jha. “The air ambulance will return to Ranchi from Raipur and the MLA will then be shifted to Hyderabad from Ranchi,” said Jha. BJP State President Deepak Prakash had made arrangements for Mahto at Medica Super speciality Hospital in Ranchi but his family insisted on him being treated at Chennai or Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Students, principals say CISCE adding to stress, want clarity||Principals and students of ICSE schools of Jharkhand have sought more clarity from the council after it decided to postpone board examinations for classes 10 and 12, saying that future dates would be announced after a review of the Covid scenario in June. This uncertainty has added to the stress of Class 10 students, many of whom were hoping for a decision on the lines of CBSE that has allowed Class 10 students the option of a re-test if they were not satisfied with the results declared on the basis of a pre-determined assessment formula. “My friends from CBSE know that they will not have to appear for the exams. But I cannot relax as there is no clarity whether I have to appear for the exams or not. And even if I opt for internal assessment, there is no clarity on the process of internal assessment, which is making the situation even more confusing and frustrating,” said a Class 10 student of Sacred Heart School, Hulhundu, Ranchi. Many principals are in agreement with students that the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decision could have been less ambiguous. "The council could have taken a clear stand without creating confusion for students. It could have followed CBSE whose students are mentally prepared that there will be no exams. We understand that Class 12 exams are important to seek admission in colleges but Class 10 results hardly play a role," said principal of Kerala Samajam Model School, Jamshedpur, Nandini Shukla. Parents are upset too, saying that the lack of a clear stand by the council was putting mental health of students in jeopardy, pointing out that this was a batch of students that attended a year of online classes. Also, it seemed CISCE was setting different standards, they added. “When the Prime Minister himself has decided to cancel CBSE exams after chairing a meeting with the education minister and education secretary, the CISCE’s stand of making students wait till June to get a clearer picture of the situation is not something parents or students would appreciate,” said Ajay Rai, president of Jharkhand Parents’ Association. CISCE, in a letter addressed to principals of all ICSE and ISC schools, said on Friday that it was deferring board exams scheduled to begin on May 4 in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the board examinations will be taken by the first week of June 2021,” the letter stated. As per the letter, Class 10 candidates will have the option to either appear for the board exam along with Class 12 students or opt for a “fair and unbiased criterion” through which the board will evaluate their performance. The criterion, however, wasn’t announced. Then again not everyone among teachers and students were that critical of the council. Father Sibu Abrahim Mathews, the principal of St Thomas School in Ranchi, defended the council’s decision, calling it fair and in the best interest of students. “Students have the option to not appear for the offline exams. Where is the disparity here? If students are asked to stay prepared for exams, then it is only for their benefit,” said Mathews. Students who are keen on sitting for an offline examination are willing to wait. But they agree the council could have been more specific about the options open to students. "Firstly, I would like to answer my exams whenever it is conducted. But the council shouldn't have given two options because it is somewhat confusing. I would want to wait and watch and appear for the exams along with Class XII," said Abir Roy, a student of De Nobili, CMRI in Dhanbad. Manali Sengupta, a student of Kerala Samajam Model School in Jamshedpur, also said that she would prefer to sit for the board examination. “But the council should have come out with a clear guideline without leaving room for confusion,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's coking coal industry upbeat after Australia import ||The scarcity of coal and a dwindling market affected more than 120 coking coal factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Ramgarh in the last few years. Recently, with the revival of the steel industry and import of cheaper coal from Australia, the industry has made an upturn including generating over 50 thousand jobs for local labourers. Australian coal besides being good quality is also available at comparatively cheaper rates compared with the locally available coal provided by different Coal India subsidiaries like Bharat Coking Coal Limited  (BCCL); Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) and Central Coalfields Limited (CCL). Around 50 of the 120 factories have completely shifted to Australian coal being provided to them by the pig iron industry and blast furnace industry. The remaining are using a combination of both. The trade war between China and Australia led to increased import of coal to India at cheaper rates. The coal is imported by ships through Haldia and Paradip ports. B.N. Singh, president of Industries and Commerce Association, said: “The increased import of coal from Australia during January And February this year led to revival of hard coke industries and several industries which were lying closed due to lack of coal.” “The Australian coal availability has decreased our dependence on local coal suppliers as despite our repeated demands to Coal India management the supply of quality coal has not improved for us,” said Singh. Small coking coal factories require around 3 thousand tonne of coal a month while the large factories require around 10 to 17 thousand tonne per month. Amitesh Sahay, owner of a Govindpur based Hard Coke Factory, said: “the wrong policy of Coal India Limited has led to the decreased dependence of hard coke factories of Jharkhand on it’s coal it has failed to provide the required quality of ccoal to local industries, who in turn have shifted to imported coal to China.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary says no to tourists due to Covid spike ||Dalma wildlife sanctuary has declared no-entry for tourists, thanks to the second wave of Coronavirus. Though the state government has not given any directive to shut the elephant bode, but forest  authorities are against taking unnecessary risk at a time when the pandemic is spreading fast in Jharkhand and across the country. Dalma divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar said the sanctuary has been shut as a precautionary measure. “It will be wise to keep the sanctuary shut for tourists. We have not received any guidelines in this regard but we took the decision as a precautionary step,” he added. According to him, entry of tourists in good numbers would pose risk at a difficult time. “The virus is spreading fast. Allowing outstation tourists would pose a risk. The virus may be transmitted in animals. There is no need to take any unnecessary risk at this stage,” Kumar added. The state government is expected to issue guidelines, which includes closure of sanctuaries and nature parks. The Dalma sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur, was also closed for tourists due to the pandemic in March last year. It re-opened early last month when the Covid cases came down. Foresters said tourists, including some from Bengal, who had booked resorts and were enjoying their time, have left the sanctuary. “The decision to shut the sanctuary was taken on Thursday evening. The tourists were asked to vacate the accommodations by Saturday. However, most went back home by Friday afternoon,” one of the foresters said requesting anonymity. The resorts at the 192 sq km sanctuary, including the recently commissioned bamboo cottage at Makulakocha, were booked till April end. Requests for bookings were pouring in almost every day. However, no further bookings was being entertained. “Nobody except forest officials  would be allowed entry to the sanctuary. All the resorts will remain shut till further orders,” the forester said. It is peak season for tourists. The state forest department will have to suffer a revenue loss. Tourists will miss watching elephants who are presently scattered across the sanctuary. All the elephants have ambled back to the sanctuary after their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Now is definitely the best time to visit the sanctuary, known for Asiatic elephants. Sunil Prasad, a resident of  Sakchi in Jamshedpur, said he had booked  two rooms at the plush AC cottages at Makulakocha for a family getaway next month. “Now  we have to wait till the sanctuary re-opens,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand HC grants bail to Lalu Prasad Yadav in Dumka treasury case||The Jharkhand High Court on Saturday granted bail to RJD president Lalu Prasad in the Dumka treasury case of the multi-crore rupees fodder scam on completion of half the sentence period, paving way for his release from jail. The bail order was given by Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh. But, his release will take time for want of completion of formalities. Prasad's lawyer Devarshi Mandal told PTI that they will move Special CBI court in Ranchi after it opens on Monday to seek his release following High Court order. The RJD chief is in judicial custody in AIIMS New Delhi since January. Explaining the release procedure, Mandal said, they have send an application to Prasad for his signature which will be submitted to the CBI court here Monday along with the HC order. Since his signed application will be there so Prasad need not appear in person before the CBI court, he said. The CBI court will then send the order to Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi, in whose custody Prasad was originally sent by the court. The Birsa Munda jail authorities will send the relevant papers to Tihar jail in the national capital, in whose custody Prasad is at present, which will enact the release process of Prasad, Mandal said. Mandal said all the formalities are expected to be completed expeditiously and the release in all probability will happen on Monday. Prasad will be freed after 39 months and 25 daysof incarceration. While allowing bail prayer to Prasad, the court directed him to submit his passport and not leave the country without permission. It also instructed him not to change his address and mobile number during the bail period. The court also ordered him to deposit Rs 5 lakh penalty amount each in two cases-one under IPC sections and another Corruption Act- and two sureties of Rs one lakh each. While sentencing Prasad in the Dumka case on March 24, 2018 to 14 years in jail, a special CBI court of Ranchi had also imposed a fine of Rs 60 lakh, Rs 30 lakh each under IPC sections and corruption Act. The instant case is related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury in the early 1990s. Prasad had acquired bail in three other cases of the fodder scam-Deogarh, Chaibasa and Ranchi's Doranda trasury cases- and was waiting for judgement in the Dumka case. During hearing in virtual mode, CBI counsel Rajiv Sinha opposed Prasad's bail plea. The RJD leader's lawyer Kapil Sibal appearing through video-conferencing said his client has completed half the sentence period and should be given bail. The 73-year-old RJD supremo was airlifted to AIIMS New Delhi on January 24 last in view of his bad health. The Rs 950 cror fodder scam took place in the Animal Husbandry department in Bihar when Prasad was the chief minister. Lalu is in Ranchi jail after his sentence in Rs 89 lakh Deogarh trerasury case on December 23, 2017. Meanwhile, a report from Patna, said that Prasad's family and RJD leaders and workers expressed happiness over grant of bail to him. But, in view of the raging coronavirus situation, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh urged all partymen not to throng the 10 Circular road residence of Rabri Devi to celebrate the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand records highest ever single day fatalities ||It was Black Friday for Jharkhand since the Covid-19 outbreak last year with the state recording a staggering 59 fatalities and 3,843 fresh infections over 24 hours. As per the covid bulletin issued by the health department, the total active cases in the state have now risen to 23,045 and going by the speed of infections, the state government is fearing a further spike of at least 12,000 by end of this month. Besides the exponential growth of infection,  mounting death toll has also emerged as the greatest concern for the state amid the second wave of the pandemic that has already unleashed mayhem nationally with over two lakh new cases being reported daily. The state’s single day fatalities on Friday were almost equivalent to the total deaths for January and February this year. The cumulative death count during the first two months in 2021 stood at 57 whereas 22 deaths were reported in March. In the last seven days, 180 deaths were reported in the state, which means that 25 deaths took place per day. Friday’s deaths were across 11 districts with Ranchi and East Singhbhum leading the with 16 and 13 casualties respectively. Bokaro and Dhanbad each had four deaths and three each occurred in Godda and Lohardaga. Two deaths each were reported from Giridih, Koderma, Latehar and Sahibganj and one death each from  Dumka, Garhwa, Palamu, Ramgarh and Simdega. Ranchi clocked the highest number of infections with 1,372 new cases. It was followed by East Singhbhum (709), Hazaribagh (182), Deoghar (173), Koderma (159), Bokaro (140), Ramgarh (126), Gumla (112), West Singhbhum (107) and Dhanbad (93). “Unlike the first wave, the virus has penetrated deep in Jharkhand’s rural areas as well, which should be the gravest concern for the state government that is clearly struggling to get a grip on the situation. If the virus strikes  rural areas, it would mean an exodus of patients to big cities like Ranchi, and Jamshedpur for treatment. "Hospitals are already under immense stress, leading to delays in  admissions resulting in deaths. The writing is already on the wall,” warned a senior doctor of the state government, revealing that five officials in the chief minister’s residence too tested positive on Friday. Overall, 1,55,115 people have been infected with the virus since March last year. Of them, 1,30,694 recovered and 1,376 lost lives. State’s seven-day growth rate now is 1.78 per cent, higher than the national average of 0.87 per cent. The doubling rate in the state is 39.27 days vis-à-vis the national average of 72.17. The state’s recovery rate has fallen to 84.25 per cent against country’s average of 88.30 per cent whereas mortality rate is now at 87 per cent in regard to the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Railways introduce four Ranchi-bound superfast special trains||The railways have introduced four Ranchi-bound superfast special trains from Mumbai and Surat to “reduce the excessive rush of passengers” from those Covid affected places. When the first of those trains reached Hatia station of Ranchi on Thursday morning, some of the passengers were found to be Covid positive, raising apprehension that they may be spreading the diseases further. While each of the two trains from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus of Mumbai will run twice every week till April-end and will make 11 trips to Ranchi, another train that left Panvel near Mumbai around midnight on Thursday will make a single trip only. Besides, another special train from Surat also started its journey towards Hatia in Ranchi on Thursday and will make 7 trips during the rest of the current month. “As of now, we are aware about these special trains only and have no idea if any more would be run from those places,” Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi railway division, informed when asked. The first of these trains from Mumbai reached Hatia station with about 1,450 passengers on Thursday morning and 1,312 of them were subjected to rapid antigen test that found 54 of them to be positive. The rest perhaps boarded another train that left the same station for Patna after some time and proceeded towards their respective destinations, it is believed. “The possibility of their speeding the disease can’t be ruled out as they travelled with fellow passengers for over a day and also went home using public transport,” said a railway employee, adding he doubted if those tested positive would strictly confine themselves in home isolation. If this is an indication, more such Covid positive patients are likely to reach Ranchi by the remaining trains and add to the problem, he apprehended. Meanwhile, reports of relatives moving around in search of availability of beds in hospitals continued to appear in local media. As per data released by the state government, the number of active cases in Jharkhand rose to 20,651 at 9 pm on Thursday as 3,480 new positive cases were detected on that day and 28 died. Among the districts,  Ranchi continued to be worst affected. With 1,393 positive were detected on Thursday that accounted for 40 per cent of the state’s total new cases, Ranchi had an active caseload of 8,661 that comprised of 42 per cent of the state’s total. In view of the situation, the government decided on Friday to run the state secretariat with only 50 per cent of the staff attending office while the rest were allowed to work from home. Some localities of Ranchi have been particularly affected and there are families having multiple positive cases. “We have decided to help such families with elderly persons and students that do not have anyone to help,” said Ranchi’s BJP MP Sanjay Seth, adding his team would deliver nutritious food, milk and fruits included, to such families for 15 days, beginning Sunday, free of cost. Issuing three WhatsApp numbers, Seth requested such affected families to send him copies of Covid positive report, detailed residential addresses and contact numbers so that they could deliver food to such families smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
17-04-2021||Jharkhand||Probe into mule accounts fraud in Jharkhand||A three-member probe team constitutedby the Latehar district administration in Jharkhand visited worksites of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in Manika block on Friday after a survey byrights activists found that mule accounts are being allegedly used by middlemen to siphon off MGNREGS funds. Acting on the directive of Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran, the probe teamled by Pankaj Kumar, district rural development agency (DRDA) director, and comprising Latehar Sadar subdivisional magistrate Shekhar Kumar and junior engineer Roushan Kumar inspectedthe doba (small ponds) construction sites in Bhadaibathan panchayat of Manika block. “The team inspected the doba construction sites of Santu Yadav, Sunil Paswan, Krishna Paswan and Bishunti Kunwar in Bhadaibathan panchayat. They also examined the documents, muster rolls, MIS (information management system) reports, etc, to find out about the payments and the work done by different villagers as well as their documents. “The team would be submitting its report to the deputy commissioner in a day or two. We found several anomalies indicating the presence of mule accounts,” said a senior official associated with the team. Imran told The Telegraph that the team was constituted as soon as the allegation of siphoning off scheme funds was made to the district administration. “We had constituted the team soon after receiving the complaint about siphoning off funds through mule accounts from the rights activists. The team will be submitting its report. We will certainly take action on those involved based on the report,” he said. State rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik admitted that she had received similar complaints earlier as well. “We had received complaints of such mule accounts being used to siphon off MGREGS funds during the construction of PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana) houses. We verified the complaints in our social audit and took steps to rectify it. We will be asking all deputy commissioners to be alert about such fraudulent practices,” said Patnaik. A survey conducted under the aegis of NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Latehar, by a team comprising Belgian-born economist and Jharkhand-based activist Jean Dreze, James Herenj (NREGA Watch) and other rights activists found that the bank accounts of beneficiaries who have not done any work under the rural job scheme are being allegedly used by middlemen in Latehar district to siphon off MGNREGS funds. The Telegraph had reported about the survey findings on Friday. The survey was conducted between April 12 and 13 and the team members met the deputy commissioner on April 15. “We believe that similar practices of siphoning off funds are being carried out in other districts of Jharkhand as well. We would submit our recommendation on checking such malpractices to the rural development department and the chief minister soon,” said Dreze. Sources in the rural development department claimed that funds to the tune of over Rs 270 crore had been siphoned off using mule accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-79
