18-04-2021||Calcutta||Cambridge cancels May-June exams||The Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) has cancelled its May-June exams and decided to switch from “exam to school-assessed grades”, schools that offer the curriculum said. Several schools in the city that follow the CAIE received an email late on Friday. “In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country, we have decided to switch Cambridge International Schools in India, from exams to school-assessed grades, so that students can receive certification and progress with their education,” said an email from The Cambridge School quoting the mail from CAIE. At least three city schools, The Cambridge School, Bridge International School and Vidyanjali International School, informed students of the change on Saturday. In the mail sent to parents, The Cambridge School’s exam team said:  “We are writing to inform you that the May-June exams will not be held and you will have the option to either withdraw your candidate for May June exams...or have him/her receive a school-assessed grade.” In several city schools, students take the IGCSE (Class X), AS & A-levels (Class XI and XII). In CAIE, students have the option to switch to the October-November exams, school heads said. In a few schools in the city, students took the February-March exams. “Ninety-five per cent of our Class XII students have taken the February-March exam... Classes X and XI had been asked to wait thinking the situation will get better. Now, they are getting an option under the changed circumstances,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, director, The Cambridge School. Schools in the city said they welcomed the decision. “We were receiving queries from parents about the exams especially since the boards in the country were cancelling or deferring exams. This will allay their fears,” said Saswati Datta, principal, Vidyanjali International School. Schools are also waiting for an interaction with the board, scheduled next week, for information about the school-assessed grades process. “The performance of a student in the last academic year, the assessments will be taken into account to award the grades. We are looking forward to the webinar to get more information,” said Shilpi Saha, exam officer, Bridge International School. Garden High International School will hold a meeting with parents to inform them about the decision. “We will encourage students to take the school-assessed grades because college admission of Class XII could get impacted if they have to wait for the October-November series,” said Anuradha Das, the director of the school. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,253 on Saturday to 45,300. The state recorded 3,426 recoveries and 7,713 new infections during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Polarisation does worry some voters||A mother and son who voted in Salt Lake lamented that issues like health, education and livelihood that bothered them found little or no mention in the political discourse, while religion and identities were being talked about in rally after rally. Covid vaccine doses are in short supply and there are no vacant Covid beds in many hospitals but they are rarely spoken about, they said. “Instead, there are boasts about a Ram temple,” said Soma Ganguly, 55, a homemaker who voted in HA Block. “I have grown up and lived in a Bengal where Sikhs were not touched during the 1984 riots, where Muslims did not feel insecure after the Babri Masjid demolition. The city and the state have always remained calm even when riots ravaged several parts of the country. But that peace and tranquillity is under threat now,” Soma said. “The election rallies now are a competition of who can speak more along religious lines,” she said. Soma said she wanted to hear more on how the parties would solve the vaccine shortage problem, how many affordable hospitals they would build or how many jobs they would create. Her son Somdeep, 29, said he “could not have imagined a few years back” that communal polarisation would drive the election campaign narrative in Bengal. “The real issues that affect people have become secondary and it pains me,” said Somdeep, a junior research fellow at the Wildlife Institute of India at Dehradun. “We want a peaceful society where people do not have to think about protecting themselves from mobs who target them for their identity,” he said. Soma and Somdeep felt that the Covid-19 pandemic had once again shown the importance of affordable healthcare for people and the need for more health facilities. So many people had to spend lakhs to get treated at private hospitals, spending their savings of years for a few days’ of hospitalisation. Covid vaccines are in short supply and there are no va-cant Covid beds in many hospitals. “The population needs to be vaccinated very fast to outpace the rise in infections, but India does not have enough vaccines. There are no vacant beds for Covid treatment in hospitals. I have many doctor friends who warned me that getting a bed if one gets infected is almost impossible. Jobs are few and our children are forced to go out of the state. These are the primary issues,” Soma said. She lamented that despite such a grim reality, “Ram temple and communal polarisation have become the biggest issue of this election”. The BJP, which has emerged as the principal challenger to the Trinamul Congress in the Assembly elections this time, has been accused by many of running a vicious communal campaign, pitting communities against each other. Several residents of Salt Lake and New Town said the BJP’s star campaigners had often highlighted “infiltrators” and “Bangladeshis illegally crossing over and staying in Bengal” during their speeches. AB Block resident Priti Kumar Sen said that earlier this week home minister Amit Shah had told a gathering of BJP supporters at the FD park that if the people of Bengal vote the BJP to power they would ensure that “not only Bangladeshi infiltrators but even birds will not be able to cross the borders and land in Bengal”. “We have trade relations with Bangladesh that is a neighbouring country and this lambasting of people from there is not only uncalled for but in a way is also a tactic to divide people based on communal faultlines. Many residents of Salt Lake including myself trace their roots to Bangladesh,” said Sen. New Town resident Ananya Choudhury, who works for a multinational company, said many of her neighbours in her housing complex who were not Hindu “happily participate in our festivals”. “Politics based on religion and radicalism has no place in Bengal. It is sad that several political leaders have been trying to do the same thing that the British did to us,” saidChoudhury. The divide along religious lines in society also pains Biswanath Biswas, who retired as a professor from Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Biswas said some of his closest friends were Muslims and he never felt he looked at them as Muslims and they never looked at him as a Hindu “ever”. “We were all friends. That was our identity. I have eaten at their home on Id and they have eaten at my home during Puja. That is how things should be,” said Biswas, 68. The unwillingness of political parties to stop large gath-erings at election rallies despite the rising Covid cases has also shocked the Gangulys. “We deserve more responsible political leaders,” said Somdeep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: No division on religious lines. Kabhi nahin: Kamarhati||In a neighbourhood off Graham Road on the northern fringes of Calcutta, a Lakshmi temple shares a wall with an open plot where Muslims traditionally assemble for Muharram rituals. At the polling booth in the area, the conversation among residents on Saturday was centred on why it was important to vote for Didi. “There is no concept of any division on religious lines here… Kabhi nahin (never),” said Shahida Khatun, 69. “We understand there is an attempt to create differences along religious lines now. Lekin ye bhed bhao hum nahin maante hain (We don’t agree with this divisiveness)…. Humara Didi sahi hain. (Our Didi is right),” she adds. Khatun has two daughters who are married. The eldest of her two sons runs a small business supplying building materials in the area, dotted with upcoming multi-storeyed buildings on small plots of land. Her youngest son is unemployed. One of his friends, Faiyaz Ali, joins Khatun for the late afternoon conversation. “Every year during Lakshmi Puja, the mandir just round the corner here (he says, pointing with a raised hand), is all decked out. The microphones continue to play for three-four days. Hum log mandir jaane sey koi aapatti nahin karta hain (no one objects to us visiting the temple),” said Ali, pulling up a stool to sit down with the others. Kamarhati, which went to the polls on Saturday, has around 27 per cent minority voters and a sizable number of them live along small lanes and dingy bylanes off Graham Road. Inside a small lane, popularly known as Raju Stores Gully, several residents spoke proudly of a “Durga Maa ki mandir” and a “Hanuman ji ka mandir” co-existing with mosques and dargahs in the locality and how every festival would witness the two communities celebrating together. “Sab mil jul key rehtey hain yahan (We live together here). We celebrate our festivals together,” said Mehrunnisa Bibi. “It never felt that we belong to some other country. Abhi humko sikhla raha hain ki kaagaz dikhlao (Now we are being told to show papers).” A few others of the locality joined in as the conversation veered towards the new citizenship matrix. Some wondered “dada pardada mar gaye hain (the old have passed away), now from where to fetch the papers?”. “Modiji ke vichaar sahi nahin hain (Modi’s views are not right). Didi has said she won’t execute all this,” said Khatun. Most residents across seven wards — from one to seven — of Kamarhati municipality had arrived in Bengal several generations ago from parts of Munger, Siwan and Chhapra of neighbouring Bihar. Senior residents of the neighbourhood said most of their forefathers had moved here to work in jute mills that dotted Kamarhati and Agarpara. “Some of these migrant labourers who settled here later, switched from working in jute mills to other factories in the area, including the likes of India Foils Limited and Beni Engineering,” said Sheikh Anwar, an elderly resident of the area. In January last year, when protests against the Centre’s Citizenship Amendment Act rocked the country, fear gripped many in places like Kamarhati. They were worried they may not be able to produce papers to prove their ancestry. “At Chaai Gada maidan, we had organised a protest against CAA for almost 35 days in January 2020,” Anwar said. “Many residents with roots in Bangladesh from parts of Belghoria, on the other side of BT Road, had joined us in our protests then,” he said. “Polls will come and go but we will continue to remain the way we have been,” said A.K. Pandey, a resident of the area. Pandey is a taxi driver. The crowd outside the polling booth gradually thinned. Some started preparing for Iftar while others got back to their daily chores. Some residents talked about Trinamul’s Madan Mitra making several rounds in the locality as a part of his campaign. Others talked about how Raju Banerjee, the BJP candidate from Kamarhati, has never visited the area even once.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid protocols only on paper as masks come off in booths ||Covid protocols were flouted across polling booths on Saturday. In several polling booths, polling officials were found seated inside the booth without wearing masks properly. People were standing within an arm’s distance of each other, many did not have masks or wore them on chin, and gloves were disposed off on the road, on the floor or on the ground of the polling station. Calcutta High Court had on Friday directed the Election Commission of India to take “hard” measures for the safety of citizens for the four phases that remain. “At this time, maintaining social distance, use of masks and sanitisers are a must. But nobody is following the norms. The EC should be more alert and take hard steps to make the final four phases of the polls safe,” Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had said on Friday. Earlier on Tuesday, the high court had said the guidelines laid down by the election commission are in place.  “What needs to be done is that the said guidelines need to be implemented in the strictest possible manner. This the administration must do,” the court said while hearing petitions that expressed concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. The election commission had held an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss ways to combat the rising number of Covid cases in the state that has been partly blamed on no Covid protocols being followed in election campaigns. The Trinamul Congress had proposed that the last three phases of polls be clubbed together to stem the spread of Covid-19, while the CPM and the BJP opposed such a move. The election commission ruled out the possibility of clubbing the last three phases. Saturday’s scenes inside and outside many polling booths was an replica of what was seen on April 17, when places like Jadavpur, Kasba and Tollygunge had voted and Covid rules were flouted in many booths. But a number of voters had expected the situation would be better on Saturday after the election commission issued a set of guidelines on Friday to ensure that Covid-19 protocols were followed at political rallies. Many voters said they had thought that election commission would be very stringent in implementing the protocols on the day of polls, when the entire control of booths was in its hands. But that was not to be. On the contrary, even polling officials in some places were found without masks. At Salt Lake’s AH Block community centre a polling officer was found without a mask and another with the mask under his nose. Both were seated inside the booth. The agents of the political parties, too, were either without mask or with masks on the chins. Social distancing was not followed in almost all booths. “Is this a way to make people stand in a queue, so close to each other at a time when Covid cases are spiralling every day? I don’t understand why people are so careless. It is also their responsibility to stand at a distance from each other. Maintaining social distancing is something that is being told for over a year, yet people do not follow,” said an enraged voter outside Don Bosco Splendid Home, a booth at Bangur Avenue. Voters in the queue — which included men, women, young and elderly — were standing barely one feet away from each other. It was an identical picture at Kaikhali Mondol Ganti Abaitanik Prathamik Vidyalaya, off Jessore Road; Bandhabnagar Swamiji Vivekananda Vidyapith in Dum Dum. At Bandhabnagar and Dum Dum Motijheel Girls School the glove that were given to voters were discarded on the ground of the school, though there were yellow bins meant to drop the glove. The situation was worse at Nabin Sangha club in Baranagar’s Gopal Lal Thakur Road. While other booths that Metro visited had a health worker who gave the glove, checked temperature through a thermal scanner and gave hand sanitisers to the voters, this polling booth had no health worker. Voters came, stood in the queue, voted and left without any glove. Some of the voters who carried their own sanitisers cleansed their hands, others had no such opportunity. No glove was given to any voter — though temperatures were checked and sanitisers were given — at the two booths inside Baranagar’s Uttarayan housing complex. At the Brahmananda Keshab Chandra College in Bonhooghly voters were found coming out with the glove in one hand, whereas they are supposed to drop the glove in the yellow bins before leaving the polling station. A notable exception was Diwanpara Krira 0 Sanskritik Sangha, where jawans of the central forces ensured that everyone dropped their gloves in the yellow bin before leaving the premises. When the polls were announced on February 26, Bengal had 3,343 active Covid-19 cases. As of Thursday’s figures — Friday’s bulletin was yet to be issued when the development took place in court — there were 36,981 active cases, a 10-fold increase. The day’s number of new infections is close to 7,000, compared to 200-odd in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Voters’ voice||As the polls reached Salt Lake, Lake Town, Bangur, New Town Rajarhat,Dum Dum, Kamarphari and Baranagar The Telegraph spoke to those who cast their votes on Saturday on issues that they kept in mind while pressing the button. Ronny Sen A resident of Salt Lake’s HA Block Ronny Sen, said  he had voted to stop a fascist force from grabbing power in the state. Sen said when the BJP came to power in Assam, it left out two million people from the National Register of Citizens (NRC), who turned into foreigners into their own land and ended up in detention centres. “I also voted to ensure that no such (detention) centres come up in Bengal.” Shamsher Hussain Tarafder, 29, said he had been looking for a job in the government as well as the private sector for at least four years before opening his own garments shop. Tarafdar, who voted at the Nawapara Free Primary School near City Centre II in New Town, said, “ Steps that the Centre too, including implementing GST, demonetisation and the implementation of the  lockdown, left a small trader lie me  in a lurch.” Tuhin Banerjee, who works in a private biotechnology company said he failed to understand the narrative of a particular party dictating what people can do. Banerjee, a resident of Belghoria, said: “This is a free country and nobody can impose anything on us.” Kaikhali resident Mohammed Irfan Alam, said  he only had a better job scenario in the state while casting his vote. “While on one hand the state government conducts exams then publishes the results in a very irregular manner, the Centre has been reducing the number of jobs with each passing year.” For homemaker Surabhi Saha, who voted at a booth in Dum Dum “women’s safety was of paramount importance”. Her husband Surajit said: “ I have voted with a hope that businesses will grow at a rapid rate in Bengal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Remembrance of a Sikh guru turns out to be a reminder to preserve religious harmony||The remembrance of a Sikh guru turned out to be a reminder to preserve religious harmony. A host of religious leaders came together in the city on Saturday to remember Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the ten gurus of Sikhism, who was “executed on the orders of Aurangzeb” in 1675 because he had opposed religious persecution. The archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’ Souza, called the guru a “fearless warrior, lover of freedom, protector of others and ardent lover of equality of all religions and dignity of all people”. “The eminent speakers will tell us how Guru Tegh Bahadur and his philosophy of life are relevant to the situation we are living in today. In the midst of hatred and violence, when superiority and inferiority are shaping the attitudes of people, it is this Guru (Tegh Bahadur ji) who shines like a beacon showing the way to the eternal truth, for which he laid down his life,” he told the audience at ICCR. Guru Tegh Bahadur was born on April 1, 1621. The congregation celebrated his 400th birth anniversary. Sikh leaders from Delhi and Punjab were among the participants. “Muslims or Islam did not kill Guru Tegh Bahadur. The state did. The state has used religion to suit vested interests in the past. It is doing so now and it will continue to do so in the future,” said Giani Harpreet Sing of Sri Akal Takht Sahib, Amritsar. The congregation, called Parliament of Religion, was organised by the IHA Foundation and the United Interfaith Organisation. Giani Harpreet Singh Khalsa (head granthi, Sri Bala Sahib Gurdwara, New Delhi), Mataji Vipanpreet Kaur Ji (chairperson of Baba Kundan Singh Ji Bhalayi Trust Ludhiana), Swami Atmapriyanand (pro-chancellor Ramakrishna Mission Education), Reverend Paritosh Canning, (Bishop of Calcutta, CNI), Munni Mani Kumar Maharaj (Jain Monk), Md Shafique Qasmi (Imam of Nakhoda Masjid), Arunjyoti Bhikku (director, Tollygunge Sambodhi Buddhist Monastery), Swami Surjyagiri Maharaj (President, Gangasagar Math) were among the participants on Saturday. “Though many are aware that Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur ji was called Dharam di Chaddar, many are still unaware of the stages of his life. But it is important for the new generation of the nation too to know and understand it. From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh — our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, IHA Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Business||Government announces incentive of 4-6 per cent to AC and LED lights manufacturers||The government has notified an incentive of 4-6 per cent under the production linked incentive scheme for air conditioners and LED lights for a period of five years. The selection of companies for the incentives would be done to support manufacturing of components which are not made in India at present. The applicant will have to fulfil both criteria of cumulative incremental investment in plant and machinery as well as incremental sales over the base year in that respective year to be eligible for the PLI scheme. The first year of investment will be 2021-22 and the first year of incremental sale will be 2022-23. Actual disbursement of PLI for a particular year will be subsequent to that year, the notification by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade said. Mere assembly of finished goods would not be incentivised and companies investing in basic/core components would get a higher priority. The Empowered Group of Secretaries chaired by the cabinet secretary will monitor the PLI scheme, undertake a periodic review of the outgo under the scheme, ensure uniformity of all PLIs and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. The group will be empowered to make any changes in the modalities of the scheme within the overall financial outlay of Rs 6,238 crore. The incentive per beneficiary will be applicable on incremental sales (net of taxes) of manufactured goods (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year (2019-20) subject to ceilings. “Mere assembly of finished goods shall not be incentivised. Selection of companies for the scheme shall be done so as to incentivise manufacturing of components or subassemblies which are not manufactured in India with sufficient capacity,” it said. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies/entities engaged in manufacturing of components of ACs (copper tubes, aluminium foil and compressors) and LED lights (LED chip packaging, resisters, ICs, and fuses). Enlisting the eligibility criteria to avail of the benefits under the PLI scheme, the notification said incentives would be provided to companies making brownfield (existing facility) or greenfield (new) investments for the manufacturing. “One entity may apply for one target segment only. However, separate group companies may apply for different target segments. Further, sales by entities to their group companies should be at an arm’s length price as those to outside group companies,” it added. The scheme proposes a financial incentive to boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the white goods manufacturing value chain. The PLI scheme for White Goods (PLIWG) proposes a financial incentive to boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the White Goods manufacturing value chain. Its prime objectives include removing sectoral disabilities, creating economies of scale, enhancing exports, creating a robust component ecosystem and employment generation. Companies investing in basic/core components shall have a higher priority. Also, within a target segment, ‘large investment’ shall have a higher priority over ‘normal investment’. The actual number of beneficiaries within a target segment shall be decided on the basis of the response of the industry. Companies meeting the prequalification criteria for different target segments will be eligible to participate in the Scheme. Incentives shall be open to companies making brown field or green field Investments. Thresholds of cumulative incremental investment and incremental sales of manufactured goods over the base year would have to be met for claiming incentives. An entity availing themselves of the benefits under any other PLI Scheme of the Centre will not be eligible under this scheme for the same products but the entity may take benefits under other applicable schemes of the Union government or schemes of state governments. According to the government, it is estimated that over the period of five years, the PLI scheme will lead to incremental investment of Rs 7,920 crore, incremental production worth Rs 1.68 lakh crore, exports worth Rs 64,400 crore, earn direct and indirect revenues of Rs 49,300 crore and create additional four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||HDFC Bank Q4 net profit rises 18 per cent, misses estimates||HDFC Bank on Saturday fell short of Street estimates as it reported an 18.17 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The country’s largest private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 8,186.51 crore compared with Rs 6,927.69 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected the lender to report a net profit growth of around 21 per cent during the period. This came as the net interest income (NII-interest earned less interest paid) grew 12.6 per cent to Rs 17,120.2 crore against Rs 15,204.1 crore in the year-ago period. This jump was driven by a growth in advances of 14 per cent and a net interest margin of 4.2 per cent. This was lower than the 15 per cent growth in NII recorded during the preceding three months. However, other income grew around 26 per cent to Rs 7,593.9 crore from Rs 6,032.6 crore in the corresponding quarter ended March 31, 2020. Of this, fees and commissions at Rs 5,023.3 crore showed an almost 20 per cent increase over the same period last year. HDFC Bank is the first in the sector to report its scorecard for the year ended March 31, 2021. However, in what would come as a disappointment to its shareholders, HDFC Bank did not announce any dividend for the year. The bank blamed this on the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic even as it also referred to an RBI circular issued in December last year. “Given that the current second wave has significantly increased the number of Covid-19 cases in India and the uncertainty remains, the board of directors of the bank, at its meeting held on April 17, has considered it prudent to not propose dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2021,’’ the bank said. In December last year, the banking regulator had said that lenders should continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses. It had then said that banks should not make any dividend payment on equity shares from the profits pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2020. However, the Reserve Bank of India  has not explicitly barred banks from declaring dividends for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||Glenmark Pharma arm files papers for IPO with Sebi||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Saturday said its wholly-owned arm Glenmark Life Sciences has filed preliminary papers for an initial public offer with Sebi. The offer comprises fresh issue of shares worth up to Rs 1,160 crore and an offer for sale of up to 73,05,245 equity shares of Rs 2 each of Glenmark Life Sciences, by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, the filing said. The IPO will be subject to market conditions and approvals. Pharma exports from India witnessed an over 18 per cent growth to $24.44 billion during the last financial year against $20.58 billion in 2019-20, Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||Ant Group explores ways for Jack Ma to exit||Ant Group is exploring options for founder Jack Ma to divest his stake in the financial technology giant and give up control, as meetings with Chinese regulators signaled to the company that the move could help draw a line under Beijing’s scrutiny of its business, according to a source familiar with regulators’ thinking and two people with close ties to the company. Officials from the central bank, People’s Bank of China, and financial regulator China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission held talks between January and March with Ma and Ant separately, where the possibility of the tycoon’s exit from the company was discussed, sources said. Ant denied that a divestment of Ma’s stake was ever under consideration. "Divestment of Mr. Ma's stake in Ant Group has never been the subject of discussions with anyone," an Ant spokesman said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||India||Railways to run ‘Oxygen Express’ to tackle Covid-19||The Railways will run 'Oxygen Express' over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country, the national transporter said on Sunday. Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen in the country has gone through the roof. Empty tankers will begin their journey from Kalamboli and Boisar railway stations in and near Mumbai on Monday to load liquid medical oxygen Vizag, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, officials said. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra state governments had earlier approached the Railways Ministry to explore whether liquid medical oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network, they said. On the receipt of the request from the two states, the Railways immediately explored the technical feasibility of transportation of liquid medical oxygen. It has to be transported through roll-on-roll-off service with road tankers placed on flat wagons. "Since the first empty tankers will move on April 19, we hope to begin operations of Oxygen Express over the next few days. We would be able to send oxygen wherever there is such demand. Green Corridor is being created for fast movement of Oxygen Express trains," an official said. A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to transportation of liquid medical oxygen. "Instructions have been issued to zonal railways to ensure readiness to receive the trailers and load them back. Ramps have to be built at Vizag, Angul and Bhilai and the existing ramp at Kalamboli is to be strengthened. "The Kalamboli ramp would be made ready by April 19. Ramps at other locations would also be ready in a couple of days by the time the tankers reach those locations," the Railway Ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Ramping up vaccination key to tackle Covid, says Manmohan Singh in letter to PM||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 crisis, stressing that ramping up vaccination was the key to battling the pandemic. In a letter to the prime minister, the veteran Congress leader said one must not look at absolute numbers but the total percentage of population vaccinated. "The key to our fight against Covid-19 must be ramping up the vaccination effort. We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated," he said in his letter. Noting that India currently has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population, Singh said he is certain that with the right policy design, "we can do much better and very quickly". "There are many things we must do to fight the epidemic but a big part of this effort must be ramping up the vaccination programme," he said while making several suggestions. Singh said he is forwarding his suggestions for consideration in a spirit of constructive cooperation in which he has always believed and acted upon. The suggestions come a day after the Congress Working Committee met and discussed the efforts required to fight the Covid pandemic. Singh said the Centre should publicise vaccine dose orders placed and accepted for delivery over the next six months. He said the government should indicate how vaccine supplies are to be distributed to states. India has seen a massive surge of Covid-19 cases with over two lakh cases being reported every day in the past four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid situation in his Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, and stressed the need for vaccination of everyone over 45 years of age. He asked the local administration to help people with full sensitivity and asserted that the cooperation of society as well as the government is necessary to curb the pandemic. According to a statement, Modi emphasised on implementing 'tracking, tracing and testing', saying this has to be fully followed to check the virus' spread in the same manner the first wave was curbed. Modi’s move comes at a time when cremation ghats in Varanasi are overflowing with bodies of the Covid dead with queues sometimes stretching into residential areas. Speaking to local officials and people's representatives, the prime minister asked the administration to ensure that preventive measures like social distancing and the use of masks are practised. "The prime minister underlined the importance of the vaccination exercise and asked the administration to raise awareness among everyone over 45 years about it," the statement said. As the member of Parliament from Varanasi, he has also been taking regular feedback from people, Modi said, adding that expansion and modernisation of medical infrastructure in the city have helped in fighting the pandemic. The availability of beds, ICU and oxygen facilities is being increased, he said. Noting that the administration has set up the 'Kashi COVID Response Centre', the prime minister said other steps should also be carried out swiftly. He was also informed about the mechanism put in by the administration, including a control room for contact tracing, a command and control centre for home isolation and a dedicated phone line for ambulance service. Also, telemedicine was being made available through a control room to deal with the rising Covid cases. The statement said 1,98,383 people have got the first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 35,014 have got both the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||India becomes fastest country to inoculate 12cr beneficiaries with Covid shots||India took only 92 days to reach the mark of 12-crore vaccinations, the fastest country to do so, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. It is followed by the US which took 97 days and China which took 108 days. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 12 crore as part of the world's largest vaccination drive, it said. Cumulatively, 12,26,22,590 vaccine doses have been administered through 18,15,325 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 91,28,146 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 57,08,223 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,12,33,415 FLWs who have received the first dose and 55,10,238 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,55,94,522 and 38,91,294 beneficiaries aged more than 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively and 4,04,74,993 and 10,81,759 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively. Eight states account for 59.5 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. "The four states Gujarat (1,03,37,448), Maharashtra (1,21,39,453), Rajasthan (1,06,98,771) and UP (1,07,12,739) have so far administered more than 1 crore doses each to their population. Gujarat completed 1 crore vaccinations on April 16 while the other three states achieved it on April 14," the ministry said. "India took only 92 days to reach 12 crore vaccinations, the fastest country to do so. It is followed by the US which took 97 days and China (108 days)," the ministry stated. Over 26 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on day-92 of the vaccination drive (April 17), 26,84,956 vaccine doses were given. A total of 20,22,599 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,998 sessions for the first dose and 6,62,357 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Thank you for sparing your time: Chidambaram’s dig at Modi||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, thanking him for sparing "a little time" amidst the "urgent war to conquer West Bengal", to review the coronavirus situation in the country. He also criticised the prime minister for his "Didi-O-Didi" remark, asking if this is the manner in which the prime minister should refer to a chief minister. "Thank you Prime Minister for sparing a little time for Covid amidst the urgent war to conquer WEST BENGAL and annexe it to the BJP's empire," Chidambaram said on Twitter.  His remarks came after Modi chaired a Covid-19 review meeting with government officials on Saturday, amid a big surge in infection cases in the country, with over 2 lakh cases being reported everyday for the past four days. Referring to the PM's remarks on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Bannerjee, the Congress leader asked, "Is this the manner in which a prime minister should refer to a chief minister?" "I cannot imagine a Jawaharlal Nehru or a Morarji Desai or a Vajpayee speaking that language," he said. In another tweet, Chidambaram said while "no vaccine" boards hang on the doors of most hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claims that "there is no shortage in the supply of vaccines". "Believe the minister, there is no shortage of vaccines, oxygen, Remdesivir, hospital beds, doctors and nurses. There is only a shortage of patients!," he said, taking a dig at the health minister. The former Union minister alleged the central government, which assumed all powers and authority, failed to ensure adequate production and supply of Covid19 vaccines. "Central government is solely responsible for the catastrophe faced by the nation," he said after the prime minister's review meeting on Saturday. The spread of the infection can only be contained with massive vaccination, he noted. Tragically, vaccines are in short supply and states have run out - or are running out - of vaccines, Chidambaram claimed. "Media is reporting that the PM said we defeated Covid last year, we can do it again', WRONG. Covid was not defeated in 2020. Covid exacted a heavy toll and waned on its own, no thanks to the central government, because the central government did little or nothing," he said in another tweet on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Covid situation getting worse in Dekhi, less than 100 ICU beds vacant: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said around 25,500 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi and the positivity rate has increased to nearly 30 per cent in the last 24 hours. He also said that the Delhi government has sought the Centre's help in ensuring adequate beds and supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Less than 100 ICU beds are vacant in Delhi hospitals, and the situation is worsening every moment, Kejriwal said, adding that he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah this morning and stressed on the need for making more beds available. "We are constantly in touch with the Centre and getting help from it," he said. The chief minister said due to the fast pace of increasing Covid-19 infections, hospital beds and oxygen for patients are depleting fast in the city. The Centre should reserve at least 7,000 of 10,000 beds in hospitals run by it in Delhi as Covid beds and ensure immediate supply of oxygen, he said. The Delhi government in next 2-3 days will come up with 6,000 beds at Yamuna Sports Complex, Radha Swami Satsang Beas premises and schools. It is also arranging high flow oxygen beds for the patients, Kejriwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi cancels all rallies in Bengal in view of Covid spike in India||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday cancelled all his public rallies in poll-bound Bengal following a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. He also advised all other politicians to think about the consequences of holding large public rallies. "In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal.I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," he said on Twitter. The Congress has been critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for holding political rallies amid the rise in coronavirus cases in the country. Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram has accused the prime minister of shocking callousness for holding big political rallies in poll-bound Bengal amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. He said the prime minister should be at his job, sitting at his desk and coordinating with chief ministers in handling the Covid pandemic. Prime Minister Modi has been addressing public rallies in Bengal for the eight-phase Assembly elections in the state. India has been witnessing a massive surge in coronavirus cases. A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
18-04-2021||India||JEE-Mains, set to be held from April 27-30, postponed amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled to be held from April 27-30 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Sunday. "Given the current #covid19 situation, I have advised @DG_NTA to postpone the JEE (Main) 2021 April Session. I would like to reiterate that the safety of our students & their academic career are @EduMinOfIndia's and my prime concerns right now," Nishank tweeted. According to an official order by the National Testing Agency (NTA), "looking at the present situation of Covid-19 pandemic and also taking into account the safety and well being of candidates and examination functionaries, it has been decided to postpone JEE-(Main) April session". "The revised dates will be announced later on and at least 15 days before the examination," the order said.  Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March. The next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per the policy, after the February, March, April, and May Session of JEE(Main)-2021 Exam, the ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores. Earlier this week, the CBSE had cancelled class 10 board exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of the exponential rise in cases. The CISCE board followed the move besides several state boards who have either cancelled or postponed board exams. A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India witnesses deadliest day with 1,501 deaths||A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 39th day in a row, the active cases stand at 18,01,316, comprising 12.18 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86.62 per cent, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,28,09,643, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.20 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 26,65,38,416 samples have been tested up to April 17 with 15,66,394 samples being tested on Saturday. The 1,501 new fatalities include 419 from Maharashtra, 167 from Delhi, 158 from Chhattisgarh, 120 from Uttar Pradesh, 97 from Gujarat, 80 from Karnataka, 66 from Madhya Pradesh, 62 from Punjab and 39 from Tamil Nadu. These fresh fatalities also include 37 each from Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, 34 each from Bihar and West Bengal, 32 from Haryana, 30 from Jharkhand, 27 from Kerala, 15 each from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and 12 from Himachal Pradesh. The ministry said a total of 1,77,150 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 59,970 from Maharashtra, 13,270 from Karnataka, 13,071 from Tamil Nadu, 11,960 from Delhi, 10,540 from West Bengal, 9,703 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,834 from Punjab and 7,388 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Spiralling deaths stir hospital question||The record-breaking rise in the number of deaths linked to Covid-19 in India has triggered concerns that as hospitals come under intense strain, some patients who could have been saved may be lost. India on Saturday recorded 1,341 Covid-19 deaths over the previous 24 hours, the highest single-day count since the epidemic’s start. Ten states accounted for over 86 per cent of these deaths with the highest count in Maharashtra (398), followed by Delhi (141), Chhattisgarh (138), Uttar Pradesh (103) and Gujarat (94). Analysts believe the country’s Covid-19 death counts will continue to rise in the coming days as there is a lag between the new cases detected and the occurrence of deaths and as the coronavirus has spread into states and districts with weak healthcare infrastructure. “I think the worst is still ahead — our daily numbers are still rising, our death counts will also increase,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and a coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists. The previous highest daily death count was 1,290 on September 15, marking the peak of the first wave. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in a review meeting on Saturday with the health ministers of 11 hardest-hit states exhorted them to increase hospital and oxygen-supported beds and other infrastructure to manage the epidemic’s surge. Vardhan said the Centre, which had supplied 34,228 ventilators to various states last year, would now provide 1,700 more to Uttar Pradesh, 1,600 to Gujarat, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,121 to Maharashtra, 232 to Chhattisgarh and 152 to Madhya Pradesh. But public health experts are worried that the healthcare infrastructure in many districts across some states is understaffed and too fragile to be able to deliver the levels of critical care required to manage patients with severe Covid-19. “Ventilators alone may not help,” Sundararaman told The Telegraph. “Clinical management of the coronavirus disease is complex and requires trained doctors and nursing staff. Some districts are unlikely to have the staff or staff in the numbers required to handle increasing caseloads.” Under these circumstances, medical experts and officials fear that patients who could be potentially saved through appropriate and timely treatment could die. “We had ample time last year to prepare for what’s going on — the lockdown was intended to buy time,” said Oommen John, a physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It looks increasingly as if India squandered away that opportunity to prepare.” Experts say the inadequacies of healthcare systems were apparent long before Covid-19. “We know snakebite victims in rural areas are more likely to die because of lack of treatment facilities such as critical care,” John said. “Now, it is only the large numbers that are highlighting long-standing inadequacies.” But even cities are reporting bed shortages. Household members of patients or friends, struggling to find beds, are turning to social media. The Delhi government has asked for additional beds in central government hospitals. The Centre and states have so far set up over 1.8 million beds for Covid-19 patients, including about 468,000 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Doctors say they expect no more than 10 to 15 per cent of patients to need hospital care. India on Saturday recorded over 234,000 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of active patients to about 1.67 million. If 10 per cent of these patients need hospitalisation, the overnight extra bed requirement would be about 23,400.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: India devastated by second wave because of Centre's mismanagement, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said India was devastated by the second Covid-19 wave because of “colossal mismanagement” by the government, pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi continued to treat the crisis with callousness by remaining engrossed in the Bengal election instead of sitting at his desk in Delhi to coordinate efforts to salvage the situation. The Congress Working Committee listed the Prime Minister’s specific failures in an extremely critical resolution that said: “India’s first case of Covid-19 was detected on January 30, 2020. India’s first vaccine shot was administered on January 16, 2021. Between the two dates, and thereafter, there is a saga of tragedy, incompetence and colossal mismanagement. “As we meet today, the cumulative number of infections is 1,45,26,609 and the cumulative death toll is 1,75,673.” Briefing on the CWC deliberations, former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in response to a question: “It is shocking callousness on the part of the Prime Minister to be addressing rallies in Bengal instead of staying in Delhi and coordinating among ministries to control the situation. We all know this is a one-man government and all the decisions are taken by the Prime Minister’s Office.” Chidambaram added: “Modi should have been in Delhi, sitting at his desk, coordinating augmentation of supplies, talking to chief ministers, solving problems. Is it the time for the Prime Minister to hold mega rallies and spend crores of rupees on mobilising crowds? Where would the Prime Minister be if there was a war today? We hope the people of Bengal will take note and give a befitting reply to his callousness.” Senior leader Ajay Maken, who jointly briefed the media with Chidambaram, said: “The Centre captured all the powers under the Pandemic and Disaster Management Acts and the Prime Minister is busy in pure politics by remaining in Bengal the whole day. States have no power. Can the states decide on importing oxygen? Even minor details like who gets vaccine are decided by the Centre. Who should be blamed for the failures? The Prime Minister is responsible.” Explaining what a Prime Minister’s foresight and dedication could have achieved, Chidambaram said: “The ministers ridiculed Rahul Gandhi when he sought clearance for vaccines available in the world. We have finally cleared the vaccines but are those firms in a position to supply to us now? The US and the European countries have already placed their orders and booked the entire production in advance. The Serum Institute said it needs Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up production. A Congress government would have sanctioned the amount immediately, without cabinet approval.” Responding to a question about Modi’s plea to check celebrations at Kumbh in Haridwar, Chidambaram asked: “How many days has the Kumbh Mela gone on already? This is a case of locking the stable when the horses have bolted.” The Kumbh, where lakhs of people have gathered, has been on for more than two weeks. To another question on the eight-phase Bengal polls, the Congress leader said: “Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry together have 404 seats where polls happened on a single day. Why can’t Bengal, which has 294 seats, have polls in one day?” Stressing the need for urgent corrective measures to control the spread of the virus and avoid catastrophic consequences, the CWC resolution said: “The initial response measures of the central government were ludicrous, to say the least. The Prime Minister went on national television to exhort people to clang plates; and after two weeks he went on national television to exhort people to light lamps. Medical experts held back their criticism of such superstitious rites; and knowledgeable persons cautioned the government that it ought to take scientific measures to confront the pandemic.” Listing the failures of a Prime Minister who was addressing two or three rallies a day in Bengal and other election-bound states when the second Covid wave was crippling the country, the resolution said: “Failed to create sufficient public awareness that a waning pandemic could be a precursor to a second wave that may be more devastating than the first wave, failed to rapidly scale up the production and supply of the two approved vaccines, failed to resort to compulsory licensing and production of the two approved vaccines in other pharma manufacturing facilities in India.” The resolution continued: “Failed to universalise vaccination, to get rid of pre-registration and bureaucratic control over the vaccination programme, to leave the vaccine rollout to the state governments and public and private hospitals, to adopt a need-based, fair and equitable allocation of the vaccine doses to states, to curb the exports of large quantities of vaccine doses to other countries, to provide adequate funds to the state governments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Bengal lost out because Left and Mamata were busy fighting the Centre, says Amit Shah ||Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah discusses his love for Bengal, politicisation of the administration and the BJP’s grand plans of overhauling education in a freewheeling conversation with the Editor Emeritus of The Telegraph Digital. The interview was conducted during the second week of April. TTOnline: This election has proved to be a boon for you. You could travel across Bengal. (Shakes his head smiling) How many times have you come to Bengal? I had come for the Ganga Sagar mela once when I was young. But I have travelled across Bengal from 2016, and have managed to visit 38 to 40 per cent of tehsils. I have had this desire to travel and see the country since I was a child. By God’s grace I became the president of the BJP and ended up travelling to about 93 per cent of districts. But not so much West Bengal, even though Bengal has always attracted me. The likes of Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna Paramhans, Chaitaniya Mahaprabhu have always attracted people to Bengal. As for literature, I have read Gurudev Rabindranath and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhya, and I have always harboured an interest to know more about them. In that case, if the BJP is able to form a new government here, you could become tourism minister? Ha, ha… (laughs). I can’t say who will be tourism minister. The new chief minister will decide that. Have the attractions of Bengal as a tourist destination diminished? The one thing I am certain about is that all of India looked up to Bengal for its deep awareness and knowledge of philosophy, literature and nationalism. But first the Left and now the Trinamul Congress have managed to destroy these three pillars. This doesn’t indicate that people have lost their interest in Bengal. But unless you present these plus points to the people, the rest of India will stay disconnected. I sincerely believe that once a BJP government is in place, Bengal will be the cynosure of all eyes in India and abroad. How many speeches have you given, and in how many constituencies? Not sure. Since October, I think I have done roadshows and addressed meetings in about 48 constituencies. You were in Bengal during the elections of 2014 and 2019, were you not? Not in 2014 as my responsibilities were different. But I came to Bengal in 2016 and 2019 and visited several places. So, will you touch 100 rallies and roadshows? Should be more. By the time this election is over, the number will be in the range of 125 and 130. Then it will be a Guinness record. No, nothing like that. But yes, I have travelled to a number of states, like Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Bihar, Manipur, Tripura and Assam. Don’t you feel tired? No, on the contrary, I feel encouraged. I feel energised. Don’t you find it monotonous? Not at all. You will find it monotonous, or feel tired, if you consider this to be a burden. But if you understand and enjoy your responsibilities, then you never feel bored or tired. I do what I am asked to do diligently, with all my attention to the best of my abilities. What about the press conferences and interviews that you do? I do a lot of them. And at times, the questions are repetitive. But one can’t get angry about it. They represent a newspaper or a television channel. And they need answers. Those who are answering their questions, they should do so patiently. They may not wish to repeat themselves if the questions are similar, but I believe it is important for them to listen to them patiently. This approach doesn’t tire me out, neither mentally nor physically. You seem to have a lot of patience? Patience? Perhaps your analysis is not accurate (laughs). It’s not that I have immense patience. But I understand that is their job, they need answers. Why should I feel irritated? I keep saying everyday: Get rid of this extortionist government. Get rid of this government propped up by illegal aliens. Get rid of this corrupt government. Do people find it monotonous? This is my job. If the masses don’t feel that my speeches are repetitive, then I too must not feel the same way after listening to journalists’ questions. But you are in various constituencies in front of different sets of people? Still, everyone’s watching everything on TV. In spite of that it is my responsibility to tell them these things. Just as it is the responsibility of journalists to get answers for their respective organisations. You have said in your speeches that Bengal hasn’t seen progress. But that is not confined to Didi’s tenure. There has been no progress since the time of Jyoti Basu. Between them, they were in power for 44 years. Will a BJP government be able to change this? We can certainly stop the degradation. The beginning will be good too.  I cannot tell you how long it will take for Bengal to regain its hallowed past, but I am certain we can stop Bengal’s decay. This I am sure of. As soon as a new government is sworn-in? A new government will usher in a renewed effort. From the first Left government of 1977 to the government of Mamatadidi, the only politics that was pursued was that of confrontation with the Centre. For narrow political gain, the Centre’s schemes and initiatives weren’t allowed in Bengal. They feared the Union government would get popular in Bengal whoever that may be. Our government has been in power at the Centre for about six and a half years. Before that, the Atal Behari Vajpayee government was in power for some time. Before that Indira Gandhi, the Congress… It was the duty of Bengal governments to engage with the Centre on Bengal’s needs and rights. They did not, thereby depriving the people of Bengal of that right. As soon as you take the oath? New efforts will begin with the new government. Since 1978, first the Left and then Mamata Banerjee have been doing the same politics - fight with the Centre! They did not allow the projects of the central government to enter Bengal for their own vested political interests. They want the central government not to become popular in the state! That is whatever the government. Our government has been in power for six and a half years. Before that the government of Atalji had some time. Indira Gandhi had a government. There was a Congress government. They should have talked to the Indian government at that time about the rights of Bengal. They have deprived the people of Bengal of that right. An example? For example, Narendra Modi has come up with a plan to povide Rs 6,000 to each farmer. This scheme has been going on for three years. But Bengal’s farmers have not got it yet because Didi did not send the list (of beneficiaries). She did not send bank account numbers. We offered another scheme, that of providing Rs 5 lakh for the treatment of every poor person. This should also be available to the poor people of Bengal, but they aren’t. And it is because Didi is not allowing it to continue. Similarly, the Prime Minister's Rural Road Scheme is not being launched because she fears it will make him (Narendra Modi) popular. The people of Bengal also have a right to the keys of the Central government’s coffers. Whether it’s Jyoti Basu, Mamtadidi or Buddhadeb babu, they have all deprived the people of Bengal of that right. The Centre has committed no wrong to Bengal. The rulers of Bengal have. Buddhababu too? Yes, he too. Because the cadres of his party wielded the knife against him. I have analysed and studied this in great detail. Many people think that Jyoti Babu was able to remain chief minister because he did not try to accomplish anything. Similarly, Didi has been in power for 10 years because she too hasn’t done much. Buddhadebbabu tried to do things, worked towards development, and tried to bring in industry. That is why the people of Bengal got rid of him. Bengalis do not like to work, and the people who do. That's not the point. I think there was a dichotomy between his (Buddha's) cadres. There is no dichotomy in Bengali society. The communists never contested elections on the basis of Bengali society. They fought as cadres. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya was never accepted by his cadres. This is my political explanation, which could be wrong. But it’s not that Buddhadeb Bhattacharya lost the election because he wanted to accomplish something. He wanted to bring in the Tatas. He also tried to set up a chemical hub in Nandigram. Such one-off, symbolic initiatives can’t usher in transformation. The biggest thing he could do was to stop the politicisation of the government and make the administration independent. Buddhadebababu made no attempt to do so. The party was sitting on his head. The party controlled the administration. As long as the administration is not independent, no state can reach out to the people, to the truly poor. Cadres come in between. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya made no attempt to make the administration independent. Projects like Singur and the like are good for an image boost and get a few pictures on the front pages of newspapers. That’s about it. What should have been done? Consider Uttar Pradesh. There too the administration was totally politicized. We came to power and rid the administration of politics. No one can threaten a district magistrate, no one can pelt shoes at anyone. No one can force a transfer. The SP also has total freedom. In UP, officers used to be transferred, on an average, within three months. Now that’s become three years. Neither Buddhadeb Bhattacharya nor Mamtadidi has been able to do this. Is it even possible? People think political masters run the administration. The party decides who will be posted or transferred. During the Left regime, these decisions would be taken at Alimuddin Street by Anil Biswas. For Didi, it used to be Mukul Roy. Now that Mukul has left, Abhishek is doing that. It will be, after May 2. No extra-constitutional system allows the administration to succeed. My party believes that there should not be any extra-constitutional system. Can you change a ‘tradition’ of the last 44 years? If you have the will it can be done - as in many states. At one time Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh were called sick states. These four states have been on the path of development since the BJP came to power. Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are better than before. Rajasthan is no longer sick. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have also, by and large, come out of that situation. States that have been sick for the last 25 years, we have been able to change in five to ten years. The BJP's track record says so. But those who have worked in this state for long know of one system. It was started at the time of Jyotibabu. Didi has maintained the same system. If you want to change that, you will have to re-educate bureaucrats. Bureaucracy or the administration is like water. If you put him in a glass, he will be like glass. Put him in a cup, he will be like a cup. The water will take the shape of the reservoir.  If the pot is right, the water will be right too. The UPA government saw corruption to the tune of Rs 12 lakh crore. Even then it was the same administration. But we haven't had a major financial scandal in six and a half years. No one has been able to complain. And it is the same administration. There’s been no 2G or 4G. So how will you go about it? Decisions will be taken by the elected government. The administration will implement it. But if you involve cadres in implementation, that’s where the problem starts. If the elected government takes constitutional decisions the administration will have to ensure the benefits reach the lowest level. If you try to break the chain, then distortions will creep in _ which is what has been happening in Bengal for years. When we come to power, recruitment or transfer will have no political influence. This is not the first government we are going to set up. There are 16 BJP governments in this country. And these are all running well. An example? Look at Assam. When we said, ‘we will create an agitation-free Assam’ or a ‘militant-free Assam’, no one believed us. But in the last five years there hasn’t been a single agitation in Assam. More than 2,000 militants have surrendered. Assam is walking on the road to development. So is Tripura. And Manipur? It used to be shut down (bandh) for 200 days. There would be blockades. There hasn't been a single bandh or blockade since the BJP government came to power there three and a half years ago. This is what administration is meant to be. What is the magic behind this? There is no magic. You need to understand your dignity and act accordingly. What will be your first task when you come to power? The first task will be to synergise everyone and everything else towards the development of Bengal. This has not been done in Bengal for many years. Both parties have run the state with their cadres. Every Bengali has to be associated with the development of Bengal. Every Bengali should connect with the honour, glory and self-respect of Bengal. This is very important. The communists did not do this. Mamata did not try it too. Even after being down in the doldrums for so long, Bengal, I believe, has the most possibilities. Why? In the state where I live, water is found 1,200 feet below the ground. Here, there’s water barely 60 feet below. The river, Ganga, brings the fertility of the whole country to this state. Bengal can be the largest centre for business in eastern India. All markets of east India will open up. The road that will be opened after the exchange of enclaves with Bangladesh will make communication with the Northeast easier and quicker. By building two or three more ports, Bengal can be the gateway for industries of Bihar to Assam. Bengalis never lacked intelligence. Gokhale said, what Bengal thinks today, the whole country thinks tomorrow. Hence, I think, if someone guides that intellect in the right direction and with foresight, then the situation will change. It will lead to amazing change. After the conquest of Murshidabad, Lord Clive wrote a letter to the East India Company stating that there were 86 London properties in Murshidabad. I am talking of London of that time! Here we have fertile soil, no shortage of water, intelligent people, and a glorious past. I don't think there is anything lacking here except political will and hard work. Land holdings are small in Bengal because it is fertile. There will be problems for industry. Those who have experienced development create such myths. In Gujarat, 25 lakh women work in Amul, milk for which reaches all parts of the world. Here, one has to spend one tenth of that to raise a cow at home. Raising a buffalo also costs one tenth of what it is in Gujarat. But no cooperative dairy has been set up here? There’s been no agitation for it. On the contrary, all cows were trafficked to Bangladesh! Each state has some plus and minus points. If the land holdings are small, one will have to work much less to earn a living. Just keep going in the right direction. Every human being has a way of earning. Zamindari belongs to one person. As many as 1,200 people have land here. It is a great power. There is so much government land in Bengal that if a land bank was to be set up faithfully, there’s enough land for industry for the next 20 years. Buddhababu also used to say this. Didi also says so. But no one did anything! See the website of West Bengal and tell me how much land there is in the Sundarbans for industry? All state websites have all the information. Open the Gujarat website and you can find out how much land there is in Mandbi taluka of Kutch district. In Jammu and Kashmir too, all the information has been posted on its website in the last five months. The land ceiling act has been repealed everywhere but not here. It is there in my state too. But once non-agricultural land gets a no-objection certificate, there is no upper limit law. The land ceiling act is to protect agricultural land holdings. In Ahmedabad city, there is no land ceiling act. It has been annulled across the country. But it is still here in Calcutta. I think that law should be repealed in Calcutta too. We repealed the law during the time of the NDA government. Bengalis love holidays. Russia did not announce a holiday on the centenary of Lenin's birth. But Jyotibabu announced a holiday in Bengal! Mamtadidi also gives a lot of leave. There is a culture of laziness here. No, I don't think there is a culture of laziness in Bengal. In terms of GDP, Bengalis used to contribute 30 per cent. That is the culture of a hundred and fifty years. It has taken 650 years for this country to move from dhoti to pajama. Culture doesn’t change so easily. It is in the DNA. As a central leader, I cannot say whether the holiday culture will end when the BJP government comes to power in Bengal. The government of the day will have to decide. If need be, it may consult the Centre. But if I take such decisions from Delhi, it doesn't look good. Those who are elected here, the chief minister, ministers will decide. There is no debate about who will be chief minister if Didi returns to power. But who will it be for you? Our chief minister is yet to be decided. You see, our political strength is that we have not yet decided on the name of any chief minister. Our strength is also that Didi's name has been fixed as their chief minister (laughs). Are you happy with the work of those who have joined your party from other parties? We have an all-India team. Wherever our party has grown, leaders and activists from other parties have joined us. In Tripura, 20 per cent of those in the Communist Party has joined us. In Assam, people from the Congress joined us. In Uttar Pradesh, 30 per cent MLAs have come from SP and BSP. They are 100 out of 300! But when they accept the ideology, and leadership of the BJP, they have to abide by our party’s discipline. Otherwise, the party will take action against them. But why should I think they will not abide by the party rules. I am an optimist. This happens during every vote. Where did Didi come from? From the Congress. Her entire party came from the Congress. How can she complain about defections? Mamata says there are a lot of issues among old timers and newbies in the BJP. She should stop worrying about what is happening in our team and think of how she will survive (laughs). Our ability to cushion problems is strong. Both the Congress and the CPI(M) gained support while in power. But both lost their support base after losing power. This has been seen election after election. If Mamata's government goes, what will happen to Trinamul? What is your prediction? This is not for me to predict. But the way she has run Trinamul or her government, it will be difficult for her to sustain the party! For example, in Uttar Pradesh, we formed the party while in the Opposition. The same is true in Assam and Rajasthan. Vashundhara Raje lost. But the party remained. In Manipur and Tripura, we formed the party while in the Opposition. Elections come and go, we win some, lose some. But our vote does not decrease. We stay on. The Congress, for example, is finished in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal. But we didn’t get wiped out anywhere. Win or lose elections, we have increased our influence in every state. But democracy needs a strong Opposition? If there is no Opposition in West Bengal, we will end up with small district-wise parties. Will that be good for the state? Agreed democracy needs a strong Opposition. But it is not my job to provide that. That is the job of the people. I don't believe that in the absence of a primary Opposition, there will be small area-based parties. Politics does not offer such space. But someone or the other will come and fill in that space. In Uttar Pradesh, for example, the Congress party is finished. SP-BSP has been formed in its place. In Bihar, the Congress is finished.  In its place, we have the BJP, Janata Dal and Lalu’s party. There is no vacuum in politics. Even if that happens, our responsibility to perform increases 20 per cent. And we should be ready for that. I think the people decide what happens in a democracy and not theoreticians like Aveek Sarkar (laughs). It is better to leave it to the people. Once upon a time, education was very strong in Bengal. There was a lot of improvement during the time of Shyamaprasad Mukherjee. I have studied it in detail. It used to be very good. But in the current situation, the education infrastructure and hierarchy will have to be rebuilt. How? We have created a fund of Rs 20,000 crore and worked out detailed plans for infrastructure upgrade of all educational institutions. We call it Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar Fund. I have created a Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay fund of Rs 10,000 crore to fill the gaps. Suppose there are 13 colleges for one lakh children which is much lower than the national average. So, we have to open polytechnic colleges, medical colleges, general colleges. Only then will educational facilities increase. What is there now needs to be developed. Staff vacancies etc need to be filled quickly. From primary to post graduation, from technical to medical education and legal education, we have allocated Rs 20,000 crore as mentioned in our manifesto. We will build 100 government colleges, 50 new polytechnic colleges and create 20 medical colleges. And the Government of India will help. And Santiniketan? For Santiniketan, we have created a fund of Rs 20 crore which will bring the focus of the world back on Gurudev Rabindranath's dream. We have to do something new. I think Santiniketan is in itself a solution to many of the world's problems. Gurudev’s idea of creating a complete man, a fearless man who develops his own will independently does not look like happening anywhere in the world till the next 23rd or 24th century. We will emphasise on this. We will announce academic chairs in the name of various great men of Bengal like Rishi Aurobindo, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhash Babu, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu all across the country. We are moving towards full integration on the basis of advice we received while framing our manifesto. When the government is formed, when the administration is in our hand and we analyse its shortcomings, we will draw up a complete blueprint of our plans. But we will definitely try to improve education. For example, we have created a 'Child University' in Gujarat. Learning begins when a baby is in the womb. Take three days off and visit our university. There’s nothing like it in the rest of the world. In the Mahabharat, Abhimanyu's education began in the womb of his mother whose good behaviour, good thinking influenced her unborn child. No one in the world thinks about this. But now people from all over the world come to see this university. There will be such experiments here too. But until we can form a government, we will not be able to say exactly where the shortcomings are. That is why we have made big sketches. After coming to power, all of these will be scrutinised and a detailed blueprint made for the betterment of education. Since the time of CPI(M), intellectual resources have been moving out of the state. Many have gone to Delhi or Bangalore. I think many more Bengalis should be sent out. They will be the brand ambassadors of Bengal. There is no shortage of intelligence in Bengal. The system is lacking. Every Bengali has the best intelligence in the world. As many Bengalis go out, they will become your ambassadors. Don't stop them (laughs). Instead, improve the environment here so that the Bengalis who live here also get job opportunities. This is a political answer. But if there are no good people left who will teach? No, it wasn’t a political answer. It’s my belief. Don't think of it as a political response. I think people have become despondent because there is an atmosphere of fear. A lot of people will come out when an open atmosphere is created. Those people will do very well not just in education, but in literature, music, art and elsewhere. Earlier, 90 per cent people used to go abroad to study space science or space technology. Now barely 10 per cent go because their education is being fully utilised in the country. Then why go! We have opened up space science to the private sector. Now the possibilities are so vast in this country that there is a need to create new colleges for space science. Tomorrow Question: Will industry come from Gujarat? Answer: Of course. Industry will come from Maharashtra too||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Last rites of 108 people performed according to coronavirus protocol in Bhopal||The last rites of 108 people were performed according to coronavirus protocol in Bhopal on Thursday, according to records maintained by crematoriums and graveyards and officials working there, the number far higher than the Madhya Pradesh government’s claim on Covid-19 fatalities that day. The government had said only eight persons had died of the infection in Bhopal district on Thursday. According to the records with two crematoriums and a graveyard, the last rites of 156 people were performed on Thursday in the state capital. Of them, 108 were coronavirus-infected, the documents showed. “Eighty-eight people were cremated in our crematorium on Thursday. Of them, 72 had died of coronavirus,” Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat (crematorium) secretary Mamtesh Sharma said. Of the 72 Covid deceased, 45 were from Bhopal, while 27 were from other districts, he said. “The last rites of 51 people (21 of them Bhopal residents) were performed at our crematorium on Thursday,” Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat manager Sobhraj Sukhwani said, adding that of these, 26 had died of the respiratory disease. “Burial of 17 people took place in our cemetery. Of them, 10 were the ones who died of coronavirus. Eight of the deceased were local while the two hailed from other districts,” president of Zada Graveyard Committee, Jahangirabad, Rehan Golden, said. According to a state government bulletin on Thursday, 666 patients had died of Covid-19 in Bhopal district since the outbreak. District chief medical and health officer Dr Prabhakar Tiwari could not be contacted for his comment. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s explanation for the gap in numbers was that last rites of suspected Covid patients were also performed as per the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Bodies pile up at cremation ghats in Varanasi||The cremation ghats in Varanasi are overflowing with bodies of the Covid dead with queues sometimes stretching into residential areas. Bodies line the stairs of the Harishchandra Ghat along the Ganga in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency. Staff members at the crematorium said the body count had been 125 on Friday and 127 on Saturday, almost 10 times higher than the 15-odd bodies that used to be cremated daily. According to a crematorium employee, the ghat has two electric incinerators and three platforms for wood pyres. “Officially, there were bodies of 11 coronavirus infected persons on Friday and 12 on Saturday. But the total numbers of the dead has become unusually high,” said Mohit Chaudhary, a staffer. Another staff member said on the condition of anonymity: “We are treating every body as that of a Covid-19 patient and handling them carefully. Most bereaved relatives are saying that the deceased had fever and other Covid symptoms. Either they could not be tested or they died before the results arrived.” “We managed to cremate 80 bodies over the past 24 hours by setting up more pyres. However, bodies are piling up at the ghat. You can see bodies kept even in the streets near the ghat as there is no space here,” the staff member added. Rajesh Yadav, the Nagar Nigam councillor of the area, said: “The situation is clearly out of control. There is fear of the infection spreading in areas near Harishchandra Ghat. We are sanitising the streets and appealing to the people to ensure they use PPE kits and that clothes of the deceased are not left behind after the cremation is completed.” The scene is similar at Manikarnika Ghat. Ramesh Rai, who had brought his uncle’s body to the ghat on Saturday morning, told reporters: “My uncle had fever and breathing problem for the past six days. He had been admitted to a private hospital and a Covid test was done. But we didn’t get the report even after his death.” “There are 52 bodies in the queue and one has to wait for a minimum of one-and-a-half hours for the electric incinerator and five hours for a wood pyre. I think I will have to wait till Sunday night,” Rai added. According to the health department, there are 11,500 active Covid patients in Varanasi. Gaurang Rathi, the municipal commissioner of Varanasi, said: “We are trying to manage the situation. A large number of employees have been deployed at the cremation grounds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: NEET postponement disappoints aspirants||Pulkit Santoshi has been preparing for the postgraduate medical entrance exam for the past two years. Three days ahead of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (postgraduate), scheduled to be held this Sunday, the government decided to defer the exam in view of the second wave of the pandemic. Without clarity on a fresh date for the exam, Santoshi said it was discouraging to “pursue a goal when the goalpost is nowhere to be seen”. Many students preparing for admission to MD, MS, DNB and PG diploma courses expressed disappointment at the decision to defer the test indefinitely. The National Board of Examination (NBE) conducts the NEET (PG) in January every year. This year, the NBE had deferred the test to April 18. Nearly 1.76 lakh candidates have applied for nearly 35,000 postgraduate seats in government and private institutions except the Institutions of National Importance like AIIMS. The NBE had issued admit cards. “Preparation for the NEET (PG) involves a strategy. For that you need to know the date of the exam. Today, we do not know when the test will be held. It is disappointing,” Santoshi said. He pointed out that AIIMS, which conducts its own entrance exam, had gone ahead with the test last year in May when the lockdown was in force. The NEET (undergraduate) was also conducted by the National Testing Agency in September when daily Covid cases had been in excess of 90,000. “The country needs more doctors to attend to corona(virus) patients. We would have joined duty in hospitals after our admission,” Santoshi said. While the NEET (PG) has been deferred, AIIMS on Saturday conducted the INI Combined Entrance Test for DM and M.CH superspeciality courses. On Tuesday, the Union health ministry had written to all states to consider the entrance test to be conducted by AIIMS as an essential activity. The postgraduate entrance exam is slated to be held on May 8. Santoshi said the exam should be held soon so that students’ admission was not delayed. Another student, Happy Kumar, said the decision to postpone the test was logical but “harsh” considering the preparations undertaken over several months. “I can understand why the test has been postponed. Some candidates and invigilators may be suffering from Covid. They may spread it. But if you consider the preparations and coaching, it is a harsh decision,” Kumar said. He suggested that the government should consider holding the NEET (PG) entrance exam on the same date as the AIIMS (PG) test. Nearly 70,000 candidates have applied for the AIIMS exam. An NEET candidate in Calcutta supported the government’s decision. He said students could never celebrate their achievements if they contracted the coronavirus at exam centres and passed it onto their family members. “The usual admission time is till August-end. The government postponed the exam because the daily Covid cases have crossed 2 lakh. Once the situation improves, the exam will be held. There won’t be much of an academic loss,” he said. He said there were several logistical issues as well, such as travelling to other cities to take the test. Local curfews have been imposed in many places. “The exam duration is three-and-a-half hours. But a student will have to spend four-and-a-half hours, including formalities. In case a person is corona(virus) positive, several students will be infected,” he said. Vaibhav, a doctor in Gwalior, said that if there was a delay in admission to postgraduate courses, the promotion of first-year students would also be pushed back. The award of degrees to final-year students would also be delayed. “The current first-year students are doing Covid duty. They can pursue their specialisation only when the fresh batch takes admission,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Sonia Gandhi reminds Narendra Modi of ‘rajdharma’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi reminded the Prime Minister of his “rajharma” on a day a chief minister struggling with a Covid surge in his state revealed that he had tried to reach Narendra Modi to seek help on oxygen supplies, only to be told the Prime Minister was busy with the Bengal election campaign. “Maharashtra needs oxygen supply…. I contacted Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the need for oxygen supply, but he wasn’t available on phone… since he was busy with the West Bengal poll campaign. But the Centre is cooperating with the state,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is quoted as saying in a release issued by the chief minister’s office. Maharashtra, which is among the states reporting the highest number of new coronavirus cases, has been repeatedly flagging the need for more oxygen. Union minister Piyush Goyal lashed out at Thackeray, accusing his government of being “corrupt” and “inept”. Maharashtra had received the maximum oxygen supply, he said. Sonia regretted that the Modi government was resorting to political brinkmanship at a time people faced unprecedented miseries. Recalling that there was no response to her letter to the Prime Minister on certain measures she suggested, Sonia said at the Congress Working Committee meeting: “There has been thundering silence on the part of the government. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions of the Opposition, Union ministers are pressed into service to attack leaders of the Opposition for giving those suggestions. This convoluted ‘me versus you’ debate is childish and totally unnecessary.” Arguing that callous mismanagement by the government has pushed the country into crisis again, she added: “Let us ensure that the suggestions our party puts forward are considered by the government in the spirit of true democratic traditions. Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true rajdharma (a ruler’s duty).” Various suggestions given by the senior leaders at the CWC meeting on Saturday are being collated and will be part of a letter former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will write to Modi on Sunday. Some leaders said while vaccines being given to the poor and underdeveloped countries was understandable, gift and export to rich countries was avoidable. Sonia said: “Considering the highest infection rate in the world in our own country, shouldn’t vaccine export be held back and priority given to protect our citizens? How is boasting about our generosity to other countries going to help the thousands of our people who are dying.” Sonia also reiterated the party’s demand for transferring Rs 6,000 to the accounts of poor people immediately in the wake of economic disruption caused by partial lockdowns. Asked if a total national lockdown was called for, senior leader P. Chidambaram said: “The government’s mismanagement is pushing states towards that. But lockdown will hit the economy, which is already in a dire state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Modi expresses concern about Kumbh Mela’s potential to weaken the country’s fight against Covid ||Sections of political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday voiced concern about the Kumbh Mela’s potential to weaken the country’s fight against Covid-19 after lakhs of devotees and seers had congregated at the Haridwar Kumbh for days. Modi, in a telephone conversation with Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Poojya Swamy Avdheshanand Giri Ji, requested that the Kumbh be kept “symbolic from now on as two Shahi Snans (holy bathing rituals) have already taken place,” the Press Information Bureau, the Centre’s public information office said. “This will strengthen the fight against the pandemic,” the PIB quoted Modi as saying. The Acharya has replied respecting the Prime Minister’s request and has asked devotees not to come for bathing in large numbers and to follow Covid-19 appropriate precautions, the PIB said. At present, there are around 20 lakh people, including sadhus and devotees, in the Mahakumbh mela area along the Ganga and they are to start returning home after the last Shahi Snan (royal bath) on April 27. On Saturday evening, Swami Avdheshanand, mahamandaleshwar (supreme sadhu) of Sri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, tweeted in Hindi: “The people of India and the safety of their lives is our first priority. We have done the immersion of all the gods and goddess according to the rules of the Kumbh in view of the corona(virus) pandemic. The immersion is systematic closure of the Kumbh by Juna Akhara.” He tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat in his tweet. Avdheshanand, who is known for his proximity to the rich and the powerful, had in the morning tweeted: “We respect the appeal of the honourable Prime Minister ji. Saving the lives is a holy work. I appeal to the religious people not to come in large numbers for the holy bath and follow the rules.” “How many days has the Kumbh Mela gone on already? This is a case of locking the stable when the horses have bolted,” Congress leader P. Chidambaram said. The Kumbh had started on April 1 and has been allowed to go on although the country is in the grip of a brutal second wave of Covid. Avdheshanand held a news conference in Haridwar mela area around 11am on Saturday and said: “Since only one Shahi Snan (April 27) is left, we have decided to do it symbolically.” About an hour later, Srimahant Rajendra Das, head of Sri Panch Nirmohi Ani Akhara, told reporters in the mela area: “I had a long discussion with home minister Amit Shah today (Saturday). All the rules would be followed during the Shahi Snan of April 27. The saints would be there in limited numbers during the holy bath.” On Friday, some sadhus of Niranjani, Sri Panchayati and Anand akharas had said they were disillusioned by the health management in the Kumbh and decided to conclude it in the interest of the people. However, this was opposed by many akharas besides Swaroopanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of both Dwarka Sharda Peetham in Gujarat and Jyotir Math in Badrinath. “The Kumbh will continue till April 30. It cannot be shortened,” he had said. Gujarat’s chief minister Vijay Rupani and Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday independently called for testing of those returning from the Kumbh. Rupani said people returning to Gujarat after attending the Kumbh will have to undergo an RT-PCR test before they are allowed to enter their cities or villages, a Press Trust of India report said. “Collectors of all districts in Gujarat have been directed to keep watch on the Kumbh Mela returnees and enforce a nakabandi (security check) to prevent their entry into their hometowns without an RT-PCR test,” Rupani said. “Officials have been directed to isolate those people found infected during testing.” In Mumbai, mayor Pednekar said those returning from the Kumbh to their states will distribute the coronavirus as “prasad” and that the call for a stop to the Kumbh now “will not protect us.” “All these people should be quarantined in their respective states at their own cost and tested,” Pednekar was quoted as saying by Asian News International. “In Mumbai also, we’re thinking of putting them under quarantine on their return.” Public health experts have been worried about the potential impact of the Kumbh on the epidemic. The Union health ministry had last month cautioned the Uttarakhand government that the Kumbh could rapidly spread the virus given the significant number of daily Covid-19 positive cases detected among local residents and devotees ahead of the mela.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-204
18-04-2021||India||Editors Guild of India asks J&K police to withdraw advisory forbidding live coverage of protests||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday asked Jammu and Kashmir police to withdraw its advisory forbidding live coverage of gunfights and protests, saying it was “draconian and undemocratic.” The guild said such an advisory enabled the security forces escape any kind of media scrutiny about the flow of events behind the violence, echoing the journalist associations in the Valley who had claimed that the move was aimed at stopping them from reporting facts. Kashmir inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar had recently directed senior superintendents of police to take legal action if mediapersons went near encounter sites or “law and order” situations. The IGP cautioned against the coverage of operational content that had the “potential to incite violence” or was against the “maintenance of law and order or which promotes anti-national sentiment”. “Nothing can be further from the truth. Visibly, the police is giving an impression of trying to maintain peace by attempting to control the fallout of violence in a high strung environment, but what is being instead done is an attempt by the security forces to escape from any kind of media scrutiny about the flow of events behind the violence,” the guild said in a statement. The guild statement said live reporting from conflict areas, including gunfights between government forces and militants, was one of the most important journalistic duties of any responsible media and required “extreme grit and determination on the part of reporters”. “At best, there may be some guidelines that can be issued with respect to reporting from such scenes, with the aim of protecting the integrity of tactics and plans of security agencies, as well as to avoid journalists from interfering with the evolving situation and from sensationalising the issue that can stir up emotions at audience’s end. Globally those have been the norms adopted by responsible governments,” it said. “The advisory of Kashmir Police is draconian and undemocratic, and flies in the face of the stellar role journalists have played in reporting conflict in the country.” Therefore the advisory must be withdrawn immediately.” Kashmiri journalists are up in arms against the advisory and have asked police to withdraw it. The media bodies in Kashmir have reacted sharply to the advisory. A joint statement by 12 media bodies in the Valley last week said journalists in Kashmir worked under precarious circumstances and had upheld courageous and upright journalism. “The advisory was a coercive tactic to preclude on-the-spot reporting,” it said. “If this is a part of the official policy of police then it appears to be a tactic to coerce journalists into not reporting facts on the ground.” The journalist bodies claimed the directive seemed to be a part of the “string of measures taken by the authorities to suppress freedom of press in the region”. “Summoning journalists to police stations, filing FIRs and seeking informal explanations for their work has intensified in the past two years,” it said. The directive came at a time the Valley had been witnessing a surge in stone-pelting incidents that had left the administration red-faced as the government had for months claimed it had succeeded in restoring normalcy after the scrapping of Article 370 in 2019. The government seems to be a looking for a scapegoat to divert the attention from its own failures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||India||Suicide of young Kerala bank manager brings to fore unhealthy working conditions||The suicide of a young Kerala bank manager, a widow and mother of two, has once again brought to the fore the extreme pressure and unhealthy working conditions that many bank employees have to face daily. Prolonged working hours, a sharp increase in targets that include the selling of even third-party financial and insurance products, a shrinking workforce, mergers and privatisation, and abusive seniors have come together to exert tremendous pressure on bank employees, staff and union leaders said. K.S. Swapna, 38, manager of Canara Bank at Kuthuparamba in Kannur district, was found hanging at her branch on April 9. She left a brief note in her diary stating that she was taking the extreme step as she had failed in her banking job. Security cameras later showed her entering the branch at 8.10am. She committed suicide before the rest of the employees arrived 30 minutes later. A widow with two young children, Swapna who hails from Thrissur had assumed charge in September 2020. Her husband had died after a heart attack two years ago. Swapna is the third bank manager in Kerala to commit suicide over the past year apparently due to work pressure. M.D. Gopinathan, Kerala general secretary and all-India joint secretary of the All India Bank Officers’ Association, told The Telegraph that the managers of two banks, in Guruvayur and Palakkad, had committed suicide before Swapna. The manager of the Guruvayur branch of Corporation Bank, K.P. Ayyappan, 57, had been found hanging from the ceiling fan of his cabin. “I don’t remember the name of the SBI manager who committed suicide in Palakkad about eight months ago. But there are several such cases across the country,” Gopinathan said. “Our unions have regularly highlighted the issues and demanded a proper work-life balance for all bank employees. But the situation is getting worse,” said Gopinathan, who is the manager of Canara Bank’s Vellimadukunnu branch in Kozhikode. “Swapna’s death is very unfortunate. This is exactly why we have been seeking proper working hours for officers who bear the brunt of the banking industry although a lot of clerical staff also rise to the occasion to help us handle the workload,” he said. Harassment and abusive remarks are another problem faced by bank officers and managers, he said. “The branch managers’ meet (of particular banks) sees a lot of abuses flying around. All this puts managers under tremendous pressure,” Gopinathan said. According to him, five trade unions that represent clerical staff and four unions of officers and their umbrella organisation, the Indian Banks Association, have time and again told the Centre about the human crisis. The 2001 voluntary retirement scheme that led to the exit of 1.25 lakh bank employees and the subsequent recruitment ban that lasted nearly 10 years are the main reasons for the current crisis. “We had sought regulated working hours and a proper work-life balance in 2006 itself since the workload had multiplied with regular retirements further shrinking the workforce,” Gopinathan said. These factors made working conditions miserable. “From just three targets — deposits, advances and recovery — officers and managers now have 30 targets specific to products like insurance, mutual funds, government schemes and even third-party products,” Gopinathan said. “Officers usually work into the night and are called for work even on weekends although there are branches where the workload is manageable,” he added. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has ordered the Canara Bank Kerala circle to submit a report on what led to Swapna’s suicide. The commission has also asked the State Level Bankers’ Committee to submit a report on the pressures faced by bank employees in the state. BinoyViswam, a Rajya Sabha member from Kerala, has in a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman called for immediate intervention. The CPI leader has urged her to take “holistic steps that will ensure that such working conditions do not become the ‘working culture’ in banks across India”. “The rights of employees cannot be jeopardised due to failures of the management and strategic decisions of the government and its corporate interest,” Viswam stated, demanding an inquiry into the working conditions at banks. The Left parties protested across Kerala on Tuesday, seeking better working conditions for bank employees. M. Vijin, central committee member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) who led a protest at Swapna’s branch in Kuthuparamba, told this newspaper that the agitation would continue until the demands were met. “While the Centre is not keen on recovering huge loans taken by corporate companies, bank officers and managers are penalised if they fail to recover small loans from the common people. This is the change of attitude brought about by unbridled mergers and privatisation of the banking sector,” said Vijin, who contested as the Left Democratic Front candidate from Kalliasseri in Kannur in the recent Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||India||Maoist attack: Probe blames leaders and intelligence gap||A probe by security agencies has revealed “procedural lapses” and intelligence failure that resulted in the massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh early this month, sources said on Saturday. The Maoists had ambushed and killed the jawans inside the forests on the Bijapur-Sukma border in a four-hour gun battle with the security forces. “The report has revealed grave procedural lapses on the part of the top brass of the CRPF and Chhattisgarh police in launching an offensive against the ultras inside the jungle. According to the standard operating procedure, the forces should not have advanced into the forest without carrying an area domination exercise,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. He said it was a blunder on the part of the top brass, especially the commanders as they failed to read the telltale signs of the impending attack. “They walked into a trap meticulously planned by the Maoists resulting in a huge casualty. There was also complete intelligence failure as the security personnel did not anticipate the presence of over 250 rebels who surrounded them from all sides and started firing,” the official added. According to SOP, the road opening patrol team, which provides security to the troop movement, is usually sent to secure the area. On April 3, around 2,000 security personnel had launched a concerted operation in Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. “The CRPF top brass has been asked to submit a detailed report on the encounter and also the names of the commanders who had led the operation,” a home ministry official said. The CRPF reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh has denied any lapses. Eight of the dead jawans were from the CRPF — seven from the elite Cobra commando unit — while the rest were from various state police units. This was the highest casualty the security forces have suffered at the hands of the insurgents since April 2017 when rebels ambushed and killed 25 CRPF personnel near Burkapal in Sukma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||India||Fodder scam: Lalu Prasad to walk free, RJD celebrates||A wave of joy swept through the rank and file of the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar on Saturday after Jharkhand High Court granted bail to party national president Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case, paving the way for his release. The bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh granted bail to Lalu in the case relating to illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka (then in Bihar) treasury by animal husbandry department officials between 1991 and 1996 when he was the chief minister. The court directed him not to leave the country without permission nor change his address or mobile phone number. Lalu will have to provide two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each and two personal bonds of Rs 5 lakh each. The completion of bail formalities could take two to three days. Granting the bail, Justice Singh said the RJD chief had already served half the tenure (3.5 years) of his sentence in the case. A special CBI court in Ranchi in March 2018 had sentenced Lalu to 14 years’ imprisonment — seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and seven under the Prevention of Corruption Act — and fined him Rs 60 lakh in the Dumka treasury case. The 72-year-old former chief minister is currently undergoing treatment in custody at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. He was moved to the national capital from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, in January this year. As soon as information about the bail in the fourth of five fodder scam cases reached RJD workers and supporters, they rushed to the 10 Circular Road residence of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi to celebrate. Slogans in favour of Lalu rent the air, sweets began to be distributed, while a few more enthusiastic party workers burst crackers. However, senior RJD leaders intervened before the celebrations could break out on a larger scale in violation of Covid-19 protocols. “We request all well-wishers, supporters and party workers to observe all the coronavirus pandemic protocols and stay in their homes instead of any celebration. There will be more occasions in the future when we can share our joy with Lalu Prasad. We should also ensure that no negative comments are passed against anybody,” RJD state president Jagadanand Singh said. Expressing faith in the judiciary, Lalu’s younger son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the “messiah of the poor and downtrodden will soon be present among them. There is a wave of joy in the country. He is the need of the hour for the country”. However, Tejashwi said he and his family will “act as per the advice of the doctors at AIIMS Delhi over whether he should stay at the hospital or come home. He is suffering from several diseases”. Rabri and eldest daughter Misa Bharti, who is a Rajya Sabha member, were in Delhi and went to meet Lalu after getting news about his bail. Lalu’s younger daughter Rohini Acharya tweeted: “My Ramzan and Navratra have been successful. The God has given me Eidi (Eid gift).” Buoyed by the development, several RJD leaders called for a national front against the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Just wait for Laluji to come out. We will form the government in Bihar. This is the right time to move for a national front against the BJP and our party president (Lalu) will lead the charge. He is the need of the time,” senior RJD legislator and party spokesperson Bhai Virendra said. The RJD with 75 MLAs is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Other Opposition parties, including the Congress, welcomed the bail granted to Lalu. Six cases were registered against Lalu in the Rs 1,000 crore fodder scam that rocked Bihar politics in 1990s. He was convicted in four of them — two for fraudulent withdrawals from the Chaibasa treasury, and one each related to Deoghar and Dumka treasuries. The RJD chief has now secured bail in all the four fodder scam cases in which he was convicted. In October 2020, Lalu had obtained bail in the case pertaining to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.76 crore from the Chaibasa treasury. In July 2019, Lalu got bail in the Deoghar treasury embezzlement case of Rs 84.53 lakh. A case related to illegal withdrawal from the Doranda treasury is still at the trial stage, while he was acquitted in a case involving allegation of disproportionate assets. These cases have kept Lalu continuously in jail since December 2017, except for a few days when he was out for treatment. He also attended his eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav’s marriage in May 2018. Lalu is still an accused in various cases related to railways tender scam, money laundering and Patna zoo soil purchase scam. The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the income tax department are investigating them. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee from Ranchi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||India||Covid: Allow open-market sale of vaccine, says Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the sale of Covid-19 vaccines in the open market so that people who can afford can purchase them. The state also demanded 25 lakh doses of vaccines immediately from the Centre. The chief minister made the request at a time when Odisha and several other states are struggling to administer Covid-19 vaccines to all eligible people amid complaints of a shortage in supply from the Centre while the number of cases and deaths continue to mount. During the last 24 hours, four persons died in Odisha due to Covid-19 with the total toll reaching 1,942. So far 364,594 people in the state have been affected by the virus with the detection of 3,144 fresh cases during the last 24 hours. The Congress candidate for Pipili Assembly by-election, Ajit Mangaraj, died after contracting Covid-19, forcing the Election Commission to countermand the poll which was scheduled to be held on Saturday. Mangaraj’s mother also succumbed to the disease on Friday night. Explaining the need for making the vaccines available in the market in a letter to the Prime Minister, Patnaik said: “Covid-19 vaccines may be made available outside the government supply chain in the open market so that willing citizens, who can afford the vaccine, can avail them. This will help the government to have a focused approach towards vulnerable sections of the society.” Urging Modi to intervene to supply 25 lakh vaccine doses to Odisha, Naveen said: “We are getting huge responses from the people to get vaccinated. However, the intermittent supply is creating a challenge in meeting the demand. In this backdrop, I had requested for 25 lakh vaccine doses to help us administer three lakh doses every day. Even at full capacity, it will take us 160 days to fully vaccinate the eligible population of our state (above 45 years).” So far Odisha has vaccinated 47 lakh people above 45 years of age, officials said. Naveen’s letter comes at a time when the number of daily inoculations has come down from 2 lakh to 91,195 and only 781 vaccine centres out of 1,476 sites are operational in the state. The vaccination programme has been suspended in urban areas in 10 districts. “At an appropriate time, adequate quantity of vaccines should be made available for the states to procure and scale up their vaccination process,” Naveen said. In the meantime, the state government is strictly enforcing the observance of Covid guidelines by the people. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC has been clamped in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack after 9pm along with the night curfew. Night curfew is currently in force in all the urban areas of the state. Meanwhile, the Puri district administration announced that no devotees will be allowed to enter the Shree Jagannath Temple after 8pm. All the devotees have to leave the shrine before 8.30pm as the night curfew is also in force in the pilgrim town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik asks district collectors to hand over unused govt assets to women self-help groups||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has directed the district collectors to hand over unused government properties and assets at the district, block and panchayat level to women self-help groups under the Mission Shakti Mahasangha (Federation) within two months to further aid their socio-economic empowerment. Mission Shakti, which was launched by the state government in 2001, has brought nearly 70 lakh women in its fold, officials said. The state government is committed to provide work orders worth Rs 5,000 crore to these women self-help groups, they said. According to the direction of the chief minister, unused government buildings, government outlets and ponds lying unused at different levels right from district to panchayat level will be handed over to women SHGs under Mission Shakti. “They would utilise the properties for the overall socio-economic development of the area,” an official said. Naveen said: “Empowerment of women is the top priority of the government. Mission Shakti has become the agent of change. The decision taken by the state government will strengthen the silent movement waged by the mothers of our state.” On International Women’s Day on March 8, the chief minister had said: “The mothers, who take the entire responsibility of their families, will have no problem in taking the responsibility of the society as well as the country. There is a spark of leadership in each mother. It’s our responsibility to give them the opportunity to showcase their leadership qualities. We need to utilise their leadership qualities in the inclusive development of the nation.” An exclusive department for Mission Shakti started functioning from April 1. The Naveen government has been campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state legislative assemblies and in Parliament. It had enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayats and urban bodies in 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-205
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Hope Didi’s leg heals before she has to walk to submit her resignation: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that the BJP will bag more than 122 of the 180 seats that went to elections in Bengal in five phases. Shah, who addressed two rallies during the day, claimed that Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee will have to surely make an exit after losing the Nandigram seat to the BJP. "Didi is demoralised after five phases of elections as it has been established that the BJP, with more than 122 seats, is much ahead of her. Take it from me, Suvendu Adhikari (BJP nominee) is winning the polls from Nandigram," he said at a public meeting in Purbasthali. The home minister also said that the TMC boss has just one agenda -- "abusing him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central armed police force (CAPF)". He further stated that people should bid Mamata farewell after ensuring a huge defeat for her party, one that "befits her stature". He hoped that the CM's injured leg gets healed soon so that "she is able to walk when she submits her resignation to the governor after May 2." Pointing to a purported audio tape, in which the TMC boss is apparently heard proposing a rally with the bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims, Shah said he has so far never come across any person who "plays politics over the dead". Insisting that infiltrators are taking away the benefits meant for the country's citizens, he said, "People like you and I are second-grade citizens for Didi as we do not add heft to her vote bank." He gave assurance that his party, if voted to power in West Bengal, will ensure that cross-border cattle smuggling comes to a stop once and for all. Claiming that TMC's goons try to forbid voters from exercising franchise on every polling day, he said Banerjee is angry because people, this time, have come out in large numbers to cast ballots without any fear or anxiety. Shah, during his address in Swarupnagar, alleged that illegal immigrants are very close to the heart of Mamata Banerjee as they make for a chunk of her vote base. "Didi, however, does not want the new citizenship law to be implemented. I promise you (people) that all refugees will be given citizenship after the BJP forms government. "Having toured every part of West Bengal, I know that Didi's departure is certain," he said, exuding confidence that the saffron party will win the assembly elections with over 200 seats in its kitty. Slamming the CM over her contention that BJP leaders are "outsiders", Shah sought to know from the people gathered at the rally if he and the prime minister can actually be termed so. Iterating that Banerjee has refused to extend benefits of 'Ayushman Bharat' health scheme to the people of Bengal "on the pretext that she does not want Narendra Modi's money", Shah said, "The money is from the central government exchequer and not from him. Modi, being the son of a tea-seller, does not have so much money." He assured that a BJP government in Bengal will ensure that at least one member of every family in the state gets work in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly polls 2021: Mamata writes to PM for vaccines, Rahul suspends rallies||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi suspended election campaign meetings in Bengal on Sunday over the raging Covid pandemic, becoming the first national politician to keep public health priorities ahead of electoral gains after the CPI(M) announced a similar move. “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal.” Rahul, the Wayanad MP, tweeted on Sunday. “I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding public rallies under the current circumstances,” Rahul, who has address only two public meetings in Bengal (Goalpokhor and Matigara-Naxalbari) added in his tweet. Rahul’s advise came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gloated on national television about the huge turnout at his public meetings in the industrial town of Asansol. Sunday also saw chief minister Mamata Banerjee writing to Modi, seeking additonal vaccines and life-saving drugs to curb the spread of Covid cases. “This is also the first time when a record number of sick and dead are being seen,” Rahul wrote in another tweet, taking a dig at Modi. Among the political parties in the fray in Bengal, the only party to have declared putting on hold all large public meetings is the CPI(M), the Congress’ salliance partner. On Sunday night, two prominent CPI(M) candidates in the 2021 Assembly elections, Minaskhi Mukherjee and Srijan Bhattacharya, are scheduled to  to address people via the traditional medium of radio. CPI(M) veteran and Left Front chairman Biman Bose will make a similar address on Monday morning. Minakshi will also appear on national television channel Doordarshan with fellow nominee Dipsita Dhar and senior CPI(M) leader Anadi Sahu. Modi’s claim on the record turnout came at a time when the country has recorded over two lakh fresh Covid cases on consecutive days and most cities and towns are struggling to provide medical support to the ailing and a funeral for the dead. While Modi himself did not campaign on Sunday in Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah addressed a public meeting at Jamalpur, Burdwan and held a roadshow in Nadia’s Nakashipara. He had another roadshow and meeting scheduled at the town hall in Habra, followed by an organisational one. On the other hand, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed packed crowds at Tehatta in Nadia and Gaighata and Khardah in North 24-Parganas earlier in the day. After returning to Calcutta, she led a roadshow from Dhakuria to Kalighat crossing. Though Mamata has stuck to her campaign schedule, she also took time to write to Modi requesting for more vaccines for the state. “You may recall that I had written to you on 24 February 2021 to allow the state to purchase vaccination doses directly with state funds and launch a massive free vaccination campaign in the state to cover the entire population. However, the state has not received the clearance,” Mamata wrote. In her letter, Mamata noted  that supply from the Centre was erratic. “We have to vaccinate 2.7 crore people and we need 5.4 crore doses,” Mamata wrote. The chief minister added that the state needs about 6,000 vials of Remdesivir and another 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab, but only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir were available. The figures provided by the West Bengal government health department on its portal stated till Saturday, there were 43,500 active cases with 7,713 new cases added to the tally. While a Trinamul legislator and two candidates have succumbed to the virus, at least four other nominees have tested positive. Rahul’s suggestion to his political colleagues came on the same day when reticent former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh sent a letter to Modi with a five-point advisory on how to deal with the Covid pandemic. Singh has suggested that the Centre allow states the flexibility to decide on frontline workers, whose vaccination needed to be prioritised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘reckless act’ reason behind Covid surge in Bengal, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said BJP leaders "from Delhi" who are bringing "outsiders" for campaigning, without Covid-19 tests, are responsible for the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The Trinamul Congress supremo also blamed the Election Commission (EC) for curtailing her campaigning time, for the ongoing Assembly polls, by five days while turning a blind eye to her plea to club the last three phases of the polls in the wake of the surge in coronavirus cases. "Leaders from Delhi are bringing in outsiders infected with the virus during campaigning without bothering to conduct Covid-19 tests. "I am not saying being infected with the virus is a crime. But the reckless act of the BJP has triggered the sudden rise in the number of coronavirus cases in recent times," the chief minister said, addressing a rally at Tehatta. Claiming that a BJP candidate in Howrah district went on campaigning despite being infected by the virus, Mamata asked "Why couldn't he sit at home and desist from campaigning?" "Our party never takes such a risk," she added. Alleging that the EC is showing an "unfavourable attitude" towards her, the chief minister said "Earlier they had taken away an entire day of my campaigning. Now in the last three phases, it has curtailed campaign time by 4 days. As a result, I will not be able to address 20 meetings in south Bengal districts." Cautioning people against allowing "outsiders to occupy Bengal," the TMC supremo said, "This election is for saving the honour of the womenfolk of Bengal and safeguarding the integrity of the state." Reminding the electorate that she did not allow the National Population Register (NPR) exercise in Bengal, she said "Remember your vote is important to prevent them (BJP) from coming to power, to prevent them from introducing NPR, National Register of Citizens (NRC), and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)." "When people protest against misdeeds and oppression, the BJP instigates firing and kills people. BJP only knows to loot, instigate riots and kill people," Mamata alleged. Wishing people on the occasion of the approaching Annapurna Puja, Basanti Puja, Ramnavami, and Ramadan, she chanted 'Chandi shlokas' and then wished members of the Muslim community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Who is recording Mamata Banerjee’s calls, asks Yashwant Sinha||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India, alleging that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s phone had been tapped. The BJP had released on Friday an audio clip of a purported conversation in which Mamata allegedly proposed a rally with the bodies of the Sitalkuchi victims who were gunned down by central forces on April 10. A Trinamul delegation, led by its national vice-president Yashwant Sinha, met Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and lodged the complaint. The delegation said the recording was in violation of not only the Constitution but also the Indian Telegraph Act, the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code. “A day before polling, a so-called tape of a telephone conversation of the chief minister was released by the ruling party at the Centre in what is evidently the act of the dirty tricks department of the BJP. The timing is clearly with the direct aim of influencing voters,” said Sinha, a former minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet. The clip was released at a news conference at a BJP party office in Calcutta by the party’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya. On Saturday, Sinha, a former IAS officer, said: “The biggest question, of course, is how is a chief minister’s telephone conversation recorded? Who is doing it? I have been a Union minister. I can tell you with complete authority that even to tap the phone of a criminal, there is a prescribed procedure that has to be adhered to…. “A chief minister’s telephone was tapped and the recording is being released by the IT cell of the ruling party (at the Centre)… how did it get it? How was it taped? How did the IT cell of the BJP get it? So many serious questions.” Responding to a BJP allegation that the clip was released from within Trinamul itself, Sinha said it was as laughable as the IT cell’s news conference. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi couldn’t resist bringing up the audio clip. Modi told a rally in Asansol: “I think you all have listened to it (the audio tape). Didi was asking her party colleague to organise a rally with the bodies. Didi is doing politics even on unfortunate deaths.” Mamata, too, reacted to the circulation of the audio clip. “They (the BJP) are now even eavesdropping on our everyday conversations. It appears they are tapping our phone calls, even on cooking and other household chores,” she said. “I will order a CID probe. I will not spare anyone involved in such snooping activities…. The BJP has made the tape viral so it is clear they did it. I will not spare them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi reminds Asansol of 2018 riots||Narendra Modi on Saturday reminded Asansol of the riots of 2018, drawing charges that the desperation to win the elections has made him fall back on an ill-concealed polarisation tactic unbecoming of a Prime Minister. Modi also glossed over the fact that turncoat politics has ensured that the politician his party had targeted over the riots is now a BJP candidate. Neither did Modi, whose tenure as Gujarat chief minister witnessed one of the worst riots in the country, betray any signs that he was conscious of the irony. “Do you remember the Ram Navami of three years ago? Who can forget the riots of Asansol-Raniganj? The entire life’s earnings of hundreds of people got burnt to ashes in these riots…. The poor were the worst affected. People who had shops on stations and small businessmen,” Modi told a rally in West Burdwan. In 2018, a clash had broken out between two communities over a Ram Navami procession in Raniganj and spread to adjoining areas. At least three persons were killed, including 16-year-old Sitbulla Rashidi, the son of a local Imam, Maulana Imdadul Rashidi. Although the saffron camp had then blamed the state government for the riots, the administration’s prompt action — and an appeal by Rashidi, who had urged people to restore amity and not to avenge his son’s death — had brought peace back to the area. In the 2002 Gujarat communal riots, at least a thousand people, mostly from the minority community, were killed. Modi, however, said at the meeting in Asansol’s Nigha:  “Who supported the rioters? Who undertook the policy of appeasement? For whom did the police support the rioters? There is only one answer. Everyone is saying ‘because of Didi’.” A local Trinamul leader  said: “The BJP had then accused Jitendra Tiwari, the former MLA from Pandaveswar and Asansol’s mayor, of being a mute spectator during the riots. Now, he is in their party and he is also a candidate. The people of Bengal will not be fooled by this polarising agenda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Vote comes before alliance ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged that tweaks in poll campaign timings, attributed to Covid-19 safety concerns by the Election Commission of India, were aimed at inconveniencing her party Trinamul because the BJP did not have much chance in the 114 seats left for the final three phases. The chief minister, at a Purbasthali rally in East Burdwan, expressed displeasure at the poll panel’s decision, after it on Friday ruled out clubbing the last three phases of the polls, choosing instead to ban campaigns between 7pm and 10am. The commission also extended the no-campaign window before the date of polling from 48 hours to 72 hours. “We asked the Election Commission of India to reduce the number of phases (by clubbing the three final phases of the eight-phase Bengal election), but they did not listen to us,” said Mamata. The poll panel’s new guidelines were announced after an all-party meeting in Calcutta on Friday, where Trinamul had proposed the merger of the last three phases and the BJP opposed it. The CPM too was not in favour of changes in schedule. “But you reduced the scope of the campaign. Because the likes of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi do not have much more left by way of campaign programmes. Because Amit Shah’s rallies have been witnessing a poor turnout. You have restricted only my meetings with that 7pm restriction,” added the Trinamul chief, who has conducted many poll events across the state after 7pm. Mamata said at least 120 hours have been taken from her in the end of the campaign. “Also, the 72-hour deadline for closure of the campaign ahead of every phase began from this fifth phase itself. So 24 extra hours ahead of the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth phases, besides that additional 24 hours (because of the commission’s ban on her campaign), that’s 120 hours of possible campaign taken away. Understood?” she said. Mamata rued the lost days, underscoring how she took no leave since the elections were announced (on February 26) and minimised wastage of time even after sustaining her leg injury at Nandigram on March 10. “So many of my days they wasted, my mothers and sisters. I have not taken a day’s leave from the campaign, even after that injury and hospitalisation, without heeding medical advice…,” said the wheelchair-bound chief minister. “Amaro koshto hoy re bhai (Even I feel pain, brother).” She accused the BJP of knowing it cannot win many of the 114 seats left, which is why it was no longer interested in elaborate campaigns. “Now, the BJP knows that the seats left are not where they can win, so they want the campaign period shortened, so that Trinamul cannot hold its programmes,” she said. She then dared the BJP — and the agencies at its central government’s disposal — to stop all the campaigns and have the voting conducted on Sunday itself. “Trinamul does not need to do anything more anyway. People will bless us with votes and hand you a drubbing even if all the remaining votes take place tomorrow (Sunday),” said Mamata. “You snatched my days of campaign. You are curbing my democratic rights. You are stifling our voice,” she added. Mamata again accused Modi and his party of turning  a blind eye to Covid-19 concerns for the sake of the Bengal elections, worsening the pandemic situation exponentially in the state. “None other than Narendra Modi, none other than the BJP will be responsible for worsening of the Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Officer stick for selfie with Mimi Chakraborty||A polling officer was relieved of his duties after he clicked a selfie with a “celebrity voter”, actress-turned-Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty here on Saturday. Mimi, the Jadavpur MP and a voter of Jalpaiguri, reached the booth to cast her vote around 1pm. The actress was heard saying “Amaro chakri jabe, apnaro, (I will lose my job, so will you),” when she saw M. Chakraborty, the third polling officer of Pandapara Nimna Buniadi Vidyalaya (booth 17/155), advancing with his cell phone with the intention to click a picture with her. The MP’s alert, however, did not deter the government employee. He initially stepped back but while Mimi was walking out of the booth after casting vote, Chakraborty left his desk again and this time took a selfie with the actress. Mimi then got into her car and left. Moumita Godara Basu, Jalpaiguri DM, said: “What the polling officer did is a violation of government rules. As we came to know about it, we relieved him from his duties and have deputed another person in his place. We will take administrative steps against him.” The incident has led to mixed reactions in the district. “Mimi Chakraborty is a popular actress. It seems that the polling personnel could not control his emotions and clicked a photo with her. We don’t feel it is a major offence,” defended Saikat Chatterjee, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul youth president. “He might have had plans to surprise his family with the selfie. But his move has posed a problem for him. We have seen celebrities voting during the elections but have never heard of such an act by polling personnel. The administration, we believe, has taken an apt decision,” said Palen Ghosh, the Jalpaiguri district president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. A senior government official pointed out that during the training, each polling team member is elaborately taught about the do’s and don’ts. “Even then, this person could not check himself. It is a complete violation of rules, particularly because the celebrity is also an elected representative of a political party,” he said. Both Mimi and the polling officer could not be contacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: North 24-Parganas villagers allege central force firing||A group of villagers in Deganga in North 24-Parganas accused the central forces of firing without provocation during the fifth phase of election on Saturday, a week after the April 10 Sitalkuchi firing by the CISF that had left four voters dead. A police inquiry later failed to establish Saturday’s alleged firing by the forces. However, residents of Karalgachha village in Deganga Assembly seat pointed to a hole on the ground, which they said was made when a jawan fired on the ground. “We were sitting in front of a camp of Sanjukta Morcha-backed ISF candidate Karim Ali. A group of jawans suddenly got out of a car and started chasing us with batons. We started fleeing...I saw a jawan firing on the ground. We ran over the paddy field to save our lives,” Sheikh Sariful, a 35-year-old supporter of the ISF said. Sariful said he had never seen such high-handedness of men in uniform and got scared thinking of the Sitalkuchi firing. “We know no one can assemble within 100m of the polling station and we were sitting at least 200m. I heard the sound of firing and saw a jawan had aimed his gun on the ground. I saw him collect bullet shells from the paddy field,” added Sariful. ISF candidate Karim Ali filed a complaint with the Election Commission after villagers informed him about the alleged firing. “A police team headed by the inspector-in-charge of Deganga and SDPO went to the spot and interrogated the central forces and the presiding officer of the booth but did not find truth in the allegation,” said a police officer. SP of Barasat Police district Raj Narayan Mukherjee sent a letter to the special police observer Vivek Dubey, saying the allegation is found to be “not based on facts”. Though the Deganga allegation could not be established, Trinamul on Saturday lodged at least 43 complaints with the EC, accusing the central forces of favouring BJP candidates or supporters in Nadia, East Burdwan and North 24-Parganas. On Thursday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra shared a picture on social media where a BJP candidate from Ranaghat North-East seat was purportedly lunching with central force jawans. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the central forces not to work for the BJP. “Jawans of the central forces are seen lunching with a BJP candidate. You may have lunch but my appeal is do it after polls. BJP leaders are maligning the image of the central forces,” she said from her rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali. “I request you to work impartially and not to follow the BJP’s diktats.” “If something happens, then a case will be started against you and you will have to visit here repeatedly. It will be like Sitalkuchi where a case would be lodged against the jawans who fired...We know about your work and contribution and we respect you, but don’t follow the BJP's diktats,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Roshan Giri name missing from voter list||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp), could not vote on Saturday as his name was missing from the electoral roll of Darjeeling Assembly seat. His name had been struck off in June 2018, months after the Gorkhaland agitation ended in September 2017. Piyush Salunkhe, returning officer of Darjeeling seat, explained why. “According to the police report, Giri had pending non-bailable warrants against him that lifted on March 20, also the last date to finalise the voter list,” said Salunkhe. Had Giri applied for inclusion of his name on March 20, it would have been there, he said. Names of Morcha leader Gurung, Gurung’s wife Asha, daughter Nanda and son Avinash, and other Morcha leaders had also been deleted from the electoral roll. A number of cases had been slapped against Giri, Gurung and other Morcha leaders by the state government during the Gorkhaland agitation period, after which they were on the run since 2017. Sources said that the names were deleted on the grounds that they had non-bailable warrants  and were absconding and hence “ceased to be or are not ordinarily a resident in the constituency.” However, Gurung and his family could vote on Saturday. Giri said he was disappointed after not finding his name in the voter list of the polling booth of Chandmari Community Hall in Darjeeling. “I had applied for inclusion of my name in the electoral roll on February 1, 2021. I had received a text message asking me to furnish documents and I had followed the instructions accordingly,” said Giri. “I did not know about this bit about March 20. Since I had applied earlier, the authorities could have informed me about this,” he added. Voting in Darjeeling hills and Kalimpong passed off peacefully on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: First-time Nadia voter shot at, BJP blamed||Santu Baul, 18, of Nadia’s Santipur and a first-time voter, was shot at by suspected BJP supporters on Saturday when he was returning home with friends after casting his vote. A weaver’s son and a Trinamul supporter, Santu was hit by a bullet on his left palm at Mouchak Colony. “Bike-borne youths shot at a group, singling out Santu. They also hurled crude bombs and fired shots in the air,” said an eyewitness, adding the boy’s friends rushed him to Santipur state general hospital. “Santu lost a small piece of flesh as the bullet made a hole in his palm,” said a doctor. In reply, Trinamul supporters allegedly thrashed suspected shooter Raju Debnath. The police rescued Raju and admitted him to the same hospital where his condition is serious. Santu alleged BJP supporters had tried to prevent Trinamul supporters from voting. A murder-bid complaint has been filed against Raju. BJP candidate and MP Jagannath Sarkar denied any political link in the attack. “I suspect past rivalry,” he said. Trinamul candidate Ajoy De said the BJP had “engaged goons to win the polls at any cost though it has no support base in Santipur”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: High voter turnout amid pandemic||The fifth phase of polls in Bengal for 45 Assembly segments spread across six north and south Bengal districts recorded over 78 per cent of polling till 5pm, prompting Election Commission officials to forecast a final turnout of around 85 per cent. Though high voter turnout was good news for the poll panel, and unlike in the fourth phase, there was no loss of life, the day saw several incidents of manhandling of candidates, attacks on polling agents, complaints against central force jawans and sporadic clashes. Poll panel sources said that till 5pm, 78.36 percent polling was recorded. This percentage is considered to be on the higher side as polling continued till 6.30pm. “The final tally could touch 85 to 86 per cent mark. This is considered to be on the higher side as the state usually records 83 to 84 per cent polling in these districts,” said a source. Sources also said high voter turnout was significant amid the pandemic. “People are scared as Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in the state. Despite this, the high turnout hints that people of Bengal are politically conscious,” said a poll panel source. The BJP candidate from Kamarhati in North 24-Parganas, Raju Banerjee, was allegedly attacked and stones were pelted on his car while he was passing through Belgharia bridge on Saturday evening. Banerjee sustained injuries on his hand and chest and his car was damaged. The BJP held Trinamul responsible. In another incident, the BJP candidate from Barahnagar in North 24-Parganas, actress Parno Mittra, was allegedly gheraoed by Trinamul workers while she went to visit booth 78 of ward 7 of Barahnagar municipality after receiving complaints that proxy voting was on. Trinamul workers allegedly prevented Mittra from entering the booth and demanded she go back. The BJP candidate from Bidhannagar, Sabyasachi Dutta was gheraoed by a group of Trinamul workers. Trinamul workers demonstrated against Dutta alleging he was influencing voters within the booth premises. Police arrested an Independent candidate in Nadia’s Chakdah after he was found moving around with an improvised firearm. Police said that the Independent was intimidating voters. Several polling agents were either attacked or driven out of booths during the day and both Trinamul and the BJP were held responsible for the incidents. The BJP agent at booth 86 in Minakha’s Telenipara in North 24-Parganas was allegedly abducted in the morning. This is why the party could not field any agent in the booth, the BJP alleged, blaming Trinamul. BJP agents of booths 40 and 41 in East Burdwan’s Monteswar were allegedly driven out by Trinamul workers. The BJP alleged Trinamul workers beat up some voters. In Burdwan South seat, the BJP agent of booth 37 was allegedly beaten up by Trinamul workers and received serious head injuries. The ISF alleged that one of its agents in Basirhat North Assembly segment was beaten by the Trinamul. Another BJP agent at Burdwan North Assembly segment was allegedly beaten up as soon as polling started, the party blaming Trinamul. A BJP agent at a booth in Ariadaha in North 24-Parganas’ Kamarhati died inside the booth just before polling started. District authorities said that though the matter is being probed, preliminary reports suggest cardiac arrest. There were clashes between BJP and Trinamul supporters in several places. Trinamul supporter Santu Baul, 18, was shot at in Nadia's Santipur by alleged BJP supporters. The BJP and Trinamul clashed in Santinagar in Bidhanagar till a police contingent dispersed the mob. In East Burdwan’s Raina, BJP-Trinamul supporters clashed firecely in front of booth 72, and accused each other of intimidating voters. In Gayeshpur of Nadia’s Kalyani, BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed and both parties accused each other of attacks with crude bombs. The BJP also staged a roadblock demanding arrest of “goons backed by Trinamul”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||North East||Report rider for Nagaland indigenous list||A consultative meeting convened by the state government on the proposed Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland in Kohima on Friday saw the participating tribal hohos take a collective decision to go for the register but only after the Banuo Z. Jamir Committee report was made public before its implementation. The government had set up the three-member Jamir committee in July 2019 to chalk out the modalities for the implementation of the register, including the eligibility criteria, the authority to authenticate claims and the place where one could register as indigenous inhabitants. The government had in June 2019 decided to prepare the register so that the administration not only has a record of indigenous habitants but can also streamline the process of issuing indigenous inhabitant certificates to check ineligible persons from acquiring the document. The proposed register would prevent outsiders/ineligible persons from acquiring these certificates to seek government jobs and benefits. After the meeting involving tribal hohos and civil society organisations, a government statement said: “During the consultative meeting, the tribal Hohos took a collective decision to go for RIIN but insisted that Banuo Z. Jamir’s report should be made known to the general public before implementation.” Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, leader of the Opposition T.R. Zeliang , deputy chief minister Y. Patton, minister Neiba Kronu and government adviser Mmhonlumo Kikon participated in the meeting to take the views and suggestions of the tribal hohos and civil society organisations. Those backing the register favour the cut-off date of December 1, 1963, to determine who is an indigenous resident. It was on this day Nagaland attained statehood. Rio said the identification of indigenous people amongst Nagas of Nagaland was not a problem due to the involvement of village councils. However, he said identification of indigenous Nagas in other states was a problem, citing the examples of Sikkim, Tripura and Assam where the indigenous people have now become a minority in their own states. Rio also suggested the formation of a smaller group to work on the register including committees comprising apex bodies like the Eastern Nagaland Peoples Organisation and Central Nagaland Tribal Council at the state level, and tribal hohos and MLAs at the district level. Patton said the register’s aim was to strengthen the entire process for issuing certificates to protect the rights and privileges of indigenous inhabitants of Nagaland. Angami Public Organisation vice-president K.T. Vilie, who attended the meeting, told The Telegraph that more such meetings will be held on the issue. Kikon, adviser, information technology and communications, science and technology, said at a news meet after the meeting that a subcommittee will also be formed at the district level with the deputy commissioners as the conveners and representatives of the tribal hohos of the respective districts as members. Kikon said: “RIIN is a sensitive issue and a lot of consultative meetings will be needed with all stakeholders before it is implemented.” However, a section fears that Nagas from neighbouring Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur settled in Nagaland could be excluded for the lack of official documents. The Naga Hoho, the apex body of Naga tribes, has already made it clear to the state government that even if it were necessary to implement the register, it should be “critically and thoroughly” examined and “no” Naga should be excluded. “A Naga is a Naga whether he is from Nagaland or outside. We are all one family and indigenous,” Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
18-04-2021||North East||Covid: Pema Khandu urges all eligible people to get vaccinated||Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu on Saturday called for strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol and urged all eligible people to get vaccinated. He convened two virtual meetings with MLAs and corporators, councillors and zilla parishad members to review the Covid-19 situation. The meetings, conceptualised and chaired by governor Brig (Rtd) B D Mishra, laid special focus on five districts — Lower Dibang Valley, Papum Pare, Namsai, East Siang and West Kameng — that have recently witnessed a spike in new cases. He assured people that the vaccines provided by the government are safe and effective. “We have vaccinated around 1.35 lakh people so far but cases are increasing rapidly and elected representatives must encourage more people to get vaccinated besides creating awareness on safety protocols,” Khandu said. He also called for ramping up testing and tracking cases and treating them. Khandu said that the health Department will notify guidelines by Monday to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Vigil has to be heightened at all entry points to the state and everyone entering has to be mandatorily tested, he said. Several elected representatives urged the state government to reduce the rates of RT-PCR and RAT. Health minister Alo Libang sought everyone’s cooperation in containing the spread of Covid-19. Allaying peoples concerns about army movement in the state, the governor said he has spoken to the Eastern Army commander in Kolkata who has assured him that 97-99 per cent of the jawans have been vaccinated and anyone showing Covid symptoms is being treated before being sent to forward posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
18-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Alert Congress prepares for D-Day||The Opposition Congress is not leaving anything to chance in the run up to the counting of votes and beyond in Assam. After flying out AIUDF and BPF candidates to Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh soon after the three-phase polls ended on April 6 “fearing” poaching attempts by the ruling BJP, the Congress on Saturday assembled its candidates and senior leaders at a resort near the airport here to discuss the dos and don’ts before and after counting day on May 2. Party insiders said Saturday’s get-together was the first-of-its kind organised before the results, a move that reflected its confidence of winning the three-phase elections as well as the fear of losing its candidates in case the competing ruling BJP-led mitrajot or the Congress-led mahajot does not win a clear majority or win by very narrow margin in what appears to be keenly-fought state polls. Congress insiders said their candidates, 95 in all, would also probably spend three-four days at a resort before counting day just like AIUDF and BPF candidates. AIUDF candidates returned home on Friday following surge in Covid cases. Senior leaders have also been tasked to monitor post-result developments in areas under their jurisdiction to foil any possible attempts by the ruling BJP to manipulate the verdict, they said. “We are taking all possible steps to keep our candidates alert, motivated and what needs to be done on the day of result and beyond. Such regular interactions/meetings will also help boost camaraderie and sense of belonging,” a senior leader told The Telegraph. AICC general secretary in charge of Assam Jitendra Singh interacted with the candidates in presence of the PCC president Ripun Bora, CLP leader Debabrata Saikia, AICC secretaries Bhupen Kumar Borah, Rana Goswami, MPs Pradyut Bordoloi and Abdul Khaleque, among others. They said certain developments during the three-phase polls, from transportation of electronic voting machines to their recovery from unauthorised places, have raised a lot of questions about the way things have been handled so far by poll officials. Polling in Assam was held on March 27, April 1 and 6. The state Congress had earlier this week moved the Election Commission requesting a slew of directives to “maintain transparency, impartiality for fair and smooth counting of votes”. Before that the Congress had moved the chief electoral officer seeking access/link of CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because they fear that the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
18-04-2021||Opinion||But are masks not a bad thing?||That’s what they would say in olden times. Be who you are, don’t wear a mask. Masked folks are tricky folks, they are not what they appear to be. Is that not so? Or am I wrong? Are your olden times younger that my olden times? Could well be. Did they not say this in your olden times? What they said in my olden times? Could well be. Kya karen? That’s time. It passes and it often tricks us into believing it has not passed. Just look at folks who would want to appear — and aver — they are younger than the time they have passed here. On this planet. Among us. Since they were born. They do all sorts of things to appear what they are no longer, to cheat time, to, you know, well, delude themselves. They paint their hair, for instance, hai naa? Not a problem; we paint more things than our hair. We paint walls, we paint furniture, we paint grilles and balustrades, we paint pavements and medians, we paint things. We too are things, we paint. We paint ourselves too. Here. There. Not everywhere. But just a few less places than everywhere. The most crafty mask is the mask that does not show. You wear a mask but nobody can tell you are wearing a mask. You tell people I am your messiah, you are in fact only messing with them. But they believe you’re a messiah when what you are deliberately and consciously doing is messing. That sort of mask. Bhai kamaal hai. Where did you order this one? Hain? Tell us naa, we also want. We too want to mess about and be called Messiah, who wouldn’t? Why is it you don’t wear a mask, though? You got the best jab in the world, hai naa? Don’t lie, jhooth boley kauwwa kaatey. Which one, go on, tell us, the jab that nobody else got, right? The jab of all jabs, the jab you told nobody you were getting, the greater jab. That’s why you don’t wear a mask, and roam and mingle free. Right? Well, whatever. But you do wear a mask, the mask that takes some doing to wear, the mask that is not easy to convince the others with. I mean you kiss our HolyBook and all, having just arrived from desecrating it in careful and uncaring ways, and you think we should believe your kissing to be a genuine thing. And you proclaim we are a realm ruled by the will of the people and then you do this and you do that that throttle the will of the people when the will of the people strays from consonance with what you will. That sort of mask. You told us everything should be transparent and then you go and arrange things so that no questions get answered. Not by you at any rate. You think yourself not answerable. You wear the mask of being so. You say all that you do you do for the people. And then we learn, every other day, that those people you do things for are a handful of people who, in turn, probably do things for you. That sort of mask you wear, don’t you? And now that we are being told we need to wear two masks, one strapped on top of another, and both preferably, of certain descriptions and ability, He (or is it She) only knows what levels of deception and receipt you will be able to subject us to. One mask that we cannot see is bad enough, and now we look at the prospect of two that we cannot see. And yet you do not mask mask, you see. We can all see. You remain a peril to us, masked. You remain peril to us double masked. You remain a peril to us not masked. At least wear a mask, the prescribed one. The rest... those who will see will see, and what will be done will be done. Go on, mask up. They tell us in your mane you bask But is it a fair question to ask When it is our duty and our task Why on earth do you not wear a mask?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
18-04-2021||Opinion||Body of crime||Slavery is alive and kicking; some of its forms are so banal that they ask to be taken for granted. That invests with irony the title of a recent report, My Body is My Own, published by the United Nations Population Fund from a survey of women’s power in developing countries to make decisions regarding their bodies. The findings, called “alarming”, show that of the 57 countries surveyed, 45 per cent of women and girls cannot decide on contraception, healthcare and whether or not to have sex with their partners. That is overall. The regions differ — in central and south Asia, less than 50 per cent of women have agency over their bodies, although in other parts of the same continent 76 per cent women are empowered in this sphere. India falls in the less-than-50 per cent category according to its location, although it is not one of the 57 countries surveyed. Pakistan, Nepal and the Maldives among India’s neighbours, though, are on the list. The systematic violations of women’s autonomy in India today, added to inherited practices of oppression, may prompt speculation whether south Asia would have scored worse had India been included. The UNFPA study looked at the laws of each country to see how far they supported or hindered women’s control of their bodies. Those in India who believe that a rape survivor should marry her rapist would find kinship with 20 countries where the law allows such marriages to free the rapist from legal proceedings. This reduces women into ‘shamed’ objects to be ‘redeemed’ by marriage, and suggests that marriage to the survivor is the rapist’s penalty. The notion of justice here completely bypasses the woman, who is not perceived as an equal citizen, whatever policies may say. According to the report, women enjoy in reality only 75 per cent of the rights enjoyed by men — in India that could be an optimistic estimate. India would be at par with the 43 countries that have no laws against marital rape. This follows from the lack of women’s power to decide on sex, a lack meant to demolish at its source their sense of wholeness as human beings. Societies which refuse to acknowledge marital rape perpetuate gender violence by calling marriage sacred. The report makes other points too, such as the restrictions on women’s movements outside the home in 30 countries. The pandemic has intensified violations. None of it is new, even if the figures are huge, indicating that hundreds of millions of women and girls do not own their bodies. The point is that not only has very little changed in women’s lives, but in many spheres and regions things seem to have grown worse. That may be because of better reporting and greater numbers, but it does not alter the persistence of violence and inequality. What is so addictive, so advantageous, about keeping women ‘in their place’?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||Late reaction||Sir — There is little point in bolting the stable doors after the horse has escaped. This is the proverb that comes to mind on hearing the prime minister’s request that the rest of the events at the Kumbh Mela be undertaken symbolically. Given the lakhs of people who have congregated there, even curtailing the event will achieve little as these people will go back across the country, many of them bearing the infection. The government does not have the wherewithal to test every person at the mela. How does it intend to stop them from spreading Covid-19 across India?  S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The heat of the crisis in the Indian healthcare system is so intense that one can feel it even on the microblogging platform, Twitter. Celebrities, influencers and ordinary users alike are tagging and tweeting to ask for help amidst a surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. Many want help finding oxygen supply and hospital beds, others are in search of ambulance services, few are even asking for remdesivir, tocilizumab and doxycycline; others still are sending out requests for plasma donors. Heart-wrenching photographs have also surfaced of distressed patients sharing beds, long queues of ambulances in front of hospitals and those of hearses at the crematorium. Ironically, alongside these are ignorant tweets boasting of crowds at political jamborees and religious congregations. It is good that people are taking advantage of digital technology. But this is also a convenient cop-out where rather than asking for accountability or actually helping out on the ground, people tweet up a storm. Hearteningly, a few Good Samaritans like Sonu Sood crop up occasionally. But they cannot cater to the scale of the crisis in the country. Every SOS on social media regarding Covid-19 bears testimony to a doomed and failing healthcare system. Each cry for help is also a chink in the armour of India’s commander-in-chief’s deafening silence. What is to blame for the pandemonium of the pandemic — our complacency or administrative oversight?Satabdi Dutta, Burdwan Sir — It is encouraging that the usually toxic microblogging platform, Twitter, is coming to use for once and helping the right kind of support reach people in need at the right time. But tweeting is not enough; much more needs to be done to overcome the pandemic. While celebrities and influencers must be praised for their promptness in asking for help, they should not stop at this. Contributing financially to the beleaguered healthcare system is one way to help. The other way is to spread awareness. Besides the vaccine, only precautions and safety practices like always wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing can break the chain of transmission.Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — Bollywood plays a crucial role in India’s patriarchal attitude towards women. Its portrayal of women goes a long way in propagating age-old customs that need to be done away with. In Hindi films, women have for long been portrayed as damsels in distress or homemakers. If in the 1968 movie, Brahmachari, a man teaches a woman how to dress and behave in order to please a man, in the 1995 film, Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge, the woman is portrayed only in relation to the men in her life, either as a daughter or as a love interest; in both cases she is subject to societal norms. This shows how little Bollywood has changed over time. Although now films are being made with strong women characters, these are few and far between. Given its wide reach, Bollywood is by far the best tool to change India’s backward mentality towards women. It needs to move forward and promote gender equality in India.  Lyzander Edgar Sohkhlet, Laitumkhrah, Shillong||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||When Gadkari speaks his mind on Covid surge||Nitin Gadkari is known to be the rare bold minister in the Narendra Modi-led government. Recently, however, he appeared to have gone a little too far. Speaking at the inauguration of a private Covid-19 care centre in his constituency, Nagpur, Gadkari sought to ring the alarm bells. “The [Covid] situation is very serious and no one knows how long it will last... What will happen in the next 15 days to one month it’s difficult to tell,” he said. He stressed on the need for long-term arrangements to battle the pandemic. In February itself, the Bharatiya Janata Party had credited the prime minister for having defeated the coronavirus, and here Gadkari was conjuring a grim picture. Whispers in party corridors have it that Gadkari should have reposed faith in the leadership of the prime minister and expressed confidence that the coronavirus will once again be defeated. It is no secret within the party that Gadkari had nursed prime-ministerial ambitions in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. People close to him had hoped he would be more acceptable to allies than Modi if the BJP failed to get a majority on its own. Party leaders, however, are wondering why Gadkari was resorting to such digressions now when all such hopes stand shattered. The recent state polls in Kerala seem to have taught the rabble-rouser, PC George, and his little-known political party, Kerala Janapaksham (Secular), that he would not find a place in either the Left Democratic Front or the Congress-led United Democratic Front. The leader, notorious for his sharp tongue and fast-changing political opinions, is a new advocate of the ‘Hindu rashtra’. Strange as it might sound, the Christian leader who is seeking re-election to the assembly has openly called for India to be made a ‘Hindu rashtra’ and declared that it was demonetization that derailed a plan by certain groups to make India an Islamic republic by 2030. For the record, it is the same George who held a train siege protest in Kochi against demonetization. Changing fortunes bring changing priorities, it seems. As Covid-19 went on a rampage in Bihar and infections spiralled, the people of the state wondered why the government was not taking tough measures to tame those who were running amok without masks, social distancing or proper sanitization. It seemed as if nobody in the hallowed posts of power was bothered about controlling the situation, even though several among the leaders were contracting the deadly virus. But one thing surprised everybody. All the prominent political parties — ruling or Opposition — shut down their state headquarters. The Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, was the first one to do so. The Janata Dal (United), the party led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, and its partner, the BJP, swiftly followed by locking their gates to visitors and party workers. The headquarters of the three parties are on the same road in Patna. A snacks vendor whose income depends on visitors to these offices was sitting idle. “These politicians are united when it comes to saving their own lives. They are not worried about what I will earn or how I will eat.” The Congress followed suit a few days later, although prior to the closure, senior leaders were boasting that “we did not close our offices even during the Spanish Flu pandemic that came 100 years ago.” Not many biography releases turn heads the way Dipok Kumar Barthakur: Right Turn in Assam did this week in Guwahati. It not only sheds light on the life and times of the Guwahati-based social activist and incumbent vice-chairman of the State Innovation & Transformation Aayog — the state version of Niti Aayog — but also reveals the quiet growth of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in Assam through its development initiatives. Although the BJP won the state elections for the first time in 2016, the seeds were sown as far back in the Sixties by people like Barthakur, who is in his eighties now. The presence of the newly-appointed RSS general secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale, the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, and the North-East Democratic Alliance convenor, Himanta Biswa Sarma — along with a video message by the BJP national president, JP Nadda, paying glowing tributes — was testimony to the importance of Barthakur. He has reportedly been associated with the RSS since the early Sixties. Besides being a successful businessman, Barthakur is credited with setting up schools, hospitals and Vivekananda Kendras along with the growth of the RSS in the Northeast. To Hosabale, who has known Barthakur since the Assam agitation days, Barthakur is a nation-institution builder and if one had to turn to the “right man” in Assam, it had to be Barthakur — “100 per cent Assamese, 200 per cent Indian”. Sarma, a cabinet minister, dwelt on Barthakur’s active and unsung role during the Assam agitation. For Sarma, Barthakur spread rashtrabad while being committed to jatiyatabad, something the biography, authored by the senior journalist, Wasbir Hussain, throws light on. “He was among the movers and shakers of the sangh parivar in the northeast,” Hussain said. The new chief election commissioner, Sushil Chandra, assumed office from home, this week, as he is recovering from Covid. Not just Chandra, but the secretary-general, Umesh Sinha, too, is reportedly in hospital for virus-related health complications. A senior official said that “half his colleagues” are down, but not out, as they have continued to supervise polls to five legislative assemblies while working from home. Truckloads of liquor bottles are being smuggled into dry Bihar daily; some of them are getting caught. The mafia involved is hiding the contraband in oil tankers, trucks loaded with cattle fodder, bricks, or foodgrains. Only a small percentage of the liquor being smuggled is reportedly getting apprehended. The police and excise officials are becoming disillusioned. “We thought the growing cases of Covid-19 will cast its shadow on liquor smuggling and it will dwindle to give us some respite. But it is not happening. It seems liquor is stronger than coronavirus,” confided a senior police official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||Enduring images||Five images have remained with me from the five years I spent in West Bengal — 2004 to 2009. ‘Indelible’ is a hackneyed word, a cliché. And one must not use stale words to describe or recall experiences that are fresh in one’s memory. But that is exactly what these five images are: indelibly, permanently imprinted on my mind. They are all about daughters of Bengal. I have recounted them to myself and to others on different occasions and if the reader has heard them earlier, I may be forgiven. The first is from Nimtala. Yes, that is right. It is from the site of Calcutta’s famous crematorium. And it comes in the shape of an inland letter that I received in Raj Bhavan one day during the height of the Nandigram crisis. The arrangement was that all letters addressed to me by name would be brought to me unopened and I would open them myself. This was to ensure that letters that are critical and worse will not be kept away from me by my considerate staff. The hand-written letter on that specimen of blue postal stationery was in high-class Bangla, and written in a beautiful hand. But the contents were anything but beautiful. Howling imprecations at me for having said and done whatever I did in the matter of that crisis, it prayed not for my early departure from Bengal but my early demise, no less. And the writer signed off as Kamana Biswas, that is, Wish plus Faith. It was only after I pondered over the letter for several minutes that I realized the significance of her obviously fake ‘name’ and her meaningful address. It was a total delight to receive that letter. An unforgettable delight. It gives a lesson to anyone and everyone who thinks he or she is saying and doing profound things. It certainly made me laugh in those tense times. Kamana Biswas is our future in Satire in general and Black Humour in particular. The second is from Calcutta. Tuberculosis is a national scourge. West Bengal, from the time Dr B.C. Roy was chief minister, has been battling it determinedly. At the instance of doctors engaged in this important work, I went to a centre where patients, all of them very poor, were being treated. A young mother, in her 30s, with her young, teenaged daughter was seated in the small foyer. You are getting the treatment you need, right? I asked. Nodding her head, she said yes. I then turned to the doctor present for some elucidation. They told me the case was serious as the patient was pregnant. I looked with concern at the woman. No, no, the doctors continued. Not her... the daughter... it is the girl who is pregnant. There was nothing more I could say or ask. It would have been indelicate to ask their names, and I did not. But they seemed like they could have been Fatima and Abida. And the one yet to be born? If a girl, perhaps, then Meher, which means grace, and if a boy, Enayat, which means roughly the same. But name apart, a healthy child who does not make its too-early-a-mother weaker than she is. The two and the one yet to come must, with the help of medical science, be our future in health. The third image is from the time of Cyclone Aila, in May 2009. Ripping through the state and neighbouring Bangladesh at 110 kilometres per hour, it left over 300 dead and a million, at least, homeless. Meteorological foretelling helped, else the loss to human life would have been far greater. I was in Darjeeling then and venturing out to the affected areas later that day saw a middle-aged Gorkha woman of amazing dignity sitting beside her devastated home like a statue to human endurance. Not a word was exchanged but not a thought left un-shared. Parbatidevi, she may have been, daughter of the mountains, resolved to put together the debris of her life. The next day, in South 24 Parganas, another badly mauled area, I saw a mother and child in a relief centre. I should put the M and C in capitals. Michelangelo could have sculpted them. She was in a frayed sari with a faded red border, head covered, with her infant-child stretched out on her lap. Her eyes were open wide, the child’s as well. They were as mute and yet as eloquent as the Pietà with this difference that the Child here breathed, and with hope. The fourth image is from Murshidabad. Having heard of the hard conditions in which bidi workers lived and worked, it was my duty to see things for myself. Visiting a family engaged in that occupation, I spoke to the pride of the house, a daughter, no more than twelve years of age, I think. I do not remember her name, but let me call her Onnora, for it was a name similar to that. In Bangla, mixed with Hindustani, I asked if she went to school. With an instant smile, she said, yes, I do. Can I, I asked, please see her school books? She opened a wooden box and brought one out, wrapped in brown paper, and gave it to me. Opening the cover page I was taken aback. It was an abridged and adapted version — in English — of the Constitution of India. (Now it just so happens that I am writing this on April 14, which is Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary. And so in my mind I am dedicating this narration to him.) “Do you know this book, Onnora?” “Yes, I do.” “Vah! Can you tell me what the first page — the Preamble — says?” “Yes.” “Tell me...” Onnora took a couple of steps back and, standing bolt upright, began reciting it. “We the people of India having solemnly resolved...” I horripilated in awe, pride and faith. May Onnora become President of India one day, I prayed within myself. The fifth image is from Purba Medinipur. During the height of the Nandigram crisis, while touring that area, I stopped, without notice, at a hamlet called Muradpur. It consisted of not more than ten houses, around a pond. It seemed incredibly beautiful, like a scene from Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s Pather Panchali or a shot from Satyajit Ray’s great film of that great novel. The occupants of each mud dwelling asked me to come in and spend some time with them. They asked for nothing, expected nothing. The men all seemed to have gone out to work. Only the village’s womenfolk, children and some very old villagers were to be seen. Some of the women offered me food, some a little place to sit on. One asked me to step into her dwelling, which I did, remaining at the threshold so as not to disturb anything or anybody. She quietly went in and returned with a plate adorned with some flowers and a ready-to-be-lit lamp. I did not ask for and so do not know her name, but to my mind she was Kalyani, welcoming me with an impromptu arati. As she poured some drops of precious oil on the wick that she had hurriedly but carefully improvised, all of Bengal’s grace stood before me. For me Kalyani is the future of political maryada. All these women are voting in West Bengal. Irrespective of who they are voting for, they are voting for a future which must include in it harmless irreverence, faith in science and in the law, grace and, above all, maryada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||We are who we vote for||While most of the world continues to grapple with yesterday’s problem — Covid-19 — New Zealand just took a step into the future. While India, Brazil, the US and the UK mulled token fights, double mutants and vaccine pause and play, the Jacinda Ardern-led Labour government announced a slew of anti-smoking measures that could well raise a non-smoking generation and make the country smoke-free by 2025. Don’t tell Nitish Kumar, but Ardern plans to increase the legal age of smoking, ban sale of cigarette and tobacco products for those born after 2004, ban filter tips on cigarettes and perhaps restrict nicotine content. “Business as usual without a tobacco control programme won't get us there. We need a new approach,” said associate minister of health Ayesha Verrall, who is also a qualified physician and an expert in international health. Last October, when many countries were barely out of lockdown mode, Ardern contested and won election by an “outright majority”. It seemed people had appreciated her firm but kind handling of the Christchurch mosque shootings, and thereafter, the pandemic outbreak. Worldwide, thus far, there have been 140 million coronavirus cases and close to 3 million coronavirus deaths. New Zealand with its 49.2 lakh population has reported 26 deaths so far, and 2,591 confirmed cases. That is not to say that Ardern has no critics, needs no advice. As it has been continuously reported, the country’s vaccination programme is like the moa bird that could be found there once ‑ flightless. 1,35,585 doses administered; 30,194 people fully vaccinated, which works out to 0.62 per cent of the population. Arden’s argument so far, however, has been that the general rule does not apply here as “New Zealand is so different. Our people aren’t dying”, she has also spoken of New Zealand waiting for its turn while others in more urgent need continued to vaccinate.  The opposition National Party has been asking for a review of the immunisation strategy, warned of the “unacceptable risk” at the border, experts have questioned Ardern’s “altruism”. Only last week it was announced that the Black Caps, the New Zealand cricket team, set to play in England in June will get their shots. So also will the athletes who will be leaving for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled thus far in July-August this year. The government in the meantime announced that it will donate vaccines for 8,00,000 people in the Pacific region...||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Veteran trade union leader dies at 84||Veteran trade union leader Sanjeev Kanti Bakshi, popularly known as S.K. Bakshi, died on Sunday at the age of 84 while returning to Jharia from The Mission Hospital in Durgapur. Bakshi was the former national vice president of Central Industrial Trade Union. On April 9, Bakshi was admitted to the central hospital of BCCL. He was rushed to Durgapur on Saturday night after developing breathing complications. A funeral procession was taken out on Sunday from his home at Amla Para in Jharia  to Mohalbani ghat on the bank of river Damodar in Bhowra where his cremation took place. In 1964, Bakshi became the Dhanbad district committee convenor of CPI (M).  He joined Central Industrial trade union as an executive committee member in 1970 and gradually climbed the political ladder to become its national secretary and vice president. Bakshi was a member of Coal India Relief Fund Trust and a member of Joint consultative committee of BCCL. S.N. Tiwari, director (P&IR/M), of Coal India Limited, in a condolence letter said, “Coal Industry has lost today an important and dedicated trade union member who always raised the issue of welfare of workers of coal industry at various levels.”  A.K. Jha, National Vice President of Indian National Trade Union Congress,  said, ”He was the last trade union leader of his rank and file and his demise has left a void in trade union politics which is going to be difficult to fill up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad adds 14 private hospitals as Covid centres||The district administration, in its effort to increase the number of beds for Covid patients, has added 14 private hospitals for treatment of patients from Sunday evening. “We have been carrying out treatment at six private hospitals earlier and following the launching of treatment in 14 private hospitals this evening the number of private hospitals offering Covid treatment has increased to 20,” said Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The deputy commissioner said all the private hospitals are offering Covid treatment at government approved rates. The total number of beds rose to 1144 in the district from the existing 910. The ICU beds for Covid patients have also doubled from 90 to around 180 following the addition of the 14 hospitals. Singh said that out of the available 1144 beds, around 180 are ICU beds and rest other are non ICU beds. Further elaborating about the bed availability figures he said that out of these 1144 beds, 367 are oxygen supported bed while 777 are non-oxygen supported beds. Singh said that out of the 367 beds with oxygen support, 131 are occupied and rest are lying vacant. Among the 180 ICU beds, around 100 are occupied while 80 are still unoccupied. “We are simultaneously trying to increase the number of oxygen supported beds for which we are in touch with the state government and simultaneously local availability is being ensured through BCCL,Railway, ECL etc,” said Singh. At present, Covid treatment is being carried out in 27 hospitals out of which 7 are government-run and 20 are private. Singh said, “As per the state government’s instruction to reserve 50% seats in all private hospitals for covid treatment, we carried out physical verification of around 180 hospitals and clinic out of which the infrastructure and facilities of some were found appropriate for launching of Covid treatment while infrastructure of others was not found appropriate.” “We have extended the treatment in 14 new private hospitals today and similar Covid treatment facilities will be extended in more private hospitals in phase wise manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS to shut down OPD services from Monday||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the state’s largest government  hospital which is currently overwhelmed by Covid patients, has decided to shut OPD services from Monday amid the rising number of Covid cases. The hospital has announced that it will  strengthen its E-OPD services to offer online consultations for non-covid patients and continue its critical emergency unit to address serious cases. “Considering the situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in Ranchi, it has been decided to shut down OPD services at RIMS from Monday till further notice. Those engaged in full-time OPDs will be diverted to serve at Covid care units at the hospital. To compensate closure of offline OPD, RIMS will try to run online services in a better way to help people,” said the notification issued by the management on Sunday evening. The hospital has stated that offline OPD was proving detrimental since it was becoming increasingly difficult to follow R physical distancing norms due to the daily surge of patients. “This is also resulting in Covid cases among not just people but also staff and doctors of RIMS,” said the management. An IMA functionary hoped that closing down OPD wouldn't end up posing unforeseen problems for non-Covid patients. “These are very tough times for everyone. Governments and administrations must also not ignore non-Covid patients, which could further aggravate the pandemic. The underprivileged, and the financially challenged are the ones who mostly turn up at OPDs outside RIMS.  They are also the ones who aren’t very technologically sound to use online applications,” he said. For Covid combat, RIMS has 223 beds for asymptomatic patients and 253 with oxygen support for people requiring critical treatment, as per district administration’s figures. The hospital’s Covid section is fully occupied at the moment as cases continue to pile up in Ranchi with more than 10,000 active cases, the highest ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of about 2,000 doctors and other medical frontline workers at RIMS, at least 10 per cent are reported to be down with Covid since the last  month, sources claimed. The government is also working out plans to further increase beds for Covid care at RIMS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to add more Covid beds amid rising cases||The district health department has initiated the process of increasing beds at Covid wards on a war-footing as the positive cases continue to rise in the steel city. At present, there are 650 beds in Covid wards at all hospitals, the highest being 450 at Tata Main Hospital. The authorities are trying to set up 500 more beds at both the government as well as private hospitals. "We are going to increase the number of beds in all the hospitals with support of the management of the hospitals concerned. Beside ensuring an increase in the beds at the hospitals having Covid wards, we are also trying to get Covid wards introduced in the few more hospitals, "said A.K. Lal, district civil surgeon, to The Telegraph Online. In the past 24 hours, 692 positive cases were detected out of 4,567 samples tested both under RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test. During this period, six persons, including two women died, taking the total number of deaths in the city to 430. The health department on Sunday launched a massive Covid test drive in the public places, especially focusing on Kadma and Sonari areas of the city from where the highest number of cases are being reported. Covid tests were conducted at vegetable markets and streets besides the health hubs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Poor turnout for second dose hits govt plan of arresting virus spread ||Only about 14 per cent of the nearly 24 lakh Jharkhand residents who received the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 have come forward for the second dose as well, a trend that could be a stumbling block in the government’s aim of creating herd immunity through vaccination, health experts said on Sunday. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 23,94,947 state residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, and only 3,42,686 of them have received the second jab so far. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently reiterated the importance of the second dose, stating that both the doses were necessary for producing enough antibodies to resist the viral infection. In a video released by the Centre on Friday, Dr Randeep Guleria, the Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, explained why both doses of the vaccine are important for building an immune system strong enough to counter the Covid-19 virus. “The first dose, known as the prime dose, prepares the human immune system to build antibodies. However, these antibodies generated with the first dose won't last for a long time and will gradually wane with time,” the AIIMS chief said in the video. “After the second dose, called the "booster dose”, the immune system receives the boost to produce a large number of antibodies that gives good cell-mediated immunity, another defence mechanism against the coronavirus infection,” he added. However, at a time when the health machinery in Jharkhand is busy battling the worst and most lethal wave of Covid-19, the vaccination campaign, especially the second dose, has been neglected to an extent. Some beneficiaries, who received their first dose and were waiting for a call from the government for the second dose, said that they did not receive any intimation over phone or email. “We went to a hospital and got the second dose on our own after the stipulated gap of six weeks. There was no intimation from the government via SMS or phone call,” said Lalit Choudhary, a Ranchi resident who got the second jab at a private hospital on Saturday. State Immunization Officer Dr Ajit Prasad, who is suffering from Covid-19, was not in a position to comment as he was in isolation and undergoing treatment. As per government data, only 29 per cent of 2,34,518 beneficiaries, above the age of 45 years and registered for the second dose, have got the jab. The achievement was above 70 per cent for healthcare workers and frontline workers. Figures indicate that mostly commoners were giving the second dose of the vaccine a miss. State health secretary K.K. Soan and Health Director Ravi Shankar Shukla did not respond to calls from The Telegraph Online on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rain, thunderstorm lash parts of Jharkhand||Several parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur and Ranchi, witnessed thunderstorm, lightning and rain due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation and a low-pressure trough on Sunday. Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh and a trough over neighbouring Bihar extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. Based on satellite pictures and radar inputs, Ranchi Meteorological Centre had issued frequent nowcasts (short-term forecast) through Sunday indicating moderate thunderstorm and showers in central and southern Jharkhand. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Gumla, Simdega and Khunti were among the places that experienced thunderstorms and lightning. Elsewhere, say, in Bokaro and Ramgarh, the sky was partly cloudy and there were light showers accompanied by gusty winds. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum experienced 2mm rain while the local weather office in Jamshedpur recorded 1mm rain. The steel city, along with several other places in southern and central Jharkhand, witnessed sudden strong winds on Sunday afternoon which blew at a speed of 30kmph. Met data revealed Ranchi recorded 2mm rain in past 24 hours, while Chas in Bokaro district recorded around 9mm rain. Chandil in Seraikela- Kharsawan district  and Khunti experienced around 4mm rain. According to Ranchi Met office deputy director Abhishek Anand, light rain or thunderstorms are expected in isolated pockets, especially in  central, north-east and southern Jharkhand, in another 24 hours due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. He also hinted at gradual rise in maximum readings after the next 24 hours. A senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre said the cyclonic circulation  over  Uttar Pradesh  was resulting in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere from Bay of Bengal which resulted in rise in humidity level in most parts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad train stop withdrawn after breach of Covid protocols ||The Dhanbad Rail division has temporarily suspended the Katrasgarh station stoppage of the Dhanbad Alappuzha express because of repeated complaints of passengers skipping mandatory Covid-19 test. Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad, confirmed the decision on Sunday. The district administration has made Covid test mandatory for all railway passengers reaching Dhanbad Railway station especially those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh etc Initially, a large number of people returning from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana etc were undergoing Covid test at Dhanbad Railway station before returning to their respective places. Recently, passengers started disembarking at Katrasgarh and skipped the test. Katras based social activist Ankit Rajgarhia raised this issue and sent a tweet to Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal. Bansal promised immediate action and suspended the railway stoppage. “I was tweeting the photographs of migrant workers returning to their homes without getting tested for over five days continuously to DRM and today I am happy as the Railway has withdrawn the stoppage for the train at Katrasgarh,” said Rajgarhia. “As the pandemic situation aggravated recently, more than 400-500 people, majority of them being migrant workers started getting down at Katrasgarh railway station ahead of Dhanbad on daily basis since over week  and later returning to their respective places, at Chirkunda, Mugma, Maithon, by hiring auto rickshaw,” he said. District president of Janta Dal (United) Pintu Kumar Singh who is also member of Zonal railway users consultative committee (ZRUCC) said, “instead of withdrawing the railway stoppage for temporary basis at Katrasgarh the administration should have made arrangement for Covid testing at Katras Railway station also so that the large number who genuinely want to disembark at Katrasgarh may not have to face difficulty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand puts off civil services, all other exams on account of Covid spread||The Jharkhand government on Sunday announced postponement of the May 2 state civil services examinations and all other exams in schools, colleges and ITIs with immediate in the wake of mounting Covid-19 cases in the state. As of now, all educational institutions and anganwadis will remain closed, while social gatherings like weddings would be allowed with only 50 people as opposed to the earlier announced 200. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who  made these  announcements after holding a meeting with coalition partners Congress and RJD at his residence on Sunday,  said that the government would review the situation after a month and take a call on examinations. On Saturday, Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) had announced postponement of state board exams. “After deliberations today (Sunday), the state government has decided to immediately cancel all kinds of exams, be  that of JPSC or at schools, colleges or other centres of higher learning, till further notice. We will take a call on them after reviewing the situation of Covid-19 after a month again. Similarly, all sorts of centres for learning will be closed and gatherings at marriages shouldn’t exceed 50 people,” Hemant announced, adding that the state government was deliberating on ways to cut the rapid transmission of the coronavirus that  has so far infected over 1.5 lakh people in Jharkhand. Currently, the state’s active caseload stands at  over 23,000 with capital Ranchi emerging as the worst affected district leading to undue pressure on the state's already strained health infrastructure. Hemant appealed to people to refrain from venturing out unless it was absolutely necessary, stating that the second wave of the  virus had become more virulent. “Consider that whoever you meet, may have been infected with the virus, given the kind of spread we are facing now. So, venture out only if it is highly necessary and take all the prescribed precautions. Don't take it lightly,” Hemant said, appealing to youths to be more cautious as the virus was now impacting  younger age groups. "If the situations keep worsening, we will take more stringent steps in the interest of the state," he said. State finance minister and Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta and state labour development minister from RJD Satyanand Bhokta were among those who took part in the  meeting. The state government is yet  to decide on a lockdown amid a growing call for it from various parties, including the JMM, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Jharkhand, and  certain sections of trade organisations. From Sunday, traders iat Ranchi's Shastri Market have announced self-imposed lockdown for a week when they will keep their shops closed. At an all-party meeting held on Saturday, the JMM and the NCP  strongly demanded a complete lockdown, while the Congress and Left were opposed to a total shutdown  citing  livelihood issues in the state. The Opposition BJP on the other hand had assured the government of its support in whatever decision it takes to combat the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Passing out parade of Punjab Regimental Centre||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BJP leader rushed to hospital after getting stung by bees||Hazaribagh: BJP leader Bijul Devi and three others were stung by a swarm of bees on Sunday morning, following which all of them had to be rushed to the hospital. The saffron party leader was on the terrace of her residence in Bahimar Chowk in Katkamsandi block with her 10-year-old grandson Anik when, all of a sudden, the swarm stung them. Her sons, who rushed upstairs on hearing the screams of the leader and her grandson, were also bitten by the bees. However, they managed to rescue both. Following this incident, all the four persons were rushed to the Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital, from where Bijul Devi called Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal. He sent his media-in-charge Ranjan Choudhary to the hospital to ensure better treatment was provided to the injured. The BJP leader and her grandson are still undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of the hospital, while doctors discharged her two sons. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A herd of wild elephants killed a 60-year-old woman named Mosomat Bandhani in Lamka Tari forest in Chepakala under Dadikala police station. Bandhani went to collect mahua flowers from the forest on Saturday afternoon. When she didn’t return till night, her son went looking for her and found her dead body lying in the forest. Villagers have complained about a herd of 20-elephants damaging their crops. They have urged forest department to make necessary arrangements to drive the herd away. Bandhani’s kin will be given compensation according to government provisions. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Chatra: A CRPF team of the 190 battalion along with personnel from Jaguar recovered four cane bombs while conducting a massive search operation at the Khapia Madarpur forest, under Kunda Police Station, in Chatra on Sunday. Talking about the incident, ASP (operations) Nigam Prasad said Superintendent of Police Rishav Kumar Jha formed a team to undertake the operation after he got a tipoff. This team was successful in finding the cane bombs, which were planted beside some uniforms. Thereafter, the police called upon the anti-bomb disposal squad which diffused the bombs. “The extremists were planning to target security forces but they failed,” Prasad said. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A truck and car collision in Chopadaru ghati in Gola block killed two people on the spot on Saturday. Eyewitnesses said at a sharp turn, the truck hit the car, damaging the vehicle completely. Police said the two victims were Ranchi residents returning home after a visit to Bokaro. Both have been identified as Shiv Kumar Rai(35) and Bhaskar Kumar Jha(45). The bodies have been handed to the families after post-mortem. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: Anti viral tablets and injections prescribed by doctors for Covid-19 infection are scarcely available in Daltonganj. Ivermectin tablets and Sevipiravir injections are in short supply while doctors continue to prescribe them to patients said sources. Drug inspector Abrar Alam said, “These drugs come from Patna and we expect it to be here in a couple of days.” Dharmender Upadhaya, secretary of the Palamau District Chemist and Druggist Association said, “We are keeping eyes on the availability of the medicines and we will see to it that the medicines do not go out of stock.” (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
18-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to PM, seeks help of central forces to tackle Covid surge||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday held a virtual meeting with the state heads of all political parties in Ranchi to discuss strategies to contain the spread of Covid-19. “We would like to take views of all political parties in the state and have invited all their state heads for a virtual meeting on the Covid scenario, what is being done by the government and what is being planned. We would also take opinions of each of the party representatives before announcing our decision in the wake of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases in the state,” said a senior official in the chief minister’s office in Ranchi before the virtual meeting. Earlier, the chief minister held discussions with senior bureaucrats, including chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh, health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan and others, at his residence on the Covid scenario in the state. After the meeting with senior officials, Soren said the government would provide medical kits to all Covid patients undergoing home isolation. The kits would contain medicines, oximeter, masks and other required materials. Apart from this, all anganwadis (Integrated Child Development Scheme centres) would be supplied with pulse oximeter to record the oxygen concentration of infants and mothers. The health secretary was directed to employ on contract educated youths who have done paramedical courses to bridge the trained manpower shortage in health centres. On Saturday evening, Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the use of doctors and paramedics associated with the central paramilitary forces stationed in Jharkhand and military hospitals to help the state in the fight against the pandemic. “I wrote today to Prime Minister @narendramodiji to allow the use of doctors and paramedical associated with high number of Central paramilitary forces stationed in the state to support us in this battle,” Soren tweeted at 7.30pm. The letter to the Prime Minister states that Jharkhand is an extremism affected-state and a large number of paramilitary forces like the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) and the SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) have been deployed in the state to fight this extremism. “During the review meeting it came to my notice that each such company of CPMFs (central para-military forces) deployed in Jharkhand is manned by a certain number of doctors and paramedics. Similarly there are two military hospitals (at Ranchi and Ramgarh). I feel the contingent of doctors and paramedics available with the aforesaid establishments can be of immense help in case they are deployed for the treatment and management of Covid-19 patients,” Soren said. He requested the Prime Minister to direct the Union home and defence ministries to issue necessary instruction for permitting the state government to deploy doctors and paramedics of CPMFs and military hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 cases. Soren had already directed officials for increasing the number of RT-PCR machines to enhance testing of Covid suspects and improving facilities at the hospitals for treatment of patients. “The government is keeping a watch on the scenario closely and will announce some more stricter rules in the days to come to contain Covid-19 in the state,” the official said. Jharkhand has imposed a sort of night curfew with all shops and commercial establishments, barring emergency services, being closed after 8pm till morning and prohibited gathering of more than four persons at a place. The government has also closed educational institutions, gyms and other public places and prohibited congregation of any kind, apart from strict enforcement of Covid protocols. National Students’ Union of India (student wing of the Congress) state vice-president Indrajit Singh on Saturday wrote to the chief minister requesting for the deferment of competitive examinations in view of the sharp rise in Covid cases and high number of deaths in the state. “We have seen that the CBSE, ICSE and even universities have cancelled or postponed their examinations. We have requested the state government to cancel or defer the Jharkhand Public Service Commission combined civil preliminary exams on May 2, the primary teacher training exam to be conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council on April 23, matric and intermediate board exam to be conducted by the JAC from May 4 and the diploma in pharmacy exam to be conducted by the Jharkhand State Pharmacy Council on April 19 in view of threat to the examines due to the rise in Covid cases,” said Indrajit. On Friday, the state registered an all-time high of 3,843 fresh Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths. The total number of positive cases stand at 155,115 of which 1,30,694 patients have been discharged. Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was admitted to the Medica Superspeciality Hospital in Ranchi. Koderma BJP MP Annapurna Devi and BJP Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahato also tested positive for the virus. While Ananpurna is in home isolation, Mahato, who was suffering breathing difficulties, was airlifted to Hyderabad for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-78
