19-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur puts on hold calling back research scholars to campus||Lack of beds at hospitals to take care of Covid patients has prompted IIT Kharagpur to put on hold calling back research scholars to the campus, said an official of the institute. The dean of student affairs, Somesh Kumar, has told the scholars who were to return to the campus over the next few weeks to defer their journey because Covid beds in hospitals are not available in enough numbers. Thirty cases have been reported on the campus recently. Those infected include five students and the rest are faculty and staff. Some are being treated in hospitals in Calcutta, while the rest are in isolation on the campus, officials at the institute said. Starting December, the institute has allowed around 800 of its 4,000-odd research scholars to return to the campus in batches. Those who have already arrived have not been asked to leave. They have been advised to follow all Covid protocols. “Beds are unavailable all over. In such a situation, it won’t be advisable to recall students,” Kumar told Metro on Sunday. An official said the dean in his mail drew attention to the rising case count on the campus as well as surrounding areas. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not capable of dealing with the rising number of Covid patients. Kharagpur Sub-divisional Hospital, near the campus, is full,” an official said. The Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, about 17km from the campus, is also struggling following the surge in Covid numbers, the official said. Many on the campus said they were reliant on hospitals in Calcutta for treatment of critical diseases. “Lack of Covid beds in Calcutta, which is reeling from the second wave of infection, has complicated the situation,” a professor said. Highlighting the stressed and insufficient medical facilities, dean Kumar has written to the research scholars: “In past few days several students have become Covid positive. They are being managed differently, depending on their condition, availability of beds in hospitals etc.” The mail says: “We are now observing that several students are getting infected on the way to Kharagpur while travelling from their hometown in train/car/flight, although they have RT-PCR negative report from their hometown”. The IIT has also put on hold its decision to call back 300 final-year undergraduate students, who need to attend in-person lab classes. They set to return to the campus from April 16. Shivam Singh, the officiating vice-president at Technology Students Gymkhana, a body that represents students on the campus, has said in a recent Facebook post: “However, keeping in mind the sudden rise in the COVID-19 cases all over the country and especially on campus... the safety and health of the students will be put in jeopardy, should they return to campus”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Wait for a bed can stretch for days||One private hospital had 68 Covid patients waiting to get admitted on Sunday. Many of them were waiting for three days and were turned away by other private hospitals because of lack of beds. At another private hospital, more than 50 Covid patients have enlisted their names, hoping to get a call for admission. A third hospital has stopped maintaining a waiting list of Covid patients because most of them will have to wait indefinitely. Senior officials of private hospitals said they were not taking calls from even friends and relatives, fearing there would be a request for a Covid bed. The crisis of Covid beds, which had started around the beginning of this month, has become severe and relatives of patients are desperately calling up hospitals but are unable to get a bed. The situation is the same at most government hospitals too, said relatives of several patients. A number of private hospitals have increased their Covid bed counts but those are inadequate given the steep surge in numbers, an official of the state government said. Adding to their problems, many private hospitals have long queues of non-Covid patients waiting for planned surgeries. Officials of these hospitals said they would start deferring such admissions in a day or two so that more beds could be set aside for Covid patients. A 50-year-old resident of Dhakuria tested positive for Covid on Sunday afternoon. His relatives called up two private hospitals in south Calcutta and were told that no bed was available. They also called up a government hospital but got the same response.  “My brother’s oxygen saturation went down to 91. (Doctors advise immediate hospitalisation if the figure drops below 94). He has high fever and is suffering from respiratory distress. After being told by three hospitals that there was no bed, we took him to a private hospital where we know a senior official,” the patient’s brother said. Doctors at the hospital, however, told the family that the patient had to stay in the emergency ward till a Covid bed was vacant. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has 120 Covid beds, compared with around 10 it had in April last year. All beds are occupied and the hospital had till a couple of days ago a long list of enrolled patients waiting to be admitted. “It took us almost six months to increase the number of Covid beds to 98 last year. But this time, we increased the count to 120 in just 15 days. We have stopped maintaining a waiting list and are admitting patients against discharge,” said an official of the hospital. Medica Superspecialty Hospital increased the number of Covid beds from 160 to 180 on Sunday. “We have requested the state government to hand over some of its facilities like a stadium which we can turn into treatment centres,” Medica chairman Alok Roy said. “Last year, many asymptomatic patients were requesting admission. This time they are staying at home. However, the number of infected people is so high that the number of those needing admission has gone up,” said Roy. On April 16 and 17, last year, Bengal had only 144 and 162 active Covid-19 cases, respectively. On April 16 and 17, this year, the figures stood at 41,047 and 45,300. “The number of beds is being increased and we are reaching the level witnessed during the peak of the epidemic last year. But this time, the surge is already many times more compared with last year and the virus is spreading fast,” an official in the state government said. Belle Vue Clinic has around 170 Covid beds, which is 86 per cent of its total bed strength. “We can’t increase it further because the rest of the beds are for children and emergencies,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said it would increase the number of Covid beds from 56 to 100 this week. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,338, on Sunday to 49,638. The state recorded 4,053 recoveries and 8,419 new infections during the day, resetting the record for the highest intra-day infection count yet again While Calcutta recorded 2,197 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,860.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Govt and private hospitals in Bengal to get 11,500 more Covid beds in a week ||Government and private hospitals in the state will have 11,500 more Covid beds in a week, health department officials said, the move expected to ease the crisis of beds that are forcing some health-care units to turn away patients with the coronavirus infection. Government hospitals will have around 8,000 of the new beds, while the rest will be set up at private units. The government has set up two task forces, led by senior health department officials, to liaison with the hospitals to ensure that the Covid bed strength achieved the target by the end of the week. “The government is also planning to requisition some private hospitals for Covid treatment, like it did last year,” an official said. Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, a satellite unit of SSKM Hospital, will be converted into a dedicated Covid hospital with 200 beds by the end of the week. “The decision to add 11,500 Covid beds in government and private hospitals and run dedicated Covid hospitals were taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay last week,” the official said. Another official, however, said that merely increasing the bed count would not bring any relief to patients unless there were adequate beds with oxygen support and ventilators, whose availability is under question. “The issue of deploying doctors trained in managing Covid patients is also haunting the health department,” the official said. At a meeting on Friday, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had requested private hospitals to increase their Covid bed strength by 25 per cent compared with the number of beds they had at the peak of the epidemic last year. Private hospitals had said increasing the number of Covid beds beyond a point would be a challenge because, unlike around this time last year, non-Covid patients, too, were queuing up in large numbers for admission. The commission advised the hospitals to put on hold planned surgeries that can be postponed so that more beds could be reserved for the treatment of Covid patients. On Monday, chief secretary Bandyopadhyay will meet officials of private hospitals to discuss how more Covid beds could be set up. The task force for government hospitals will ensure that at least 20 per cent more Covid beds, compared with last year, were available this time. The state government has also decided to approach central government institutions like Calcutta Port Trust, railways and defence, steel and coal authorities with the request that their health-care units be used for Covid-19 treatment. “In a couple of days, a team of officials will approach these institutions to find out about the status of their healthcare facilities and how they can extend help to the state government,” said the official. To create more facilities for accommodating Covid-19 patients, the state government has decided to encourage private hospitals that are part of the metropolitan hospitals' association to explore ways to set up satellite centres, where asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms can be accommodated. A state government official will talk to representatives of the tourism industry and private hospitals and draw up a blueprint for immediate setting up of satellite facilities. A satellite centre can be set up in a hotel, guest house or similar such facility. Doctors from the respective hospitals will visit the patients at these centres once a day and nurses will be available round-the-clock to monitor their health. Another team of officials will ensure migrant workers returning home are shifted to safe homes from railway stations if they test positive for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta|| Dirty politics of demonising one group at play, says Sikh leader ||The attempt to demonise one community to secure the votes of another is dirty politics, the head of the highest temporal body of Sikhs said in Calcutta on Sunday. Giani Harpreet Singh, the jathedar of Akal Takht Sahib, Amritsar, also said Bengal elections would decide the future course of India’s politics. “The hate-filled campaign against one particular community to polarise the votes of another community is dirty politics, something that should be avoided…. It is a loss for the country and humanity,” Singh told The Telegraph on the sidelines of a Gurmat Samagam (religious gathering) at Gurdwara Behala. Without naming any political party, Singh said the Bengal elections would decide the future politics of India. “In the land I come from, all eyes are on Bengal. The election of Bengal will decide the political future of India. It will decide if federalism crumbles or continues to thrive in India,” he said. Attempts to polarise voters on religious lines have been one of the defining traits of the state polls. One leader after another from the BJP has accused the Mamata Banerjee government of “blatant minority appeasement”. The campaign speeches of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have drawn charges that the desperation to win the elections has made them fall back on a polarisation tactic unbecoming of their offices. Last week, the Election Commission of India had barred Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her remarks against central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones. The poll panel has so far been mum on Modi and Shah. “Communal polarisation for political dividends was not new in India. But it has found new traction over the past seven-eight years. But the problem is not limited to India. All over the world, there is a rise in the politics of hate and polarisation,” Singh said on Saturday. Before Independence, Bengal and Punjab had been the prime targets of the British, Singh said, because “these two places tormented the colonial rulers the most”. “That is why they wanted Partition, that would most affect Bengal and Punjab. Even today, these two states are symbols of resistance against the powers that be,” he added. He slammed the “branding of dissenters as anti-nationals”. “The government is not the country. Criticising the government does not mean taking a stand against the country. The government calls someone Pakistani, calls someone else Khalistani. This is absolutely wrong. Dissent is needed for the health of a democracy. The State should engage with people opposed to it,” he said. “In the same vein, the Narendra Modi-regime should engage with the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for so many months. After the Republic Day flare-up, the government has simply stopped talking to farmers. The channel of communication should be opened again,” Singh told this newspaper.. Singh is in Calcutta to take part in a series of events to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 gurus of Sikhism. At an interfaith congregation at ICCR on Saturday, Singh had spoken at length on the need to preserve religious harmony. On Sunday, Gurdwara Behala was a glowing example of that harmony. People from different faiths had turned up for the langar that followed the Gurmat Samagam. “Sikh soldiers of a British cantonment settled in this area (now New Alipore-Taratala) built a small gurdwara for prayers. Today, it is a meeting place for Sikhs, Punjabis, Sindhis, Hindus and everyone else,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general-secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Shilpi Pal, a resident of the area , has been visiting the gurdwara for 15 years. A mother of two, Pal lost her husband in June last year. She works in a tailoring unit to sustain her family. Pal visits the gurdwara every day and helps in preparing food for “around 30-40 people”. “Man ko sukoon milta hai (I get peace of mind),” she said. Sikh community leaders from Delhi and Ludhiana and priests of gurdwaras from across the state turned up for the programme at Gurdwara Behala on Sunday. “The government is not the country. Criticising the government does not mean taking a stand against the country. The government calls someone Pakistani, calls someone else Khalistani. This is absolutely wrong. Dissent is needed for the health of a democracy. The State should engage with people opposed to it,” he said. “In the same vein, the Narendra Modi-regime should engage with the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for so many months. After the Republic Day flare-up, the government has simply stopped talking to farmers. The channel of communication should be opened again,” Singh told this newspaper. Singh is in Calcutta to take part in a series of events to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 gurus of Sikhism. At an interfaith congregation at ICCR on Saturday, Singh had spoken at length on the need to preserve religious harmony. On Sunday, Gurdwara Behala was a glowing example of that harmony. People from different faiths had turned up for the langar that followed the Gurmat Samagam. “Sikh soldiers of a British cantonment settled in this area (now New Alipore-Taratala) built a small gurdwara for prayers. Today, it is a meeting place for Sikhs, Punjabis, Sindhis, Hindus and everyone else,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general-secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Shilpi Pal, a resident of the area , has been visiting the gurdwara for 15 years. A mother of two, Pal lost her husband in June last year. She works in a tailoring unit to sustain her family. Pal visits the gurdwara every day and helps in preparing food for “around 30-40 people”. “Man ko sukoon milta hai (I get peace of mind),” she said. Sikh community leaders from Delhi and Ludhiana and priests of gurdwaras from across the state turned up for the programme at Gurdwara Behala on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta no more||The Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta, Most Reverend Lucas Sirkar, passed away on Sunday afternoon. He was 84 and had been bedridden for about a year. “Most. Rev. Lucas Sirkar SDB (Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta) passed away peacefully at Aradona Mandir Krishnagar, West Bengal, at 12.05pm today, 18th April 2021,” a letter signed by the archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, reads. “The funeral will take place at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Redeemer, Krishnagar, at 10am on Tuesday, 20th April 2021.” He was appointed the bishop of Krishnagar in June 1984 and coadjutor archbishop of Calcutta on April 14, 2000. He succeeded as archbishop of Calcutta on April 2, 2002. He retired on February 23, 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Justice  Mukherjee passes away||Justice Monoj Kumar Mukherjee, a former Supreme Court judge who had led a panel to inquire Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s disappearance, died in Calcutta on Saturday. He was 87. Justice Mukherjee was elevated to the Supreme Court in December 1993 and he retired in 1998. After a successful career as a lawyer at Calcutta High Court, he was elevated as a judge of the court in June 1977. In November 1991, he was appointed chief justice of Allahabad High Court. From January 1993, he served as chief justice of Bombay High Court till his elevation to the Supreme Court. Justice Mukherjee did his schooling from Asansol and graduation from Presidency College. He did his LLB from Calcutta University. He was appointed by the Centre as chairman of the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Disappearance Commission of Enquiry on May 14, 1999.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Shifting gears: ambulance and guitar||You need hard work and patience, says Arup Karan, whether you are driving an ambulance or playing the guitar. He should know, because he does both. The 47-year-old resident of Oriya Bagan in Beleghata works for a leading private hospital in the city as an ambulance driver. He has been working there since 2003. He works in shifts that sometimes extend to 24 hours. The pandemic has been the most trying experience. But through the years, in between the work shifts, he has been giving private guitar lessons to several students. Now he teaches about 20 to 22 students, of all ages. Karan is visiting me at my south Calcutta residence on his scooter, the guitar strapped to his back. He is a jovial man with a benign face and a smile that never disappears. I ask him about the Covid experience. “They were dark”, he says, talking about the early days. He uses the word literally, too. “First we had to get used to wearing the PPE all the time,” he says. The hospital has a room for ambulance drivers to rest. “But we don’t know when the next call will come,” says Karan. Picking up Covid patients was not so different. All patients were not in a critical state. What was difficult, says Karan, is the location of the patient’s house and the patient’s condition. Lanes are difficult to negotiate with a stretcher. A male nurse — “brother” — is always present in the ambulance. The driver and the nurse are responsible for picking up a patient from his or her home or dropping him or her home after discharge from the hospital. As an ambulance driver, Karan has received basic life support training, which includes artificial resuscitation. The biggest challenge, he says, comes with having to drive the ambulance with a critical patient, especially over a long distance. “I have driven 300km to 400km to bring a patient to Calcutta. You have to be fast, at the same time reassure the doctor that the patient is reaching in time, yet not hurt the patient if the road is bumpy. You have to reassure the patient, most of all, that help is at hand,” he says. Bad roads are a very big challenge for the ambulance driver. The city does not seem to be aware of that. “That is why you have to be patient,” says Karan. “The nights were scary when we began with during the pandemic,” he says. The EM Bypass looked haunted. “I would often look at the dark and maybe one vehicle would pass in half an hour. It looked like another planet.” Going back home on his scooter late in the night was a nightmare. Street dogs came tearing along after him, every night. “Nobody was giving them food during lockdown. The dogs were hungry.” As an ambulance driver, he cannot get over one or two experiences. He remembers dropping a patient, an old woman, possibly an NRI, to a five-star hotel in the city after her treatment. “For her, a hospital bed was installed at the hotel and a team of five-six doctors came in with her,” he says. On another occasion, he remembers how the streets were cleared for his ambulance on a working day by the bike-gang of a political leader who was inside his ambulance. Karan grew up at his ancestral home in Beleghata, the youngest of three siblings. He still lives there with wife and daughter, a student of Class IV and a cricket player. He shares two rooms with his elder siblings, who live there too. Due to his family’s limited means, he could not continue his studies beyond Class IX. He learnt driving and was driving private cars by the early 90s. But by that time he had developed a passion: the guitar. He had heard the Spanish guitar being played on stage and fallen in love with it for its sound and rhythm, and the life that beats in it. He began learning it. In a few years, he was performing on stage, often as back-up for the singer, and was also doing “tution-i” — giving private lessons. Music gives him peace. It keeps him centred in a world that is obviously more turbulent than that of many others, though he does not let it show. He has learnt to play the keyboard and the flute, too. The private teaching helps with an extra income, which is welcome. He manages to find the time for the tuition, during weekends especially. It is hard work. “Without hard work, the guitar won’t speak,” he says. “But I have said enough about myself. Now I will play,” announces Karan and unsheaths his guitar. Rabindrasangeet flows into Rabindrasangeet. He plays the first stanza, then the refrain, which leads to another song, making a chain of the Tagore songs that Bengalis are most prone to singing: Purano shei diner kotha merges into Khara bayu boy bege, which becomes Boro asha kore eshechhi go. He changes gear, into Bengali and Hindi classic pop, with a large dose of R.D. Burman. “fast songs”: Mone pore Ruby Roy, Hari Om Hari, Chura liya, Do lafzon ke hai. He also plays the “Nagin bin” tune. He is jamming with himself. He is no Eric Clapton, but goes to play obsessively, enjoying himself, and finishes with the Kishore Kumar number Chalte chalte and rises with a flourish. “I can play, can’t I?” he asks. “Some people doubt that an ambulance driver can do such a thing. They think I am lying.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Barriers to protect New Town bicycle track||Barriers have been set up along bicycle lanes of a road in New Town to prevent dumping of construction materials and parking of vehicles. The barriers made of reinforced plastic are bolted to the road surface and have been fixed at regular intervals along a 300m stretch of the road that leads from Swapno Bhor to the Major Arterial Road intersection near the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre in New Town’s BE Block. Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township, had set up 17km of graded bicycle tracks in New Town. In some areas a bicycle track is a lane set aside for cyclists on pavements, while in other areas such tracks have been demarcated on roads with green paint. According to a Hidco official the barriers are made out of tough reinforced plastic. “These barriers can bend in case somebody crashes into them. We installed this type of barrier to ensure that no cyclist gets injured in an accident,” the official said. According to the official, a survey had been carried out to find out the problem places. The first batch of barriers were fitted after the survey. Metro had reported in March how these lanes had been rendered useless as motorists and two-wheeler riders would often park their vehicles on the tracks. Sundeep Agarwal, who pedals for at least two hours in New Town every day, said the obstacles on the tracks were proving to be risky for cyclists. “We cycle through the tracks because they are safer. Getting off the bicycle because of parked cars and dumped construction materials was painful. Now, at least near Swapno Bhor, things have improved,” Agarwal said. Ashis Bajaj, a resident of Sanjeeva Town in New Town, thanked the authorities for the barriers. “People parking or dumping construction materials on bicycle tracks is a problem and I am happy that the authorities have already taken proper measures to stop it,” said Bajaj. “It is great that the barriers have been placed but the awareness levels of people should be such that they don’t park their vehicles or block the tracks in any way.” said Lipika Biswas, an Eastern Railway employee who has cycled solo across Europe. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they were determined to ensure that cyclists don’t have any problems. “The barriers are being put up in phases and will be out across all the cycle tracks,” Sen said. The Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata observed its Foundation Day on April 15, celebrating 12 years of service in healthcare. The institute has been working in research collaboration with Newcastle University and the University of Oxford for the last few years. An MoU was signed between the Institute of Neurosciences and Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, Belur Math. Present on the occasion was Swami Atmapriyananda, pro-chancellor of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute; Pramod Agarwal, chairman, Coal India Limited; Hrishikesh Kumar, the vice-chairman of the Institute of Neurosciences; AR Sonthalia, a member of the board of directors of the institute; and Avik Roy Choudhury, the CEO of the institute. RP Sengupta, the founding chairman and managing director of the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata and Arjune Sen of the University of Oxford joined the celebrations online||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
19-04-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 883 points as rising Covid cases spooks market||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 883 points on Monday following a massive across-the-board selloff as mounting COVID-19 cases spooked domestic investors. After crashing over 1,469 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index pared some initial losses but still ended 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent lower at 47,949.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent to 14,359.45. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slumping over 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, L&T, Asian Paints and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's and Infosys were the only gainers. "Domestic equities, which were looking resilient for last couple of days, fell sharply on sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across the country and enhanced economic restrictions imposed by several states. Announcements of wider mobility restriction by Rajasthan and Delhi governments dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring pharma and IT, which remained resilient, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp correction. Financials and automobiles witnessed steeper correction. Notably, volatility index soared by over 11 per cent, which does not augur well. Investors' wealth got eroded by over Rs 3 trillion today, he added. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 1.50 crore with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26 which he said was necessary as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 66.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Sensex crashes over 1,300 points on spiking Covid cases||Equity benchmark Sensex crashed over 1,300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking massive across-the-board selloff as mounting COVID-19 cases spooked investor sentiment. The 30-share BSE index was trading 1,318.21 points or 2.70 per cent lower at 47,513.82. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 394.90 points or 2.70 per cent to 14,222.95. All Sensex components were in the red. Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, dropping over 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank. In the previous session, Sensex ended 28.35 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 48,832.03, and Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.25 per cent to 14,617.85 Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 437.51 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "The health crisis India is going through and localised lockdowns and restrictions on economic activity warrant a market correction," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The targets of around 11 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth for FY 22, that the market had assumed pre-second wave are likely to fall short, he added. The steady rise in COVID positive cases and the steady decline in recovery rates are areas of serious concern, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 19,29,329, up from 18,01,316 cases registered on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data. "But, this negativity need not reflect fully in the market since the global clues are positive. The sharp recovery in global growth led by the US and China augur well for markets globally." Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent lower at USD 66.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Inflation angst: a silent killer eating into our returns on investment||What is the similarity between inflation and diabetes? Well, as far as similitudes go, it couldn’t be more evident. Both are silent killers, one upends your health and the other spooks the well-being of your portfolio. The likeness does not end there — the impact of both can be contained if the right sort of therapy (or strategy, if you will) is applied, preferably aided by professional advice. We shall leave diabetes to medics, but as for the other regressive ailment influencing the state of your portfolio, we will discuss how it hurts all sorts of number-crunching exercises. Calculations related to investment performance, returns projection, income assessment and the like are all subject to inflationary pressures. These should be worked out only after factoring in its impact. The truth, however, is that investors rarely conduct such an exercise in real life. Therefore, when you say “I have generated a profit of 20 per cent from my investment in Asset A” or “I have received an annual return of 8 per cent from my allocation to Asset B” you usually delude yourself. If you are not taking into account the ruling inflation rate (and the rates that held good in the preceding years when these assets were held), your estimate is incorrect. A quick insight into one of life’s harshest realities will be necessary in this context. Price-rise, whether demand-pull or cost-push (the two causes that all economic text books diligently propound), eats into your returns at every stage. Considering that the average retail inflation is 5 per cent, the picture is far from pretty. I am referring to Consumer Price Index here, but even at a far lower 2-2.5 per cent, the Wholesale Price Index is a menace as well. The point is that the rate of inflation is certainly not a constant; it is a protean and wavering idea, the presence of which cannot be expelled from our lives. It, therefore, stands to reason that inflation is no mean challenge for investors. The latter, in fact, would do well with inflation-indexed investment products. Performance projections/estimates should be done in a realistic manner on the basis of this concept. All allocations and returns generated by them over different holding periods (‘time’ is a major factor) should also be seen through this prism. There are a few practical issues that all investors face. Let’s assume you are a big champion of fixed deposits and do not wish to think much beyond FDs, come what may. And you keep renewing your principal amounts (many even do the same with maturity values). How much do you think inflation has eaten into your “assured returns”? A lot actually over the years, considering that inflation is a variable while your FDs generate only fixed returns. As things stand, the official inflation figures are announced every month by the government in keeping with its disclosure policy. Managing the latest inflationary trends is the banking regulator’s most formidable task. At the moment, the CPI stands at 5.5 per cent (in March), higher than the 4 per cent or so recorded in January. Rise in input costs and supply disruptions because of the pandemic are among the principal reasons why prices have escalated in recent days. This is also the reason why no piece of your surplus should be left idle. Your money (in bits and pieces, perhaps, but all of it) should work constantly for you. Thus, nothing should be left in current and savings accounts without a serious reason. Your current account earns nothing, keeping money there is nearly as good as holding cash. And your savings account fetches you about 3 per cent annually, given today’s general banking norms. There is much to ask for in the context of the 5 per cent inflation I have already mentioned earlier. Here is what you may do: Form compartments in keeping with your investment goals — short-, medium- and long-term. Imagine you are a debt fund investor. The money you need to deploy, for instance, within three to six months may be parked in low-duration or ultra short term debt funds. A one-year horizon would give you a better leeway of sorts; you would be free to choose the next higher category from the debt funds universe. Work out the impact of inflation on your holdings in a given financial year when you sit down with the final figures. This is a typical year-end exercise that most of us compulsorily do, especially when tax-paying season commences. Remember, income by way of dividend and capital gains (loosely bracketed under the broad term “profit”) is generated when these are actually provided or booked. Else, it all stays within the realm of “notional profit”. At a very basic level, you do not have to worry too much about what remains notional — it is not actual yet, after all. This, of course, would be a saving grace for the investor community, especially the sections that depend primarily on guaranteed-income savings products. While inflation-indexed options are not easy to come by, the need to protect both principal and interest cannot be overemphasised. Such sections are often reluctant to look at other, dynamic asset classes because of their dependence on the markets (read: variable returns). However, in the context of all their conservatism, the probability of generating negative real returns will pose an enormous problem. Nothing is more frustrating for an investor who, despite all his aspirations and hard work, secures negative yield at the end of the day. Positive real returns (certainly after inflation, and also after taxes) is a lofty ideal worth the chase. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Audi India expects double-digit growth in 2021||Audi India is looking for a double-digit growth in 2021 as it prepares to launch a slew of cars with a mix of all body types and powertrains, including two electric vehicles (EV)s in the next two months. The premium car maker managed to sell only 1,639 units in 2020 when it could do business only in the last five months of the year owing to the pandemic. “In 2020, the automotive industry lost a significant volume during the pandemic which was not recoverable and we were no different. The sales did pick up from the festival season and at Audi, we witnessed month-on-month growth over five months last year with December witnessing the highest sales in 2020,” said Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India. Even as the company prepares to launch its first electric vehicle (EV) in the coming months, Dhillon feels the first movers and early adopters will be the potential customers. “We are buoyant on the e-mobility space and plan to launch our first two all-electric cars — the Audi e-tron and the Audi e-tron Sportback — within the next couple of months in the country. The buyers of luxury electric cars are first-movers and early adopters; they know the merits of going electric. Existing luxury car buyers will also be our target audience. One of the reasons the customers opt for EVs is the ‘fun to drive’ element. EVs with stronger batteries today, provide peak torque right from the start without any delay,” said Dhillon. On the upcoming models, he said: “We have lined up a host of launches in 2021. We kick-started the year with the launch of one of our best-selling models in India, the Audi A4 in January, followed by the Audi S5 Sportback in March. Our model line-up will expand across all the segments where we have been present in the past. We will launch a comprehensive line-up of cars, from sedans to SUVs, ICE variants to electric cars, and models in the volume as well as niche segments such as performance cars.” On the company’s diesel plan, Dhillon said: “We started moving towards a higher mix of petrol engines in 2017. We will grow our petrol and electric portfolio further in the months to come as the total cost of ownership of a petrol vehicle is now ‘not a concern’ compared with a diesel vehicle for customers. This being said, we have not given up on diesel engines entirely and are evaluating this further.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Bangalore start-up charging tech for electric vehicles||A Bangalore based start-up is looking to commercialise a solution that lowers the time required to charge the batteries of electric vehicles. Sequoia Capital backed Log 9 Materials, which has its core competence in graphene (a carbon material) nanotechnology, has developed two-wheeler and three-wheeler battery packs using supercapacitor expertise whereby these batteries could be charged faster than the plain lithium ion batteries fitted in electric vehicles. According to the company, a normal 15-20 ampere plug point in households can charge an existing two-wheeler electric vehicle battery in 3-5 hours. With supercapacitors, this can be brought down to around 15 minutes. CEO and founder Akshay Singhal, a graduate in materials engineering from IIT Roorkee, said Log 9 Materials is working with companies such as Amazon, Shadowfax, Delhivery, Vogo which are looking to move towards electric vehicles for last mile delivery and mobility. “We have already done the pilot. Commercial production is starting in October this year and the aim is to grow five times next year. We have our assembly lines in Bangalore which will be scaled up as demand grows,” said Singhal. The company has also developed aluminium fuel cells that work on aluminium, air and water combined with graphene-based cathode to harness electricity using cheap and recyclable technology. Singhal said that graphene can be made in India unlike lithium which is primarily imported. Moreover, existing lithium batteries can power a car for 200 kilometres and tend to be replaced typically after around three years. Aluminium fuel cells can provide a bigger range with no emission and can address electrification of long haul and heavier vehicles. The company is in discussions with vehicle manufacturers on a wider adoption of the technology. “Today more than 50 per cent of the cost of electric vehicles is on account of batteries. If the range is to be increased to say around 600-700 kilometres, the overall cost could go up significantly. Added to that is the lack of charging infrastructure and long charging time which acts as a bottleneck to electric vehicle adoption today. The idea is to address some of these concerns,” said Singhal. The start-up was founded in 2015 and is also working on other areas of applications of graphene such as cigarette filters and oil absorbents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Flavoured milk taxable at 12 per cent under GST: AAR||Flavoured milk is basically “beverage containing milk” and will attract 12 per cent GST, the Gujarat Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has said. Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd, which markets dairy product under the Amul brand, had approached the AAR on the taxability under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) of flavoured milk which the company sells under the name Amul Kool/Amul Kool Cafe. The applicant had submitted before the AAR that the process of flavoured milk is standardisation of fresh milk according to the fat contents and then heating at certain temperature followed by filtration, pasteurisation and homogenisation and then mixing of sugar and various flavours and finally bottling. The authority said that the flavoured milk would be classifiable as a beverage containing milk, which is taxable at 12 per cent under GST. Earlier the Karnataka AAR, in an application of Karnataka Co-operative Milk Producers Federation, had ruled that flavoured milk is taxable at 5 per cent. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said contradictory AAR rulings and hyper-technical interpretation of tax rate entries in GST law are leading to litigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Steel prices may take 2 years to go down, says top industry executive||Steel prices might take at least two years to cool down as its demand is consistently increasing, a top industry executive said. During the current financial year, the demand for steel in India is also expected to exceed the production numbers, Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) managing director V. R. Sharma said. While the demand in financial year 2021-22 will be in the range of 140-150 million tonnes (mt), the country’s production is expected to be somewhere around 125mt, he said. When asked about an estimated time for the steel prices to cool down, he said, “It (prices) will take around two years (to ease), because of the demand.” While hot-rolled coil (HRC) in India is trading at around Rs 58,000 per tonne in April, international steel prices are hovering around $735-740 per tonne since April 1, 2021. Both domestic as well as international prices are 50 per cent higher compared with a year-ago period. He also said most of the countries, including India, have announced stimulus packages. Because of this, consumption has increased; and until the stimulus packages are exhausted, these prices will not come down. On steel demand, Sharma said in calendar year 2020, the entire world has seen a slump except for China which recorded a growth of 6-7 per cent. The Indian steel industry recorded a negative growth of 10 per cent at 99mt. “The all-India data is yet to come. But, in my view, from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, we are at a level of minus 4 per cent...we have made around 104 MT of steel against expectations of 112 MT. However, these are the rough observations,” he said. In the current fiscal, demand for steel will remain high. This year, domestic demand will be 140-150mt, while production is expected to be somewhere around 125mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Religare Finvest Ltd gears up for new business after approval of its debt restructuring plan||Religare Finvest Ltd is gearing up for new business after its debt restructuring plan was approved by a consortium of 18 lenders led by SBI, Religare Enterprises chairperson Rashmi Saluja said. RFL, an NBFC arm of Religare Enterprises Ltd, has been barred from undertaking fresh business as it is under the corrective action plan (CAP) of the RBI since January 2018 because of its weak financial health. In line with the debt restructuring plan, Saluja said the company paid Rs 400 crore to lenders on March 31, 2021. “The debt restructuring plan should see the light of the day in two months. This time Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL) itself is proposing the plan in which case we may not need the ‘fit and proper’ approval of the RBI as REL is a registered entity with the RBI,” she said. The earlier DR plan was rejected by the RBI in March 2020 as the suitor — TCG Advisory Pvt Ltd, a part of The Chatterjee Group — for RFL was not found to be “fit and proper” by the regulator. Once the latest debt restructuring is done, she said, the next process would be to approach the regulator to consider removing the company from the corrective action plan. RFL has repaid around Rs 7,500 crore since 2018, she said, adding that the company is pursuing recovery cases, including Lakshmi Vilas Bank (now DBS India). The court has given DBS India notice by making them a party which makes the company hopeful of realisation of money, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Second Covid wave could spark greater uncertainty; govt will respond with fiscal steps if required: Niti Aayog vice chairman ||The country needs to prepare for “greater uncertainty” in terms of consumer as well as investor sentiments because of the second wave of coronavirus infections, and the government will respond with fiscal measures as and when required, Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Sunday. While acknowledging that the present situation has become far more difficult than it was in the past because of rising coronavirus infections, Kumar remained hopeful that the country’s economy will grow 11 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2022. India is grappling with a spiralling number of Covid cases as well as related deaths, forcing many state governments to put in place restrictions on the movement of people. According to Kumar, India was on the verge of defeating Covid-19 completely but some new strains from the UK and other countries have made the situation far more difficult this time around. “Apart from their direct impact on some sectors such as the services sector, the second wave will increase the uncertainty in the economic environment which can have wider indirect effects on economic activities. So, we need to prepare for greater uncertainty, both in consumer and investor sentiments,” Kumar said. To a query on whether the government is considering coming up with a fresh stimulus, the Niti Aayog vice-chairman said this question has to be answered after the finance ministry analyses both the direct and indirect impact of the second Covid wave. “As you have seen from the RBI’s response, the expansionary policy stance has been continued and I am sure the government will respond with necessary fiscal measures also as and when it is necessary,” Kumar said. Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance to boost the economy. Leading brokerages have downgraded India’s GDP growth projections for the current fiscal year to as low as 10 per cent on local lockdowns threatening fragile recovery. While Nomura has downgraded projections of economic growth for the fiscal ending March 2022 to 12.6 per cent from 13.5 per cent earlier, JP Morgan now projects GDP growth at 11 per cent from 13 per cent earlier. UBS sees 10 per cent GDP growth, down from 11.5 per cent earlier and Citi has downgraded growth to 12 per cent. India’s GDP growth had been on the decline even before the pandemic struck earlier last year. From a growth rate of 8.3 per cent in 2016-17, the GDP expansion had dipped to 6.8 per cent and 6.5 per cent in the following two years and to 4 per cent in 2019-20. The RBI has projected 2021-22 GDP growth at 10.5 per cent, while IMF puts it at 12.5 per cent. The World Bank sees 2021-22 growth at 10.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Future Retail lenders approve restructuring of existing debts||The lenders of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) have given the company up to two years more to repay its debt. Close to 28 lenders of the Kishore Biyani-company have approved the restructuring plan, Future Retail told the exchanges in a late evening filing on Saturday. The Future group in August 2020 had entered into a Rs 24,413-crore deal to sell its retail and wholesale business to Reliance Retail Ventures Limited. The deal has been contested by Amazon. Earlier this month, Reliance extended the long stop date for the closure of the deal by six months to September 30. The Future Retail debt recast plan needs to be approved by a committee chaired by former ICICI Bank chairman K.V. Kamath, set up by by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). According to CARE Ratings, Future Retail is sitting on Rs 6,278 crore of debt. Some of the banks to approve the plan include State Bank of India, Union Bank of India, Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Yes Bank, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, RBL Bank, Axis Bank and IDBI Bank. The restructuring would cover FRL’s working capital demand loans, term loans, cash credit, short term loans, non-convertible debentures (NCDs), purchase bill discounting limits, other working capital loans and unpaid interest, which became overdue, FRL said. The repayment of short term loans, term loans, NCDs, overdue working capital loans (converted into working capital term loans) will be extended up to a maximum period of two years. There will be an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021. Interest during the period will be converted into Funded Interest Term Loan (FITL) which will have to be paid by December. FITL is a fresh loan provided to a stressed borrower for the repayment of existing debt. All penal interest and charges, processing fees unpaid since March, 2020 to the implementation date will be waived off fully. FRL said the cash credit — a type of short term loan — will be continued at reduced level based on bank assessment. The board of the company has also approved the restructuring plan at its meeting held on Saturday, FRL added. “The debt burden has become disproportionate relative to the cash flow generated by the company owing to the multiple lockdowns since the pandemic surfaced, posing significant financial stability risks to the business. Hence, the restructuring of the debt is crucial and essential,” the company said. The holders of non-convertible debentures have also approved the plan. The redemption of the three different series will be re-scheduled between 2023 and 2025 and the rate of interest will continue at the same rate as was agreed at the time of the allotment. FRL said the 5.6 per cent US Senior Secured notes 2025 and the non-convertible debentures to certain trusts are not part of the resolution plan. Amazon had contested the Reliance-Future deal as it had invested in Future Coupons in August 2019 with the option of buying into flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Amazon has challenged the scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance at several forum including arbitration at SIAC (Singapore International Arbitration Centre) and before the Supreme Court. The deal  has already received clearance from the CCI, Sebi and the bourses, and the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting the nod from the NCLT and shareholders. On October 25, 2020, an interim order was passed at SIAC in favour of Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Tata Steel Mining Ltd aims high to establish itself as a commercial mining outfit||Tata Steel Mining Ltd (TSML), the mining arm of Tata Steel Group, may look beyond the minerals used by the parent as it charts out a road map to establish itself as a commercial mining outfit. TSML has been chosen as the anchor for the commercial mining activities of the group. It is one of the four verticals the parent is creating to reorganise the Indian business for scale, synergies and simplification and create value for all stakeholders. The other three clusters will operate in the areas of long products, downstream, and shared service and infrastructure verticals. “We are open to multiple minerals which have commercial value or mining interest to it,” M. C. Thomas, managing director of TSML, said. However, he was not drawn to name any mineral in particular, cautioning that the company would also not like to spread its resources too far. Formerly known as TS Alloy Limited, the wholly owned subsidiary of the group, is at present engaged in the mining of chrome ore and the production of ferro chrome. Apart from having ferrochrome plants at Athagarh and Gopalpur in Odisha, the company has three chromite mines, namely Sukinda, Kamarda and Saruabil, in Jajpur district of the state. TSML had acquired the mines in the 2020 mineral auctions for which leases were granted for 50 years. The mines have now been operational with an annual capacity of over 1.5 million tonnes making it the largest player in chrome ore mining in India. The legacy mines of Tata Steel Group for iron ore and coal continue to remain with the parent as captive mines. Sukinda chrome ore mine was also with the parent before the previous lease expired. The state had then put it up on auction, which TSML won and retained the asset within the group. However, it became part of the commercial mining venture in contrast to the iron ore and coal assets which remained captive. “Anything new coming up, even if it is iron ore, will be done by us,” Thomas informed, explaining that as a mining company it can look at any prospect. However, he added that a move to bid for a new asset would be taken on a case to case basis, depending on the board decision. The company is firming up plans for aggressive growth in its ferrochrome manufacturing capacity in India from 450,000 tonnes per annum at present to 900,000 tonnes per annum in the near future. D.B. Sundara Ramam, vice-president, raw materials, Tata Steel, and chairperson, TSML, said: “We will take the organic as well as the inorganic route to augment our ferrochrome manufacturing capacity in India, leveraging the strength of the good quality of chrome ore availability. This will make TSML the top ferro chrome player in India and among the top-five globally. It makes sense to focus on value addition and convert the chrome ore to ferro chrome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||India||Private hospitals allowed to buy vaccine from manufacturers||Everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against COVID-19 from May 1, the Centre said on Monday as it liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the vaccination drive commencing next month, vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the Union government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. Manufacturers would have to make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to the state governments and in the open market before May 1, 2021, an official statement said. Based on this price, state governments, private hospitals, industrial establishments, etc would be able to procure vaccine doses from manufacturers. Private hospitals would have to procure supplies of COVID-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for entities other than those coming through the central government channel. The private vaccination providers would need to transparently declare their self-set vaccination price and the eligibility through this channel would be opened up to all adults, that is everyone above the age of 18, the statement added. Vaccination will continue as before in government of India vaccination centres free of cost to the eligible population -- healthcare and frontline workers and all people above 45 years of age. The Union health ministry said the important decision to allow vaccination to everyone above the age of 18 from May 1 was taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The Prime Minister said that the government has been working hard for over a year to ensure that maximum number of Indians are able to get the vaccine in the shortest possible time. He added that India is vaccinating people at world record pace and we will continue this with even greater momentum," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Second wave more severe; young getting infected, but fatalities low||The government has opened up vaccinations to everyone over 18 from May 1 onwards even as India’s second Covid-19 wave hit a record 273,802 new infections in the last 24 hours with no peak in sight. Aggressive containment steps along with enforcement of strict Covid protocols like masking and curbing public gathering are needed to tame the infection tsunami, experts say. “We’re seeing classic exponential growth,” says one medical expert, “and it’s being driven by more contagious mutations, super-spreader election rallies and religious events and reckless individual behaviour.” “It will take three to four months to substantially ramp up vaccine production which must be done. So, right now the best defence is what we can do ourselves,” says virologist Shahid Jameel. “The protection is to mask up, socially distance and avoid crowds,” he says. In fact, wearing two masks rather than one “makes common sense” as double-layering not only adds filtration but helps cover mask gaps, says White House Advisor Dr Anthony Fauci. The second wave is already far more severe than the first one which peaked at 97,000 daily new cases last September. How bad can this surge get? Infection modeller Brahmar Mukherjee has suggested India could peak at around 300,000 to 400,000 new infections daily but experts are quick to add there’s no certainty on what could be the possible highest number. “The peak is not (yet) visible,” Jameel says. India could see a short spike and a fast fall as has been witnessed in other countries (it’s known as the “phenomenon of the second surge) and some experts suggest that the worst-hit state, Maharashtra, might start turning the corner at the end of April or in early May. Most healthcare experts did not anticipate a second wave as catastrophic as the one the country now is suffering. After new infections slid to a tenth of the country’s previous peak, some politicians and scientists even said India’s pandemic was in the end game. With the beginning of the vaccine rollout, complacency set in. “Hospitals were also thinking the worst was over,” said a government health official. “People also thought there would be some magic with the vaccine,” he added. Doctors say the variants -- the UK one B.1.1.7 and the potentially more contagious Indian “double mutation” that may be better at evading immune systems -- are making the situation even more unpredictable. India has now topped both Brazil and the US in its daily fresh infection count. (And the infection numbers could be undercounted as testing facilities are being overwhelmed and India has always lagged behind many other countries in daily testing relative to the size of its population. The Government says there have been fewer fatalities in the current wave. The ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava, however, said more patients are coming to hospitals short of breath and needing oxygen. Another government expert says that mutant strains “are playing a big role in Bengal” where there have been large state election rallies. “A big chunk of the new infections there are definitely variants,” he said. And, as in other countries, in contrast with the previous wave, younger people account for the many of the Covid cases. That’s led both Delhi and Maharashtra to push the central government to open up vaccinations to age groups over 18. Some young people are going from hospital admission directly to the ICU. And children are also getting infected. Last month, in Bangalore for instance, 472 children below 10 fell sick with Covid. Younger people have been “revolting. They are refusing to wear masks. And, they are falling ill with COVID-19 in large numbers,” says Partha Majumder, the government’s National Science Chair. Majumder who has been doing a study on hospitalised infectious cases for over a year. “In this surge, our samples are mostly from the young.” The latest lineage called B.1.617 which has two mutations -- the E484Q And L452R -- was originally reported late last year by a scientist in India and has now leapt to 10 other countries including the UK, Australia and Germany. So far, the Indian government which acknowledged the existence of the double mutant late last month isn’t calling it a “variant of concern.” However, in some Maharashtra districts, the variant was detected in over 60 per cent of new infections. “Having two of these mutations, which have been seen in other variants around the world, (combined) are concerning,” says Maria Van Kerhove, the World Health Organization’s technical lead officer on Covid. The double mutation makes it easier to break into the human immune system and is more efficient in attaching itself to the human host cells and multiplies more swiftly, doing more damage than the original Covid strain. The Government of India has established the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics” (INSACOG) – an all-India network – to rapidly identify and track genomic variations arising in the SARS-CoV-2. However, INSACOG is sequencing only about 1 per cent of the COVID-19 samples collected. “Unless sequencing of the coronavirus is scaled up, and relevant data are collected and compiled rapidly and systematically, we will never be able to know whether the “double mutant” is a variant coronavirus of concern and is a significant factor in the current surge in infection,” says Majumder. However, the National Institute of Virology in Pune has reported that out of 361 Covid samples taken from Maharashtra from January to March and genome sequenced, 61 per cent had the double mutation. The biology journal BioRiv said the L452R mutations “significantly increased infectivity” and lowered antibody efficacy compared to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein without mutation and “warranted close surveillance.” The L452R mutation is estimated by US researchers to boost transmission by 20 per cent and lower antibody efficacy by more than 50 per cent. If this variant becomes dominant and is capable of so-called “immune escape” behaviour -- ie is able to evade post-infection or post-vaccination antibodies, it could have major implications for India, and also the world’s vaccination rollouts. Indeed, India is not the only country facing a surge in infections amid continued setbacks globally in rolling out vaccinations. Sixteen months since the outbreak of Covid, the pandemic’s trajectory is “growing exponentially” with more than 4.4 million new cases reported over the last week, says Kerkhove. Cases climbed globally by 9 per cent worldwide last week, marking the seventh straight weekly rise. “This is not the situation we want to be in 16 months into a pandemic where we have proven control measures,” says Kerkhove. “Vaccines are coming online but everyone has to take stock and have a reality check of what we need to be doing,” she says. More than 80 per cent of India’s cases are being recorded in 10 states, including Punjab and Maharashtra, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. In a departure from the previous wave, the infections have fanned out to smaller towns and remote regions with fewer health services. Health officials also say the reported figures are not current because testing centres are being overwhelmed by the rising numbers. In Kerala, where infection numbers have been steady for several months, the number of cases climbed to over 18,257. State government officials attributed the higher number to increased surge testing carried out over the last two days to get a broader picture of the situation. Back on February 13, the weekly average positivity rate of Covid-19 testing fell to a record low of 1.47 per cent but then it started rising. The average was 10.7 per cent in the most recent week. A positivity rate of 5 per cent is the threshold for considering the pandemic to be under control, according to the WHO. The only silver lining may be that the death rate could be lower than in the previous wave, said the government official. “The protocol has been standardised. The fatalities may be less because the medical professionals know more how to deal with Covid,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh tests postive for Covid, admitted to AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS with a mild fever on Monday afternoon. Dr. Singh, 88, has been admitted to the AIIMS trauma centre here, which is a dedicated COVID facility, sources said, adding his condition is stable. They said Dr. Singh had a mild fever in the morning and later tested positive for Covid-19. The doctors are monitoring his condition. Dr Singh has received his two vaccine doses (of Covaxin) - the first on March 4 and the second on April 3. Sources said he was shifted to hospital as "a matter of precaution". On Saturday, Dr Singh participated in a meeting with top Congress leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on the Covid situation in the country. Following this, he wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, to offer some advice on handling a pandemic that has infected over 1.5 crore Indians and killed nearly 1.8 lakh. He urged Modi to allow states to define categories of frontline workers that need to be vaccinated against Covid on priority "even if they are below 45 years of age" - something experts and the chief ministers of several Congress-ruled states have also flagged. (With inputs from NDTV.com)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Second Covid wave in Delhi likely to peak within a week, says experts||The second wave of coronavirus in Delhi is likely to peak within a week after possibly hitting a positivity rate of 50 per cent before the numbers start to go down, senior medical experts said on Monday. Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, "The virus spreads from person to person in close proximity. Over the last few months, people have been meeting each other at a greater pace without following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The results are before us." Citing the findings of a serosurvey conducted in February, he said around 50 percent of Delhi's population has already been exposed to coronavirus, and there are "very few" cases of re-infection. According to the fifth serosurvey, conducted between January 15 and January 23, around 56 percent of Delhi's population have developed antibodies against the deadly virus. "Even if we say only 40 percent of people have been affected so far...Delhi may achieve herd immunity if 30-35 percent of the remaining population is exposed to the virus," he said. When a large part of the population develops antibodies and becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission is broken, and this is called herd immunity. Dr Kishore said, "Delhi is likely to hit the peak of the second wave within a week", considering the exponential increase in cases. Dr Yudhvir Singh, Assistant Professor of critical care at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said this Covid-19 wave is nearing peak in Delhi and the next week is going to be crucial. "The positivity rate may as well touch the 50-percent mark," he said. Cases will start receding by April-end and the situation will be comparatively better by the second week of May, Singh, who is a member of the "COVID Clinical Management Team" at AIIMS, said. Asked about the reasons behind such a high number of cases in Delhi this time, Dr Singh said people let their guard down and didn't take proper precautions at a time when it is likely that the second wave was being fuelled by the highly infectious "double mutant" strain of the virus. "Entire families are turning out to be positive. Ninety percent of the people threw caution to the wind ... didn't follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," he added. Another reason is that a large number of non-Delhi residents have been coming to the national capital for treatment. They comprise some 30 percent of all COVID patients admitted in hospitals here, he said. He said, "The virus will evolve with time and may become weak or strong, anything is possible. "Most viruses tend to become less deadly after mutations, he added. The number of people getting vaccinated in the coming months will also determine how severe the situation will be," he said. Dr N K Ganguly, the former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, however, said the capital might have "hit the peak already" of this wave of coronavirus. "The cases will start coming down next week. Similar trends (positivity rate and death rate) were witnessed in the US when it was grappling with a second wave of Covid-19," he said. Dr Ganguly said several superspreader events, including the Kumbh, farmers' protests, weddings and election rallies, led to the present situation in Delhi and elsewhere. The mutant virus is attacking children and younger populations in larger numbers, he said. Delhi recorded over 25,500 cases on Sunday, the highest single-day tally since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The city has registered 1,46,934 cases in the last 10 days. The positivity rate has shot up from 7.79 percent on April 9 to 29.74 percent on April 18. Meanwhile, hours after a weekend curfew ended Monday morning, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown, till 5 am on April 26, in a bid to contain the spread of the virus. He said Delhi's health system is under stress but has not collapsed yet despite around 25,000 cases coming up every day. Hospitals in the city are grappling with shortage of oxygen supply and crucial drugs. On Sunday, the CM said less than 100 ICU beds were available for coronavirus patients in the city, even as the government explored options to set up Covid hospitals in schools and Covid care shelters in gated housing societies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Punjab extends night curfew by an hour amid Covid surge||Amid rising COVID-19 cases, the Punjab government on Monday announced stricter curbs, including extension of night curfew by an hour and closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes in the state till April 30. The fresh restrictions will come into effect from Tuesday, officials said, adding that curfew timings will now be from 8 pm to 5 am, instead of the earlier 9 pm to 5 am. The new restrictions, which also include closure of all malls, shops and markets on Sundays, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, will remain in effect till April 30, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said after a COVID review meeting here. Restaurants and hotels will remain open but only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday. Gatherings of more than 20 people, including weddings and cremations, have also been banned across the state. Prior approval of the district administration is needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons, except for cremation, a government statement said here. Rates for RT-PCR tests and Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) by private labs have been reduced to Rs 450 and Rs 300 respectively (with additional charges for home collection), in a bid to promote increased testing, it said. The chief minister also ordered that people flying into Punjab should have a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Otherwise, they would have to undergo RAT testing at the airports. He also instructed that people who have attended large gatherings anywhere (religious/ political/social) be mandatorily home-quarantined for five days and tested as per existing protocols. The chief minister directed the transport department to restrict the number of passengers in buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws to 50 per cent of the vehicle's capacity. Mohali district, along with the rest of the tri-city, will remain under complete lockdown on Wednesday on the occasion of Ram Navami, to avoid gatherings amid surging COVID-19 cases in the region, Singh said. The tri-city region refers to Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. The chief minister said he has received a request from the Chandigarh UT adviser for a lockdown in Mohali, as part of a lockdown in the entire tri-city area, and necessary notification would be issued accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Delhi announces six-day lockdown to curb rising Covid cases in the city||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26 which he said was necessary to deal with the rising number of COVID-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. The national capital's health system is stretched although it has not collapsed yet, he said, adding that despite around 25,500 cases coming up every day, Delhi's health system is still functioning. But any system has its limit, he said while addressing an online press conference. The lockdown is needed to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen, Kejriwal said. Noting that the decision to impose lockdown was not an easy one, Kejriwal appealed to migrants in the city not to leave Delhi. The government will take good care of them, he said, adding that essential services will be allowed during the lockdown. Kejriwal said that his government will improve the health system in this period. In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said that movement of people will be allowed for marriage related gatherings and up to 50 people will be permitted to attend a wedding, but they will have to show soft or hard copy of the marriage card. For funerals, 20 people will be allowed to attend. Essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed. In the order, the DDMA said that swimming pools (except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international events), construction activities (except where labourers are residing onsite) will also remain shut. Stadia will be permitted to remain open for organising national and international sports events without spectators, said Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairperson of DDMA's executive committee. It stated that public transport such as metro and buses with their 50 per cent capacity will be allowed to run. In taxis, not more than two people will be allowed. According to the DDMA, e-passes obtained by a person for movement connected to essential goods and services during night curfew and weekend curfew will also be valid for the six-day restrictions. During the press conference on Monday, Kerjiwal said that this decision to impose lockdown was not an easy one for the AAP government as it hurts the poor, daily wagers the most. "I appeal to people not to leave Delhi during the lockdown. We will take care of you. I am there to ensure it," the chief minister said. He said that he has been strictly against lockdown, adding that he believes it can slow the pace of infections but its not a solution. "It should be imposed only when health system reaches its limits. I appeal to people to completely follow the lockdown. We will together overcome this fourth phase of COVID19- as we did in the earlier three waves," he said. He said that the AAP government never concealed facts and figures of tests, cases or deaths. "We shared information with people whether the condition was good or bad. This is a huge responsibility and the government cannot carry it without cooperation of the people. Cooperation of the people cannot be ensured without correct information," Kejriwal also said. During the lockdown, pregnant women and patients going for medical services along with an attendant will be allowed on production of valid I-card or doctor's prescription or medical papers. According to the DDMA's order, people who are going for COVID-19 testing or vaccination are also exempted on the production of a valid I-card. Those going to airports, railways, ISBTs have been allowed movement, but they will have to show a valid ticket. Electronic and print mediapersons have also been exempted from the restrictions. Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily COVID-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
19-04-2021||India||Govt working to save lives, livelihood, Sitharaman tells India Inc||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said she has taken inputs from various industry chambers on concerns of India Inc with regard to the management of COVID pandemic and the centre would continue to work with state governments to save lives and livelihood. She sought feedback from businesses to deal with the impact of the second COVID-19 wave on the country's economy. It is to be noted that the economy contracted by a whopping 23.9 per cent in the first quarter (April-June) of the previous financial year due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Spoke on telephone with each of the following business/Chamber leaders. Took their inputs on industry/Association related matters. Informed them that GoI at various levels from @PMOIndia is responding to #Covid management. Working together with states for lives and livelihoods," she said in a tweet. The Finance Minister had interactions with heads of industry chambers including CII president Uday Kotak, Uday Shankar, president Ficci, and Vineet Agarwal president Assocham. She also spoke to many business leaders like Tata Steel managing director T V Narendran, L&T chairman A M Naik, TCS managing director Rajesh Gopinathan, Maruti Suzuki chairman R C Bhargava, TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan and Hero Moto Corp managing director Pawan Munjal to take their feedback on situation arising out of surging COVID-19 cases and local containments. Last week, the Finance Minister made it clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and only resort to local containment to break the COVID-19 chain. "Even with the second wave, we are very clear that we are not going in for lockdowns in a big way. We don't want to totally arrest the economy. The local level isolation of patients, or households which have people in quarantines are the methods through which the crisis will be handled, the second wave will be handled. There shall not be lockdown," Sitharaman had said. Daily average COVID-19 cases across the country crossed 1.7 lakh on Sunday. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 1.50 crore with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||India records over 2.73 lakh fresh Covid cases, 1,619 casualties in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with around 25 lakh cases being added in just 15 days, while active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The nationwide tally of COVID-19 cases mounted to 1,50,61,919 with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 coronavirus infections. The death toll increased to 1,78,769 with a record 1,619 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 after which it took 107 days to cross the 1.25 crore on April 5. However, it only took 15 days for the cases to cross the 1.50-crore mark. Registering a steady increase for the 40th day in a row, the active cases increased to 19,29,329, comprising 12.81 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,29,53,821 and the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.19 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,78,94,549 samples have been tested up to April 18 with 13,56,133 samples being tested on Sunday. The 1,619 new fatalities include 503 from Maharashtra, 170 from Chhattisgarh, 161 from Delhi, 127 from Uttar Pradesh, 110 from Gujarat, 81 from Karnataka, 68 from Punjab, 66 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Jharkhand, 42 each from Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, 29 from Haryana, 28 from West Bengal and 25 from Kerala. A total of 1,78,769 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,473 from Maharashtra, 13,351 from Karnataka, 13,113 from Tamil Nadu, 12,121 from Delhi, 10,568 from West Bengal, 9,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,902 from Punjab and 7,410 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||How to do it: Manmohan writes to PM on Covid||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, in a letter to his successor Narendra Modi, said on Sunday that ramping up the vaccination drive was critical to the fight against the coronavirus and offered suggestions how this could be done. “The government should publicise what are the firm orders for doses placed on different vaccine producers and accepted for delivery over the next six months. If we want to vaccinate a target number in this period, we should place enough orders in advance so that producers can adhere to an agreed schedule of supply,” Singh wrote. The government should also “indicate how this expected supply will be distributed across states based on a transparent formula”, which would allow the states to plan the rollout, he said. The Centre could retain 10 per cent of the supplies for emergency distribution, Singh suggested. The senior leader, who as Prime Minister had shepherded India through the global downturn of 2008 and as finance minister had pulled the country out of its worst economic crisis into an era of prosperity, advised Modi to invest in the vaccination campaign. Over the past few decades India has emerged as the world’s largest producer of vaccines, Singh said, with the capacity largely in the private sector. “At this moment of a public health emergency, the government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions,” he wrote. “In addition, I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence,” Singh said, noting that this was done earlier in the case of medicines for HIV/AIDS and that Israel had done so for Covid-19. Singh also suggested allowing the import of any vaccine that has been cleared for use by “credible authorities such as the European Medical Agency or the USFDA” without insisting on domestic bridging trials. The relaxation could be for a limited period during which the bridging trials could be completed in India, the former Prime Minister said. In the meantime, people taking these vaccines should be informed that these were being used based on approvals abroad. “Many parents have not seen their children, living in different cities, in over a year. Grandparents have not seen their grandchildren. Many have lost their source of livelihood, and several millions have been pushed back into poverty. With the second surge that we are currently witnessing, people are beginning to wonder when their lives will get back to normal,” Singh wrote. “There are many things we must do to fight the epidemic but a big part of this effort must be ramping up the vaccination programme.” The former Prime Minister argued in favour of allowing the states the flexibility to decide on the categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are under 45. “We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated. Currently, India has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population. I am certain that with the right policy design, we can do much better and very quickly. I hope the government will accept these suggestions immediately and act on them promptly,” Singh wrote. The senior leader underlined that he was giving suggestions “in a spirit of constructive cooperation in which I have always believed and acted upon”. The Modi government, which is given to treating Opposition suggestions with disdain and even mocking them, will find itself in a spot over Singh’s call to make public the vaccine orders it has placed for delivery in the next six months. The government has been caught napping with the country already facing a shortage of vaccines, as the domestic production is half of what is needed at present. The government decided to allow vaccines made abroad to be imported only this month, after Rahul Gandhi had made the demand. But with the US and Europe placing advance orders, the companies will find it difficult to serve India soon. Congress leader P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Manmohan Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi containing five specific suggestions to fight the pandemic. He has requested the PM to accept them immediately and act on them promptly. Whether the Government is open to good suggestions will be known from the action taken on the letter. Also, whether the Government is serious about containing the spread of the pandemic will also be known from its response.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||How India landed in Covid vaccine mess||India’s shortage of Covid-19 vaccines that precludes immediate inoculation for all adults is rooted in the Narendra Modi government’s lack of funding for key vaccines under development and evaluation, experts have said. The experts, who have tracked global vaccine efforts, said the Indian government’s lack of investments contrasted with the actions of many countries, including America and Britain, that provided advance funding to vaccine makers and signed purchase pacts with them. The Centre had last November announced a Rs 900-crore project, coordinated by the Union science ministry’s department of biotechnology, for Covid-19 vaccines. But none of this money went to either Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India at Pune, or Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine made by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Instead, a part of it was given to candidate vaccines that were at more nascent stages of development. An epidemiologist who asked not to be named described this as a “botch-up”. The Serum Institute invested $270 million (Rs 2,012 crore) of its money and $300 million (Rs 2,236 crore) from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to build production capacity for its vaccines, while Bharat Biotech relied almost entirely on its internal resources. The Centre covered the costs of the Covishield clinical trials by the Serum Institute and supported Bharat Biotech’s efforts through laboratory research and animal studies at the National Institute of Virology in Pune, an arm of the Indian Council of Medical Research. The department of biotechnology had on April 16 — three months after the launch of India’s vaccination campaign — announced it would provide Rs 65 crore to Bharat Biotech to increase production from the current 10 million to 100 million doses of Covaxin per month by September 2021. It also pledged funds to three public sector units to produce an additional 35 million doses per month by September. Covid-19 vaccines are currently being offered in India only to people 45 years or older. Health officials have underlined the “finite” supply to argue against suggestions that the campaign be widened to cover younger adults, at least in the areas hit the hardest by the pandemic. India had by early October 2020 drawn up a tentative timeline for a Covid-19 vaccination programme — 250 million people by July 2021 — a number that has since been revised to around 350 million people. But while the policy makers recognised the need for Covid-19 vaccines and acknowledged the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech as the earliest possible sources of vaccines for India, the  finance to scale up production did not materialise, experts say. “This was a botch-up — the government knew the companies’ production capacities and should have foreseen the need to ramp up manufacturing ahead of inoculations. Others did exactly this,” the epidemiologist who requested anonymity said. The US government invested about $6 billion (Rs 44,724 crore), distributed across several vaccine companies including Moderna, Pfizer and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), in July and August last year on candidate vaccines that were still under evaluation. The British government had in May last year pledged £65.5 million (Rs 488 crore) to University of Oxford researchers for work on the AstraZeneca vaccine. By October, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the European Union had pacts for one or more candidate vaccines. (See chart) “Public investment in research and development and advance purchases, often at risk, has been critical for early access to vaccines,” Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor at the Duke Global Health Center in the US, told this newspaper. Two members of India’s expert group on the Covid-19 vaccination policy and another senior government official are yet to respond to queries from this newspaper about why India did not provide early support for vaccine production. An independent, 22-member India Task Force — a group of health experts and senior administrators — had said on April 14 that India’s current production capacity would not meet even half the monthly requirement of 150 million doses. “It’s unfortunate. We sometimes view our private sector with great suspicion but also want them to solve our problems,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a research think tank based in the US and India. Earlier this week, the Indian government had invited foreign vaccine makers, including Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, to bring their Covid-19 vaccines into the country. But experts say those companies are probably overbooked. “There doesn’t seem to be any significant excess capacity in vaccine manufacturing anywhere in the world at the moment,” Udayakumar said. “So it’s unclear whether this action will result in significant additional doses in the next few weeks. It could make a difference over several months.” The department of biotechnology has committed Rs 500 crore of the Rs 900 crore Covid-19 vaccine project to supporting five candidate vaccines under advanced clinical development, three animal challenge facilities, and 19 clinical trial sites, a department official said. The official said the department had also provided Rs 100 crore for 15 candidate vaccines under development by industry and public-sector labs. “Three of these have moved from proof-of-concept to clinical development stage and are currently undergoing clinical trials,” said Shirshendu Mukherjee, mission director in the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council. Among the vaccines the council has supported are a DNA vaccine from Zydus Cadila, an mRNA vaccine from Gennova, and a nasal vaccine from Bharat Biotech, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Covid: 162 oxygen-generating plants planned, 33 set up ||An exercise to install oxygen-generating plants on-site in 162 government hospitals across India to support Covid-19 treatment announced last October and sanctioned with funds in January this year has set up only 33 plants at a time India stares at depleting medical oxygen reserves. The Union health ministry on Sunday said five plants in Madhya Pradesh, four in Himachal Pradesh, three each in Chandigarh, Gujarat, and Uttarakhand, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana, and one each in nine other states have been installed. The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund trust had in January this year allocated Rs 201.5 crore for the installation of 162 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen-generating plants in public hospitals in 32 states. An on-site medical PSA oxygen-generator can produce medical-grade oxygen 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reduce a hospital’s dependence on the traditional store-and-supply system that is currently experiencing intense strain under India’s second Covid-19 wave. The health ministry has said the significant surge in demand for medical oxygen has reached 60 per cent of the total daily oxygen production and is expected to rise further in the coming weeks. The Centre in consultation with 32 states had proposed 162 public health hospitals where the PSA oxygen-generating plants were to be installed. Maharashtra, the state hardest-hit by Covid-19, was to get 10 PSA plants while Bengal was to get five plants. Neither state has received a plant yet. The health ministry tweeted on Sunday that 59 more plants will be installed in April and the balance in May. A query from this newspaper to the ministry asking whether there has been a delay in implementation or this was the planned timeline did not elicit a response. India has several PSA oxygen-generator suppliers, said a chemical engineer in a top government research institution, and efforts to install the PSA plants simultaneously across multiple sites could have added to India’s available medical oxygen supplies. “A PSA oxygen-generator is not a very challenging technology, but it uses special materials and certain components of the plant’s control panels might be imported — there must be some weak link, some pain point, that might explain the slow progress,” said the engineer who requested anonymity. The demand for oxygen has increased in at least 12 states — Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan — all with fast-growing Covid-19 epidemics. The Centre on Sunday also announced restrictions on the supply of industrial oxygen from April 22 to make it available for medical-grade oxygen, citing the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and the resultant rapid demand for oxygen. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states saying the Centre’s empowered group of officials has “recommended to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes by manufacturers and suppliers, with the exception of nine specified industries.” The nine sectors exempted are ampoules and vials, pharmaceuticals, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, waste-water treatment plants, food and water purification, and process industries requiring uninterrupted furnace operations. India on Sunday recorded 261,500 new Covid cases and 1,501 deaths, raising the total number of active patients to over 1.8 million and the total deaths to 177,150.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Finger at BJP over Covid drug cache||A police probe into the stocking of a Covid-19 medicine in Maharashtra has led to allegations of a BJP ploy to starve the Opposition-ruled state of the life-saving drug, a charge India’s ruling party has denied. News agency PTI reported that the police had detained and questioned the director of a pharmaceutical company for stocking 60,000 vials of remdesivir, whose export has been banned. The executive was allowed to go after he showed the necessary documents for the stock, PTI said. However, several BJP leaders met police officers soon after the executive was detained and questioned the probe. PTI quoted Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister, Nawab Malik of the NCP, as saying on Sunday: “…When two leaders of Opposition (Devendra Fadnavis and MLC Praveen Darekar) and two legislators go to the police station late in the night after detention of (a director of Bruck Pharma, Rajesh Kailash) Dokania, something is fishy…. The BJP is trying to ensure that Maharashtra doesn’t get its stock of remdesivir.” Malik added: “Why did the state BJP leaders get scared? The BJP leaders should explain to the people of Maharashtra why they were ‘favouring’ Dokania.” BJP leader Fadnavis told reporters: “Daman-based Bruck Pharma Private Limited was one of the exporters of remdesivir, whom we (BJP members) had contacted to supply the stock to Maharashtra as the state is facing shortage of remdesivir vials. We have even informed the state food and drug administration minister (Rajendra Shingne of the NCP) about it and approached the Union government seeking necessary permissions.” He added: “The Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandviya, has also given necessary orders enabling the sale of exportable stock of remdesivir in Maharashtra. However, I was shocked to find (out) that one of the OSDs (officers on special duty) of the state FDA minister had contacted the owner of Bruck Pharma and allegedly threatened him, over him approaching the Centre on the suggestions of BJP leaders.” The political slugfest had begun on Saturday morning with Malik accusing the Centre of stalling the supply of the drug. He had tweeted: “It is sad & shocking that when government of Maharashtra asked the 16 export companies for #remdesivir, we were told that central government has asked them not to supply the medicine to #Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their licence will be cancelled.” Earlier this month, the BJP had drawn flak in neighbouring Gujarat after its state unit president C.R. Patil procured 5,000 vials of the drug — normally sold only to medical institutions and not individuals or parties — for distribution in Surat. Jayant Patil, minister and chief of the NCP’s state unit, tweeted: “With shortage of remdesivir, last night @MumbaiPolice rightly fulfilled their duty to check any supply malpractices/ hoarding. The real Q is: Can any BJP leader, without any info to state govt/ local authorities/ police, procure lakhs of lifesaving drugs @PMOIndia? It’s a new low.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||CPM: Modi demonstrating that his role as campaigner is more important than his role as PM||Narendra Modi is demonstrating that his role as his party’s election campaigner is more important than his role as Prime Minister, the CPM said on Sunday. “As we Indians suffer under a raging pandemic, we unfortunately don’t have a union government. What we have is a PR company, with an electoral campaigner, callously and brazenly unleashing pain, misery and devastation over the masses,” CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. “Modi demonstrating his role as a partisan party campaigner is more important than that of India’s Prime Minister. That’s why his priority is the election campaign, if any time is left, he does something perfunctory for TV images & headlines. A sorry state,” Yechury said in a series of tweets. “India is facing its gravest crisis in decades which a former army chief says is like war. But Modi is busy campaigning, unavailable to state CMs and doing a gimmick of a meeting after he has finished with his superspreader events,” he added. The Left leader underlined that his party and the Congress have announced they would not hold large rallies in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Kumbh to continue, never mind PM’s call||An acharya’s appeal for an immediate end to the Kumbh following a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi was dismissed by his akhara head on Sunday, raising the possibility of thousands of sadhus staying on for weeks even beyond the scheduled April 30 closure. “The Prime Minister said something to an acharya and he began talking.... But the Kumbh will continue,” Mahant Hari Giri, international patron of the Juna Akhara, told The Telegraph over the phone from Haridwar on Sunday. “There remain at least four occasions for holy baths. They include Shankaracharya Jayanti on May 18 and Buddha Purnima on May 26. At least 400 senior sadhus of the Juna Akhara will take the holy dip on May 26 before vacating the area.” Several senior monks from other akharas (monasteries) echoed Hari Giri, saying they would stay on till May 26. Modi had on Saturday tweeted that he had spoken over the phone to Swami Avdheshanand Giri, acharya mahamandaleshwar of the Juna Akhara, and proposed that the remaining Kumbh rituals be kept symbolic to boost the fight against the Covid surge. Swami Avdheshanand subsequently said the Kumbh should be called off. But Hath Yogi, a senior member of the Digambar Ani Akhara, backed Hari Giri’s stand that tradition cannot be violated although he castigated the government for allowing the Kumbh in the pandemic. “The government should have postponed the Kumbh keeping the pandemic in mind, but organised it with political motives,” he told reporters. “The Mahakumbh should have started from April 2022, when Brihaspati (Jupiter) will be in Kumbh Rashi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Modi minister seeks Covid bed help on Twitter ||When a Covid patient from his constituency failed to find a hospital bed, Union minister and Ghaziabad MP V.K. Singh picked up his phone on Sunday and — did not make a call. He sent out a tweet, appealing to the Uttar Pradesh administration for help. Proving, as the Twitterati have been hammering home since then, that the Narendra Modi government has mismanaged the Covid crisis so badly that not only are hospitals out of beds but even ministers can only plead helplessly on Twitter instead of issuing direct instructions. The Hindi tweet, which tagged the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, said: “@dm_ghaziabad Please check this out. Please help us, my brother needs a bed for corona treatment. No beds are available in Ghaziabad. @shalabhmani @PankajSinghBJP @Gen_VKSingh.” Scorn poured in. “A Union minister pleading for help on Twitter for a hospital bed for his brother. This is a broken republic,” a social media user, Mandakini Gahlot, tweeted. Military veteran Sushant Singh did not spare the former army chief: “This is a Union minister of the Modi government asking for help in his own constituency, neighbouring Delhi. That the man is also a former army chief is incidental. This is the real state of affairs in UP and at the Centre.” A while later, V.K. Singh posted another tweet clarifying he was not related to the patient by blood. “Clarification: I tweeted this request so that the district administration can reach the person in need and provide him with medical care that his brother requires. He is not my brother by relation, but by bond of humanity. I think it’s an alien concept to some.” Later, the minister of state for road transport and highways deleted the original tweet and the clarification. The avalanche of derision continued. Twitter user Kalkeya posted: “MP of Ghaziabad, ex-army chief has to ask for help via Twitter itself explains the situation in UP the largest state of India.” Raj Kishore Pandey tweeted: “Shocked!!! An MP who is also a Union minister has to take the help of Twitter.” Late on Sunday afternoon, V.K. Singh lashed out at the critics. “Am amazed at IQ level of trawls (sic) and fastest finger channels. Tweet was forward of a tweet to DM and says ‘please look into this’. Forwarded tweet is in hindi. Bed needs have been sorted out by DM & CMO, hence to DM. Suggest correct your understanding,” he tweeted. If the minister did not compose the tweet, it’s puzzling that his earlier “clarification” had remained silent about this and, instead, claimed the patient was his brother by “bond of humanity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Privatisation spree will increase inequality: Prabhat Patnaik||It’s time the NDA government’s privatisation spree — with even public-sector banks and the trustworthy and profitable Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) being put up for partial sale — is halted, argues Prabhat Patnaik, economist and professor emeritus at JNU. He tells the author, a professor of human science, that the LIC is not only profitable but serves the crucial interest of the common people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s critics have accused his government of selling public corporations and institutions at will. They say the Modi government will soon put the entire country up for sale. Do you agree? Patnaik: The argument advanced for the sale of public-sector enterprises, namely that it is a way of mobilising resources for government spending, is fundamentally wrong. Selling public enterprises is no different from a fiscal deficit in its macroeconomic impact: in one case the government spends money and recovers that money by selling bonds to the public; in the other case the government spends money and recovers it by selling equity to the public. There is really little difference between the two cases. The real criticism of fiscal-deficit-financed government expenditure in a demand-constrained economy like ours is that it exacerbates wealth inequality; this holds also for public-assets-sale-financed government expenditure. And gratuitously exacerbating wealth inequality in India is inexcusable; resources have to be raised instead through wealth taxation. But using this false theory, endorsed by the IMF and finance capital generally for ideological reasons (since they want the public sector dismantled), the Modi government is starting a privatisation spree. The public sector does not just represent government ownership; it represents social ownership. It is subject to parliamentary scrutiny, which should be made stricter. In fact, governments should not be allowed to sell off public assets at their whim. Each such sale should be subject to parliamentary discussions and approval and should be on grounds other than the spurious one of raising resources. Otherwise, there is indeed nothing to prevent the sale of the country. There could be a case for the privatisation of Air India or BSNL (Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited),which are running at severe losses. But why are profitable institutions like public-sector banks being targeted? Patnaik: I don’t agree that there is a case for privatising Air India or BSNL. My reasons are two: first, their loss-making is itself engineered by the government to prepare the case for privatising them. There was, for instance, massive and sudden retrenchment from BSNL which led to a disastrous drop in the quality of its service and to inconvenience for its customers. Likewise, the drop in Air India’s service quality that has — besides palpably unwise past investment decisions — contributed towards its losses has occurred before our eyes. Second, judging a public-sector unit by its profitability is fundamentally wrong. The public sector, representing social ownership, is meant to serve society in diverse ways, not just by making profits. The reason for keeping public-sector banks public (and this was the argument behind bank nationalisation) is not that they make profits but that they give institutional credit to sections of the population that would otherwise never get it. This wide disbursal of credit is what made possible the Green Revolution and the achievement of such food self-sufficiency as we have. The whole discourse around the public sector is, therefore, wrong and motivated. The two-day strike launched by the bank unions was a shining success. Does this imply the common man is gradually turning against the government’s “sell off” policy? Not only that, they have now decided to launch a spirited battle against the overall economic policy of the Modi dispensation. Patnaik: The Modi government’s economic policy is what I would call “ruthless neo-liberalism”. A crucial component of it is opening up the petty production sector, including peasant agriculture, for encroachment by big capital. The three farm laws are indicative of this. This sector, employing 85 per cent of the country’s working population, takes time to awaken but when it does it resists quite single-mindedly. This sector has now started resisting. Privatisation affects it deeply, since public ownership — say, of financial institutions — is of direct help to it. The trade unions have always been opposed to privatisation. The coming together of workers, white-collar workers and peasants is of momentous significance for the country. The government’s economic policy never had many takers among them; the government pushed it while diverting people’s attention through a communal polarisation. I think such subterfuges are not going to work henceforth, which would make the government more repressive and its pro-corporate partisanship more open and odious. Is there a personal axe to grind? The commanding heights of the Indian economy nurtured and nourished by Jawaharlal Nehru are being listed for sale one by one. Nehru, as we know, is the bête-noire of the BJP and the RSS. Patnaik: There is no doubt an element of truth in what you say. But I would say that Modi and his circle have little understanding of economics. They have imbibed certain simple-minded neo-liberal ideas from the ideologues of finance capital that are in conformity with what their crony capitalists tell them. They stick to these ideas with their characteristic ruthlessness. Trying to offload the shares of a profitable organisation like BPCL (Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited), and particularly the LIC, is surprising. Why is Modi acting like this — to satisfy his crony capitalists or use the resources gathered for national reconstruction? Patnaik: It’s not just that he listens to his crony capitalists but his crony capitalists themselves lack any breadth of vision. In the US, when Elizabeth Warren proposed a 2 per cent wealth tax on the very rich during her campaign for presidency, 18 billionaires endorsed her proposal. Would the corporate-financial oligarchy in India support a wealth tax? On the contrary, the entire argument supporting privatisation for raising resources is meant to increase wealth inequality and thereby undermine democracy. Experts, highly critical of Modi, have said that the privatisation policy and its implementation is but one important aspect of the entire economic rationale and agenda of the government. From the demonetisation and the goods and services tax (GST) to the petrol and diesel price hikes, every far-reaching step is meant to oppress the poor and the middle class. He is a thorough neo-liberal and his advisers are blind followers of Milton Friedman and Jagdish Bhagwati. Patnaik: The demonetisation was a huge blow to the petty production sector and the millions of unorganised workers employed therein. It pushed that sector into greater debt, which hangs like a millstone round its neck. The rise in petro-product prices raises the input costs for the peasantry which, in the absence of a corresponding increase in the guaranteed minimum support price, pushes it further towards destitution. The GST effectively redistributes the tax burden from the large-scale sector to the petty producers. Every one of these measures is in conformity with neo-liberalism and is a blow against the peasants, agricultural workers and unorganised workers in general, and even organised workers who suffer as consumers. Common people, the struggling middle class in particular, are having sleepless nights, now that they have heard that public-sector banks and, above all, the LIC will be put up for sale. What can we do to assuage them? Patnaik: What we are seeing is a shift of concern away from the workers, peasants and lower middle class towards the rich, which is immanent to neo-liberalism but is now accelerated. Consider the LIC. Private insurance companies all over the world employ huge armies of lawyers to fight against insurance claims which no lower-middle-class client can match. In India, however, such a person could put his money into the LIC, assured of getting a fair treatment; and the LIC has a settlement-to-claims ratio (almost 98 per cent historically) that is higher than anywhere else in the world. This assurance will now go. What is needed now is a mass movement against this animosity towards the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-202
19-04-2021||India||Bihar imposes night curfew till May 15 ||The Bihar government on Sunday opted for an eight-hour night curfew daily till May 15 and increased restrictions on normal life to tackle the coronavirus pandemic rampage. It also appealed to all the people, who want to return to the state, to do so as soon as possible. “Night curfew from 9pm to 5am will be implemented in entire Bihar till May 15. There will be no curbs on travel, essential services, marriage ceremonies,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said. Nitish’s announcement came after a marathon meeting with all district magistrates, followed by the crisis management group created by the state government. The night curfew has attracted much criticism across the country by experts who have pointed out that the coronavirus does not differentiate between day and night. Besides, few people venture out at night. In any case, Bihar has no worthwhile nightlife and lack of industries has ensured that there are almost no industrial institutions in the state that function during the late hours. However, Nitish said the Covid-19 situation in the state would be continuously monitored and further decisions would be taken as required. The state witnessed 8,690 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases beyond 48,000. Bihar has so far seen 3.24 lakh cases. All public and private educational institutions will now remain closed till May 15 and there will be no examinations during this period, though job-related exams will be held according to their schedule. The chief minister also said that all parks, gyms, cinema halls and clubs across the state would be closed till May 15. Restaurants, eateries and dhabas would not be able to serve food to customers during this period, but could provide takeaways. He announced a month’s extra pay for doctors. With migrant workers returning to Bihar from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and other states in large numbers, Nitish appealed to them to return quickly. “We appeal to our people who want to come back, to do so as soon as possible. Right now their number is less, but it is going to increase in the coming days. We want them to return quickly. We will assist them in employment,” Nitish said. The migrant workers had returned to Bihar during the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year in an exodus-like situation never seen since the partition in 1947. Officially their numbers stood around 30 lakh, but various estimates suggested that around 50 to 60 lakh workers and labourers returned from more developed states owing to lockdown related loss of employment and residential facilities. The closure of all religious institutions has been extended from April 30 to May 15. Shops and business establishments will have to close by 6pm, but there will be no curbs on industrial units. Government and public offices, already functioning with one-third staff on a rotation basis, will now close at 5pm instead of 6pm earlier. The district magistrates will have the option to shift markets to reduce the density of gatherings, and could also impose Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent the assembly of people. Nitish said that containment zones would be established wherever infected people are found. Similarly, quarantine centres would be made operational at the sub-divisional level. Public awareness campaigns about the need to wear masks, wash hands and maintain social distancing would be run across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
19-04-2021||India||Nabard gives Rs 22,709 crore to Odisha||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development’s financial support to Odisha has touched Rs 22,709 crore during the financial year 2020-21. The money has been given to the state government, banks and corporations. On Nabard’s support, the drinking water projects are expected to provide clean and safe drinking water to 25.46 lakh rural population across 3.50 lakh household in 1,335 villages of the state. “Nabard, Odisha has disbursed Rs 1,700 crore under Special Liquidity Facility (SLF) to Cooperative Banks and Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) during covid-pandemic,” said a press release issued by Nabard. It further said to promote capital formation in agriculture and allied sectors, Nabard disbursed long term refinance of Rs 1,551.85 crore to commercial banks, Odisha State Cooperative Bank and MFI during the year. “During the finance year 2020-21, refinance for short term crop loans to the tune of Rs 12,193 crore was disbursed to Cooperative Banks and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs),” the release said. Nabard has sanctioned Rs 3234.25 crore to Odisha under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) tranche on building agricultural and rural infrastructure. “This sanction includes 2,510 Community Based Lift irrigation Projects under Bharatiya Kaushal Vikash Yojana (BKVY) scheme, 11 Megalift schemes, 74 rural bridge projects, seven mega piped water supply projects, eight Flood Protection and one System Improvement Project. These irrigation projects are envisaged to create/stabilise/develop an irrigation potential of 97256 ha in the state of Odisha apart from bridge projects to provide the necessary rural connectivity,” said the press release||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
19-04-2021||India||Covid: Odisha to buy more oxygen cylinders ||The Odisha government has decided to procure more than 18,000 oxygen cylinders because of increasing demand for oxygen from the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. It has also decided to increase the number of beds in hospitals by five times. Secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra, who is also the additional chief secretary of the state, told The Telegraph, “Compared to the last year, the demand for oxygen has gone up. The requirement of oxygen cylinders will be 10 times more than what it was during the peak time last year. Considering this we have decided to procure more oxygen cylinders.” On being asked about patients who died because of alleged shortage of oxygen cylinders, Mohapatra said, “Such a situation has not risen in the state in the state so far. We don’t have a shortage of oxygen. Our steel plants are producing oxygen. They have been asked to supply more oxygen cylinders. They have assured to do so.” At present, the state produces 129.68 metric tonnes of oxygen cylinders and production of liquid medical oxygen is to the tune of 375 metric tonnes. On the issue of increasing the number of beds, Mohapatra said, “Keeping in mind the rising graph of corona cases we are preparing ourselves to provide medical treatment to each person infected with the virus.” The state government has asked all the district administrations to take necessary steps to ensure more beds in Covid hospitals. “Collectors have been directed to enhance the number of beds in four categories- general beds, beds with oxygen support, ICU beds and ICU beds with oxygen support and other required infrastructure. The number of ICU and High Dependency Unit beds will be enhanced as per the requirement,” said director of public health, Dr Niranjan Mishra. According to rules, six per cent of beds in a hospital are to be treated as ICU beds. However, the rules have been modified keeping in view of the caseloads. “Patients are now provided with 25 per cent general beds and 60 percent of ICU beds,” officials maintained. With report of 3,664 new cases, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has gone up to 3,68,258. Besides, the death toll has reached 1,944. On the other hand, the night curfew is being enforced strictly in urban areas across the state to ensure that the chain of infection breaks. Amid the demands for more vaccine doses, the state received another batch of 2 lakh vaccines from Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-203
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata again urges EC to to curtail poll schedule amid Covid surge||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged the Election Commission to re-consider its decision to stick to the original poll schedule, as she stressed that wrapping up the last three phases of polls on a single day or at least in two days would check the spread of COVID-19 to a certain extent. Indicating that the EC may have decided against clubbing the remaining phases at the behest of the BJP, Banerjee, while addressing her rally here in Uttar Dinajpur, requested the poll panel to prioritise public health. "With folded hands, I request the EC to hold the next three phases on a single day. If not one day, conduct it in two days and save one day. "Please don't take your decision based on what the BJP says... Please ensure that you protect public health by curtailing the poll schedule, even if it is by one day," the TMC supremo said. The CM further said that she and other leaders of her party would not hold any rally in congested areas. Banerjee lambasted the Narendra Modi government for "not taking adequate measures in the past six months to avert vaccine crisis". Calling the BJP a party of "rioters and war mongers", she told people gathered at the rally, "Don't allow them (saffron party leaders) to turn Bengal into Gujarat."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Summer vacation in Bengal schools to start from April 20 ||The Bengal government on Monday said summer vacation in schools will begin from as early as Tuesday in view of rising COVID-19 cases in the state. The summer break usually starts from the first week of May. "Classes for 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th standard had resumed from mid-February (in state-aided and state-run schools). But, due to the present COVID-19 situation, we are forced to prepone the summer vacation. The education department will issue necessary notifications today," Partha Chatterjee said. Chatterjee said he would also urge private schools to follow suit. The decision comes amid reports of many teachers in schools testing positive in the past two months. The headmaster of a state-run school in Jadavpur, however, told PTI that online classes will continue for students of Class 10 and 12 during the vacation "or the early phase of the vacation." The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday issued a fresh advisory to rein in the spread of Covid-19 in the state after daily positive cases crossed 8,000 mark — twice of what Bengal had recorded in the peak of the first wave of pandemic last October. The advisory, in place till April 30, put stress on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and adhering to other Covid-19 protocols in public places and public transport. The advisory asked all government offices to run with 50 per cent employees. It advised private establishments to re-introduce work from home or on rotation/shifts to ensure fewer employees are present. The advisory also suggested complete sanitisation of workplaces at least once a week at all public and private offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata reaches out to Modi for additional vaccines, medicines||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she has sought help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for additional vaccines and medicines in the wake of spiraling COVID-19 cases in the state. She also said the state government will spell out measures to deal with the second wave of the pandemic later in the day. "With the massive surge in #COVID19 cases across India, GoWB is taking all necessary steps to protect its people. I've reached out (to) the PM to help us with additional medicines and vaccines required," Banerjee tweeted. "I have also directed all the top officials to make elaborate arrangements & step up their efforts at every level to deal with #COVID19 situation in WB," she added. Banerjee had on Sunday said TMC would organise small meetings in Kolkata and she would give short speeches in rallies in districts where polling would be held in the remaining three phases, keeping in mind the coronavirus situation. Trinamool Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Mamata Banerjee will NOT campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one 'symbolic' meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26. Slashes time for all her election rallies in all districts. Restricted to just 30 minutes." West Bengal on Sunday registered its highest single day spike of 8,419 fresh cases and at least 28 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||‘Industry will surely come from Gujarat, Maharashtra’||TTOnline: You once said that Didi was a successful mass leader, but a failed chief minister. Why do you see her as a failure? She has failed in all respects. Take law and order. The deterioration of law and order in Bengal during Mamataji’s time has probably not happened anywhere else. I can say this on record that at least during the communist era, thugs did not go so far. They did not sit on their heads, there was a control over them. Maybe they were under the cadre, but that was unconstitutional too. But they were there. Now, the thugs are sitting in the driver's seat. And she has failed to stop this intrusion. She has failed to provide drinking water in all homes. She has failed to provide security to women. Now, her government has even stopped sending Bengal statistics to the National Crime Records Bureau. Why? Because these figures are shameful. The education system has collapsed. A great tradition of Bengal was spiritual consciousness. No work has been done on that front. People of Bengal are no longer afraid of the police. They don’t hesitate to chase them away. People should not be afraid of the police. But this is what happens when police are under a political umbrella. If the police do their job independently, bad people will be scared of them while good people will enjoy their protection. But this is not the case in Bengal now. I want to say something which many Bengalis will not like to hear. But I think it is my responsibility as a leader of this country to say it. Infiltration is now a problem in North Bengal. And if it continues like this, infiltration will be a problem in Calcutta too after 10 years. Remember I said this. Can any country function like this? Livestock (cows) is being smuggled. What will the poor do? The economy has been ruined. The ecosystem has been ruined. How much more land has Mamatadidi managed to bring under irrigation? I have been touring Bengal by helicopter and I have noticed that barely 20 per cent of land is green. Gujarat is able to generate three crop cycles. And here (Bengal), there is no shortage of water. Yet, why is there no improvement? The Ganges, flowing from the Himalayas, is ensuring that the land here stays fertile. Bengal had such a flourishing jute industry. Why didn’t the communists and Mamata Banerjee revive the jute industry? Not a single jute mill has been modernised. The only thing they did was to issue circulars making buying jute compulsory. There should have been modernisation over time. New seeds of jute should have been tested in agricultural centres. But nothing happened. Mamatadidi met me in Odisha once, and I asked how many new varieties of rice had agriculture scientists discovered in the last 10 years? She had no answer. If that’s the case, what is the agricultural university doing? The government has a responsibility. New varieties of the top 10 crops of the state have to be found. Production must increase. This is why I say Mamatadidi is a failed administrator. But we have surplus electricity in Bengal. We sell electricity to other states! Demand is low. So, electricity is in surplus. Selling electricity outside isn’t the hallmark of a good state. On the contrary, high per capita demand for electricity is indicative of how good a state is. That is the measure of development all over the world. Per capita electricity demand, per capita income and per capita savings — these are the three criteria for development. Will industry come? Yes. From Gujarat? Definitely. Industry will come from Gujarat and Maharashtra. Those who want to send their products to eastern India will not do so from Gujarat because it won’t be profitable in terms of transportation. They have to build a factory here. That will pave the way for goods to reach the whole of north-east, Bihar, West Bengal and even countries of the East. Now nobody thinks of Gujarat-Bangla, Maharashtra-Bangla. Only Didi thinks like that. Dalmias and Birlas manufactured products here. But according to Didi, they are all outsiders! But they contributed to Bengal’s economy. When did you start paying attention to Bengal? You have been coming to Bengal since 2016. When did you think that nothing was happening in Bengal? There are two parts to this. First, I was my party’s president. As a result, it was my job to ensure my party’s presence in each and every booth in the country. As a result, I wanted my party to reach every corner of Bengal. But how to do so? By studying the state in great detail. That's what my team did. That's when these shortcomings came to light. Second, we made a list of priorities. In terms of security, which state would be good to have a government in? In terms of development? In terms of education? Where there are possibilities? Normal answer: West Bengal. And Calcutta? There cannot be change in Bengal unless there is change in Calcutta. A lot should have been done for the development of Calcutta. But nothing was done. We have, therefore, created a fund of Rs 22,000 crore. We will fix infrastructure, develop 10 multi-storied parking lots and file a petition with UNESCO to declare Calcutta a Heritage City. We will ensure the rejuvenation of Adi Ganga in Kalighat and thereby re-establish the sanctity of the Kali Mandir. Mamata Banerjee's government has dumped the 'Namami Ganga' project for Barahanagar, Bali and Howrah in the Ganges. We will rescue the project. We have also set up funds for flood control in Ghatal, Kandi and North Bengal. We have plans to set up a board for the development of Jangalmahal, Sundarbans and North Bengal. We will also revive various languages like Santali, Rajbangshi and Gorkhali. Such efforts will give an impetus to the preservation of Bengal’s cultural diversity. You haven’t invested the amount of time you have in Bengal anywhere else. See Abheekji, I have plenty of time on my hands. I am the most free person in this world (laughs). I am 56 now, still have plenty of time. You claim you will form a government with more than 200 seats in Bengal. But how will Amit Shah benefit? Can I ask a naughty question? Do it! Does a BJP win in Bengal mean Amit Shah will be closer towards prime ministership? I have no benefit in conquering Bengal. What’s beneficial for the country is beneficial for me. How can I distinguish myself from the country? And on the question of prime ministership, all I can say is that my party does not think that way. That is not the culture of my party. If we win in Bengal, it will be the victory of our national party president and Prime Minister. My role is that of a party worker.  When I was party president, others worked. I got the credit. Now we are all trying together. Credit will go to Modiji and Naddaji (laughs). There is no confusion about this. It's better to be clear (laughs again). Five years from now, where does Amit Shah see himself? I see myself in the BJP. You see, the party determines our role. Personally, I don’t think about it. If you win West Bengal, there’ll be no challenge left. What will be the next challenge of Amit Shah? No not at all, there are lots of challenges. Odisha is left. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala are left. There are many states left on the other side of the Vindhya mountains. There is a lot of work. I have taken up a lot of your time… Thank you. Thank you. Concluded||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM should help us heal, not reopen, wounds, says Imam||When rioters killed his teenaged son three years ago, Maulana Imdadullah Rasheedi had issued an appeal seeking harmony and forbidding revenge, earning deep appreciation and respect in Bengal. But a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi raked up the communal violence in an apparent attempt at polarisation ahead of the April 26 vote in Asansol, the 50-year-old imam felt obliged to voice a mild reproach. “He is the Prime Minister of our country and not of any one community. As a person vested with power, he should help us heal and not reopen wounds of the past for political gain,” Rasheedi, who has been imam of the Noorani Mosque in Asansol for more than three decades, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “I don’t want to recall such sad memories, and nor should anyone else. We have progressed from that unfortunate time, so why is the Prime Minister trying to sow unrest once again?” he asked, his gentle tone betraying perturbation rather than resentment. Modi had told an election rally at Nigha in Asansol on Saturday: “Do you remember the Ram Navami of three years ago? Who can forget the riots of Asansol-Raniganj? The life’s earnings of hundreds of people got burnt to ashes....” He had blamed the violence on “Didi”. The rioting that broke out during a Ram Navami procession in Asansol in 2018 claimed three lives, including that of 16-year-old Sibtullah, the younger of Rasheedi’s two sons who had just sat his Class X board exams. A day after he was picked up by a mob, the teen’s body was found with several injury marks that suggested he was beaten to death. Word quickly spread that the traumatised Rasheedi was reluctant to identify the perpetrators. Instead, he issued a remarkable appeal to people gathered at the Idgah Maidan, where his son was buried. “My son has died, but I don’t want anyone else to lose their children. If you strike back, I shall leave the mosque as well as this town,” he told the astonished crowd. Following Rasheedi’s gesture, politicians from several parties had visited him at his mosque to offer their respect and condolences. Rasheedi was in the middle of his Ramazan fast on Sunday and had just finished his afternoon prayers when this correspondent visited him at his home in the Railpar neighbourhood of Asansol. “Modiji came here to campaign for his party. What message has he given to us about development? How will his attempt to remind us of the sad and horrible past help towards the development of the Asansol region?” Rasheedi said. “I know some people will describe me as being against the BJP or Narendra Modi on principle, and may accuse me of being partisan on account of my faith. But no, I am only against provocations that can break the harmony and disturb peace here. I am not a politician.” He stressed that election campaigns should be built on records of performance and not sectarian appeals to emotions, and suggested the Prime Minister focus on controlling the spread of Covid-19. “He should take the initiative to reduce the number of poll phases to reduce mass gatherings,” Rasheedi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid mismanagement: Incapable and inefficient, PM must quit, says Chief Minister||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday demanded Narendra Modi’s resignation as Prime Minister, holding him responsible for the mismanagement of the effort against Covid-19. “He has to resign for the rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. He has to resign. He is the man who is responsible for it. He had no planning, no administrative steps and it was his complete inefficiency. He is an incapable person. If he had the minimum capability, he would have planned to control the pandemic for at least the next one year. But he had no planning,” Mamata told a rally at Khardah in North 24-Parganas. The chief minister was campaigning at Surya Sen Nagar for Trinamul’s Barrackpore candidate Raj Chakraborty and Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha. Mamata spent about a third of her address attacking Modi over his failure to curb the outbreak. The chief minister has been increasingly building her campaign around the pandemic. Her attack comes at a time the number Covid-19 cases in Bengal, as in many other states, has been increasing at an alarming rate. The chief minister announced she would write to the Prime Minister — which she did about two hours after the rally — alerting him to the situation in Bengal amid the second wave of the pandemic. “I shall write a stern letter to the Prime Minister. There is a lack of oxygen cylinders, there is no stock of remdesivir in the entire country. Maharashtra has already written a letter and we will write one today,” Mamata said. “Our own country has no medicine (for Covid patients) and he is donating medicines and vaccines to 80 countries. I have no objections to providing medicines to other countries but you have to give priority to our citizens first. Actually, he is providing medicines for self-glorification, nothing else,” she added. “At a time people in the country are dying in alarming numbers, he is happy securing thanks from other countries.” Mamata criticised the state governments run by the BJP. “See the situation in Uttar Pradesh, a state ruled by the BJP and Modi. The government is constructing a wall to guard its crematoriums so that people can’t see how many bodies are being simultaneously cremated. He provided vaccines and medicines to his own state Gujarat but the vaccines are being supplied there from the BJP party office,” Mamata said. She held Modi and the BJP accountable for the rise in Covid cases in Bengal, citing the extensive electioneering over eight phases involving tens of thousands of people, many of whom had entered the state unscreened for Covid-19. “Between November and March, we had it completely under control here, we had turned the tide…. But the number of Covid-19 cases started increasing after the BJP brought in outsiders to campaign,” she said. Mamata said her government was trying its best to combat the situation despite the alleged lack of help from the Centre. “We have directed officials to increase beds for Covid-19 patients at hospitals by 20 per cent so that people can get treatment at government hospitals. A team of 11 senior officials has been formed to get more private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The chief secretary is speaking to the private hospitals so that people can easily be admitted there,” Mamata said. “I always take updates of the Covid-19 situation in between my meetings and during my helicopter flights,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal government issues fresh safety advisory on masks, work from home||The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday issued a fresh advisory to rein in the spread of Covid-19 in the state after daily positive cases crossed 8,000 mark — twice of what Bengal had recorded in the peak of the first wave of pandemic last October. The advisory, in place till April 30, puts stress on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and adhering to other Covid-19 protocols in public places and public transport. The advisory asks all government offices to run with 50 per cent employees. It advised private establishments to re-introduce work from home or on rotation/shifts to ensure fewer employees are present. The advisory also suggests complete sanitisation of workplaces at least once a week at all public and private offices. Wearing of masks, sanitisation and maintaining physical distance in crowded places such as markets, as well as public and private transport should be maintained strictly. Shopping malls, multiplexes, theatres, restaurants, eateries must make provisions for thermal scanning, hand wash or sanitiser at all entry and exit points. The norms have to be followed at stadiums and swimming pools, the advisory reads. Health department sources said a lot depended on how well the advisory is implemented on the ground. “For example, it remains to be seen what the state government does to ensure physical distancing and wearing of masks in city markets. So far, no such step was initiated by the police to implement the advisory on the ground,” said a source. Some officials said it was tough for the state to implement the advisory by engaging the police who are busy in election duties, particularly in Calcutta where positive cases are rising but polls are yet to be held. The state government has engaged senior IAS officers, mostly in additional chief secretary rank, to oversee implementation of the advisory and Covid-19 protocols in districts. “But implementing all protocols is not easy till elections are over,” said a source. Public awareness programmes have been planned in the wake of the grim situation, said a source. “We have to make people aware that the Covid-19 situation is grim. For this, public awareness generating programmes have been planned in the next few days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Rahul Gandhi calls off rallies amid Covid-19 spike||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday suspended his election campaign in Bengal a few days after Congress president Sonia Gandhi wondered if political rallies should be cancelled in the wake of the menacing rise in Covid-19 infections. Late on Sunday night, the Trinamul Congress said chief minister Mamata Banerjee would restrict her campaign in Calcutta to one day on April 26. “Mamata Banerjee will not campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one ‘symbolic’ meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26. Slashes time for all her election rallies in all districts. Restricted to just 30 minutes,” Trinamul leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien tweeted on Sunday night. Mamata told a TV channel: “Yes, we (Trinamul) have decided to hold small meetings, street corner-type ones, in the city in the campaigning for next three phases. We will not hold any big gathering any more. Also, my speeches in the meetings addressed by me will be much shorter.” Earlier in the day, Rahul had tweeted: “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances.” Sources said the Congress was unlikely to campaign in the rest three poll phases. Asked to comment on Rahul’s decision, Bengal BJP general-secretary and spokesperson Sayantan Basu claimed the Congress leader was trying to make excuses to avoid rallies in Bengal because of low turnouts. “The Congress and CPM have been failing to bring in people to their meetings. For them, large crowds mean 50 people and small crowds five people. This was an excuse to save their faces,” said Basu. On Rahul’s advice to other leaders against large public rallies, Basu said: “Who is Rahul Gandhi to advise? The Election Commission of India is there. If they put up a guideline, all parties will abide by it.” The Congress has been extremely critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for extensive campaigns amid the second wave of Covid-19 acquiring massive proportions. While Shah has debunked any link between rising infections and electioneering, arguing that other states had shown much sharper rise than Bengal, Modi’s exaltation over a big crowd in his Asansol rally on Saturday — when Bengal for the first time reported 7,000-plus infections in a day — drew scorn on social media. Modi said he was seeing such a massive crowd for the first time — something he has said repeatedly this poll season — as he could see people and nothing else all around. Responding to his ecstatic claim, Rahul tweeted on Sunday: “Such a big crowd of sick people and the dead are also seen for the first time.” The Congress posted several videos on social media sites of people dying without treatment and pyres at crematoriums in various cities. Social media is flooded with horrific videos of the grim Covid-19 scenario in the country, which the Prime Minister has not referred to in his election rallies. The Congress on Sunday intensified its attack on the Centre, arguing that Modi had betrayed the nation in this hour of crisis. Senior leader P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “While ‘no vaccine’ boards hang on the door of most hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claims that ‘there is no shortage in the supply of vaccines’. Believe the minister, there is no shortage of vaccines, oxygen, Remdesivir, hospital beds, doctors and nurses. There is only a shortage of patients!” Chidambaram listed the states facing vaccine, bed or oxygen shortages and asked: “Dear Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, are all the above claims false and demands unjustified? How do you say that there are no shortages?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee swipes at BJP over Matua candidates||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday criticised the BJP for selecting members of a section of a particular family while nominating Matuas for the Assembly polls. The chief minister didn’t name the section of the Thakur family close to the saffron party while she was addressing an election meeting in Gaighata, a known Matua bastion. Mamata was campaigning in support of Trinamul’s Gaighata candidate Narottam Biswas, a Matua leader who is pitted against the BJP’s Subrata Thakur, the elder brother of party MP Subrata Thakur and grandson of community matriarch ‘Baro Maa’, Binapani Devi. Gaighata is also where Thakurnagar is located. “The BJP pretends to be very concerned about the welfare of the Matua community. They are making spurious offers of citizenship to them (Matuas). Their concern about the community suddenly comes up during the election, whereas throughout the year, they show little concern about how they (Matuas) are leading their lives,” said Mamata. Matuas, a lower caste (mostly Namasudra) migrant Hindu community, are decisive voters in at least 32 Assembly constituencies in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. The community has also strong influence in parts of East Burdwan, Birbhum and a few north Bengal districts. Accusing the BJP of preferring only members of Thakur family, she said: “To get votes, sometimes brothers get the nomination, sometimes the wife’s name is offered, but the BJP never bothers to issue a ticket (nomination) to a gosain or a dalapati and even never asked a Matua sympathiser to fight the poll.” Explaining the difference in concern for the Matua community between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress, Mamata claimed that her party had tried casting the kind of nomination she was describing. “I have nominated Matuas for community representation. I have nominated Aniruddha Biswas in Kalyani, who is the son of our former MLA Ramendra Biswas. In Gaighata, I have also nominated Narottam Biswas, who are known old faces of the Matua community. I had earlier nominated Mamatabala Thakur also,” Mamata said, advising the BJP to nominate people from the community who had been active in fighting for their representation. However, a few members of the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha close to Trinamul refused to support Mamata’s claim. SBMMS chief Mamatabala Thakur had openly expressed her anger for denial of nomination to a sufficient number of Matua members. “Mamatabala sacrificed her nomination and demanded that other members of the community be fielded in polls. But Trinamul practically nominated only Narottam as a Matua member. But he is not popular owing to several allegations of corruption and pending cases against him,” said an SBMMS leader on condition of anonymity. Significantly, Mamatabala also skipped Mamata’s meeting on Sunday. All India Matua Mahasangha leader and BJP’s Ranaghat Dakshin candidate Mukutmani Adhikari said: “Matuas know who are really concerned about them. The BJP has nominated at least eight candidates in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, whereas she (Banerjee) nominated only two. The difference in concern is clear enough.” Mamata, however, claimed: “It is the Trinamul Congress which is truly concerned for the welfare of the Matuas. We have constituted the Matua Bikash Parishad and have allocated a fund of Rs 10 crore for the Harichand-Guruchand University and other things. I will do the rest of the job by getting these people elected. But the BJP is only trying to mislead them with fake promises of citizenship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC bans BJP's Sayantan Basu and TMC's Sujata Mondal from campaigning for a day ||The Election Commission on Sunday banned BJP Bengal’s general secretary Sayantan Basu and Trinamul’s Arambagh candidate Sujata Mondal from campaigning for a day for their incendiary remarks. Both bans took effect from Sunday 7pm. Basu hinted that the killing of four persons by the CISF in Sitalkuchi was the result of another murder. The EC said he violated clauses (1) & (4) of Part 1 of the model code of conduct with “highly provocative remarks....” Dalit leader Mondal made a disparaging remark on the BJP’s SC supporters and was told she violated clause (1) of Part 1 of the code by her comment that “could cause tension between different castes....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate Gopal Chandra Saha attacked in Malda||Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of Malda Assembly seat, was attacked late on Sunday evening. While BJP workers claimed that Saha, in his late forties, was shot at by Trinamul-backed goons, Trinamul workers alleged that he was injured by a heavy stone that might have been pelted by dissident BJP workers. Saha, who sustained a serious neck injury, was admitted to the MMCH where doctors said it was too early to comment on the cause of the wound. The attack occurred around 8.45pm when Saha was on his way to a public meeting at Jhantu More. District BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal said: “It was a clear attempt to kill our candidate. We believe he was fired at by hooligans backed by Trinamul.” Trinamul district spokesperson Subhamay Bose claimed his party had no link with the incident. Police have started an investigation. Additional SP M.H. Rahman said the cause of injury and what exactly happened were being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Former governor requests Chief Election Commissioner to ban public rallies||Former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has appealed to the Chief Election Commissioner to consider banning all public rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the state in view of the Covid-19 second wave. “Please consider placing an immediate ban on all public rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the state till the last vote has been cast on April 29. And direct them to move to virtual campaigning,” Gandhi said in a letter to the CEC, Sushil Chandra, who took over last week. “The virus’s surge in West Bengal coinciding with the on-going elections in that state jeopardises the health of the electors, the election staff and security personnel on duty simultaneously and staggeringly. It places the election process in the state at dire risk, apart from endangering public health,” he said. “Social distancing… is out of the question in election rallies. But very few candidates and campaigners, if any, are to be seen wearing masks either. They are subjecting themselves and those they come in contact with, to great, in fact, potentially fatal, risk,” Gandhi added in the letter. “It should not be said that India’s electoral democracy and India’s public health are out of harmony.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata Banerjee requests Prime Minister to ensure steady vaccine supply in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to ensure that Bengal gets Covid-19 vaccines as required because erratic vial supply has affected the ongoing vaccination programme amid the alarming spurt in infections. For the first time in the pandemic, the state’s daily reported infections crossed 8,000 on Sunday. “Unfortunately for us, the supply of vaccines from the GOI side has been scarce and erratic, which has been negatively affecting our vaccination programmes... We request your urgent intervention to ensure that the state gets its requirement of vaccine doses fulfilled at the earliest,” the chief minister wrote. The chief minister wrote in her letter that the state needs to administer vaccines to 2.7 crore people, who are eligible for vaccination, and that’s why the state needs 5.4 crore doses of vaccines. Sources said that the state has already administered vaccines to nearly 90 lakh people, of which 20 lakh people have received both the doses. “But the figure could have been much more if the supply of vaccines was regular. We have set up an infrastructure where we can give vaccines to 5 lakh people daily. But we are being forced to administer 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh vaccines daily due to scarcity of vaccines,” said a source in the health department. The chief minister also wrote that the vaccination drive has to be carried out aggressively in the Calcutta Metropolitan area due to its demography and high population density. Sources said that keeping this in mind, the state government had decided to launch a vaccination drive in all 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation from April 16. “We have set a target of giving vaccines to 35,000 to 40,000 people every day in the CMC area during a period of 7-8 days. But to achieve the target, we need a steady supply of vaccines. Right now, we are getting 8-9 lakh doses every week, which needs to increase immediately," said another official. The chief minister said in her letter that Covid-19 cases in Bengal started to increase sharply as large numbers of outsiders have come here for election campaign and other purposes “at the behest of some political parties". She reminded in her letter that the state was not allowed to buy vaccines on its own to administer the doses to all eligible people in the state. "The chief minister knows no state was allowed to buy vaccines on its own... But she wrote this to make it clear that vaccine supply could have been managed more efficiently (had the state been allowed to buy vaccines),” said a source. The chief minister also wrote that the state was facing shortage in the supply of essential medicines to treat Covid-19 patients. “Second, the supply of essential medicines like Remedesivir and Tocilizumab (Actemra) is extremely scare and uncertain today, which has been a matter of grave concern for doctors here. We need around 6,000 vials of Remedesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab daily. However, at present only 1,000 vials of Remedesivir is available daily and no fresh supply of Tocilizumab is coming,” the chief minister wrote. “It may kindly be seen that the relevant authorities step up their efforts to ensure steady supply of these most essential medicines as soon as possible,” she wrote. The chief minister also pointed out that supply of oxygen, essential for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients, is steady so far, but that it has to be ensured that is maintained. Sources in the health department said the chief minister was worried about the situation as the daily positive cases in Bengal has crossed 8,000, much higher than what the state had recorded during the peak of the first wave last October. “Last October, we were getting 4,000-odd cases daily. This time, the daily figure has crossed 8,000. The chief minister has reasons to be worried as the situation is more critical this time,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP and Trinamul Congress trade assault charges||Violence erupted in pockets of Siliguri and Jalpaiguri towns after Saturday’s polls. In Siliguri, Trinamul supporters residing in Porajhar, a locality that comes under the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency represented by tourism minister Gautam Deb, alleged on Sunday that a group of BJP supporters ransacked a local party office and attacked some of their houses. Deb, who reached the spot and met his supporters, said they had information that the BJP candidate Sikha Chatterjee) was also present. Chatterjee, who also reached Porajhar, countered that Trinamul supporters had beaten up her party workers. As the news spread, police officers visited the spot and spoke to locals. Supporters of both parties have been asked to refrain from any activity that can breach law and order, a police officer said. “We are looking into the complaints. Patrolling will be intensified in the locality,” he added. On Saturday night, youth Trinamul workers of Jalpaiguri accused the administration and central forces of carrying BJP booth agents in a vehicle where the EVMs were loaded from a school building of the town. BJP leaders alleged their booth agents were assaulted by Trinamul supporters, and the police and central forces rescued them. Both filed police complaints. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, denied Trinamul’s charges. “No booth agent (of any party) was put in any official vehicle,” she said. “There was some commotion but the police controlled the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP worker Dilip Kirtaniya thrashed to death in Nadia district||A BJP worker was killed allegedly by those suspected to have links with the Trinamul Congress at Chakdah in Nadia district early on Sunday morning, less than 10 hours after polls had concluded in the area. Dilip Kirtaniya, 38, a booth-level BJP worker and a carpenter, was found dead in the courtyard of his home at Enayatpur in the town with severe injuries to his abdominal region. Police sources said preliminary investigation indicated that assailants had thrashed Kirtaniya when he had gone out early morning to attend to nature’s call. His mother reportedly spotted him lying dead on the courtyard when she opened the door around 5am. Kirtaniya was rushed to Chakdah state general hospital, barely 2 km away, where he was declared brought-dead. A doctor at the hospital said: “The victim’s testicles were thrashed by the assailants and were bleeding profusely.” The police later sent the body to JNM Hospital in Kalayni for the autopsy. Kirtaniya was a popular Matua leader at the locality. The victim’s elder brother, Biplab Kirtania, said: “He was murdered by miscreants of Trinamul. They had threatened my brother a number of times during the voting on Saturday. He had earned their wrath for escorting voters to the polling station, since many of them, who are BJP supporters, were afraid to go to the booth in the face of threats from Trinamul miscreants.” “Last night, they called out my brother late at night. But he did not go. However, it appears they were waiting outside and attacked him when he went out to attend nature’s call a few hours later,” Biplab added. Family sources claimed that miscreants had threatened Dilip on many times in the past one week asking him to leave the BJP. On the day of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, miscreants with Trinamul links had beaten up him for daring to cast his vote in spite of their threats. In his police complaint, Biplab has named nine Trinamul workers. Angry BJP supporters ransacked the home of one of the suspects. Later, led by BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar and Chakdah candidate Bankim Ghosh, party workers besieged the Chakdah police station for about three hours. They also blocked NH12 for four hours and tracks at the Palpara railway station for an hour. Trinamul’s Chakdah candidate Subhankar Singh, however, denied the allegations. “The deceased was not a very influential person. I have requested police to find out the cause behind the murder”. BJP’s Chakdah candidate Bankim Ghosh said: “Dilip was a very enthusiastic party worker. I talked to him yesterday when he assured me of ensuring a comfortable lead for me in his area. It is quite unimaginable that Trinamul could kill him in such a way.” A senior police officer at Chakdah said: “All possible aspects behind the murder are being examined, including the activities of the accused persons. We are hopeful of nabbing the culprits soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah claims 122 wins in 180 seats for BJP, Mamata Banerjee scoffs||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday again made a prediction for the Bengal poll results, claiming at least 122 victories for the BJP in the 180 seats that have gone to polls over the five phases, making his party just about 26 short of majority in the 294-seat Assembly. Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee dismissed the lofty claims and asserted that the saffron camp would never be able to invade Bengal. At a rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali North, Shah said: “Didi (Mamata) got very demoralised after the fifth phase of polls.” “What is the reason? After the five phases it has become definite that BJP is much ahead of Didi with more than 122 seats,” he added. Shah has been making such claims after every phase of polling in Bengal in a bid to contribute to the saffron ecosystem’s narrative that the battle for Bengal is already decisively over in the BJP’s favour. Paying no heed to Shah’s claims, Mamata in a poll rally in North 24-Parganas’s Khardah, said: “The BJP can never win in Bengal. They will not win.” “What can I say to them? They will get nothing,” she said. “Some leader says they have completed a century, some say they have completed a double century (in winning seats). Some say they have created a double engine. You know what I think I should tell them? Nothing at all, because they are lying…. Liars.” It is equally important for Mamata to keep fighting the perception battle to ensure predictions by Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi don’t damage her party’s chances in the crucial remaining three phases, said an observer. “There are three vital phases, with 114 crucial seats – most of which we are likely to win,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Even by conservative estimates, we are winning at least 110 seats (out of 180) in the first five phases and 80-plus in the rest three. Modi and Shah know we have a clear path to victory. They are playing these games to try and unsettle the minds of floating voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Sengupta and Yasmeen Sengupta talk about the inclusive Bengal where they lived and loved||Gautam Sengupta is 69. Yasmeen Sengupta is 65. He is a Hindu. She is a Muslim. Married for 46 years, the two have lived through many ups and downs. Their families have always stood by them. Till their health permitted, Yasmeen used to paint alpona during Saraswati Puja at her in-laws’ ancestral home in Park Circus every year and Sengupta broke bread with her during Ramazan. There are many like the Senguptas of Park Circus around Bengal. But such stories demand a telling because of the politics of polarisation that threatens to tear apart the inclusive social fabric of Bengal. Yasmeen’s family shifted from Ballygunge Place to Circus Row when she was nine years old. Sengupta’s family home stood a stone’s throw from the Park Circus Seven-Point intersection. The two got introduced through a set of common friends and got married in 1975. Sengupta, who did his school and college from St. Xavier’s, holds Jesuit principles close to his heart till this day. Yasmeen did her school from South Point and graduated from Loreto College. Yasmeen’s grandfather, Rafiuddin Ahmed, is the founder of the R. Ahmed Dental College, the oldest such institute in Southeast Asia. But her inspiration is her grandmother Ayesha Ahmed, an alumnus of Brahmo Balika Shikshalaya. Later, Ayesha was part of a group of women who started a school for girls from marginalised families in Beleghata, which is now called the A.I.W.C Buniadi Bidyapith Girls School. She made Rabindranath Tagore a part of the lives of the Ahmed family. Yasmeen and Sengupta got married in Brahmo tradition. “There was hardly any ritual. I remember my friends singing Tagore songs,” said Yasmeen. “When we were growing up, inclusiveness was not just a textbook word. It was a part of our everyday lives. Every home had pictures of Tagore, Gandhi, Vivekananda and Netaji,” she said. Sengupta remembered growing up in a neighbourhood where the president of the local Durga Puja committee was a Muslim and the treasurer a Christian. Sengupta, who runs a manpower consultancy firm, has turned a part of his ancestral home into a guesthouse. The couple also own a flat in the Hastings area and keep shuffling between Hastings and Park Circus. One of Sengupta’s grand-uncles (father’s uncle), a doctor, was killed during the 1947 riots. “A man disguised as a woman in a burqa entered his chamber as a patient and shot him point blank,” said Sengupta. But the past never came in the way of the Sengupta family embracing their daughter-in-law. “My family members always considered the incident an act of terror, an aberration in a moment of madness,” he told this newspaper. “Their acceptance of me has been absolutely heroic. We (her parents and in-laws) speak the same language, eat similar food. It is not like I was wedded into an alien culture. But the way they rose above petty human instincts was heroic,” said Yasmeen. The couple have a daughter and a son. Their daughter, Rohini, is married to a Muslim man. The two are settled in Sydney. The bride and the groom’s family had known each other for three generations and the couple knew each other from childhood. “The marriage happened in 2001. It was such a happy occasion,” Sengupta said. His no-fuss demeanour drove a point home. That some of the stereotypes associated with interfaith marriages are based more on myths than reality. That an interfaith marriage can still be a normal and spontaneous affair. Yasmeen, a social worker, keeps reading newspaper reports and seeing television programmes around “love jihad” — a Right-wing narrative of Muslim men marrying Hindu girls with the alleged intention of converting and radicalising them. At least two BJP-ruled states have introduced legislation criminalising interfaith marriages if conducted for the ostensible purpose of religious conversion. “Where is the individual freedom, guaranteed by the Constitution? This is a blatant violation of constitutional values. Not only is this bad in principle, it is also bad in law,” said Yasmeen. “I am terrified of the future,” Yasmeen told this reporter bluntly. She is worried because she has heard plenty of stories of Partition from her elders and she dreads a rerun. “Politics now thrives on polarisation, more so in the run-up to the elections. Bengal and Punjab are two states scarred by Partition. Both places have seen how polarisation brings out the basest instincts in people. I have grown up around people who saw best friends baying for each other’s blood during Partition,” she said. Sengupta has spotted a change in the social fabric of Bengal. “A section of people now asserts their religious identity more strongly than before. Wearing your religion on your sleeve is the norm,” he said. The next second, he gave a caveat. “I have never been too religious. Perhaps that’s why I notice these things more than others.” Sengupta remembers some “flare-ups” in his neighbourhood in the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 and surrounding author Taslima Nasreen, who was eventually “expelled” from Bengal in 2007. Sengupta stood up to a mob with sticks and flaming torches intent on setting a series of taxis on fire. “I managed to prevail on them. They were fuming but went back. Most of them were local boys,” he recounted. Both the husband and wife said the ongoing polls are more than a battle for political power. “We don’t know if it is possible to get back the Bengal where we got married. But we still have a place where all kinds of people live together. We must try to preserve what we have,” Sengupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||North East||Covid: School curbs in Assam ||The Assam government has decided to close down all lower primary schools up to Class V till May 8 in districts having more than 100 active Covid cases. A notification issued by the secondary education department on Sunday entrusted the deputy commissioners of the districts to take a call on the closure of LP schools and also review the situation from time to time. However, LP schools in districts with less than 100 cases will function normally. The government decision comes in wake of rising cases since April 13 with 876 fresh cases and two deaths recorded on Saturday alone, the highest single day rise during the second wave, most of them with travel history. Kamrup metro, Kamrup, Nagaon, Jorhat,  Dibrugarh, Sonitpur, Cachar, Tinsukia are the eight districts with over 100 cases till Saturday. The first case in Assam was detected on March 31, 2020 and till Saturday 2,23,816 people have tested positive while 1129 have died. At present, there are 4,794 active cases. Given the surge in positive cases post-elections, the government is set to come up with an updated and stringent SOP by Monday-Tuesday, which will tighten the screws on violators of safety measures like mandatory wearing of masks in public. Defaulters will be fined Rs 1,000. The three-phase Assembly polls in Assam ended on April 6. “Moreover, we are requesting Bihu organisers to stick to the SOP and cut down on the celebrations due to the surge, which, if not contained, could became a major problem. District administrations have already got in touch with Bihu organisers,” an official said. Though Bihu festivities go on for a week, Bihu functions continue till June drawing huge crowd, a huge risk during the pandemic. The government has also decided to scale up vaccination drive for those above 45 years of age by holding camps in schools, colleges and business establishments having more than 100 employees. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who reviewed the Covid situation in Tinsukia on Sunday, stressed on the need to create mass awareness about maintaining Covid-19 protocols, engaging panchayat members, BDOs, village heads and NGOs in making the people at the grassroots aware about the rising cases and to circulate the health department protocols through public announcements. He also emphasised on the importance of carrying out Covid-19 tests on truckers while creating awareness drives in market areas. Sonowal will on Monday hold a state-level review of the Covid situation. In Arunachal Pradesh, governor Brig. (Dr) B.D. Mishra (Retd.) has urged all MLAs, urban bodies and panchayati raj institutions to “proactively participate” in creating awareness on the pandemic, Covid appropriate behaviour (properly wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and frequent washing of hands). During an virtual interaction with elected representatives on Saturday, Mishra said: “Our leaders must motivate our people to take vaccination and maintain the Covid SOPs.… ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
19-04-2021||Opinion||Just the law: Gauhati HC sets aside tribunal decision||The power to impose a law does not mean a free-for-all. The Gauhati High Court put aside a foreigners tribunal’s decision for the first time; earlier decisions had been referred back to the FT. The Barpeta FT had declared Haider Ali a foreigner for failing to establish links with ‘all’ his relatives on the voters’ list. The high court reportedly declared that he was an Indian citizen since he was able to establish his relationship with his grandfather and father whose names were on voters’ lists preceding March 1971, the cut-off date for the National Register of Citizens. The high court’s remarks pointed to arbitrariness and opacity in the FTs’ dealings. One, the fact that Mr Ali did not establish his relationship with other relatives on the voters’ list did not subtract from the credibility or substance of the documents he produced to show his connection with his father and grandfather. Two, no explanation is given to persons who are declared non-citizens and no examination made of the investigation against them. Presumably, they cannot defend their citizenship without knowing why they lost it. Three, as the people have to prove they are citizens, they must be given every opportunity for proof, even if additional documents are produced after the written statement. This judgment is expected to provide great support to those trying to prove their citizenship before the tribunals. The Gauhati High Court addressed another form of arbitrariness when upholding the bail order of Akhil Gogoi, an activist arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019. The National Investigation Agency special court, not finding convincing reasons in the NIA’s chargesheet to detain Mr Gogoi, had given him bail. The UAPA is a law against terror, but its ambiguous wording allows the administration to use it for other reasons, most often against dissent. The high court reportedly pronounced that civil disturbances do not come under the UAPA’s purview, even when there is arson or violence, as long as there is no intention to disturb the country’s unity, integrity, security and sovereignty. Detention becomes the punishment, since the UAPA makes bail difficult. The high court’s decision resonates far beyond Mr Gogoi’s case at a time when the reigning dispensation is being accused of repeatedly misusing the UAPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Burning country: forest fires and more||India is burning in more ways than one. The singeing death toll from a pandemic that refuses to abate, the subterranean fire of polarization — these are perhaps some of the metaphorical flames. But some other fires are real and as devastating. Several major forest fires have broken out in India since the beginning of this year, including in Madhya Pradesh, Odisha — home to Asia’s second-largest biosphere reserve — and Telangana. The latter has already recorded over 15,000 forest fires since the start of summer this year, a sharp increase over last summer’s count. The Uttarakhand wildfires that began over six months ago are still destroying large tracts of forests and have taken eight lives. Wildfires are not uncommon. In fact, they are an important part of maintaining the ecological balance in certain forested habitats. However, this naturally-occurring event has reached alarming proportions on account of catalysts. One of these is climate change, which is responsible for the scarce rainfall and prolonged dry spells in the Himalayan region, rendering the forest floor tinder-dry. Human interference and encroachment — agricultural practices such as stubble burning, the deliberate lighting of fires to drive animals away or clear land — play a significant role as well. These practices do not just endanger biodiversity; they also contribute to forest fires not being recognized as natural hazards by the National Disaster Management Authority. The trust deficit between local communities and state forest administrations leads to the refusal to enlist the help of the former in dousing forest flames. Unfortunately, India does not seem to have learnt a lesson from international precedents. The lack of modern fire-fighting equipment, manpower and other resources have weakened rapid response mechanisms. Meanwhile, the State continues to pursue ecologically damaging policy: Uttarakhand has approved the contentious Laldhang-Chillarkhal road that will run through the only wildlife corridor in the state. Environmental protection is not a priority for either the Centre or the states. Matters are unlikely to improve unless public opinion is mobilized to demand political accountability for the negligence of the environment and its worrying implications — forest fires being one — on future generations. Children need to be drafted into this engagement: they can make a difference against the prevalent apathy as green ambassadors. Preserving forests is equivalent to protecting national wealth. The indifference of nationalist governments towards such plunder is shocking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||An election like no other||Five of Bengal’s eight-phase polling for its 294-member assembly are over. For the first time in decades, I watched the run-up to these polarized elections from the confines of our home. When it was my turn to vote (in the fourth phase), I hadn’t heard a single campaign speech and no candidate had come calling. In the past, we used to receive voter slips from all political parties; this year, only one arrived. On April 10, armed with the poll slip and voter card, we reached the new clubhouse of a stadium that was our election centre. The arrangements were impeccable and every Covid-protocol was followed. Circles for social distancing, hand sanitizer, temperature check, gloves for the hand that would touch the EVM. And, most importantly, large dispensers for the gloves to be shed while leaving. It took me all of two minutes to cast my vote. The rooms had been allocated according to voter slip numbers, so there was no crowding and no queue either. Everyone, from security personnel to polling officials, was wearing a face mask. Some party agents in the little booths did have theirs under the chin, but they were socially distanced in more ways than one. The only non-sanitized spot was the part of the table where the finger was inked. Our delight over such a smooth electoral process came on a day replete with reports of violence, firing, long queues and flouting of Covid norms elsewhere. Thank god for small mercies. In another first, I also witnessed polling in our home when two octogenarian members were allowed to cast their votes. A group of seven, comprising a presiding officer, two polling officials, two gun-toting security men in fatigues and two party agents, arrived. The more menacing-looking of the two armed men entered the room along with the presiding officer and polling officials. The party agents remained outside and the other guard manned the gate. Any passerby would have imagined that Operation Poll Star was under way. A cardboard screen was set up on the dining table to ensure secrecy of the “postal ballot” once the presiding officer had checked the voter slip and EPIC of the electorate duo. The voters (in turn) placed their ballot paper behind the cardboard partition, ticked against the candidate of their choice and folded it into four. One polling official recorded the procedure on his mobile phone. The ballot was then ceremoniously inserted into an envelope and sealed with red wax. This was put into another envelope and the same sealing wax applied. Secrecy ensured, it went into the presiding officer’s sling bag. The only regret the veteran voters voiced was that their fingers had not been inked. We consoled them with Covid wisdom. Nonagenarian R.C. Ganguly, a retired IAS officer, however, like many others aged over 80, opted to go to the booth and vote on April 17. “A poll panel personnel came to ask if I would like to vote at home. I declined the offer,” he said. And he is firm about signing. “The only time I put my fingerprint was when I drew my first salary,” he added. Sage advice for those who unquestioningly put their fingerprints on polling day although they can reap the fruits of literacy. With three election phases still pending, we have grown accustomed to the whirring of helicopters overhead. Nearly a dozen of them, the smart grey air force ones included, dot the airport tarmac. They ferry the powers that be at a time the country is reeling under a resurgent pandemic. If only the Election Commission, so prompt to ‘ground’ some leaders, had banned all rallies for flouting Covid norms, instead of issuing futile warnings just a few days ago, we would have been a less threatened species today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Bold move||Sir — It takes courage to suspend rallies in a poll-bound state that is the focus of all political attention at present. Rahul Gandhi must be lauded for doing the right thing. He is the only politician who has put the health of the people above personal political gains. The massive political rallies across West Bengal are spreading the virus like wildfire, but this does not seem to bother those out to grab power. Abhik Chaki, North 24 Parganas Sir — With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the country, board exams are either being postponed or cancelled. This is taking a huge toll on the minds of students, who are worried about their future. We lost our zeal to study right from March 2020 and have not got it back yet. The way we had to comprehend our lessons through the irksome online classes with lots of technical glitches and distractions, it became doubly hard to prepare for our board exams. To make matters worse, the boards are being cancelled time and again. This is making students even more anxious and leaving them unable to focus on their studies. Without board exams it will not be possible to judge students properly. Moreover, how will those passing Class XII be chosen by the right colleges? How will competitive examinations like JEE, NEET — these have been cancelled or postponed — and so on be conducted unless the pandemic can be controlled? It has to be admitted that offline exams will be risky too. Any decision has to be taken with utmost care, toeing a fine line between safety precautions and students’ future. We have to get through this; the sooner concrete plans are put in place, the better. Shreyasee Dutta,Howrah Sir — The education system should be recalibrated keeping in mind the changed situation. The constant dithering is playing havoc with the mental health of students who have been living in uncertainty for over a year now. The pandemic shows no signs of going anywhere; if anything it is only strengthening its hold. People refuse to be careful no matter what the repercussions for the country and the health of its people. The government is not showing adequate progress in either controlling the pandemic, bolstering the healthcare system or, for that matter, protecting the environment. As such, it should be taken for granted that pandemics will be the norm, not the exception. Aparajita Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Sharper scissors||If last year was grim for the film and entertainment industry, this year does not promise much cheer. A proactive virus matched by an equally proactive government have put the sector in a double bind.  The reappearance of Covid-19 in a more virulent form, once again, threatens both news media and cinema business, the latter even more.  And, then, the government of the day has been serving up one regulatory strike after another. After announcing a three-tier regulatory framework for digital content in February that would affect the over-the-top streaming video industry, earlier this month it scrapped the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal, which has been in existence as a statutory body since 1983. This functioned as a court of appeal for film-makers unhappy with cuts imposed by the Central Board of Film Certification and gave them negotiating space without having to initiate a legal process.  Before either of these, January brought a preview of what censorship by grievance might look like via the controversy over the web show, Tandav. The OTT industry got its first taste of trouble in November last year when a gazette notification brought all streaming platforms under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. But first, the virus front. Newspaper delivery bans are usually restricted to group housing, and journalists can work online more easily than cine workers can. But when an actor tests positive, so do many members of the film’s crew, 45 in the case of a star like Akshay Kumar shooting for Ram Setu. There were health and safety officers on the sets of most productions, trying hard to ensure that shooting does not stop, until the Maharashtra government halted all film and television shooting last week. Cinema theatre occupancy will, once again, take a hit. The Telugu film industry, which was better off than its counterparts in other states because it was allowed 100 per cent occupancy in film theatres for a while, now worries about whether the governments in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh would bring back the 50 per cent cap on the occupancy, thus affecting the release of big budget films. The 50 per cent occupancy rule is in force in Kerala. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had permitted the theatres to function at their full capacity from January but reverted to 50 per cent. The Telugu states may also revert to the 50 per cent rule if the rise in numbers continues. Commercially it has already been a disastrous year. An estimated 60 per cent plus of the industry’s revenues were wiped out in 2020 and there were massive job losses in an industry that employs more than half a million people. Meanwhile there is the unsettling caused by the government’s regulatory intent. The scrapping of the FCAT, done by moving an ordinance, is part of a wider move to rationalize tribunals in multiple fields. It deflects appeals from the FCAT in Delhi to high courts in the states. The tribunals reforms (rationalisation and conditions of service) bill, 2021 was introduced in Parliament in February, but it could not be passed. Hence the ordinance to scrap eight appellate tribunals, including the FCAT. Film-makers fear that going to court will be time consuming and affect their films’ release, that fighting a case in court could be expensive, and that the industry will now hesitate to make films on controversial subjects. The other side of the argument is that the tribunal is a quasi-judicial body which functions under the government, while the high court is an independent constitutional body. But there is also much folklore about films, which either failed to get certification or fought multiple cuts by the CBFC before the FCAT and won. Such as Bandit Queen. And, much more recently, Haraamkhor. It’s not just about cuts either, but about getting a revised certification, in case the CBFC chose to give a film an A certificate. If the revising committee of the CBFC did not give a film-maker any joy, he/she could approach the FCAT as Alankrita Shrivastava did for Lipstick Under My Burkha. It still took six months and a bunch of lawyers but the FCAT gives time to the review process, and film-makers now say that they felt heard. In February, when it announced the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, the government sought to kill three birds with one stone. It announced guidelines for social media intermediaries with a time-bound grievance redressal mechanism and a ‘code of ethics’ for digital media, both news and entertainment. Under it, a three-tier grievance redressal mechanism became applicable for OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar. These promise to end the free run that OTT content providers have had so far, without a censor board or a complaints council to rein in sex, violence and nudity on one hand and liberties taken with fictional characters resembling mythological figures on the other, as was the case in Tandav. They also opened the door wide for harassment and censorship via complaints, with elaborate rules spelt out, which put the ministry of information and broadcasting in charge of oversight. So whatever happened to the constitutionally-mandated free speech with reasonable restrictions? Now you have a government ministry seeking to assert itself over constitutional freedoms. The controversy over Tandav, a web show produced by Amazon Prime Video, demonstrated how majoritarian grievance-taking could now become the norm, with producers and film-makers apologizing for their content on one hand and applying for anticipatory bail on the other. The first official complaint came from a BJP MLA, and a Haryana minister also pitched in, asking for a ban.  First information reports were registered against the film-makers in several cities amid charges of provoking communal disharmony and hurting Hindu sentiments. For the future then, self-censorship promises to become the norm in what is now a Rs 8,000-crore industry, going through a surge in viewership and revenues. The Wire, The News Minute and other digital publishers have gone to court against the new rules and the grievance redressal mechanism, calling it a weaponizing of complaints. Will an industry, which has so much at stake commercially, follow suit or choose to play ball? The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Blind men and their nation||The altercation happened sometime in January. One evening, I was tucking into a snack at a roadside food joint when a well-dressed man — without a mask and with a physique sculpted in a gym — stepped out of the shop next door and sent a globule of spit flying in my direction. Shocked, I shouted at him for the abject inappropriateness of his action, especially it being the time of Covid-19. “There is no Corona. It is gone,” he retorted unapologetically. “In your imagination,” I countered, struggling to contain my bewilderment at his stance. I now often wonder what that man must be thinking given that the virus is back in force in Mumbai. Notwithstanding the generous contribution of spitters, Swachh Bharat and regular intervention by municipal staff working to check the spread of the virus ensured that my suburb stayed a lot cleaner through 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021. Spitting continues in that great Indian tradition of consequences being somebody else’s job to address. The authorities have rightfully faulted citizens for either not using masks or wearing them incorrectly. What we miss noticing is how much the habit of spitting prompts masks to be worn on the chin and such. You just can’t end spitting. Can you? Its obstinacy reminds of the other pandemic we cope with — our mischievous, subversive, narrow-minded politics of brinkmanship, which too cites tradition, cares little for consequence, and expects others to clean up after it. Politics in India shadows the country’s appetite for inflexible habits. Our politics conspires to make us vote with the same thoughtless ease as spitting. Factors like caste, religion, language, regionalism, personality cult — all of them when raked up help reduce politics to a pre-programmed impulse. Identity politics makes political choice easy and seemingly faultless. When you are told that your existence is threatened, anything you do to survive is deemed acceptable. The more a political pitch evokes identity, the sharper the polarization it causes and surer the subsequent reflex action. It is efficient marketing and that is likely why the moneybags haven’t shied off supporting parties with a violent track record. Victory in polls gained, the victor then becomes facilitator for sponsor’s growth. Why should the sponsor complain? The emergent alternative for the identity-pitch has been ‘development’, a favourite with technocrats nursing political ambitions and politicians fancying technocrats. But here, too, nobody wants evolved debate that explores the type of economic development offered, whether it damages the environment, whether it promises an affordable, inclusive way of life, whether the plans tabled are humane, socially just and respect freedom. All that people see in development is money and grandeur. It inspires the same protective reflex, as found in identity politics. Sold as GDP and married to billionaire-mascots, mega projects, stock market index and smart by digital, development condenses complexity into something as easily delivered as projectile in the mouth readied for flight. Right-wing politics was quick to adopt this packaging. To the extent, the simplification (as seen in nationalism, patriotism et al) sometimes bordered on the comical. A classic example is the tendency to administer a free country like a classroom, with a chosen few for self-righteous teachers and corporal punishment to boot. But then what is comical is apparent to only those capable of noticing it. What if — like the virus robbing you of the sense of smell — self-righteousness and the durbar of mirrors robbed you of the capacity for comedy? Of greater worry is how the incessant barrage of such posturing by the right wing has forced its political opponents to retaliate similarly, resulting in caricatured politics all around and betraying how shallow our intellect has become through want of questioning. Sample the widespread machismo and denigration of women found in politicians’ speeches. The right wing, famous for wading into electoral battle like a ruffian and never losing an opportunity to project itself as protecting women (instead of respecting women’s rights), has a treasure trove of such episodes. The Opposition, fighting for its life, periodically serves up its own slippages of the same genre. Kerala recently produced a gem — a left-wing politician warning young women to keep their distance from Rahul Gandhi as he is unmarried. Tamil Nadu and Bengal, both states in the thick of electoral battles, also saw controversies. Across parties, what we see is the ghost of feudalism; minds still clinging to mythology, patriarchy, traditions and gender biases, which the new generation wants to run away from. We may be close to 75 years old as a free democracy but as with spitting, we are ruled by practices reaching out from the past. Blinded by tradition, some don’t see the India in front of them. Much the same way, lost to the denial of the virus, some stay Covid-blind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh decorated for Ram Navami ||Hazaribagh: The ancient temple of Ma Chinnamastika in Gola of Ramgarh was decorated by 20-artists from Calcutta on the occassion of Ram Navami. The number of devotees visiting the temple this year is less compared with other years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Priests said the temple is decorated every year during Ram Navami. The Chinnamastika temple is popular for its tantrik style of architectural design. Apart from the main temple, there are ten temples of various gods and goddesses. It is situated 28km away from Ramgarh district headquarter in Gola block on the confluence of Damodar and Bhairavi. It is 80km away from state capital Ranchi. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A fire accident at a field in Dwari village in Giddhore block on Monday gutted stack of hay worth Rs.10,000 on Monday. Villagers reached the spot and doused the fire preventing a bigger disaster. Police said the reason behind the fire not known yet but investigations are on. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Dhanbad’s BJP legislator Raj Sinha tested positive for Covid on Monday. Sinha disclosed the information through his twitter handle. He appealed to all the those who came in contact with him to take a Covid test. Tundi MLA of JMM, Mathura Prasad Mahto, was the first politician from Dhanbad to test positive for Covid on July 7, 2020. He was admitted to the central hospital in Dhanbad after which he was shifted to Tata Main Hospital on July 15 after his condition deteriorated. Mahto was released from the hospital following a prolonged treatment of more than 50 days.. BJP MLA of Sindri, Indrajit Mahto who was also admitted to Asian Dwarkada Jalan Superspecicality Hospital on April 12 for Coronavirus infection, was shifted to Hyderabad’s Yasoda Multispecialty Hospital on April 17 after his condition deteriorated. Raj Sinha confirmed his home isolation to The Telegraph Online. He said he is stable after taking medicines prescribed by the doctor. Dhanbad MP, P.N. Singh on Monday wrote a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting him to ensure availability of Remdesivir in sufficient quantity to Jharkhand to ensure proper treatment to all patients as its shortage is also flooding the black market of the vaccine. Hazaribagh: Criminals shot at two youths on a bike, killing one at the spot, on the Kunda-Lawalong main road on Sunday night. The second victim sustained severe injuries from the firing. The one killed was 25-year-old Jitendra Ganjhu of Tikaitbandh village. The injured was Pratap Ganjhu, brother-in-law of Jitendra. Officer-in-charge of Kunda police, Bunty Yadav, said they are investigating the case. No arrests have been made since there were no eye witnesses at the spot. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Chatra subdivisional officer Mumtaz Ansari on Monday sealed a garment shop on the main road of the town for violating Covid-19 guidelines. Ansari saw the shop crowded with customers and many not wearing masks. He said punishment for violations will ensure that everyone will follow the guidelines. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad appoints officers to tackle hospital bed crisis||The district administration on Monday appointed magistrates for private hospitals and nodal officers for government run facilities to ensure the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh held a meeting with all magistrates of private hospitals instructing them to ensure normal bed provision for asymptomatic patients, beds with oxygen support for symptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms and ICU beds for critical patients. “If the beds are available in the hospital then the patient reaching the centre has to be admitted at any cost but even if beds are not available, the concerned magistrate of the respective hospital will have to coordinate with the magistrate of a nearby private hospital to ensure the patient is admitted,” said Singh during the meeting. The state nodal officer for Hospital Bed Management for Covid-19 has been instructed to provide all necessary information with regard to availability of beds at government and private Covid treatment centres from all the districts to ensure real time monitoring of Covid beds. The administration on Sunday launched Covid treatment in 14 more private hospitals other than the six existing centres bringing the total number of private covid treatment centers to 20 and increasing the total number of beds to 1144. With the addition of 14 new private hospitals the number of ICU beds in the district for Covid patients has also increased to 180 from 90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city traders' body calls for one-day lockdown||Traders of the steel city have decided to keep their shops and business establishments shut on Tuesday amid rising Covid-19 cases and shortage of beds at hospitals in response to an appeal issued by the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industries. "As it is an extraordinary situation of medical emergency, the traders' community also has a crucial role to play in the war against Covid. If the shops are kept closed completely on, then the chain of the deadly virus can be broken to a great extent, "said Suresh Sonthalia, former president of the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industries. In response to Sonthalia's appeal, office-bearers of the Retail Merchant Welfare Association of Sakchi convened an emergency meeting and declared that all the 600 members will keep their shops closed. "Despite repeated drives being carried out by the administration to follow protective measures against Covid, people tend to evade them like not wearing masks properly and evading social distancing, thus contributing to the spread of Covid. But if we all keep our shops closed at least for a day, then it will impact positively," said Somenath Tiwari, president of RMWA. In the last 24 hours, 676 cases were reported, thus taking the total number of positive cases to 24,399. During this period, 17 persons died at various hospitals in the city, taking the death toll to 447. Test results arriving late due to a huge backlog at centres has added to the gravity of the situation. "The report of the RT-PCR test is getting late because a huge backlog has piled up. The situation has been thus a large number of people turning up for the test having noticed some health-related complications, "said civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Crematorium staff missing, ambulances with bodies wait for hours in Ranchi||There was chaos around Bada Ghagra Road on the outskirts of he state capital for hours on Monday as over 40 ambulances blocked the lane from noon till evening to protest against poor arrangements and the lack of a comprehensive plan by the district administration to ensure respectable last rites for those who had died of Covid-19. Around noon, over 40 ambulances carrying dead bodies stood in queue since morning hoping for resumption of cremation. But sources said that due to unavailability of wood and staff, funeral pyres could not be lit. Frustrated at the situation, ambulance drivers then blocked the entire road from both ends till 5pm until officials arrived and promised to make arrangements. Last week, the district administration had earmarked Bada Ghagra as alternative cremation site for Covid patients after the electric crematorium at Harmu Muktidham stopped functioning owing to a technical snag. Since then, around 25 bodies are cremated at Bada Ghagra using funeral pyres set up with wood. However, since Monday morning, cremation got stopped owing to lack of wood and other paraphernalia, inconveniencing not just those who had lost their loved ones, but also ambulance drivers who were forced to keep bodies in vehicles. “Cremation activities have begun now. Staff was missing and hence there was no one to issue challans and complete paper work. Also, there was a shortage of wood, oil and other items. We are trying our best to sort out the issues,” said an official of Namkum police station, who was there at the site. Ambulance driver Md Salim accused the district administration and Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) of having completely failed in their job. “Even the dead aren’t getting proper treatment in this state, forget about medical treatment of the sick. Every day, we have to wait for hours with bodies. Considering the rate of fatalities, why can’t the administration make proper arrangements,” he asked. Another driver, Kalimuddin, said there was body in his vehicle since midnight. “The electric crematorium at Hamu Muktidham went defunct on Sunday after working fine for two days after repairs. Here, people have to wait for 7-8 hours to get to the cremation ground. I couldn’t sit in my ambulance s it began stinking,” he said. Neither Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan nor SDO Utkarsh Gupta responded to calls from The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Green crusader starts animal awareness campaign ahead of hunting festival||Environmentalist and Padma Shri awardee Jamuna Tudu has launched an awareness campaign against the futility of killing animals. With Bishu Shikar or Sendra, the annual hunting festival of tribals, scheduled next month, Jamuna is keen to reach as many people as possible with a message to not kill animals in the name of tradition. The 35-year-old called a meeting of Van Suraksha Samity (VSS) at Laubera village under Bardikanpur Kalapathar panchayat under Chakulia block of East Singhbhum on Friday to discuss the campaign which will be held at local villages. Villagers go hunting in the jungles of Chakulia block almost every day. Besides collecting wood for fuel, they also kill small animals like rabbits and squirrels. Van Suraksha Samity, formed in 1998, has been actively protecting the forests from timber mafia. “We have toured some villages in Chakulia block to spread awareness. We requested people with folded hands to not kill animals. We intend to tour entire East Singhbhum once the Covid-related situation improves,” Jamuna said on phone from Chakulia. According to her, animals are killed in jungles during Sendra. “I appeal to my tribal brethrens to not kill animals in the name of tradition. Keep the festival symbolic. Just perform puja to celebrate the occasion,” she added. “If need be, we will also support the forest range office in their bid to keep tribals at bay during Sendra. We will also tour the jungles and try and stop the tribals from hunting animals,” said Jamuna, also known as Lady Tarzan. Jamuna and her team have planned to meet Jamshedpur-based Dolma Buru Sendra Samity (DBSS), the organisers of Sendra at Dalma wildlife sanctuary. “Sendra will be celebrated on May 24. We have plans to meet DBSS members and tell them to not kill animals at the sanctuary. There is no need to kill innocent animals in the name of tradition. I hope the tribals understand and pay heed to our request,” the green crusader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||CBI arrests deputy director of mining regulator for Dhanbad job racket ||The CBI arrested Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director (central zone) of Directorate General of Mines Safety, on Sunday for allegeldy manipulating selection of candidates in senior roles of the mining regulator in exchange for bribes to the tune of Rs 72 lakh. A CBI team conducted raids at several places including, Lakhisarai in Bihar, Ranchi, Nagpur, Udaipur,  Sahdol, Hyderabad and Bilaspur to unravel the racket in which 48 candidates were qualified, on the reference of two persons, in oral examinations conducted between March 8 to March 20. The team seized Rs 35 lakh, allegedly paid as the first instalment of  a total pyment of Rs 72 lakh for selecting 48 candidates at a rate of Rs 1.5 per lakh per candidate. Four others including  Kailash Mahto, brother of  Arvind Kumar; Trilokinath Singh ,a middle man of professor colony of Dhanbad, Rangbahadur Singh and Praveen Kumar were also arrested from Lakhisarai. The first instalment amount was sent on Sunday through Trilokinath Singh and Rangbahadur Singh to Suryagarha area of Lakhisarai which was received by Kailash Mahto along with Pravin Kumar. The CBI team stationed at Lakhisarai, arrested all four as soon as the money was handed over. The team then searched the ancestral house of Arvind Kumar for more than four hours during which some cash and investment related documents were seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand targets 1.25 lakh Covid tests amid influx of migrants ||Amid an alarming rise in Covid cases and an influx of migrant labourers from most of the surge tates, the Jharkhand government has set a target of testing at least 1.25 lakh people, especially travelers, by April 22 in a special Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) drive, the health department said on Monday. In a letter to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, health secretary K.K. Soan asked various district administrations to prioritise testing of elderly and vulnerable travelers who arrived in the state recently and ensure RT PCR tests for symptomatic travelers if they test negative in rapid tests. As a part of the drive, the health secretary also warned of a possible increase in the number of patients and asked district officials to arrange beds in hospitals and other isolation centres for those in need of medical attention. A document released by the health department highlighted that the state aims to conduct at least 15,000 tests in Ranchi and 11,000 tests in East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. Besides, the Dhanbad administration has been asked to conduct 6,500 tests while Bokaro has been asked to test at least 7,000 people during the drive. Jharkhand has reported an unprecedented rise in Covid cases and fatalities in the past couple of weeks. The second wave of the virus has not only taken the growth rate of infection in the state above the national average, but also reduced the doubling rate below the national average. Special trains carrying migrants from Maharashtra have started entering Jharkhand, increasing chances of a further spike in cases in the state, health officials said on Monday. Many workers have dodged mandatory Covid tests at railway stations, further increasing the fear of transmission in the villages they visit. As per government data, Jharkhand has been reporting close to 4,000 Covid cases and around 50 deaths every day on an average during the past one week. While the testing rate has been intensified in the state, many labs are still failing to provide Covid test reports within 48 hours – a trend that is causing delay in identification of cases and subsequent medical intervention. Jharkhand has also run out of life-saving drugs needed for treatment of Covid patients and is exploring the international market to import medicines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren's elder son tests positive for Covid||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s 12 years old son is learnt to have contracted Covid-19 and is currently under home isolation, indicating how the deadly virus is fast spreading its tentacles in the state as the second wave of the raging global pandemic throws everyone’s lives out of gear nationally. Unlike the first wave, the ongoing pandemic is also impacting those up to 45 years of age and children. Soren has two sons--one is 12 and other about six.  While Soren or the state government hasn’t officially announced about the status of CM’s son, sources in his office said that the kid’s sample, along with family members of the chief minister were collected two days back. Speaking to a private channel earlier in the day during a programme on Covid-19, Soren said, “My son too is positive now and I am seeing it at home too as the virus is starting to impact everyone across all age groups,” He said, adding that his government is keeping a strict vigil over the situation to take corrective steps. On oxygen cylinders, which are emerging as a major crisis in several states, Soren said that the state has sufficient quantity of production but there exists challenges in the logistics of its transportation, which they are looking into. “We have also formed teams to do raids to curb the black marketing of oxygen,” said Soren. Since last few days after his return from election campaigning in Madhupur on April 14, Soren has been holding marathon meetings daily to tackle the Covid situation. On Sunday, the state government announced fresh curbs to break the transmission chain by cancelling all kinds of exams, reducing gatherings at marriages to 50 from 200, and closing down all education and anganwadi centres in the wake of mounting cases of new infections and fatalities daily. While the state government is still to decide on total lockdown, as demanded by several quarters including Soren’s own party—Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), many entities have decided for self-imposed lockdown. After sections of trade bodies in Ranchi that went for a weeklong lockdown from today, judiciary will be in lockdown mode from Monday. After an emergent meeting on Sunday evening, Jharkhand State Bar Council in a statement said they will restrain from all kinds of judicial work—both online and offline for next seven days. Rajesh Pandey, state bar council secretary said, “Considering the growing cases of infection among advocates, their staffs and others and inadequate medical facilities in the state, it has been decided that all advocates will remain off-duty for one week from Monday across all the courts and all platforms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
19-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant seeks Centre nod for procuring remdesivir from Bangladesh amid Covid surge||The Jharkhand government has sought permission from the Centre to procure 50,000 vials of remdesivir injections from Bangladesh citing an acute crisis of the anti-viral drug in the state amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and the alleged failure of the Narendra Modi-led Centre in providing sufficient doses of the drug to Jharkhand. In a letter addressed to the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda on Sunday, Chief Minister Hemant Soren stated that the state received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir injection from the Centre against its demand of 76,640 vials, leading to a shortage of the injection in the state and unavailability of the drug for symptomatic and needy patients of Covid-19. “Since we could not get the remdesivir as per our requirement from Indian manufacturers, we started exploring the international market for procuring Remdesivir. We have been able to get a quotation from BEXIMCO Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Bangladesh for 50,000 vials of Demsivir IV injection at a total cost of 1 million dollars, which the government of Jharkhand is willing to procure at the earliest in light of the pressing needs of this medicine,” the letter stated. Last week, the state had received around 1500 vials of the drug from the Centre after Health Minister Banna Gupta spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan via video conferencing and apprising him about the acute shortage of the injection in Jharkhand. However, the available stock ran out quickly due to the unprecedented increase in the number of symptomatic patients needing hospitalization. The Covid situation in the state continued to worsen on Sunday as Jharkhand reported at least 3,992 fresh cases and 50 Covid fatalities in 24 hours, revealed data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). The state reported only 1551 Covid recoveries on the day, leading to a jump in the active caseload from around 25,000 to 28010 in 24 hours. Ranchi alone reported 1073 cases of infection and 11 deaths on the day, while 676 people were found infected in East Singhbhum and 17 patients died there on Sunday. The Covid toll in the state jumped to 1456 on the day. The growth rate of infection also reached 2.01 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 1.11 per cent. As per government data, the doubling rate of infection in the tribal state was 34.81 days against the national average of 62.85 days. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 41,900 people and close to 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 1.62 lakh people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and around 81.91 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-77
