20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Fresh guidelines issued for churches||The churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta has restricted the number of people at a Holy Mass to 50 in in the churches as Covid-19 cases continue to rise. Likewise, a maximum of 20 people would be allowed for baptism, marriage and funeral. Fresh guidelines for all the churches were issued on Sunday night in a circular addressed by archbishop Thomas D’Souza. “As you are aware the second wave of coronavirus is very active in many states in India, including West Bengal. The city of Calcutta and North-24 Parganas district have seen many cases of Covid-19 infection and even deaths. In such a situation, it is necessary that we take a fresh look at the arrangements in our churches for the Sacred Worship,” said the archbishop in the circular. The guidelines, which came into force from Monday, include: The circular mentioned that periodic review of the situation would be done and guidelines would be issued accordingly. “Under the circumstances fresh guidelines were essential. We have told the Small Christian Communities (SCC) to hold online meetings only,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese of Calcutta and the director of SCC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Autorickshaw services between Garia and Tollygunge suspended on Monday||Autorickshaw services were suspended between Garia and Tollygunge on Monday. Auto drivers on the route refused to ply their vehicles in protest against an autorickshaw being taken back by the vehicle’s financier as the driver, who was also the owner of the vehicle, had missed two loan instalments, police said. Suspension of the auto services on the first day of the week caused inconvenience to hundreds of commuters who had been availing of the services, especially to avoid the crowded buses during the pandemic. The police said one auto rickshaw had been taken back by a finance company after its owner had failed to pay multiple monthly instalments for the vehicle. Several auto drivers said their income had been hit badly because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. “We are barely surviving in the present circumstances. Our income has almost halved as many who used to take auto are now travelling in private cars. How can a finance company be so inhuman to take away the vehicle that is the only source of bread and butter for auto drivers?” a driver said. Auto drivers said many of them had bought their vehicles on bank loans which they were finding difficult to repay because of the losses in their income in the past few months. Several Calcuttans who had no inkling about the suspension of the auto services on that route suffered as they waited on the road in vain for hours for autorickshaws which did not come. “I waited for 30 minutes at the Naktala crossing. There was not a single auto on the road. Suddenly, I heard a bus conductor saying: “Chole ashun, auto bondho ache. Aborodh cholche (Come along, auto services are suspended),”  said Subhankar Chatterjee, who was heading for Behala on Monday noon. Autos that ply between Garia and Tollygunge are the lifeline of communication for hundreds of commuters between southern fringes of the city and pockets of south Calcutta like Haridevpur, Behala, Thakurpukur. Srimoyi Mukherjee, a resident of Ranikuthi, who has her office in Garia, had been taking auto rides for years now to reach her workplace. Monday was an exception. “I have completely stopped taking buses because they are over crowded. Today, it was an unimaginable situation when I had to step into a private bus after waiting for 40 minutes at the auto stand. There were empty vehicles stationed along the road But no one was ready to go,” she said. The fact that the majority of the buses have been requisitioned for the Assembly election-related work compounded the plight of many commuters. An elderly resident of Bansdroni said if the condition prevailed, she would be forced to stop commuting to her daughter’s home in Tollygunge. “I cannot afford a taxi. I will have to wait for the auto services to resume before I can see my daughter who is expecting her first child,” the woman said. Officers of Regent Park police station said they held a discussion with several auto union members and convinced them to resume services for the benefit of the public. “We have explained to them that the entire fleet should not go off the road for one auto owner defaulting his loan,” said an officer. A few autorickshaws hit back the road late on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Supreme Court rejects bail plea of Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez, the prime accused in the fatal Jaguar crash in August 2019, as it refused to interfere with a Calcutta High Court order directing him to surrender by April 20. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Guptalm, however, said certain observations by the high court would not affect the trial or cause prejudice to Raghib. “We are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order. The special leave petitions are dismissed…. We clarify... that observations made in the impugned order are only for the purpose of bail and would not affect the trial in any manner…,” Justice Kaul said. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshis, killing them on the spot. Police say Raghib was at the wheel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issues order for 4 hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked the CMRI hospital to pay Rs 10 lakh in compensation to the family of a woman who passed away after childbirth in February last year. “The woman was admitted to the hospital on February 18, 2020. She delivered a baby the next morning around 10.40am. She passed away at 5.05am the next day. The medical records revealed that the woman’s health was not monitored between midnight and 3am, when she started having complications,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The post-mortem found blood in the woman’s abdomen. Our doctor members felt that if the monitoring was done properly, a corrective surgery could have been done... We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 10 lakh in compensation to the family.” The commission asked the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences to pay Rs 2 lakh to the family of a 67-year-old man who died from a hospital-acquired infection. “The man was admitted to the hospital in November 2019. Since he died from an hospital-acquired infection, the establishment cannot absolve itself of responsibilities,” Banerjee said. The man was admitted to the hospital with subdural hematoma after he suffered a brain stroke, Banerjee said. The commission asked Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah to pay Rs 50,000 to the family of a patient who was given blood of a wrong group. Anarul Haque, who was battling cancer, was given B positive blood instead of B negative blood. “An expert said blood of a different group could be given to a patient during an emergency but that could lead to complications. In this case the hospital had given the wrong blood by mistake. There were no complications,” Banerjee said. Haque passed away at the hospital later. “We have asked the hospital to give the family Rs 50,000 for its mistake,” said Banerjee. A similar complaint was lodged against Binayak Multispeciality Hospital in Dum Dum. “A woman developed complications after she was given blood of a wrong group. She had to stay in hospital for 52 days, of which 45 days were spent in the ICU. It cost nearly Rs 7.5 lakh. The hospital did not charge any amount other than what was paid during admission. We have asked this hospital to refund the amount,”  said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Increased demand for 24×7 caregivers||Households that have bedridden patients and depend on attendants who work in shifts have been requesting service providers for 24X7 caregivers so they don’t have to allow outsiders into their homes amid rising Covid-19 cases. Trained nurses who work 24X7 in some households are not being allowed to go home over weekends to meet their families because the employers fear the caregivers could catch the infection while travelling. Along with the rise in anxiety in many homes, the rise in Covid cases has struck a hard blow to many associated with this unorganised sector. The shift in requirements has landed the caregivers and attendants, many of whom are single mothers, in a difficult situation. Agreeing to provide round-the-clock service may not be possible for them if they have children to look after at home after work. If they refuse, they stand to lose their jobs and be left without an income. Some of these women told The Telegraph that employers are often using lists of replacements to coerce them into agreeing to the new routine, even if it inconveniences them. Deepali (name changed on request), an attendant-cum-cook now working in Naktala, has been taking care of an elderly woman who is barely mobile over the past two years. On Thursday morning, when the 42-year-old caregiver went to the centre she is engaged with in Sonali Park, Bansdroni, to share the weekly commission, she found the manager striking hard bargains to fix rates to make the attendants work 24X7. “The centre’s manager told me to get ready to be available for 24X7 service as such requests could come from the family that I look after. A fresh wave of cases has triggered a demand for employing an attendant round the clock who will not have to travel. I don’t know what I will do,” Deepali said. When The Telegraph checked with the centre, one of the two owners said they are receiving a barrage of such requests because families are insisting on curbing the entry of those who use public transport to reach work. “We are helpless. If we refuse, they will approach another service provider,” said the co-owner, a middle-aged woman who did not want to be named. Another centre based in the Bansdroni bazar area said the emerging situation has made things difficult for them, too. “When we send one caregiver who will work both halves of the day, we are cancelling the services of the other person for no fault of hers. In some cases, we are retrenching the services of both of them and engaging a different person who does not have a family of her own to look after and can stay for months on,” said the owner. Households, too, have their compulsions. A family member of one such home in Netajinagar said the residents of the building where she lives are objecting to two attendants she engages to look after her mother. “They insisted I engage one caregiver to minimise the health risk. I am giving the idea a serious thought,” she said. A woman in Narendrapur, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, has engaged a round-the-clock trained nurse to take care of her mother since last December. Usually, such caregivers are replaced every month. Nurses could also occasionally take leave for a few days to spend time with their families and a replacement would be provided. “But we won’t allow any replacement now. The family members have to come to our place to catch up with her (the caregiver) under our watch in strict adherence to safety protocols,” the Narendrapur resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Warning signs of post-Covid-19 illness in kids||Many children are suffering from a post-Covid ailment whose symptoms are persistent fever, rashes and a fall in blood pressure, said paediatricians. The disease, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), can also trigger ventricular dysfunction (inability of the heart to pump oxygenated blood to vital organs) that can lead to multi-organ failure, they said. The disease is usually being detected within two to three months of contracting Covid-19, although there is no conclusive study that says it cannot affect a Covid survivor after three months, the doctors said. A 14-year-old boy was brought to the emergency of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on February 9 with lethargy, rashes and persistent high fever with severe paleness. “Initial investigations revealed thrombocytopenia (abnormally low levels of platelets) with raised acute reactions like inflammation in the body. Further clinical findings revealed that he was suffering from multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. His blood sample was sent for an iGg test, which yielded a positive report. This meant he had antibodies against Covid-19 in his blood, which in turn meant that he had been Covid-19 positive at some stage,” said an official of the hospital. His family members were not aware of the infection. “I had no idea when my son had Covid. No one in his immediate family contracted the disease either,” his father said. He had developed fever — from February 3 — which would not come down with paracetamol. Tests for malaria, typhoid and dengue came back negative. His parents had him admitted when his platelet count fell below 60,000, said the hospital official. With intravenous immunoglobulin and steroids, the child’s condition improved. Fever spikes gradually decreased with improvement in laboratory parameters and he was discharged after a week. “Persistent high fever, rashes and a fall in blood pressure are the common symptoms of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. The symptoms are usually seen within three months of contracting the virus,” said Kaustabh Chaudhuri, consultant, paediatric intensive care, at the hospital. “Identifying cardiogenic shock due to MIS-C as fast as possible is crucial for recovery or else it can be life-threatening. Once identified, the condition can be easily managed with steroids,” said Chaudhuri, who treated the teenager. The doctor said he had handled over 35 cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children in the past 12 months. Apurba Ghosh, a paediatrician and the director of the Institute of Child Health, said he had also treated “many cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children” since 2020. “Parents who are aware of their children contracting the virus as well should keep an eye for persistent fever and rashes after recovery. Parents who are not aware should also seek medical advice if their children have similar symptoms,” said Ghosh. Doctors said that many children were contracting the virus in the renewed surge in Covid-19 cases. They anticipated the cases of multisystem  inflammatory syndrome in children to go further up in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Virus cases hushed up in housing complexes||A surge in Covid-19 cases has allegedly given rise to instances of suppression of infections in housing societies and neighbourhoods either because of the fear of social stigma or restrictions on the entry of maids at home. Residents in several housing societies have alleged that they have come to know about their neighbour testing positive only through “second hand sources” like a maid or driver in the recent past. Multiple cases of alleged suppression have been found in a south Calcutta residency that has several reported cases of Covid-19 at present, a resident of the housing society said. “Despite repeated reminders from the RWA to not suppress information, three families were found to have been affected who did not tell anything before the word got out,” the resident added. In one of the cases, the family had asked their maid not to come and the word got leaked to the other flat owners who also had the same maid. In a housing society on the southern fringes of the city, another case apparently came to fore when the news of a person testing positive spread through his office colleague to another resident of the same housing. An official of an RWA in a housing society along EM Bypass said there were four “Covid cases” in their housing society at present and the way all of them were suppressed had prompted them to issue a notice asking residents “to cooperate”. According to a public health specialist, such instances of suppression not only increase the chances of spreading infection among people who interact with the affected person without realising the stakes, but also endanger the family members if they, too, are living in the same house without isolating the patient. “The rule says a person should remain isolated for 17 days from the onset of symptoms. In case of suppression, if the biomedical waste is not disposed of separately, it may spread infection,” said the public health expert. The cases of alleged suppression, as reported in many housing societies and city neighbourhoods, are also an indication of the kind of ostracism families often have to face when they report infection. Last year, police had received several complaints seeking immediate help against ostracism that patients in home quarantine had faced, many police officers recalled. “On one hand, we were prosecuting people for not following the lockdown rules and on the other, we were trying to pacify people for over-reacting to their neighbours who tested positive or to those who were involved in the health sector,” said a senior police officer in Calcutta. A section of the people who have been victimised for being a Covid-19 patient said the stigma of being treated as an “untouchable” in the society was the biggest fear that plays at the back of the mind. Last year, a 42-year-old IT professional living in a Kasba neighbourhood was forced to seek police help when his maid was told by neighbours not to step into his home even after he had recovered from the infection and returned from the hospital with a fitness certificate. A doctor, who had tested positive in September 2020 and was in home isolation at his Shibpur ancestral home, recalled his last year’s experience to Metro: “I had borne the cost of getting the entire neighbourhood fumigated. But then also, some of my closest neighbours who saw me grow up, used to panic and behave indifferently if they saw me standing at my balcony.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Calcuttans march as part of a ‘No Vote to BJP in Bengal’ campaign||An 82-year old man walked with a tall umbrella to support his infirm knees along with students and others from diverse walks of life in a rally on Monday because they thought “the BJP poses a threat to Bengal”. The march, part of a “No Vote to BJP in Bengal” campaign, started from the Academy of Fine Arts and ended at the Rashbehari intersection, through the Bhowanipore and Rashbehari Assembly constituencies, which go to the polls on April 26. Metro spoke to some of them to find out what made them walk. Utpalendu Chakrabarti, 82, needs the help of a stick or an umbrella to walk. He decided to ignore the discomfort and walk 5.8km. “They are talking about developing ‘Sonar Bangla’ and leaving a trail of destruction. How can one support that? Let the people take a look at me and realise what could have prompted an octogenarian to march and make up their mind,” said Chakrabarti, who had retired as an overseer at a factory. A resident of Metiabruz, Chakrabarti said in August last year, when the first wave of the pandemic was underway, the Prime Minister was “busy laying the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya”. “It did not strike him that building health infrastructure to combat Corona was the need of the hour. Just see what is unfolding now that the second wave has struck. I am out to tell people that they should not do anything that allows these demons to come to power,” he said. Alpana Dutta, a retired school teacher, said she joined the rally because she felt angry about the actions of the BJP-led government at the Centre. The 65-year-old who worked in a school in Basirhat in North 24-Parganas, walked till the march culminated at the Rashbehari crossing. “What really agitates me is the fact that all the policies that the BJP pursues are anti-people. This Prime Minister is holding meetings to combat Corona. Again the same Prime Minister is holding rally after rally in Bengal where his supporters don’t maintain basic Covid hygiene. He has not cut down on rallies despite so many deaths. What more does he need?” Dutta asked, joining the students to raise slogans. Slogans like: “Ei Surya Sen er maati te BJP ke ektio vote noy (In this land of Surya Sen, not a single vote to the BJP). “Narendra Modi does not utter a word against Kumbh being held in utter disregard of health protocols. So this time you cannot attribute the surge of cases to China. In Bengal, the surge of cases could be blamed on him alone. We don’t want a party led by him in power in Bengal,” said Dutta. Koushani Mukherjee, an undergraduate Presidency student, came to the Academy of Fine Arts on a Monday evening to buy a ticket for an upcoming play. She saw an assembly building up outside. “I could have left for my residence in Barrackpore. But instead, I decided to march because I felt BJP poses a threat to the dignity of women,” she said. A third-year student of performing arts, Mukherjee said she had taken part in a protest outside Presidency University against the brutalising of a Dalit woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh last year. “The same Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister Uttar Pradesh under whose watch it all happened, is now campaigning in Bengal and screaming at the top of his lungs that an anti-Romeo squad will be raised in Bengal. What could be more scary than this?” said Mukherjee, holding aloft a blue flag that had embossed on it the face of BR Ambedkar. “I am scared. Maybe this is a last ditch effort to thwart these subversive forces. If I don’t walk now, then when will I?” Yogeshwar Prasad, a postdoctoral research fellow at the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics was holding aloft a banner that read: “Fascist RSS aar BJP r biruddhe Bangla (Bengal against fascist BJP and RSS)”. The 34-year-old scholar said he was marching as “the BJP is against freedom of expression”. “Being a part of the students’ community, I remember how they started a confrontation with students in FTII, Pune. This was followed by incidents at JNU, Jamia Millia. There is a pattern in what they do. It is to silence students through intimidation so they don’t dare to raise questions,” Prasad said. According to him, if the BJP comes to power, they will target institutions like Jadavpur University and Presidency University that spearheaded the campaign against issues like CAA and NRC. “We cannot allow such an anti-student force run to the state,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Behaviour that fans pandemic||Covid is spreading like wildfire in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal but safety protocols have gone for a toss because of the way a large section of people is behaving, said hospital officials, doctors and public health experts. People without masks is a common sight on roads and at malls and markets across Calcutta. But there are others whose behaviour can have much larger implications. The Telegraph lists some behaviours that can fan the pandemic: About three weeks ago, a man in his 50s who works as an executive at a private firm in Delhi had lost his sense of smell and taste, clear symptoms of Covid. The man took a flight from Delhi to return home to Calcutta without getting tested. A day after landing in Calcutta, he underwent the RT-PCR test for Covid at a private hospital and was found positive. “I called up the man, who is a friend of mine, and told him about the report. He said he was sure that he had Covid and so took a flight to Calcutta so that he could be with his family,” said a senior official of the private hospital off EM Bypass. “I told him that it was a criminal offence to fly when he was certain that he had Covid.” Passengers flying in from Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Kerala need to have an RT-PCR negative report before boarding the flight. There is no such requirement for passengers from other states. “The only way to know whether a passenger arriving from another city has Covid or not is to check his or her body temperature using a thermal scanner,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. So an asymptomatic Covid patient can arrive and enter the city undetected. The authorities of several Covid vaccination centres in the city were taken by surprise when they found that close contacts of Covid patients had turned up for the shot. Officials at private hospitals and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which is administering Covid jabs through its ward health clinics, said they were regularly facing the problem. “While talking to some of the vaccine recipients standing in the queue, we discovered to our surprise that someone in the family had recently tested positive for Covid-19. These contacts are supposed to stay quarantined at home and not step out till the quarantine period is over. But they are not adhering to the protocol. They are turning up for the shot without completing the quarantine period,” a CMC official said. “We are asking vaccine recipients whether they have come in contact with Covid patients recently,” said an official at AMRI Hospitals, which has been facing the same problem as the CMC health clinics. Officials at vaccination centres said the problem with contacts of Covid patients turning up for the shot was one of logistics. “If such persons inform us in advance, we can allot special slots to them or request them to take the jab after completing the quarantine period. We will give them priority on that day (when they arrive after completing the quarantine period). But if they stand in a queue with others, there is a risk that others may get infected. Even the personnel at vaccination centres may get infected,” said the official of the private hospital. A middle-aged man suffering from Covid and diarrhoea entered the outpatients department of a private hospital on Monday. “He did not tell the OPD staff that he had Covid. Once in the doctor's consultation room, he said he had tested positive for Covid and was having diarrhoea,” said an official of the hospital. “The doctor told him that he was supposed to be in home isolation and have video consultation or call up a doctor. If the symptoms persisted, he should have got admitted.” Doctors said they were encountering several such incidents. “One patient with all signs of Covid walked into the OPD and sat with other patients before entering my room. Ideally, he should have gone to the fever clinic,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. Public health experts said Covid patients were feeling free to step out because of lax surveillance and also because the practice of declaring containment zones had been effectively discontinued. Some hospitals have reintroduced stringent measures for visitors. AMRI Hospitals, for instance, is allowing patients and visitors to enter only after they are giving details of their health to the security personnel in the lobby. A 50-year-old man who tested positive for Covid needed to get admitted to hospital on Sunday evening. The resident of Dhakuria and his relatives first tried to hire an ambulance. “There was no ambulance available. My brother didn't have a choice and had to travel to the hospital in Phoolbagan in a yellow taxi,” said the patient’s brother. He had not told the taxi driver that he had Covid. “This way he not only put the driver at risk but several other passengers who would ride the taxi later,” said a public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer vacation in government schools to start from April 20||All government schools in Bengal will go into summer recess from Tuesday because of “heat wave and prevailing situation”, the state education department said on Monday. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government was also appealing to private schools to take “appropriate decisions after considering the present situation”. Bengal is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and has reported more than 5,000 new infections daily over the past few days. “We are announcing summer vacation from Tuesday. We appeal to private schools to take appropriate decisions after considering the present situation,” said Chatterjee. A circular issued by education secretary Manish Jain on Monday said: “Due to heat wave and prevailing situation, it is advised to declare summer vacation in the schools under your administrative control with effect from 20/04/2021, until further instructions. You are therefore requested to take necessary action accordingly.” An official in the education department said summer vacation would mean that online classes would remain suspended for the time being in government schools. At CBSE and ICSE schools, practical exams for Class XII boards are being held. “It is for principals to take a call about what they would want to do regarding practicals. The council has given schools time till May 31 to complete the practicals,” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. A number of CBSE schools, however, said they would go ahead with the practicals in the absence of any intimation from the board. “This is to inform… examinees that the practical examination and viva voce will continue as per schedule, keeping all precautions in mind. Today the State Government has advised schools under the State Board to begin summer holidays from 20.04.21. However there is no specific direction from the CBSE in the matter till now and hence we are unable to stop the ongoing Examinations being conducted in School, keeping the academic interest of the examinees in mind,” said a notice issued by South Point. The state government had allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. The schools had remained shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Set up more beds, government tells private hospitals||The state government on Monday asked private hospitals to scale up their Covid beds to a level that would be 25 to 30 per cent more than they had at the peak of the epidemic last year. The government also suggested that the hospitals consider shifting the outpatient department (OPD) to any banquet hall and use the space to add Covid beds. The hospitals have also been requested to defer elective surgeries for two weeks and open more satellite units for Covid patients with mild or no symptoms so that critical patients are not denied hospital beds. The government made the requests to the hospitals at an online meeting attended by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission chairperson Ashim Banerjee and senior officials of the state health department. “The private hospitals have been told to have 25 to 30 per cent more Covid beds than what they had at the peak of the pandemic last year. The hospitals have been advised to keep on hold planned surgeries for two weeks,” said Banerjee. If planned surgeries are put on hold, the beds that will be freed can be used to treat Covid patients. Hospitals in and around Calcutta together had 5,500 Covid beds at the peak of the epidemic last year, an official of a private hospital said. Various measures that can help increase Covid beds at private hospitals were discussed at the meeting. “The private hospitals were advised to shift their OPDs to a banquet hall or a marriage hall near their hospitals. The space in the OPDs can then be utilised to set up Covid beds,” Banerjee said. Several private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds in the last one or two weeks but that proved insufficient given the surge. Belle Vue Clinic had 171 beds on Monday, 37 of which were critical care beds. The hospitals will add 21 more beds within a week or two, said an official. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) had 110 Covid beds on Monday, 48 of which are critical care beds. The hospital has plans to add 51 Covid beds in a phased manner over the next fortnight. “The hospitals were also advised to set up more beds in satellite units,” said Banerjee. An official of a private hospital said that if Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms were treated at satellite units, then more beds for critical patients would become available in the hospitals. “In the coming days, options like setting up beds in parking spaces may have to be explored,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. AMRI Hospitals, he said, have already set up 150 beds in satellite facilities. Belle Vue Clinic and the RN Tagore hospital have set up 48 and 24 beds at their satellite units. The state government has also decided to set up a quarantine facility at Uttirno auditorium in Alipore. It will be run jointly by Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation of doctors, health officials and Covid survivors, and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. A quarantine facility for contacts of Covid patients has been set up at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur.  The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 3,780 on Monday, to 53,418. The state recorded 8,426 new infections and logged 4,608 recoveries during the day. While Calcutta recorded 2,211 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,801. Of the 38 deaths reported on Sunday, 12 were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council cancels Class X board exams||The ICSE council has cancelled the Class X board exams, the chief executive and secretary of the council said in a circular issued late on Monday. As for the ISC (Class XII) exams, the council's earlier decision stands and the test will be conducted at a later date following a review of the situation in the first week of June. “The ICSE (Class X) 2021 Examination: Given the present worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to cancel the ICSE (Class X) 2021 Examination. The options given in the earlier circular dated 16th April 2021 now stands withdrawn. The safety and wellbeing of our students and teaching faculty is our topmost priority and of paramount interest,” said the circular signed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. The council had last week deferred ICSE and ISC exams, which were scheduled to start on May 4. It had also said the Class X students could write or skip the exams. Arathoon said on Monday: “The CISCE is committed to devising 'a fair and unbiased criterion' as stated earlier. The criterion on which basis the results will be declared for the ICSE (Class X) students and the date of the result declaration will be announced by the CISCE later.” Many schools were also concerned about the consequent delay in starting Class XI classes if the Class X exams were not over anytime soon. On Monday, the council said schools should start Class XI admissions if they had already not started the process. “All CISCE-affiliated schools (having the ISC section) are hereby advised to begin the admission process for Class XI, if not already started,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty settle lower after see-saw trade||Domestic equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty erased early gains to settle with losses for the second day on the trot on Tuesday, as surging COVID-19 cases and growing localised restrictions continued to dent investor sentiment. The BSE Sensex slipped 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent to close the session at 47,705.80. Intra-day, the BSE gauge rose as much as 529 points to touch the day's peak of 48,478.34. Likewise, the NSE Nifty climbed over 167 points to reclaim the key 14,500-level during the day, but surrendered all its gains to end at 14,296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. On the Sensex chart, UltraTech Cement, HCL Tech, HDFC, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank and HUL emerged as the major laggards - falling as much as 4.7 per cent. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto and Maruti were among the top gainers. Market analysts said a continued spike in fresh COVID-19 cases in the country and announcements of restrictions by several states have clearly dented investor sentiments and posed a threat to earnings recovery. Elsewhere in Asia on Tuesday, equity bourses saw mixed trading as investors awaited the release of China's latest benchmark lending rate. Japan led losses among the region's major markets, followed by Hong Kong. US stocks ended lower on Monday, slipping from last week's record levels. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent futures rose 0.77 per cent to USD 67.68 per barrel, despite concerns about the impact on oil demand going forward due to rising coronavirus cases in India. The rupee ended almost flat at 74.88 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 500 points in early trade||The benchmark BSE Sensex rebounded over 500 points and the NSE Nifty recaptured the key 14,500-level in the opening session on Tuesday, as investor sentiment improved following the government's policy response to the resurgence of COVID cases in the country. The Sensex was trading at 48,455.13, showing a rise of 505.13 points or 1.05 per cent in opening deals; while the broader Nifty was trading higher by 150.20 points or 1.05 per cent at 14,509.65. On the Sensex, barring three IT stocks -- HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra and TCS -- all shares were trading in the green. On Monday, the BSE Sensex had nosedived 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent, and the NSE Nifty had plunged 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent.' Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital markets on Monday to the tune of Rs 1,633.70 crore, according to exchange data. "The government's decision to open up vaccination for all above 18 from May 1, and announcement of measures to incentivise vaccine manufacturers are steps in the right direction. "This is positive from the market perspective. The market is likely to ignore the stress in the healthcare system and the pains from the second wave," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. Elsewhere in Asia on Tuesday, equity bourses saw mixed trading till afternoon as investors awaited the release of China's latest benchmark lending rate. Japan led losses among the region's major markets, followed by Hong Kong; while South Korea and China were trading higher. US stocks ended lower on Monday, slipping from last week's record levels, as investors awaited guidance from first-quarter earnings. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent futures rose 0.77 per cent to USD 67.68 per barrel on Monday, despite concerns about the impact on oil demand going forward due to rising coronavirus cases in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||India may build coal-fired power plants as they generate the cheapest power||India may build new coal-fired power plants as they generate the cheapest power, according to a draft electricity policy document seen by Reuters, despite growing calls from environmentalists to deter use of coal. Coal’s contribution to electricity generation in India fell for the second straight year in 2020, marking a departure from decades of growth in coal-fired power. Still, the fuel accounts for nearly three-fourths of India’s annual power output. Environmental activists have long rallied against India adding new coal-fired capacity. Solar and wind energy prices are falling to record lows, which would help the world’s third-largest greenhouse gas emitter cut emissions. US special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry this month said India was “getting the job done on climate, pushing the curve,” as he began talks with government leaders aimed at cutting carbon emissions faster to slow global warming. But a 28-page February draft of the National Electricity Policy (NEP) 2021 — which has not been made public — showed India may add new coal-fired capacity, though it recommended tighter technology standards to reduce pollution. “While India is committed to add more capacity through non-fossil sources of generation, coal-based generation capacity may still be required to be added in the country as it continues to be the cheapest source of generation,” the NEP draft read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Car makers fear dent in sales||Leading automobile companies such as Maruti Suzuki India, Toyota Kirloskar Motor and Honda Cars fear a dent in sales as Covid-19 cases surged across the country. Maruti Suzuki said the auto sales were correlated closely with economic growth and also (being a discretionary purchase) with the consumer sentiment. “The Covid-19 situation is obviously a negative for customer sentiment and thus has a negative impact on sales,” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava said when asked about the impact of the second wave of the pandemic on the company’s sales. Lockdowns make it physically impossible to deliver cars but even the deterioration in the Covid-19 situation without a lockdown also psychologically dents consumer propensity to buy, he said. Similarly, Toyota Kirloskar Motor senior vice-president Naveen Soni acknowledged that localised restrictions have impacted order flow and delivery schedules. “We will be able to access trends and define numbers only by the end of the month depending on the severity and extension of the restrictions. As of date, we have had a good number of pending orders that had to be carried forward from the month of February and March to April. Therefore, we are striving to meet the customer demand in spite of the local restrictions and lockdowns,” he said. On manufacturing operations, Soni said the company continues to cautiously proceed with vehicle production. “Immediate focus is to fasten and streamline the demand and supply processes with more accuracy and manage production, along with faster deliveries making it easier and convenient for customers by reducing the delivery time,” he added. Well-being of the employees as well as dealer and supplier staff are sacrosanct and the automaker has already reintroduced monitoring systems which were in place including submission of a self-declaration health form, Soni said. Honda Cars India said it is keeping a close look at the emerging situation. “Lockdown and weekend curfews will impact sales as showrooms will be shut in some of the markets. We are currently assessing and taking feedback from various cities about its extent,” Honda Cars India senior vice-president and director (marketing and sales) Rajesh Goel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||ACC profit jumps 74% to Rs 562.59 crore on sales spurt||Cement maker ACC Ltd on Monday reported a 74.17 per cent increase in consolidated net profit to Rs 562.59 crore for the first quarter ended March 2021, helped by an increase in sales and cost efficiency. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 323.02 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago, ACC said in a BSE filing. Total revenue from operations in the January-March quarter was at Rs 4,291.97 crore, up 22.57 per cent from Rs 3,501.71 crore earlier. “This quarter, we delivered highest-ever revenue and operating EBIT. Our cost-efficiency project ‘Parvat’ is on track and has helped in managing some continuing cost headwinds,” ACC managing director and CEO Sridhar Balakrishnan said. The company’s total expenses stood at Rs 3,586.19 crore, up 16.29 per cent against Rs 3,083.78 crore a year ago. Revenue from the cement segment jumped 26.25 per cent to Rs 3,980.84 crore compared with Rs 3,153.07 crore earlier. FMCG firm Bajaj Consumer Care Ltd on Monday reported over two-fold growth in consolidated net profit at Rs 54.67 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The company reported a net profit of Rs 23.29 crore for January-March period a year ago, Bajaj Consumer Care said in a regulatory filing. Its revenue from sale of goods was higher at Rs 244.86 crore as against Rs 172 crore in the year-ago period. Total expenses of Bajaj Consumer Care, which operates mainly in the beauty care category, were at Rs 189.17 crore as against Rs 158.69 crore, up 19.21 per cent. An accelerated provisioning of Rs 200 crore for the pandemic has crimped net profit of ICICI Prudential Life by 64.2 per cent to Rs 64 crore in the January-March quarter despite reporting a good set of overall numbers. However, a Rs 7,400 crore of investment income — gains from the market — against a loss of Rs 18,000 crore in January-March 2020 due to the pandemic, has helped it cushion the hit. It also had a payout of Rs 265 crore, net of reinsurance for 205 claims from the pandemic deaths, chief executive and managing director N.S. Kannan said on Monday in a post-earnings call. Net profit declined by 64.2 per cent to Rs 64 crore from Rs 179 crore for the year-ago quarter, while the same for the full year slipped to Rs 960 crore from Rs 1,069 crore in the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business|| Macrotech Developers’ shares open 10% below offering price on debut||Indian real estate company Macrotech Developers’ shares opened 10 per cent below their offering price in its stock market debut on Monday, after the initial public offering saw lukewarm subscription demand from investors. Macrotech, formerly Lodha Developers, is among the major players in the Indian real estate industry. Most of its residential projects are concentrated in Mumbai. The company’s shares opened at Rs 439 apiece compared with the offer price of Rs 486. The company’s IPO was subscribed 1.36 times earlier in the month as its weak sales and substantial debt, coupled with a resurgence of COVID-19 cases in India, weighed. “The company has substantial debt and contingent liabilities and the impact of Covid-19 on the business is still uncertain,” said Saurabh Joshi, an equity research analyst at Marwari Shares and Finance Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Covid spike spooks markets ||The Sensex sank 833 points at the end of a torrid day of selling, the rupee tumbled to 74.87 against the US dollar and gold — always seen as a safe haven in hard times — climbed above Rs 47,000 per 10 gm as panicky investors tried to make some sense out of the worrying resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic  and the Centre’s ham-handed response to a snowballing crisis. Investors on Monday feared the resurgence of the virus would adversely affect earnings. The Sensex plunged 1469 points intra-day but recovered ground to close at 47949.42 with investor wealth eroding by Rs 3.53 lakh crore. “Indian equities are  distinctly under-performing other comparable equity markets in Asia. The near term outlook would remain clouded and keep markets volatile. We expect pharma, speciality chemicals, IT services to outperform in the near term,” Gaurav Dua of  Sharekhan by BNP Paribas said. The slump in equity values comes at a time of the start of the fourth quarter results that have proved to be a mixed bag so far for India Inc. There are apprehensions that the spate of localised lockdowns may adversely impact India’s fledgling recovery, corporate earnings and its banking sector. In fact, leading brokerages have already downgraded India’s GDP growth projections for the current fiscal to as low as 10 per cent. Market circles said the rapid rollout of the vaccine has pushed equities to record highs but the states have started complaining on the shortage of the jab. Prices are likely to remain under pressure till the number of Covid-19 cases peaks out, analysts said. In the trading on Monday, the 30-share Sensex opened lower at 47940.81 and crashed to an intra-day low of 47362.71 — a fall of 1469.32 points, It managed to pare some initial losses but still ended 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent lower at 47949.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent to 14359.45. RBI intervention The rupee on Monday fell 52 paise to close at 74.87 against the dollar. Analysts said that if the current trend continued, the RBI may intervene in the market. “The RBI is expected to be active and may intervene aggressively to curb volatility. Over the near term, we expect a range of 74.00 and 75.50,’’ Anindya Banerjee of  Kotak Securities said. K.V.S. Manian, director & member of the group management council at Kotak Mahindra Bank, allayed fears of a fall in the value of the rupee. “The fundamentals of the economy both Indian and international have not changed or are not yet expected to change significantly for the rupee to weaken so much. The bond and equity markets are still not showing similar levels of weakness..” Meanwhile, gold rallied Rs 411 to Rs 47,291 per 10 gram in the national capital on Monday reflecting strong buying in the precious metal and rupee depreciation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||FM seeks inputs from industry chambers on ways to deal with the pandemic||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought inputs from industry chambers on how to deal with the pandemic. “Spoke on telephone with each of the following business/chamber leaders. Took their inputs on industry/association related matters. Informed them that GoI at various levels from PMO India is responding to Covid management. Working together with states for lives and livelihoods,” she said in a tweet. Sitharaman  had interactions with the  heads of industry chambers including CII president Uday Kotak, Ficci president Uday Shankar and Assocham president Vineet Agarwal. She also spoke to industrialists such as Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran, L&T chairman A.M. Naik, TCS managing director Rajesh Gopinathan, Maruti Suzuki chairman R. C. Bhargava and TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan. “Do not think lockdown is the appropriate response this time. Will do more harm than good,” Bhargava said. BCC&I inputs The finance minister had called BCC&I president Deb A. Mukherjee on Sunday. Mukherjee said there should not be a nationwide lockdown like 2020. The focus should be on micro level containment zones. “She pointed out India is better prepared to deal with second wave and a complete lockdown is not being envisaged,” Mukherjee said The Chamber suggested infrastructure should be  ramped up to test as many people as possible. Moreover, a detailed road map should be planned for faster roll-out. The conversation ended with Sitharaman  enquiring if the industry needs any more support, indicating the Centre may have stimulus sops in the pipeline. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||Aviation regulator warns airlines of predatory pricing||The aviation regulator has warned airlines not to indulge in predatory pricing to prop up air travel hit by the second wave of the coronavirus. Officials of the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said they would intervene if airlines were selling tickets lower or higher than the fare cap in place till the end of this month. In their meeting with the civil aviation ministry, airline representatives complained that some airlines were selling tickets below the minimum cap, thereby engaging in predatory pricing to prop up passenger load. After touching a high of about 300,000 in February, daily passenger traffic has fallen below the 200,000-mark on account of a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, necessitating several states to make the RT-PCR test for passengers mandatory, leading to decline in bookings. The daily passenger traffic before the pandemic was 400,000-450,000. In February, the government had increased the minimum and maximum fares that airlines can charge in the domestic sector by 10 to 30 per cent, while extending the cap on airfare. The government has set a price band for airfares since May. The increase is in the region of 10 per cent for a one-way fare at the minimum fare level for a flight of less than 40 minutes to about 30 per cent for a maximum fare for a flight of between 180 minutes and 210 minutes. Rating agency Crisil said the industry would post Rs 9,500-10,000 crore losses this fiscal, though it will be lower by 35-40 per cent compared with the previous year. Crisil said air traffic would continue to remain low amid high fuel prices and only a gradual recovery in international operations. A resurgence of Covid-19 infections across the country — especially in Mumbai and Delhi, which account for 36 per cent of overall air traffic —is expected to stall the recovery seen over the past six months. In fact, average daily domestic passenger air traffic has fallen in April by almost 20 per cent to 2.35 lakh, Crisil said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||SC clubs cases relating to the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail ||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed all further proceedings before a single judge and division bench of the Delhi High Court relating to the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail on the proposed Rs 24,713-crore takeover by Reliance Retail of the Future group’s retail and wholesale businesses that has been contested by Amazon, which claimed it had prior rights over the Kishore Biyani retail empire. The apex court indicated it would pass final orders on all matters connected with the dispute. This raises the question on the validity of the order of the Singapore arbitrator that supported Amazon against Future Retail. The order was passed on October 25, 2020 and expires next week on April 24. Analysts said in the present case the validity of the award, would not arise since the matter is pending adjudication before the apex court as also the high court. As a norm, when the matter is pending adjudication before any court, the validity of the award or a statutory limitation period even if it comes to an end, would not trammel the powers of the court from dealing with the issue. In other words the validity of such limitation period of six months would become irrelevant and infructuous since the court is seized of the matter, the analysts added. “Having heard learned senior counsel appearing for all parties, further proceedings before the single judge as well as the division bench of the high court shall remain stayed,”the apex  court said in a written order. “Learned counsel is permitted to file counter affidavit within a period of two weeks from today. Rejoinder affidavit within one week thereafter,” the apex  court said in a written order. On February 22, the top court had restrained the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) from passing any final order on the Future-Reliance deal. “The matter will anyway end up here? Why don’t we then finish hearing?” Justice R.F. Nariman heading a three bench asked while staying the proceedings before the high court on the special leave petition filed by Amazon. Amazon has filed the special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court challenging the March 22 order passed by a division bench of the Delhi High Court which had stayed a single judge Justice J.R.Midha’s order by which he had held that the award passed by the Singapore-based emergency arbitrator was binding on the FRL-Reliance Group. While Amazon is being represented in the Supreme Court by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, advocate Harish Salve is appearing for Future Retail. The bench also comprising Justices B.R.Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy was of the tentative view since the various proceeding before the high court and the NCLAT were in any case likely to be challenged before it, it would be in the fitness of things for the top court to pass final orders on the issue. “…We will stay further proceedings before the Single Judge & Division Bench. Meanwhile pleadings be completed & matter will come up with other matter on 4th May…” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||Razorpay raises $160 million, tripling valuation to $3 billion||Razorpay, the payment solutions provider, has raised $160 million (about Rs 1,192.6 crore) in funding from Sequoia Capital, GIC and others. The funding will see its valuation triple to $3 billion. The Series E funding round was co-led by Sequoia Capital and GIC, along with participation from Ribbit Capital and Matrix Partners. It comes at a time fintech firms are witnessing a sharp jump in their business volumes as the pandemic forces individuals to go digital for various needs. With this funding, Razorpay has raised a total of $366.5 million in funding since its inception in 2014. The company had entered the unicorn club in October last year when it had raised $100 million. “We will use the capital to scale up our business banking suite, invest in new acquisitions and launch in international markets, including South-East Asian countries,” Razorpay CEO and co-founder Harshil Mathur said. He added that the company also continues to hire aggressively to fuel its growth plans. Razorpay provides intelligent automated payment and business banking solutions to help businesses manage their money flow end-to-end. Mathur added that the company’s recent initiatives in the banking and lending space through RazorpayX and Capital have helped businesses solve challenges around managing money, empowering businesses to grow up to 10 times in an economically challenging year. “But there is more work to be done, we believe there is a dire need to develop new banking technologies that meet the rising demand. So, we plan to use these funds to further expand our banking and lending product suite so that we not only provide a better experience to businesses and their customers but significantly contribute to the growth of our partner businesses,’’ he added. Mathur said the company’s neo-banking platform, RazorpayX, saw 400 per cent growth in transaction volume in the last 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||India||No lockdown as of now, Prime Minister assures nation||In a televised address as India battles a surge in Covid cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on states to declare lockdowns only as “the last option” and instead focus “on creating micro-containment zones.” “We have to protect the nation from lockdown,” Modi said. He was speaking as India is currently recording more Covid-19 cases than any other country in the world. Modi said that the government is seeking to “save as many lives as possible” and is trying to meet soaring demands for oxygen and hospital beds. But he said the government was also trying to ensure that the economy keeps running smoothly. “We have to improve the economic health and take care of countrymen’s health,” he said. “We are fighting another war against Covid-19. Things were better over the last few weeks but now we are experiencing the second wave,” he told the country in his evening address. “It is a big challenge but we can face it together,” Modi said during the 20-minute broadcast which came after several days when the government has appeared to be far behind the curve on fighting the virus. “We should not lose our patience even at the hardest of times,” Modi urged viewers, declaring that the country was “working day and night” to tackle the Covid surge. Soon after Modi’s speech, TV channels broadcast stories about hospitals around the country that have only a few hours of oxygen left for their patients and the desperate quest by patients for hospital beds. Maharashtra worst hit Modi’s comments came as Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters earlier in the day that all state ministers had asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to put Maharashtra under full lockdown. Maharashtra is the worst hit by Covid and is reeling from patient oxygen shortages. The state has said it will decide late on Wednesday on whether to order a lockdown. In order to avoid a repeat of last year’s disastrous return of migrants to their home towns due to Covid, Modi asked states to allay workers’ fears that they would lose their jobs. He asked the states to inform the workers they would receive vaccinations in the coming days. Modi’s speech came after he held a video conference with vaccine producers earlier in the day in which he pressed them to boost production in order to vaccinate all of India’s citizens in the shortest possible time. “We gain confidence from the fact that our healthcare workers, frontline workers and a large part of our senior citizens have already been vaccinated," Modi said, noting proudly that India “has made the cheapest vaccine.” .All adults over 18 will be eligible to be vaccinated as of May 1. Not as bad as last year Modi asserted that the latest wave had come “like a hurricane,” but insisted that the situation was not as bad as last year when we had not had any equipment like PPE kits. He praised India’s doctors and said that in a short time they had established protocols on how to treat patients. “Last year the situation was much worse. There was no medical infrastructure and no PPE production,” he said. India’s health ministry reported 259,170 fresh Covid infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the total number of Covid-19 cases to 15,321,089. Deaths have totalled close to 179,000. India now has more than two million officially recorded active Covid-19 cases, second in number behind the United States. The prime minister pledged to roll out the vaccine programme faster and he said that the pharmaceutical sector has already increased its output of medicines and will hike it further. He added that the government was working towards increasing beds and building more hospitals. “We gain confidence from the fact that our healthcare workers, frontline workers and a large part of our senior citizens have already been vaccinated," he said. Free vaccination to continue Modi assured viewers that free vaccinations would continue to be available at government hospitals and added that, according to the new policy outlined by the government, 50 per cent of the vaccines would go to the states. Modi called on citizens, especially the young, to help the needy and form committees in their areas to create awareness about how people can protect themselves against Covid. He urged young people to make sure relatives do not leave their homes except for an important reason. The prime minister made no reference to massive election rallies held in Bengal and the large Kumbh Mela gathering that are believed to have helped stoked the latest surge in cases. Initial reactions to his speech were negative with one person commenting, “He told people what to do. But didn’t say anything about what he and his government were doing for the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
20-04-2021||India||Some hospitals left with few hours of oxygen, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre "with folded hands" to provide medical oxygen to Delhi, saying some hospitals are going to run out of it in a few hours. "Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi... Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," he tweeted. In another tweet he said, "I urge the Central government with folded hands to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi." Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said they have just eight hours of oxygen left. The hospital has 485 Covid beds, of which 475 are occupied. Around 120 patients are currently in the ICU. Its chairman D S Rana said, "6,000 cubic meters of it is left, which at the rate of current consumption will last till 1 am. Need urgent replenishment." Kejriwal had on Sunday termed the shortage of oxygen for coronavirus patients an "emergency". He had also written to Union Minister of Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention in the matter. On Monday, the Delhi government set up a 24-member committee to ensure "rational" use of oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients. An order issued by the Health Department said the 'Oxygen Audit Committee' will identify areas of wasteful consumption. The consumption of oxygen has undergone a quantum increase with the admission of a large number of serious patients who require oxygen support, it said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Centre should be "sensitive and active" in handling the situation so that there is no clamour among states over its supply. Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in the national capital, said he is getting SOS calls on oxygen shortage from all hospitals. He also alleged that people involved in supplying oxygen are being stopped in different states. "Getting SOS calls on shortage of oxygen from all hospitals. People involved in supplying oxygen are being stopped at different states. To ensure that there no 'jungle raj' among states over supply of oxygen, the Central government should be very sensitive and active to handle the situation," he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
20-04-2021||India||Ban industrial use of oxygen now, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that economic interests can not override human lives and in view of various hospitals in the national capital running low on oxygen, the Centre should immediately implement the ban on industrial use of oxygen instead of waiting till April 22.  A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said oxygen supply of various hospitals will run out in 4-8 hours and in such a situation there was no justification in implementing the ban from April 22 as the need was now.  The court directed the Centre to forthwith implement the ban and divert the oxygen to hospitals running out of the same as any further delay will lead to loss of precious lives.  The court also issued notice to INOX, which produces oxygen, as to why contempt action be not initiated against it for not complying with court orders to supply oxygen and directed the presence of the company's Managing Director on the next date of hearing on April 22.  The court also sought the presence of the Uttar Pradesh government on the next date.  The direction came after senior advocate Rahul Mehra told the bench that INOX did not supply oxygen as directed by the court claiming that doing so would lead to a law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh from where the supply was to come.  The court in its order also directed the Centre to issue appropriate orders and also meet the representatives of the steel and petrochemical industries to divert some portion of their oxygen for medical needs for a period to tide over the prevailing pandemic.  The court said these industries can reduce their production for now and if the lockdown continues then everything would come to a halt and therefore, what would be the need for steel, petrol and diesel during such a situation.  "During lockdown, what would be the development," the court said and asked the Centre why it was waiting till April 22 to ban industrial use of oxygen.  "Shortage is now. You have to do it (ban) now. Look into taking some oxygen from steel and petroleum industries. They have big pockets and big lobbies, but tell them if they have to cut production, then they can cut production. Lives have to be saved," the bench said.  The court cited the example of a central government counsel whose father was admitted in hospital and was on oxygen support, but due its scarcity, oxygen was being provided at a reduced pressure to him to conserve it.  "Can you ask him to hold on till April 22," the court asked.  It said if nothing was done, then "we are heading for a bigger disaster".  "We might end up losing nearly a crore of people. Are we willing to accept that," the bench said.  It also suggested increasing the COVID beds in hospitals which have their own oxygen generating capacity.  The observations by the bench came after perusing the Centre's affidavit which said there was presently no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi and that industrial use of oxygen was banned with effect from April 22.  The Ministry of Health, represented by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, told the high court that there has been an inordinate increase of 133 per cent in the projected medical oxygen required, as on April 20, between the initial estimate of 300 metric tonnes and revised estimate of 700 metric tonnes submitted by Delhi.  The ministry said all the States, including Delhi, have to rationalize the use of oxygen and prohibit abnormal usage and administering oxygen to the patients who do not clinically require the same.  "States have to undertake oxygen consumption monitoring in hospitals including private hospitals and to undertake facility-wise/hospital-wise oxygen inventory mapping and advance planning for timely replenishment so that supply can be efficiently managed," it said.  It said that states of Kerala and Madhya Pradesh have come out with simple guidelines to efficiently manage use of oxygen in view of its scarcity.  Earlier in the day, the court had asked the Centre whether oxygen supplied to industries can be diverted for COVID-19 patients.  "Industries can wait. Patients cannot. Human lives are at stake," the bench said.  It said it has heard that doctors at Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce oxygen being given to COVID-19 patients admitted there as there was scarcity of oxygen.  The ministry, in the affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Monika Arora, has also said that in order to increase the capacity of medical oxygen in Delhi, eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen Generation plants are being installed by the support of PM CARES Funds.  "These plants would enhance capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes," the ministry's affidavit said.  The observations by the bench came during the hearing of a disposed of petition related to COVID-19 tests and the high court revived it on April 19 by noting that the virus has raised its "ugly head" once again and the pandemic is raging with much greater intensity and "it is evident that the healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Congress bats for ‘one nation, one vaccine price’, slams Centre on ‘inequitable’ plan||A day after the government tweaked its Covid-19 vaccination policy to widen the coverage, the Congress Tuesday alleged the changes will worsen the inequality between states as well as between poor and rich Indians, and demanded uniform pricing for the jabs at all health facilities. Questioning the pricing modalities under the new policy, which allows manufacturers to fix the prices of their shots, the Congress said the plan was "regressive, inequitable and anti-competitive". The party also said the new policy would put additional burden on states which are already cash-strapped. The Centre announced Monday that all above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination from May 1, while private hospitals and states will be able to buy doses from manufacturers. It also said the vaccine manufacturers would be free to supply 50 percent doses to state governments and in the open market for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1. "This is a government that believes in one nation one tax', one nation one election', but this is a government that does not believe in ''one nation, one price'," Congress leader Jairam Ramesh told an online press conference. He said the new policy will lead to multiple pricing for Covid-19 shots at central and state government hospitals, and private facilities. "Why can't we have 'one nation, one price' for vaccines. I think this is a legitimate demand," he said, advocating the Centre, state governments and private hospitals get the shots at the same price. Ramesh alleged the Central government will get 50 per cent of the vaccines and the rest 50 per cent will be divided among private hospitals and state governments. "This is very unfair. This is inequitable. We want states to get greater responsibility. But, this is actually not giving the states any responsibility. So 'one nation, one price'. We cannot have 'one nation, multiple prices'," he told reporters. Chidambaram claimed the Union government has finally acknowledged the problem of vaccine shortage and other deficiencies in the current policy. "While we welcome the positive changes made to the policy...the modified vaccine policy is, in crucial respects, regressive and inequitable," he said. "Under the modified vaccine policy, the Union government is running away from taking responsibility, overburdens the states, encourages vaccine manufacturers to profiteer, and will worsen the inequality between states as well between poor and rich Indians," he also said. Nowhere in the world has any government left its vaccination programme to be determined by the vagaries of market forces, the senior Congress leader noted. Chidambaram said under the modified vaccine policy, states will bear the responsibility and cost of vaccinating the poorer sections who are below the age of 45 years and are neither healthcare workers nor frontline workers, as defined by the central government. The former union minister alleged that the Union government appears to have abdicated its responsibility towards the poor by excluding them from the Centre's vaccination programme. "In a country where the median age is 28 years, to leave those who are below the age of 45 years out of a public-funded programme is, to say the least, callous," he noted, adding that migrant workers who are lifeblood of the economy will be the worst affected by this directive. Chidambaram also alleged that by liberalising the pricing of vaccines, and by not fixing a price for states at the same rate as it is available to the Union government, the government is paving the way to unhealthy price bidding and profiteering. "States with limited resources will be at a considerable disadvantage. States that are already weighed down by shrinking GST revenues, lower tax devolution, reduced grants-in-aid and increased borrowing would have to bear this additional burden," he said, questioning where the funds collected under PM-Cares have been spent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Maharashtra grocery shops to function till 11 am to curb Covid cases||Grocery and food shops will remain open only between 7 am to 11 am till May 1, the Maharashtra government announced on Tuesday as part of its efforts to curb the alarming rise in coronavirus cases. The new restriction will come into effect from 8 pm on Tuesday and remain effective till 7 am on May 1. The state has been adding more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases daily over the last two weeks. Various other restrictions are already in place under the state's `Break the chain' program to control the spread of the virus. The latest order was issued by the Disaster Management and Relief and Rehabilitation department. "All grocery, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectioneries, all types of food shops including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs, shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season" will remain open from 7 am to 11 am, said the order. Home delivery from such shops may be allowed between 7 am to 8 pm, but the time window can be changed by local authorities, it said. Local authorities can include additional services or entities in the essential services category only after the consent of the state Disaster Management Authority, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Rs 4,500 cr advanced to vaccine makers Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech||Looking to ramp up supplies ahead of the opening of Covid-19 vaccination to all citizens over 18 years of age, the government has approved a payment of about Rs 4,500 crore as advance to vaccine makers like Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech against future supplies, sources said. SII will supply 200 million doses and Bharat Biotech is to supply another 90 million doses to the government by July at a pre-agreed rate of Rs 150 per dose. Sources said the finance ministry has relaxed rules to allow advance payment without bank guarantee to help the vaccine makers ramp up production. SII will get Rs 3,000 crore in advance and Bharat Biotech about Rs 1,500 crore. Commenting on the decision during a media briefing, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said the finance minister has approved to provide credit line to vaccine manufacturers and this approval does not require vetting by the Cabinet. "I think the finance minister has approved and this is part of her powers to approve these funds because it is in the form of credit line, and will be backed with the adequate supplies of vaccines to support the government procurement and vaccination programme of the government of India," he said. Serum Institute hails decision Earlier this month, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had said that the company would require around Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up production capacity for making vaccines for COVID-19. The decision to provide credit line was hailed by SII. "On behalf of the vaccine industry in India, I would like to thank and applaud Shri @narendramodi Ji, @nsitharaman Ji, for your decisive policy changes and swift financial aid which will help vaccine production and distribution in India," Poonawalla said in a tweet on Tuesday. Bharat Biotech scales up production Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it has scaled up its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin manufacturing capacity to 700 million doses per annum. According to a press release issued by the city-based vaccine maker, manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. Sources said the company had 200 million doses capacity when it started producing Covaxin in the beginning. Capacity expansion in vaccines manufacturing is a long and tedious process, requiring investments and several years, the release said. "Bharat Biotech is able to expand Covaxin manufacturing capacity in a short timeline, mainly due to the availability of new specially designed BSL-3 facilities, first of its kind for manufacturing in India that have been repurposed and pre-existing expertise and know how to manufacture, test and release highly purified inactivated viral vaccines," the firm said. Manufacturing partnerships are being explored with our partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment, Bharat Biotech said. Tie-up with IIL To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. The technology transfer process is well underway and IIL has the capabilities and expertise to manufacture inactivated viral vaccines at commercial scale and under biosafety containment. Bharat Biotech uses a proprietary adjuvant Algel- IMDG, which has now proven to be a safe and effective adjuvant, especially to stimulate memory T cell responses. The synthesis and manufacture of the IMDG component has been successfully indigenized and will be manufactured at commercial scale within the country. This is the first instance where a novel adjuvant has been commercialised in India. Emergency use nod Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisations  (EUA) in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. EUAs have now been obtained from Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. EUAs are in process in the USA and several European countries. Pricing for international markets and supplies to governments under EUAs have been established between USD15 - 20/ dose, the vaccine maker said. Vaccination drive opened up The government on Monday allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccination from May 1 as it seeks to control the rapid spread of the virus. Under the third phase of its vaccination strategy, manufacturers will be required to supply 50 per cent of their monthly doses to the government and the rest to state governments or the open market. Vaccination will continue as before in the government of India vaccination centres free of cost for the eligible population -- healthcare and frontline workers and all people above 45 years of age. Second-worst affected nation Latest data showed that over 2.59 lakh coronavirus infections pushed overall cases in India to more than 1.53 crore, making the country the second-worst affected nation after the US, which has reported more than 3.1 crore infections. India's deaths from COVID-19 rose by a record 1,761 to over 1.8 lakh. With regard to impact of surging COVID-19 cases on the economy, Goyal said, India Inc is completely satisfied with the steps taken by the government to deal with the situation. The government decision on vaccination for all above 18 years taken on Monday will give a boost in maintaining economic activity, he said. The Commerce Minister said he had discussions with three industry chambers and they have informed that their members would like to pay and implement the vaccination for their employees. Chambers have their intention to import vaccine if at all available, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech scales up Covaxin production to 700 million doses annually||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it has scaled up its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin manufacturing capacity to 700 million doses per annum. According to a press release issued by the city-based vaccine maker, manufacturing scale up has been carried out in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. Sources said the company had 200 million doses capacity when it started producing Covaxin in the beginning. Capacity expansion in vaccines manufacturing is a long and tedious process, requiring investments and several years, the release said. "Bharat Biotech is able to expandCovaxin manufacturing capacity in a short timeline, mainly due to the availability of new specially designed BSL-3 facilities, first of its kind for manufacturing in India that have been repurposed and preexisting expertise and know how to manufacture, test and release highly purified inactivated viral vaccines," the firm said. Manufacturing partnerships are being explored with our partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment, Bharat Biotech said. To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. The technology transfer process is well underway and IIL has the capabilities and expertise to manufacture inactivated viral vaccines at commercial scale and under biosafety containment. Bharat Biotech uses a proprietary adjuvant Algel- IMDG, which has now proven to be a safe and effective adjuvant, especially to stimulate memory T cell responses. The synthesis and manufacture of the IMDG component has been successfully indigenized and will be manufactured at commercial scale within the country. This is the first instance where a novel adjuvant has been commercialised in India. Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisations in several countries across the globe with another 60 in process. EUAs have now been obtained from Mexico, the Philippines, Iran, Paraguay, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Guyana, Venezuela, Botswana, Zimbabwe, among several other countries. EUAs are in process in the USA and several European countries. Pricing for international markets and supplies to governments under EUAs have been established between USD15 - 20/ dose, the vaccine maker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi tests positive for coronavirus||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The former president of the party announced the news in a Twitter post. “After experiencing mild symptoms, I’ve just tested positive for COVID. All those who’ve been in contact with me recently, please follow all safety protocols and stay safe,” Gandhi tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him a speedy recovery. "I pray for the good health and quick recovery of Lok Sabha MP Shri Rahul Gandhi ji," he tweeted. Messages for his early recovery poured in from various quarters, with former Union minister P Chidambaram saying he was deeply concerned. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Wishing you a speedy recovery Rahul Gandhi ji. In these challenging times, the nation needs your leadership more then ever." This comes a day after senior Congress leader and former prime minister Dr. Manmohan Singh got infected with the virus. Singh has been shifted to AIIMS in Delhi following his diagnosis. On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's wife Sunita Kejriwal has tested positive and is under home isolation, a Delhi government official said. Kejriwal has also quarantined himself, he added. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma also tested positive for the virus on the day and has been shifted to a private hospital in Gurgaon, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson seeks permission for clinical trial of vaccine in India||Global healthcare major Johnson & Johnson on Tuesday said it has sought approval from India's drug regulator to conduct a bridging clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country. The US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) had in February approved Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine that works with just one dose for emergency use. "Johnson & Johnson is partnering with health authorities and the world's best scientists to provide the safety and efficacy data necessary to support worldwide emergency use of the Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate," the company said in a statement. This comes close on the heels of the central government last week deciding to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign produced coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the World Health Organization or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. Such vaccines will be given emergency use approval mandating the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trial in place of conduct of local clinical trial under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules 2019, the health ministry had said. "In line with this commitment, we have submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) requesting approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of our single-dose Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India to comply with local regulations", the statement added. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. So far, two vaccines -- one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and the other developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Virology -- are being used in India. Both the vaccines are being manufactured within the country by domestic firms. While the Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine 'Covishield' is being manufactured by Serum Institute of India, the indigenously developed 'Covaxin' is being manufactured by Bharat Biotech. A third vaccine Sputnik V -- developed in Russia and to be imported and sold in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories -- has also been approved by the Indian drug regulator. The government, meanwhile, on Monday decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1 and permitted state governments, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers. A bridging study is defined as a study performed in the new region to provide pharmacodynamic or clinical data on efficacy, safety, dosage and dose regimen in the new region that will allow extrapolation of the foreign clinical data to the population in the new region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||India likely to waive customs duty on Covid vaccine imports||The government is likely to waive 10 per cent customs duty levied on imported vaccines in a bid to keep low the cost of overseas vaccines that are being eyed to supplement domestically made shots ahead of opening COVID-19 vaccination to all citizens over 18 years of age, sources said.While Russia's Sputnik V vaccines are due to arrive this month or latest by next month, manufacturers like Moderna and Johnson and Johnson have been urged to seek emergency use approval in India. The government presently levies 10 per cent customs or import duty plus a 16.5 per cent I-GST and social welfare surcharge on vaccines coming from overseas. These taxes would make the imported vaccines costlier than the ones made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech. "A customs duty wavier is being considered," a source aware of the matter said. Another source said a decision is likely to be made "very soon." As and when, foreign vaccine manufacturers approach the government with a formal proposal for allowing import of vaccine, the waiver would be given, government sources explained. No proposal has been made so far, finance ministry sources added. The government earlier this month allowed emergency use of imported vaccines to curb spread of coronavirus infections. With 2.59 lakh new infections, the caseload has crossed 1.53 crore, making India the second-worst affected nation after the US, which has reported more than 3.1 crore infections. India's deaths from COVID-19 rose by a record 1,761 to over 1.8 lakh. Sources said discussion on duty exemption on vaccines started sometime in December last year when overseas manufacturers such as Pfizer sought approval to supply its vaccines to India. The finance ministry and its indirect tax collection arm had done some preliminary calculations on the implications of a duty waiver but a decision was put off until the government approved use of imported vaccines, they said. The government, which on Monday allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive COVID-19 vaccinations "from May 1, currently regulates the sale and purchase of all Covid shots in the country. Under the third phase of its vaccination strategy, manufacturers will be required to supply 50 per cent of their monthly doses to the government and the rest to state governments or the open market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||SC grants interim stay on HC order directing UP govt to impose restrictions in 5 cities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim stay on the Allahabad High Court order directing the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions till April 26 in five cities amid surge in COVID-19 cases. There shall be an interim stay on the order of the high court, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said while hearing the state government's plea against the order passed on Monday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said the state has taken several steps to contain the spread of coronavirus but to lockdown five cities by a judicial order may not be the right approach . He said the state government has issued several directions and taken adequate precaution on the issue. Mehta said the high court order would create immense administrative difficulties. The apex court, while granting interim stay on the high court order, appointed senior advocate P S Narasimha as amicus curiae to assist in the matter. The bench directed that the matter be listed after two weeks. Earlier in the day, the apex court agreed to hear the plea of the Uttar Pradesh government against the high court order after the state requested urgent listing of the matter. The high court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions including closing of malls, shopping complexes and restaurants till April 26 in five cities, but stopped short of calling it a "complete lockdown". Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Nagar and Gorakhpur are the cities in which the high court has directed curbs. The high court had said these curbs are "nowhere close to a complete lockdown".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||Telangana imposes night curfew till April 30||The Telangana government on Tuesday announced a night curfew in the state between 9 pm and 5 am till April 30, following a surge in coronavirus cases. The restrictions will come into effect from April 20. "The various measures to control COVID-19 in the state have been reviewed. "It is decided to introduce night curfew in the state for the period from 9 PM to 5 AM till 30th April 2021 as a further measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19," Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said in an order. The state has 42,853 active cases and counting. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao also tested positive for the virus on Monday. During the curfew period all offices, firms, shops, establishments, restaurants etc shall close at 8 pm except hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies and those dealing with supply of essential services such as media, e-commerce deliveries and Petrol pumps among others. Movement of all people shall be prohibited from 9 pm onwards barring government officials, medical personnel and those coming from or going to airports, railway stations, bus stands on production of valid ticket, among others. The order said there shall be no restriction on inter- state and intra-state movement or transportation of essential and non-essential goods and no separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. Public transport services including autos and taxis shall be allowed to function within stipulated time for the transportation of exempted categories of people during the period of night curfew, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
20-04-2021||India||JNU issues strict guidelines inside campus for week-long lockdown||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has issued strict guidelines and imposed several restrictions on the campus during the week-long lockdown in Delhi to curb a surge in COVID-19 cases. The latest restrictions have been imposed after the Delhi government's direction to observe city-wide lockdown from 10 pm on Monday to 5 am on April 26. The JNU, in an order issued late on Monday, said all dhabas and eateries will remain out of bounds for customers, however, home delivery service will be allowed. It also restricted the movement of hawkers and "domestic help/maids, drivers, gardeners and car cleaners hired by the residents" on the campus. "Visiting to another home or hostel inside the residential area/hostel complex is strictly prohibited. The movement within the campus shall be restricted during the curfew timings," the university said. It also prohibited any mass gathering or congregation in the campus along with walking, running, or jogging in the stadium or road. On Monday, the varsity had announced to keep the central library closed for the duration of the week-long lockdown. The movement of people engaged for emergency and essential services, medical emergency and supply of goods during the curfew period on production of a valid identity card has been allowed. "Persons coming from or going to airport, railway station/ISBTs allowed to travel on production of a valid ticket. Shops dealing with essential food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booth, pharmaceuticals and ATMs are allowed to function," it added. The essential service departments, including security and transport, university health centre, academic branch, administration branch, finance departments, engineering (electric/civil), sanitation, communication and information services, and central laboratory animal research will remain operational during the period, it said. "All other staff members/persons in schools/centres/library and places not listed above, shall work from home or as per the roster and permissions/directions of the departmental heads," the university said. It also instructed the security personnel to "barricade the sensitive area in order to restrict the non-essential movement". Delhi on Monday recorded 240 deaths due to COVID-19, the highest since the pandemic began over a year ago, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||India registers over 2.59 lakh new Covid cases, record 1,761 casualties in a day||India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 1,53,21,089 with 2,59,170 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while active cases surpassed the 20-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,80,530 with a record 1,761 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 41st day in a row, the active cases increased to 20,31,977, comprising 13.26 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 85.56 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,31,08,582, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.18 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,94,14,035 samples have been tested up to April 19 with 15,19,486 samples being tested on Monday. The 1,716 new fatalities include 351 from Maharashtra, 240 from Delhi, 175 from Chhattisgarh, 167 from Uttar Pradesh, 146 from Karnataka, 117 from Gujarat, 83 from Punjab, 79 from Madhya Pradesh, 53 from Rajasthan, 46 from Jharkhand, 44 from Tamil Nadu, 41 from Bihar and 38 from West Bengal and 33 from Haryana. A total of 1,80,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,824 from Maharashtra, 13,497 from Karnataka ,13,157 from Tamil Nadu, 12,361 from Delhi, 10,606 from West Bengal, 9,997 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,985 from Punjab and 7,437 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad High Court orders restrictions in five Uttar Pradesh cities till April 26||Allahabad High Court on Monday ordered restrictions in five Uttar Pradesh cities till April 26, acting at a time harrowing images of Covid’s impact have added to the perception of a breakdown in governance in the key state. “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance,” the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar said. Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur are the cities earmarked by the court for the restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. Between March 16 and April 8, he had addressed 20 election rallies in Bengal for the BJP. The court also asked  the state government to “consider imposition of a complete lockdown in the entire state for at least a period of two weeks”. Late at night, the state government said it would not impose a lockdown but would increase the fine for not wearing masks and take other steps. A government official hinted the state would urge the court for a rethink on Tuesday morning. But by late evening, panic buying had begun in Lucknow with thousands thronging the markets. While issuing the directive, the bench of Justices Varma and Kumar said the night curfew “in the name of corona curfew and the weekend curfew are nothing else but a mere eyewash”. Uttar Pradesh has been observing night curfews — which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested should be called “corona curfews” — between 9pm and 6am, and weekend curfews from Friday evening till Monday morning. The bench observed that the second wave of the pandemic had “virtually incapacitated all our medical infrastructure in the state of UP”, especially in the five cities mentioned. It cited how “patients have outnumbered the hospital beds and people are just running from pillar to post” and how, in Allahabad, “people are getting... influenza-like infections in every fifth house of every mohalla”. “If hospitals are not able to provide beds and oxygen, we are sure that cities like Prayagraj (Allahabad), Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur... cannot provide medical aid to even 10 per cent of the populations,” the court said. “Economy, economy and economy is the only tune that the government is all the time harping upon, but bread and butter, if you take to a person who needs oxygen and medication, it will be of no use to him,” the court said. “You may have grocery shops full of eatables and industries which produce bikes and cars but all these won’t be of any use if your medical shops run out of stock of life-saving drugs like remdesivir in the current surge of pandemic.” The bench issued Monday’s directive while hearing a public interest plea on the poor conditions at quarantine centres relating to hygiene, sanitisation, medicines, food and beds. It will review the directive on April 26. ⚫ All government and private establishments to be closed except for financial institutions and financial departments, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services including municipal functions and public transport. ⚫ The judiciary will “function on its own discretion”. ⚫ All malls, hotels, eateries, schools, colleges to be closed. Medical stores can remain open but not with more than three workers. ⚫ Vendors including those selling fruits, vegetables, milk or bread to go off the roads by 11am. ⚫ Road traffic banned except for medical emergencies. ⚫ No social events or gatherings allowed. ⚫ All public religious activities to be suspended and religious establishments closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid-19: All-adult vaccine ploy on day of ingratitude||Everyone aged 18 or above in India may receive Covid-19 vaccines from May 1, the Narendra Modi government said on Monday evening in a somersault that drew on some of the easier tips offered by Manmohan Singh who was treated to uncommon churlishness and ingratitude earlier in the day. The Centre’s policy shift, which appears to have been aimed at calming a Twitter backlash against the Prime Minister in the middle of a brutal second wave of Covid-19, will also make available up to 50 per cent of vaccine stocks in the private open market. Not that all recommendations made by Manmohan have been accepted.  Neither did Manmohan suggest all the steps the government announced. For instance, those aged below 45 will have to pay for the vaccine at a market-determined rate that will have to be announced earlier. Right now, vaccination is available for those aged 45 and above for free at government hospitals or for Rs 250 per dose at private facilities. What stood out on Monday was the extraordinary length the Modi government went to put down Singh, the former Prime Minister who had 24 hours ago shared with his successor through a letter suggestions on addressing the pandemic crisis. During the day, Manmohan tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS with fever. Prime Minister Modi did not extend the courtesy of replying to his predecessor. Instead, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday in an aggressively worded letter to Manmohan blamed the Congress for the slow pace of vaccination coverage and, dripping sarcasm, said: “… As a senior leader, we expect that you shall offer the same advice and wisdom to your own party leaders as well.” In a tweet accompanying the letter, complete with a thumbs-up emoji that suggested he was pleased with his retort to Singh, the minister wrote: “History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your @INCIndia leaders as well in such extraordinary times.” A few hours later, Vardhan’s ministry announced the policy change. What Manmohan said: States should be given some flexibility to define categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are below 45. What the Centre did:  All stakeholders given flexibility to customise to local needs. States empowered to procure additional vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, as well as open up vaccination to all people above the age of 18. Vaccine manufacturers empowered to release up to 50 per cent of their supply to state governments and in the open market at a pre-declared price. The catch: Experts cautioned that limited domestic production capacities and high global demand for vaccines are likely to pose challenges to any rapid expansion. “India doesn’t have nearly enough supply to vaccinate everyone over 18 starting 5/1, especially since those approved are double dose. GoI knows this. So it buckpasses to states, rich ones will hoard, poor ones will die. And Modi will wash his hands of a colossal federal failure,” MIT associate professor Vipin Narang tweeted. What Manmohan said:  The government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions. What the Centre did: Vaccine manufacturers incentivised to further scale up their production, as well as attract new national and international players. The Prime Minister is also meeting vaccine makers on Tuesday. What Manmohan said but the Centre has yet to do: The government should publicise the firm orders for doses placed with different vaccine producers and accepted for delivery over the next six months. “If we want to vaccinate a target number in this period, we should place enough orders in advance so that producers can adhere to an agreed schedule of supply,” Manmohan had written. This information, which would have helped understand whether the Centre had acted with foresight, is not yet in the public domain. What Manmohan said but the Centre has yet to do: The government should indicate how this expected supply will be distributed across states based on a transparent formula, which would allow the states to plan the rollout. This is the most important component that will help states prepare for a spike in the demand for vaccines.  The information is still awaited. All-adult U-turn: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had said on April 7: “It’s ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life.” Virtually ruling out an all-adult rollout, Prime Minister Modi had said the next day: “Developed countries of the world, who have all the resources, even they have fixed criteria for vaccination. India isn’t different from them. You know how much vaccine is manufactured. It’s not that big factories can be set up overnight. Whatever is available, we have to prioritise.” Vardhan had said: “States asking to open up #COVID19vaccine supplies to everyone over 18 haven’t even achieved desirable coverage of healthcare workers, frontline workers & senior citizens. This shifting of goal posts is an attempt to deflect scrutiny from their poor vaccination efforts.” Under the policy announced on Monday, the Centre would procure 50 per cent of stocks and the balance could go to states or the open market. Imported ready to use vaccines may be entirely used in the private market. Vaccine makers would need to make declarations before May 1 of the prices at which they would sell their vaccines in the open market. The campaign currently open to adults 45 years or older uses Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. But the government has approved Russia’s Sputnik V and invited companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to bring their vaccines into India. Johnson & Johnson has applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose vaccine in India as well as import licence, PTI quoted sources as saying. Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, said: “There is a sizeable population in India that would pay for the vaccines. This would also reduce the financial burden on governments, allowing them to focus on providing vaccines to those unable to afford them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress slams Centre’s ‘vile, sadak chhaap’ reply ||The Congress on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s failure to respond to predecessor Manmohan Singh’s letter himself and dismissed health minister Harsh Vardhan’s reply as “vile and pedestrian”. Singh had in a letter to Modi on Sunday suggested strategies to scale up the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Vardhan’s reply on Monday avoided any discussion of the proposals’ merits while accusing Congress leaders of promoting vaccine hesitancy by “spreading falsehoods” and suggesting Singh’s party follow his advice first. Congress leaders said the government should have flagged the flaws and shortcomings in Singh’s letter, if any, instead of resorting to scorn and partisan accusations. They viewed Modi’s move to have a junior engage with his predecessor as an affront in itself. Singh, who tested Covid-positive and was admitted to hospital on Monday, had avoided political rhetoric in his letter. Soon after the former Prime Minister was admitted to AIIMS, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Dear Dr Manmohan Singh Ji, wishing you a speedy recovery. India needs your guidance and advice in this difficult time.” While social media erupted over what many users saw as an ungracious reply by Vardhan, the news of Singh’s illness later in the day put the government in an embarrassing position. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Who is the health minister to write to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh? Why did Modi not respond to the constructive suggestions given by Manmohan Singh, a leader respected the world over? “A health minister who has put out 40 tweets on political rallies in the last few days has failed in his job. It is shocking he stooped so low as to indulge in a political slanging match instead of dealing with substantive issues despite being a medical professional himself. “This letter written by the health minister is a new low in Indian politics, (adopting a) low-level language and accusatory tone instead of responding to constructive suggestions.” Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan, who addressed the media along with Shrinate, said: “The government’s pedestrian reply is shocking. People are distressed and they are not interested in leaders’ statements. They want oxygen, medical help, vaccines.” Chavan added: “Manmohan Singh has enormous administrative experience. He wrote in the spirit of cooperation and gave valuable suggestions. There was no need for hollow rhetoric by the health minister. This is the time to provide succour to the people together. “Modi should have engaged with the former Prime Minister. But the failed health minister offered a sadak-chhap (pedestrian) answer. The country would have benefited had the constructive suggestions been taken seriously.” Shrinate said: “Harsh Vardhanji claimed that permission (to bring in and use) other vaccines available in foreign countries had been given before Singh’s letter. When Rahul Gandhi first demanded it, cabinet ministers blasted him, accusing him of lobbying for foreign firms. “He (Vardhan) blamed the Congress for spreading misinformation. Valid concerns about a vaccine that had not completed trials are not misinformation.” Shrinate asked the minister: “What was your vaccine plan? You put all your eggs in one basket.... Did you know about vaccine hesitancy in advance? You are only trying to mask your own incompetence and failures by blaming the Congress.” She added: “Testing is not being done in many states, including Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. People are not getting oxygen, remdesivir — and BJP leaders are in possession of medicine worth crores of rupees. People have to wait for cremation for 15-16 hours and the Prime Minister and home minister are campaigning in Bengal.” Chavan regretted that Union ministers had attacked the Maharashtra government when it complained that its vaccine stocks would last only three days. “The need of the hour is cooperation. Shouldn’t a vaccine shortage be brought to the Centre’s notice? The Prime Minister announced a ‘tika utsav’ (vaccine festival) without ensuring an adequate supply of vaccines. In Maharashtra, 35 out of 127 vaccination centres are closed for want of stocks,” Chavan said. “There is an issue of remdesivir shortage. When the Mumbai police call a distributor accused of hoarding and black marketing, former (BJP) chief minister Devendra Fadnavis goes to the police station to mount pressure. Are they supporting black marketeering?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid curbs on Kerala temple festival||The Kerala government on Monday decided to limit Thrissur Pooram, one of the biggest temple festivals in the state, to just rituals without public presence or celebrations. The decision was taken by the state administration after meetings with the festival’s organisers who wanted some leeway to allow the presence of people. Now, only those directly connected with the festival, including temple musicians, priests and organisers, would be permitted near the venue in Thrissur city. The state Covid core committee meeting also decided to go for night curfew from 9pm to 5am starting Tuesday in view of the rising Covid cases. But there won’t be any restriction on essential services, including public transport. While Thrissur Pooram received government clearance before the April 6 state elections in view of the reduced Covid cases at that point, many, including writers, expressed fears of the festival turning into a super-spreader like the Kumbh mela as it usually attracts over 10 lakh people. One of the most popular and colourful temple festivals that parades large numbers of caparisoned elephants amid traditional percussion ensembles and fireworks, Thrissur Pooram has traditionally been a major tourist attraction for travellers from the West. But now that daily Covid cases are inching towards 20,000 and the state’s reputed healthcare system is once against under duress, people from all walks of life have come out against permitting visitors to the festival to be held on April 23 at the Vadakkunathan Temple. The festival is a competition of sorts between two temples — Paramekkavu Bhagavathy temple and Thiruvambadi Sri Krishna temple — whose committees spend big money to prove their might in the courtyard of the Vadakkunathan Temple. The administration had initially ordered that only those who have RT-PCR negative certificates and have had at least one vaccine shot would be allowed anywhere near the premises in the heart of the city. But in view of the precarious Covid situation in the state, the administration decided to allow entry only to those who have completed their two-dose vaccinations. With the rising demand for cancelling the festival or limiting it to just rituals, state chief secretary V.P. Joy on Monday convened a medical review board to assess the risks of such a large gathering. A final decision would be taken on the board’s recommendation, said government sources. The BJP had already slammed the district administration for “intolerance” and “false propaganda” against the festival. “Some adamant officials, including the DMO (district medical officer), are unleashing false propaganda against Thrissur Pooram,” the party’s state spokesman Sandeep Varier said in a Facebook message. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress on Monday backed any move to have a rituals-only event. “There is nothing wrong in allowing the rituals, but we need to keep in mind the backdrop of Covid-19. Since the situation is very bad, we need to proceed by following all safety protocols based on a consensus after discussions with all sides.” Spiritual leader Swami Sandeepananda Giri made a fervent appeal to the people to speak out against organising the festival. “I humbly request the people of Thrissur to make sure Kerala’s cultural capital wouldn’t become a city of funerals,” Giri, a critic of the Sangh parivar, wrote on Facebook. Noted writer N.S. Madhavan was among those who demanded the festival to be scrapped since the state’s positivity rate is more than 17 per cent. “That’s dangerously high. Stop super-spreader gatherings like Thrissur Pooram.” Kerala reported 13,644 fresh Covid cases on Monday from 87,275 samples tested over 24 hours, a positivity rate of 15.63 per cent. The state had reported 18, 257 cases on Sunday from 1,08,898 samples.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Chorus on Twitter:  Modi, resign||The hashtag #ResignModi trended on Monday with tweets roasting the Prime Minister over the Covid resurgence, while the Right-wing ecosystem remained surprisingly subdued in what appeared a tacit acknowledgment of the scale of the crisis and the difficulty of defending the government’s role. By evening, the hashtag had notched more than 2.38 lakh tweets that bombarded cyberspace with cartoons and graphics showing Narendra Modi fiddling like Roman emperor Nero at a time the glut of Covid bodies has led to crematorium parts melting, pyres being lit on pavements and hospitals staggering the release of the dead. Several of the tweets were from verified handles linked to the Congress, Trinamul and DMK. Former Karnataka chief minister P.C. Siddaramaiah wrote: “#Covid19 struggle in India is the reflection of @narendramodi govt. Assuming the govt was caught off guard for the 1st time, What is the status now? The preparedness is hopeless even now!! Modi feels he is bigger than India.” The tweets carried images showing Modi playing musical instruments as pyres burned behind him. Congress spokesperson Roshni Kushal Jaiswal tweeted a video of herself at a crematorium on the Ganga’s banks in Varanasi. She questioned Modi’s decision to address rallies in Bengal while death plagued his constituency as it did most places in India. Bengal minister Sujit Bose tweeted a photo of several burning pyres and said: “Dear Mr Prime Minister, last year in March, you assured that Covid situation will be over in next 21 days. This is the picture of April, 2021, more than a year has been passed. This picture shows how incapable you are to serve this country.” Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tej Pratap Yadav said: “When Rome was Burning the Nero was Playing the flute. #ResignModi” DMK medical wing secretary Kanimozhi Somu hit out at health minister Harsh Vardhan for his acerbic reply to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who had advised Modi on ways of scaling up the vaccination campaign. “Dear @drharshvardhan as you are talking Staying updated. Let’s talk about updates now. Kindly update the people of the country why your diplomatic brained government gave permission to ‘Khumbh Mela’ when world countries warned about a second wave?” she tweeted. “Remember when your government asked people to come out on roads and scream ‘Go Corona Go’ what possible improvement did this government achieve by doing that? “When your PM is addressing people of Bengal he says ‘I’ve never seen such a revolutionary crowd’ and when he addresses the people of the country he says maintain social distancing and wear masks?” “PS: Kindly don’t respond by saying Congress government did all of this please! We’ve heard enough! So kindly stop pointing your fingers at others and kindly explain what this government has done to the people of the country during this pandemic other than fascist activities.” Former IPS officer K. Annamalai, who contested the Tamil Nadu election on a BJP ticket, tweeted: “Trust our Hon PM shri @narendramodi ji & his team to get this done. Vaccine to be made available for all adults above 18 from May 1 is something no country can dare to attempt going by the sheer numbers & the challenges right from manufacturing, sourcing & to last mile delivery!” A Tamil news aggregator handle reminded him that Rahul Gandhi had already last week demanded the vaccination of all adults.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma cries oxygen bias||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Monday accused the Centre of discrimination in the distribution of oxygen, needed for Covid-19 patients, claiming that 1,200 metric tonnes was being sent to BJP-ruled Gujarat while his state had got only 124 metric tonnes although both had reported similar numbers. Referring to a liquid oxygen plant in Alwar which was under the state’s control, the minister said: “There was no lack of oxygen last time. This time, when there is more need of oxygen, the Centre has taken over all the medical oxygen generator plants and the oxygen distribution network.” “There are an equal number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan and Gujarat. In Gujarat, 1,200 metric tonnes oxygen is being supplied, whereas Rajasthan is getting only 124 metric tonnes,” he said. Rajasthan has a Congress government. “If oxygen is not made available adequately, how will we save lives of people?” the minister asked. On Sunday, Union minister Piyush Goyal had advised state governments to keep demand for medical oxygen under control, triggering outrage. “Demand-side management is as important as supply-side management. Containing Covid spread is the responsibility of state governments and they should fulfil this responsibility,” Goyal said. Sharma said the Rajasthan government has ordered 1,500 oxygen condensers, which will provide oxygen to 3,000 patients, but more oxygen will be required to fight the disease. The health minister also targeted the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, and said seven lakh vaccine doses are required daily in the state. The Rajasthan government wrote to the Prime Minister and the Union health minister, after which the state received 14 lakh doses, which will be administered in two days, Sharma said. The state has storage capacity and a stock of 15 days should be provided, which will help it save many lives, he added. Sharma said the shortage of tocilizumab and remdesivir should also be addressed by the Centre. Sharma appealed to people to follow lockdown-like restrictions during the “Public Discipline Fortnight” which began on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Dead having to queue at ‘smashan’ and ‘kabristan’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had pitted 'smashan' against 'kabristan' in a polarising election speech in Uttar Pradesh. The coronavirus is treating them the same, killing both Hindus and Muslims in large numbers. The dead are having to queue not just at Lucknow’s two electric crematoriums — turned into smashans (traditional cremation grounds) by rows of burning pyres — but also at the city’s half-dozen kabristans (Muslim graveyards). On Monday, 44 graves were dug between 4am and late afternoon at Aishbagh Kabragah in the heart of Lucknow. “I’ve asked my family to send my lunch and dinner here. I won’t be able to go home the next few days, if not weeks,” said Manjit Kushwaha, 40, a Hindu gravedigger employed at Aishbagh for the past three years. “The number of the arriving dead has multiplied three to four times over the last six-seven days. We have talked to the families — it’s clear that most died of Covid.” A Covid grave takes longer to dig, for the government has specified it must be six to eight feet deep in contrast to a normal grave that is four to five feet deep. Graveyard caretaker Hafiz Mateen said: “Soon there will be no space for more graves. We had never before faced such a horrible situation. Relatives of the dead are being forced to wait hours for their turn.” The situation is the same at the Suppa, Nishatganj, Dalibagh and Khadra graveyards in Lucknow. Hafiz Salimuddin, an employee at the Suppa graveyard in Haidarganj locality, said: “From two or three a day, we are receiving a dozen bodies in 24 hours. Soon, there will be no space left.” Usman Ali Shah, caretaker at the Dalibagh graveyard, said: “From 20 bodies a month, we are receiving 20 bodies a week.” Shah said the gravediggers, who used to charge Rs 300 a grave, were demanding between Rs 800 and Rs 1,000. A combined average of 140 bodies is arriving daily at the city’s two crematoriums, which can together burn barely 120 bodies a day. Their three electric incinerators have a maximum combined capacity of burning 72 bodies a day, while the rest are burnt on pyres. So, bodies are piling up. Corruption too seems to be making no distinction between smashan and 'kabristan'. A relative of a dead person, seeking anonymity, alleged the graveyard authorities are seeking bribes to provide space. “We paid Rs 5,000 and still had to wait three to four hours,” he said. Tuhin Shekhar, who had visited the Baikunth Dham crematorium on Monday to attend a neighbour’s funeral, said: “You need to pay between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 to speed up the cremation. This includes Rs 7,500 for the firewood to prepare a pyre, although Nagar Nigam officials claim the total cost of firewood and other material shouldn’t be more than Rs 4,500.” Modi had dog-whistled the cremation ground-graveyard distinction at an Assembly election rally in Fatehpur on February 19, 2017. “If a 'kabristan' is built in a village, a smashan should also be constructed there,” he had said, implying the then state authorities favoured Muslims. The state government, ruled by Modi’s party, seems to be continuing with the smashan-kabristan distinction. While both crematorium complexes have been fenced on all sides with tin sheets — apparently to hide the ugly Covid truth from people — officials said there were no such plans for the graveyards. Muslims make up 28 per cent of Lucknow’s population of 37 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Farm laws: Farmers renew “Phir Dilli Chalo” call||Farmers protesting against the three new farm laws on Monday gave a “Phir Dilli Chalo” call, announcing a return to the protest sites on the capital’s borders at a time there is a worry the Narendra Modi government might try to cite the pandemic as a reason to forcibly evict the protesters. Arrangements are being made to beef up medical facilities at the protest sites to deal with coronavirus, spread mask awareness and organise vaccination camps in line with government regulations. Briefing mediapersons at Delhi’s Singhu border, Ashish Mittal of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha said the call to return to the protest sites will be given for April 24, the 150th day of the protests. This mobilisation will continue for a week. The All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha is a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farmers from across the country are protesting against laws that they see as their “death warrant”. The mobilisation at Tikri border will begin even earlier, on Wednesday, as Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) — which is not part of the Morcha umbrella but coordinates with it — has given a call for returning to the protest site on April 21. The protests at Delhi’s borders, which began on November 26 last year, had thinned over the past month because farmers had to return to their fields for the harvest. The harvest season has now ended and the mobilisation being planned is also aimed at ensuring a large participation for the march to Parliament scheduled for the first fortnight of May. The march was planned before the second Covid surge engulfed the country. Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, another member of the Morcha, took a dig at the Prime Minister’s “aapda mein avsar (opportunity in a calamity)” call and said the government thinks that because they could do it once, they can do it again. The reference was to the Shaheen Bagh protests, which were lifted when a lockdown was imposed during the Covid surge last year. “This movement is different,” Yadav added, warning that a crackdown on the protests would be counterproductive. Mittal, Yadav and Zafar Mewati of the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Union pointed out how on a day the Prime Minister advised against large gatherings at Kumbh, he spoke glowingly about the large size of the crowd at an election rally in Bengal. On Saturday, when over 2 lakh new coronavirus cases were reported in the country, a visibly elated Modi had told the rally in Asansol he had never seen such a big crowd. The farmer leaders billed Modi’s advice on the Kumbh as “pakhand’’ (hypocrisy). Despite Modi’s call, the Kumbh continues. “The government’s hypocrisy on coronavirus has been exposed. Ministers and leaders have been holding election rallies. They have no right to question others,” Yadav said. The leaders also pointed out that although the farm protests had started way back in June last year, when the government brought the laws as ordinance during the lockdown, until now no Covid hotspot had been reported from any farmer protest site. The farmers had protested from June to November in their own states, seeking a rollback of the three laws. When these went unheeded, they arrived outside Delhi on November 26 and have stayed put, spending a harsh winter in the open and braving a hostile government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Arvind Kejriwal announces 6-day curfew in Delhi amid surge||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day curfew on Monday prompting serpentine queues outside liquor shops and a heavy flow of outbound passengers at the Swami Vivekanand Inter-State Bus Terminus in Anand Vihar. Kejriwal, in a webcast on Monday, said the city’s health infrastructure was bursting at the seams. “If 25,000 cases come up daily then any system can crack… I checked the app today and it showed that there are less than 100 ICU beds in Delhi. There is a shortage of oxygen as well… We are falling short of medicines, especially remdesivir,” he said. To check the rapid spike in Covid cases, he announced a curfew from 10pm on Monday till 5am on April 26 with the usual exemptions for essential services and weddings with only up to 50 people. “The last time when the lockdown was imposed in the entire country, we saw how a large number of migrant workers began returning to their villages. I would like to appeal to them, with my hands folded, this is a short lockdown for six days. Please do not leave Delhi. You would lose a lot of time, money, and energy in travelling. Stay in Delhi. I have full faith that this short period of lockdown would not be extended. We might not have to extend it. Trust me that if we fight this together, we would be able to overcome this. I assure you, the government will take full care of you,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party government, however, is yet to announce any plan to start distributing food to the poor. Migrant workers, already hit by job losses, have flocked to Anand Vihar for buses heading eastwards. The nationwide lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had begun with an eight-day notification in March last year but was repeatedly extended with a gradual reduction in restrictions from May. The current curfew in Delhi exempts most public servants, health workers, vendors, people accessing health services, all establishments and people related to the production, transport and sale of food. Essential services like the financial sector, telecom and broadcasting, fuel, power, manufacturing of essential commodities, journalists, diplomats, security guards, examinees and delivery services are also out of the ambit. While e-passes are being issued for private employees under several of the above categories, they are not required if one is walking. “Persons coming from/going to airports/railway stations/ISBTs are allowed to travel on production of valid ticket,” said a notification by chief secretary Vijay Dev. Public transport, including taxis and autos, will ply but with a cap on the number of passengers. “During curfew, movement of persons for marriage-related gatherings up to 50 persons (on production of soft or hard copy of marriage card) and funeral/last rites-related gatherings up to 20 persons is continued to be allowed. Any other gathering is prohibited,” the notification added. Sports tournaments can be organised in stadiums without an audience. The construction sector, a major employer of daily wage earners in the capital, has only been allowed to operate if workers live on-site — a practice adopted in large projects. Restaurants will remain shut but takeaway and delivery of food, not liquor, will be allowed. On Monday, police had to be deployed outside several liquor stores to control queues that spilled onto thoroughfares where social distancing was absent. “The decision of the Maharashtra government to allow home delivery of liquor has helped contain panic reactions to lockdown there. We urge the Delhi government to think of such steps,” the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies said in a statement. The Indian Railways on Monday stopped the sale of platform tickets at all major stations in the national capital like New Delhi, Old Delhi, Hazrat Nizamuddin and Anand Vihar Terminal hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day curfew. Trains already in operation will continue to run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Covid: Weekend shutdown in urban areas of Odisha||The Odisha government on Monday announced weekend — Saturday and Sunday— shutdown in all the urban areas of the state. The state has already clamped night curfew in all the urban areas of the state. Announcing it Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said: “The second wave of the Covid-19 is spreading at a fast rate. There is no alternative except to strictly implement the new guidelines. It will be effective from April 24. All the emergency services and essential services, including milk booths, distribution of papers and ATMs will be allowed to operate. The people will also be allowed to travel but have to show their tickets.” Jena said: “Marriage and funeral functions will be held with permission of local authority. The organisers will have to give the list of people attending the function. If during the marriage function, any deviation is noticed, the vehicles, band parties will be seized. Action will be taken against the organisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Covid surge: Test must for Kumbh Mela returnees in Odisha||The Odisha government has begun the process to trace people who have returned to the state after attending the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. Locating their whereabouts has become a challenge for the government, but making them undergo Covid-19 tests has become a must in a view of the prevailing situation in the state. The government feels that unless tested and made to undergo mandatory 14-day isolation, the Kumbh returnees were likely to spread the virus in the areas where they are living. Owing to the surge in Covid cases, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday tweeted that his party, Biju Janata Dal (BJD) will not hold public rallies or campaign meetings in Pipili where a bypoll is scheduled to take place on May 13. The by poll had been scheduled for April 17 but it got postponed after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj, 53, died of Covid on Wednesday. “Every life is precious and I always consider people of Odisha as my family members. In this extremely serious Covid-19 situation, the BJD has decided not to hold any political rallies or campaign meetings for Pipili bypoll,”  Naveen said. Terming the BJD as a responsible party that doesn’t want to put the lives of people in danger, Naveen tweeted: “We contest the elections to serve people. If the campaign has potential to endanger lives, I would certainly appeal to political parties to reconsider both the duration and method campaigning.” The chief minister also said that India is a mature democracy and together its people should find a solution to the virus. Naveen’s tweet came at a point when the Leader of Opposition and senior BJP leader Pradeepta Naik has tested positive and has undergone self-isolation. On the Kumbh Mela returnees, special relief commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “We have asked the district administrations to trace the people who had gone to the Kumba Mela. We are also in touch with the Uttarakhand government. We have made a 14-day quarantine mandatory for all those returning from the Mela.” The state government has also asked these people to get their RT-PCR test done before entering the state. Though, the state claimed that around 400 people of 150 families have attended the Mela, it still suspects more people might have gone there from Delhi and other cities and returned to Odisha. “We have appealed to all the people to cooperate. We don’t want to take any risk at this point. Direction has been issued to collectors and municipal bodies to contact all these returnees and find out the location, travel plan and ensure that their RT-PCR test is done before boarding train or flights,” a senior official said. The number of deaths in the state reached 1,948 with the death of another four persons. Odisha on Monday registered the highest ever spike of 4,445 cases. The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has said as many as 50 people linked to the temple have tested positive. They include servitors, workers at the shoe stand and staff of the temple administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||India||Odisha govt constitutes special squads for Covid-19 medicines||The Odisha government has constituted a state-level committee under the leadership of additional director general (ADG), Crime Branch, to keep a tab on the shortage and black marketing of Covid-19 medicines and supplies. Crime Branch ADG Yaswant Kumar Jethwa told reporters, “Flying squads have been constituted to keep a tab on the movement of medicines. While seven flying squads would work in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack another 15 flying squads would work in the rest of the state. They will conduct intensive drive to ensure that there is no hoarding and black marketing of medicines.” Jethwa warned of criminal action if anyone indulged in unethical practices. As per the state government order, it would conduct raids and verify the stocks. The district police and commissionerate police will assist and coordinate with the special squads to ensure that there is no illegal trade of these essential medicines. The team includes members of the enforcement wing of Drug Controller, Crime Branch and police. The ADG claimed that they have not yet received any complaint of any illegal trade of Covid medicines though they have come across media reports in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-201
20-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC urges Bengal CEO to club last three phases of polls amid Covid crisis||The TMC, which had been seeking a merger of the last three phases of assembly elections, shot off a letter to Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab on Tuesday, urging him to consider the party's request amid the steep hike in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee, during her rallies on Monday, had also implored the Election Commission to re-think its decision to stick to the original poll schedule. The letter, undersigned by TMC leaders Derek O Brien, Sukendu Sekhar Roy, Pratima Mondol, and Purnendu Bose, highlighted the High Court order that directed the CEO to take urgent measures to avert a "deadly disaster that is staring at our faces" and said that "no prejudice would be caused if the three phases are clubbed into one". It further said that the steps taken by the EC to curb the spread of the disease such as curtailment of campaign hours are "cosmetic" as the critical human resource will continue to remain engaged on election duty. "Two equally important issues are at stake: the right to life and public health and the right to hold elections. It is pertinent to note that the Constitution of India has empowered the Election Commission of India to make this choice," the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM Modi to hold rallies on a single day instead of two||The BJP has so far stuck to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s four-rally plan for the remaining phases in Bengal but indicated that the events would be held on a single day instead of two and efforts would be made to restrict the turnout to between 500 and 1,000. The tinkering was disclosed after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced her decision to limit the number of her rallies in Calcutta to one and shorten the duration of her speeches. Mamata renewed a fervent appeal to the Election Commission of India to club the remaining three phases of the polls. “The Election Commission should take note of the situation and conduct elections in these remaining phases in one or at least two phases. We had raised the demand earlier…. But it seems that as the Prime Minister is scheduled to campaign here till April 23, they didn’t take the decision,” Mamata told a North Dinajpur rally. “I will not hold any major rallies or programmes in Calcutta except the one in north Calcutta on April 26.… Besides, I have curtailed the duration of my election meetings. Instead of addressing the meetings for 20 to 30 minutes, I’m speaking for 10 to 15 minutes at best, considering the situation,” Mamata told a news conference in Malda. “I cannot comment on what other political parties would do but we will definitely act rationally during the election campaign, taking into consideration the prevailing situation.” The CPM had been the first party to announce that it would not hold large rallies and would focus on door-to-door and virtual campaigns. The party has also booked slots with television and radio channels to reach out to voters. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi declared on Sunday that he was cancelling all his rallies in Bengal. While most political parties have responded to the crisis by shelving their plans to organise major political programmes, BJP sources said the party’s plans to organise four mega rallies for the Prime Minister till the last phase of the polls would not be altered. Modi was supposed to address two rallies each in Behrampore and Malda on April 22 and in Suri and south Calcutta on April 24. He will now address all the four rallies on April 23, a source said. “The Prime Minister’s Office has asked us to take necessary precautions during his public meetings and ensure strict adherence to coronavirus protocols. This is why we are clubbing the four rallies together,” said a state BJP office-bearer who is the coordinator for Modi’s rallies. On Monday night, the BJP central office announced that only 500 to 1,000 people would be asked to be physically present at these rallies. Others will be “advised and encouraged” to stay at home and watch the meetings on their television sets or on social media, the source said. Besides, the number of giant screens will be increased. The BJP’s plan to stick to the Prime Minister’s four-meeting schedule is likely to arm Mamata, who has been accusing Modi of mishandling the Covid crisis, with more ammunition to go after the Prime Minister. The Trinamul ecosystem dropped a hint about the campaign plan on Monday, with several leaders comparing the BJP and Trinamul responses to the second wave of the pandemic. On Monday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra posted a tweet calling out both the ECI and the BJP for not invoking the Epidemic Act amid the coronavirus crisis. “Why is @ECISVEEP (ECI) hell bent on killing us all? Why can the Epidemic Act not be invoked & voting clubbed together? How is BJP candidate’s right to campaign superior to voter’s right to life? This is insane @ECISVEEP,” she tweeted. Senior Trinamul leader Purnendu Basu held a news conference in the morning to explain how the lives of the people of Bengal were more important to Trinamul. Later in the day, the chief minister repeated her allegation and accused the saffron party of spreading the infection by bringing “outsiders” into the state. “They have brought in thousands of hired miscreants from other states to Bengal…. These people are spreading Covid,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||10-year-old hit by BJP worker for refusal to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Nadia||A BJP worker allegedly thrashed a 10-year-old boy over his refusal to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ on Monday afternoon when the child was passing by the tea stall owned by the party activist at Phulia in Nadia. The Class IV student, Mahadev Sharma, who had recently lost his mother, was admitted to the Ranaghat Subdivisional Hospital with multiple injuries. The incident angered local residents, who beat up the accused, Mahadeb Pramanik, the tea stall owner at Phuliapara. The protesters also raised a blockade on NH12 demanding Pramanik’s arrest. Intervening in the matter on a suo motu basis, police began a probe and managed to lift the blockade after an hour. The police assured the protesters that the accused would be arrested. Sources, however, said Pramanik — husband of Mithu Pramanik, the local chief of the BJP’s women’s wing — had fled The police have said the boy is the son of a carpenter who is a known Trinamul Congress supporter. “The boy was passing by Pramanik’s tea stall. He was singled out because of his father’s leanings. This was evident because Pramanik summoned him and began verbally abusing the boy’s father over his Trinamul leanings,” said a witness, adding Pramanik seemed particularly irked by the child’s father’s recent “proactive involvement” during polls here on April 17. “He started threatening the boy and wanted him to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, which the boy refused,” the witness added. Sharma was then reportedly thrashed by Pramanik until a few villagers rushed in to help. Sharma, who was still in an apparent trauma, said from hospital bed: “He (Pramanik) insisted I chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and was abusing my father. When I refused, he started to beat and slap me, and then kick me. Luckily, some locals rushed in to help.” Hospital sources said the boy had suffered injuries to his face, head and back, and had been advised a CT scan. “The boy is in trauma, but is medically stable,” said a physician. Peter Mukherjee, a local Trinamul youth wing leader, said: “Some villagers rescued the boy in a semi-conscious state and informed me. “I immediately rushed to the spot and took him to the hospital. The incident proved yet again how cruel the BJP can be. It is unimaginable that he did not spare even a child who lost his mother.” Mahila Morcha leader Mithu Pramanik, wife of the accused, acknowledged the attack, but blamed the boy for alleged provocation. “It is true that my husband asked the boy to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. But he said it jovially as he often does with many because the boy is known to him…. In fact, some customers who were present at the shop also retorted in jest that the boy should ask my husband to chant ‘Jai Bangla’. But the boy picked up a stone and threw it the shop, breaking glass containers. This made my husband lose his cool and he slapped him for the damages,” she claimed. “It is unfortunate that Trinamul is using the incident to malign us,” she added. The boy’s father, Shyamchand Sharma, said he could have never imagined that his 10-year-old son could be subjected to violence for his political leanings. “On the day of the election, BJP workers had been trying to influence voters, which I protested against. So, it appears they took revenge by attacking my son,” he said. Santipur police said a probe had already been launched. “A police team has also visited the home of the accused. We are trying to find out what exactly happened. However, till evening, no formal complaint has been lodged,” said an official. BJP worker Akhil Pramanik, 36, was found hanging from a tree in his courtyard at Kalna on Monday, prompting the party to accuse Trinamul of murdering him. Kalna police have started a probe after the wife of the BJP worker lodged a murder complaint. BJP leaders said Pramanik was an active party worker in the area and had recently been threatened by goons with dire consequences if he did not stay away from the BJP. Trinamul said Pramanik had killed himself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bypolls in two Murshidabad constituencies on May 13, Muslims seek change||The Election Commission of India on Monday issued a notification declaring May 13 as the rescheduled date of elections in Murshidabad’s Samserganj and Jangipur constituencies, where Sanyukta Morcha candidates — from the Congress and the RSP, respectively — succumbed to Covid-19 last week. In Samserganj, Congress nominee Rezaul Haque passed away on Thursday after undergoing treatment for over a week, whereas the RSP’s Jangipur nominee Pradip Nandy passed away at the Behrampore Covid Hospital on Friday. The election notification, however, prompted protests from Muslims in both the constituencies, where the minority community’s population is over 80 per cent. “Id is scheduled for May 14 to mark the end of Ramazan. Sometimes, the day comes forward, according to the moon sighting. Why couldn’t they schedule it for May 15?” asked Abdur Razzak, Murshidabad president of the All India Imam and Moazzem Organisation, accusing the commission of bias. He said he would petition the district magistrate — also the district election officer — for a change. District magistrate Sharad Dwivedi declined comments. Sources, however, said the commission norms had to be followed with regard to the election date. The notification has not gone down well with the Trinamul Congress’s Samserganj MLA and candidate Amirul Islam, who on Monday wrote an email to the commission demanding a date change. The party’s district president and MP Abu Taher Khan also reportedly wrote to the district magistrate. The CPM also formally asked the commission to reconsider the date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP trio on campaign trail in North Dinajpur||Three senior leaders of the BJP on Monday reached North Dinajpur, a district with nine Assembly seats where elections would be held in the sixth phase (on April 22), and underscored the promises which the party had mentioned in its election manifesto for Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP chief J.P. Nadda turned up in the district on the final day of the campaign. While Shah spoke at a public meeting in Chakulia and attended two road shows, Singh addressed public meetings in Goalpokhor and Itahar. Nadda, on the other hand, attended a road show in Raiganj, the district headquarter. “We are confident that the BJP will come in power and implement the Citizenship Amendment Act…. Citizenship will be provided to the Matua community. North Bengal has been deprived of development by the parties which had been in power so far,” said Shah. The defence minister said the BJP would secure the majority mark in the 294-seat Bengal Assembly. “Elections have been held in five phases and the trends are favourable for us. People want a change as they have given 10 years to Mamata Banerjee. It is not a short time and many commitments could have been met,” Singh said. In 2019, the BJP had managed to secure the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat, even though the district has a minority population close to 50 per cent. In North Dinajpur, the BJP has not won a single Assembly seat in recent times. Back in 2011, Trinamul and Left had won three seats each, while two went to the Congress. An independent had won another seat. In 2016, Trinamul managed to win five seats, while two each went to the Congress and the Left Front. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul could secure lead in five Assembly segments, while the BJP came first in the remaining four. Political observers pointed out that in the Parliament elections, BJP leaders had played the polarisation card and time and again referred to the Daribhit incident where two youths had died in a firing while protesting against the recruitment of some teachers in a school. “The strategy had worked for them. Unlike other seats, both the CPM and the Congress had contested in Raiganj and minority votes were shared among these two parties and Trinamul. But this time, the Congress and the CPM are allies and it seems the contest would be tough for the BJP. That is why top leaders and central ministers campaigned extensively on the final day of the campaign,” said an observer. In his speech, the Union home minister played the development card. “We will constitute a development board for north Bengal with an allocation of Rs 3,000 crore… the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose national highway that would connect Calcutta with Siliguri would be built and a central university would be set up in the region,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Race to contain virus in north Bengal||The sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in north Bengal, especially in districts like Malda and Darjeeling, has made the state health department and some political parties in the hills draw up new plans to combat the situation. On Monday, state tourism minister Gautam Deb held an emergency meeting with officials of the Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri district administrations and the health department. At the meeting, it was decided that safe homes would be reopened and the number of beds would be increased at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri to accommodate more patients. A separate post of a nodal official will be created in the health department for the NBMCH and also a special cell would be constituted in Siliguri for regular monitoring of Covid patients. “The safe home (for treatment of Covid patients with mild symptoms) at Siliguri Municipal Corporation’s indoor stadium will reopen. Similarly, two other safe homes, which were earlier operational at Limbutari in Phansidewa block and at Batasi in Naxalbari block (both in Siliguri subdivision), will be made functional again,” said Deb. In the Darjeeling hills, where new cases have been reported, the GTA has also come up with some plans. According to sources, three people tested positive for the disease in Darjeeling municipality and two at Sukhiapokhri in the hills on Sunday. As of now, 21 people are under treatment at Triveni Covid hospital near Teesta. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) has decided to set up helpdesks in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik. “We will soon start the help desks. Party workers have been requested to activate surveillance teams which were formed earlier in all 45 constituencies of the GTA to help Covid-19 positive families coordinate on different fronts,” said Anit Thapa, general secretary, Morcha (Binay camp). Sources in the health department have said only one safe home — at Hatighisa (around 25km from Siliguri) — is operational now. “There has been a steady surge in Covid 19 cases in the past fortnight. The data of RT-PCR tests with us show 2,300 cases were reported in Malda, which is highest in any north Bengal district, from April 1 to 17. During the same period, 1,174 new cases have been detected in Darjeeling district,” said an official. In these 17 days, the number of cases also increased in Jalpaiguri (733) and North Dinajpur (698). But it is comparatively less in South Dinajpur (322), Cooch Behar (245), Alipurduar (130) and in Kalimpong (88). “We are testing around 1,400 samples every day at the VRD lab in the NBMCH,” the official said. Later in the afternoon, Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal, held a meeting at the NBMCH. After the meeting, he said 110 beds were available at the hospital for treatment of Covid patients. “We have identified four more wards where 96 more HDU beds will be made available for Covid patients. Also, the new safe house at the indoor stadium will be operational with a capacity of 70 beds,” he said. According to him, the health department has no immediate plans to take over any private clinic for treatment of Covid patients in Siliguri. In Jalpaiguri, the health department reopened the female department of the Covid-19 hospital in Biswa Bangla Krirangan on Monday. The surge in infections has left residents of the town perturbed, particularly because the vaccination has stopped at the Jalpaiguri district hospital since April 15 because of shortage of vaccines. “We are supposed to receive around 14,000 of vaccines on Tuesday and would immediately resume vaccination,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Supreme Court bins plea for VVPAT match||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed Trinamul Congress leader Gopal Seth’s plea seeking a directive to the Election Commission of India for physical verification of EVMs using 100 per cent VVPAT (Voter-Verified Paper Audit Trial) assistance during the ongoing Bengal Assembly polls. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian dismissed the plea after noting that since polling had already taken place in some phases, it would not be appropriate to pass any directive at this juncture. “Voting is over. We are not going to interfere in the middle of the election process…” the CJI told advocate Pijush Kanti Roy who appeared for Seth. In response to a query from the bench, the counsel said the petitioner had made an earlier representation to the Election Commission on the issue. He said while the Election Commission had appreciated his plea, it had not passed any directive and so, he was constrained to approach the Supreme Court for appropriate strictures. “I am not seeking interference. The ECI has appreciated my request. Free and fair election is a right,” advocate Roy said, to which Justice Bobde replied: “ We agree with you on this, but we will not interfere.” Later, the court dismissed the petition. On May 7, 2019, 21 Opposition parties had suffered a  major setback after the Supreme Court had dismissed their plea for subjecting 50 per cent of the polling booths in the remaining phase of the general election to VVPAT of the EVMs to ensure transparency. At that time, the Opposition parties led by TDP’s N. Chandrababu Naidu, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and CPI leader D. Raja had cited various instances of malfunctioning of EVMs. The Opposition had pleaded that “…after the passing of the impugned order (April 8), the first Phase of Polling for General Elections has taken place and number of EVMs and VVP Ats across the country have been found to be defective and faulty”. “It · has been reported that in some cases where voters would vote for one party, EVM would record their vote having been cast for another party. In constituencies where EVMs or VVP ATs were found defective, polling had to be delayed and, in some cases, went on till wee hours of the the morning. Further, law and order problems were reported in many areas where supporters of political parties clashed against each other,” read their plea. However, on February 24 last year, the Supreme Court had granted weeks to the Election Commission to file its reply to a joint PIL filed by NGOs — Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) and Common Cause — alleging large scale discrepancies in the final tally of votes declared by the Election Commission after the 2019 general election. The petitioner had earlier alleged that as against the provisional lists announced by the poll body, so much so it was claimed that in six Lok Sabha constituencies, the discrepancies were more than the winning margin. However, the matter did not come up for further hearing thereafter in view of the prevailing pandemic. Elections to the 17th Lok Sabha were conducted in seven phases and covered 542 constituencies starting from April 11, 2019. The provisional results were announced on May 23, 2019. But the final tally of votes released by the EC in June indicated several discrepancies with the provisional votes declared on May 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP supporters protest attack on Gopal Chandra Saha in Malda||Hundreds of BJP supporters hit the streets of Malda district on Monday to protest the attack on Malda party candidate Gopal Chandra Saha. On Sunday night, miscreants had fired at Saha while he was returning from campaign. He is still under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. Family members of Saha have filed a complaint with police. “They have not named anybody in the attack. A person has been detained in connection with the attack,” said a source in the district police. The investigators suspect a sharpshooter was engaged to kill Saha. While he was moving through Sahapur in Old Malda, the incident happened. “The bullet had hit his neck. We suspect a professional shooter was involved in the case,” a police officer said. Doctors said they had extricated the bullet. “He is under observation,” said a doctor. On Monday, state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu and district BJP leaders visited the medical college and spoke to doctors about Saha’s condition. Basu said: “We do not want to politicise the incident. Police are investigating the case. We have come to the hospital to know about his condition. He is better and would hopefully resume his campaign shortly.” Trinamul leaders have distanced themselves from the attack and said it might have been the consequence of internal feuds of the BJP. “We have heard there was opposition within the party when Saha was named as the candidate. Also, a BJP dissident was deterred from submitting nominations as an Independent. We hope the police will unveil the truth. Trinamul has no connection with the incident,” said Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for Trinamul’s Malda district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC shifts 4 cops before voting||The Election Commission of India on Monday transferred four IPS officers in the districts where Assembly polls would be held in the next three phases and the Trinamul Congress accused the poll panel of acting at the behest of the BJP and transferring officers without consulting the state government. In an order issued by EC secretary Arvind Anand, the superintendents of police of Birbhum and East Burdwan were transferred, along with the Asansol-Durgapur commissioner of police and the Bolpur subdivisional police officer. The EC has posted Ajeet Kumar Singh as the SP of East Burdwan in place of Bhaskar Mukherji, while Nagendra Nath Tripathi has been appointed as the SP of Birbhum in place of Miraj Khalid. Besides, the poll panel has sent Mitesh Jain to take over as the CP of Asansol-Durgapur to replace Sukesh Jain, while Nagraj Devarakonda has been appointed as the SDPO of Bolpur in Birbhum to replace Abhishek Roy in the post. Trinamul termed the poll panel as “extremely compromised”. “EC = Extremely Compromised. EC transfers 4 officers, 48 hours before poll and almost 45 days after the Model (Modi) Code of Conduct has come into effect,” Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien tweeted. Trinamul was especially livid with the appointment of Nagendra Nath Tripathi, who was attached to the Nandigram police station just ahead of the second phase of the elections when Nandigram Assembly segment went to the polls, as the Birbhum SP. The Nandigram Assembly segment was a sensitive seat for the EC as chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari contested against each other. Tripathi had drawn attention after he had told the chief minister on her face during her sit-in at a booth during the voting that he would not do anything that would stain his uniform. “NN Tripathi, same person who was made in-charge of Nandigram, now shifted to Birbhum,” Derek O’Brien tweeted. Sources in the ruling party said the EC had made it clear that it was heavily influenced by the BJP after it had sent Tripathi to Birbhum, known to be a Trinamul stronghold. “Tripathi made the BJP bosses happy with his activities in Nandigram... Now, the BJP wants Tripathi in Birbhum as we have a strong organisation there,” said a Trinamul leader. Sources in the poll panel said the officers who were transferred had specific complaints against them. Trinamul alleged all the complaints against the officers transferred on Monday had been lodged by the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt ramps up Covid treatment facilities||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said there was nothing to panic about the Covid-19 situation in Bengal as the state government was taking all necessary steps to keep the spread under control and provide treatment to affected people. “There is no reason to panic... We have about 2,000 serious patients these days, who have comorbidities. We have taken steps to set up 4,500 more beds, of which 1,000 have already been added to the facilities,” said the chief minister in Malda on Monday. The assurance by the chief minister holds significance at a time the number of active cases in the state crossed 57,000 on Monday. “The chief minister wanted to assure people that the state government is aware of the situation and there is no scarcity of beds for Covid-19 patients at the moment,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said Mamata mentioned the figure of serious patients to make it clear that people should not press the panic button right at the moment as the majority of the infected had either mild or no symptoms. At the same time, the chief minister assured people that there would be no shortage of beds in the state in case more serious patients turned up at hospitals. “In greater Calcutta, we have 3,200 beds and 1,000 more beds have been added to the facilities. Besides, we have more than 200 safe homes and other centres where patients could get proper treatment,” said Mamata. Soon after the chief minister announced plans to add more beds to the 100-odd Covid treatment facilities, the top brass of the state government held a meeting with the authorities of private hospitals in and around Calcutta on Monday evening. “We want the private hospitals to increase Covid beds by 20 per cent more than what they had in October last year when the pandemic had reached its peak during the first wave,” said a source, adding that the focus was on Calcutta and its surroundings where majority of the cases were detected. Mamata said there was a scarcity of vaccines and essential medicines and she had written letters to the Prime Minister requesting him to look into the issues. Sources in the state administration said the chief minister was trying to step up the infrastructure to deal with the second wave of the pandemic and simultaneously, she was trying to ensure that panic didn’t set in. “She is aware that if panic sets in, it would affect the local economy, which is yet to come out of the ill-effect of the lockdown. If the local economy is affected once again, it would spell a disaster. So, she is trying to deal with the situation by enhancing treatment facilities,” said a source. As a part of enhancing the facilities, the government has engaged all senior IAS officers in the effort and they have been given responsibilities of one district each. They will help the district authorities to take proper steps and at the same time, they would act as a bridge between Nabanna and the districts. After governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had sought a report on Covid-19 situation in the state, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay met him and briefed him on the steps the state had initiated to contain the spread of the disease. The state government has also decided to increase beds at safe homes in Calcutta considering the fact that cases were rising alarmingly in the city. “Uttirno, an open air stadium in Alipore would be converted into a 500-bed safe home for Covid patients. Similarly, there will be a 200-bed Covid safe home in Gitanjali stadium. We are looking for some more facilities where safe homes would be set up,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: RSS engages ABVP to drum up support for BJP candidates in Malda||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has engaged its student front Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad to drum up support for BJP candidates in Malda, which is the largest district in north Bengal with the highest number of Assembly seats and has over 50 per cent minority population. Although the ABVP has a presence in north Bengal, its activities are hardly visible during the Assembly elections. But the scene is different in Malda this time. “Unlike most other districts in the region, the ABVP is actively working in Malda ahead of the Assembly elections. Its leaders and workers are roaming around, handing over leaflets to people, interacting with youths and organising different events. It seems the students’ organisation wants to draw support from the young generation through its nationalist narrative,” said a political observer. ABVP deputy organisational head Srinivas led a run in Malda on Sunday. The event that was flagged off from the pedestal of Shyamaprasad Mookerjee drew over 100 participants carrying ABVP flags. “I have been travelling across Bengal for the past six months and urging youths to take initiatives for the formation of a government that will have a development vision. Bengal has been ruled by different parties for the past 70 years and the agenda of development has taken a backseat. What is prevalent nowadays is blatant appeasement,” said the ABVP leader. Along with the ABVP, another RSS-backed outfit Vishwa Hindu Parishad is also working in the district, especially in tribal belts. “We are urging people to vote for a party that can form a transparent state government and will work on principles of nationalism,” said Bidrohi Sarkar, a VHP leader. The Trinamul Congress said the saffron brigade’s such initiatives wouldn’t yield electoral dividends. “People are well aware that these organisations work to divide them on religious lines. Malda residents will never back them. They have also seen the miserable performance of Malda North BJP MP who could not do anything for the district in the first two years of his tenure,” said Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a senior Trinamul leader in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Six held with firearms, abduct plan foiled in Cooch Behar||Six persons apparently had plans to abduct a foreign liquor shop owner were arrested after arms and ammunitions were seized from their possession here early on Monday. Debasish Dhar, the superintendent of police, Cooch Behar, said the gang had plans to abduct the businessman and had assembled at a house in Bharat Colony of the town. “Two firearms and some live ammunition have been seized from them. Among them, two persons, who are suspected to have criminal records, were hired and brought in from other states for the crime,” the SP said. Those arrested have been identified as Bandhan Roy and Bharat Burman, both residents of Dinhata, Basudeb Sarkar, who hail from the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, Sanjay Paswan from Dhubri district of Assam and Rajesh Kumar and Shivam Sahoo both residents of Uttar Pradesh. Two firearms, nine rounds of 7.6mm bullets and one round of 8mm bullet have been seized from them, said a police officer. “Basudeb Sarkar had taken a house on rent at Bharat Colony and others joined him in due course. They had also hired the duo from Uttar Pradesh. We need to interrogate them further for more information,” added the district police chief. Around 300 school students blocked the Alipurduar-Falakata state highway at Tapshikhata, on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, for three hours on Monday noon after a school girl was mowed down by a truck early in the morning. The blockade was withdrawn after local block officers assured the students of proper traffic vigilance on the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amartya Sen backs ‘local’, not ‘central’||Economist and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen said this election had sharpened the communal divisions that Bengal’s luminaries, from Rabindranath Tagore to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, had “worked hard to replace with a peaceful understanding”. “The fanning of the dangerous flames of communal divisions has not occurred as strongly in Bengal since 1946, as it is happening now,” Sen said in an interview to PTI. “What Mahatma Gandhi did in the 1940s can be undone with a huge cost and sacrifice in Bengal, and this evil negation has unfortunately received much encouragement in this election. Bengal wants unity, not divisions — as Gandhiji so clearly explained.” Bengal should not have to be a party to “that national degeneration”, Sen said, when asked if the Assembly elections would have a bearing on national politics. “If Bengal ends up being governed by central rulers, not local leaders, it will vastly strengthen the concentration of power in India in the hands of those whose conception of minority rights is extremely limited and whose record on economic policy and social justice seems seriously defective,” he said. “The BJP-rule has not been particularly good for the country, with its huge neglect of the poor, mistreatment of minorities, messing up of the economy and mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis,” the economist said. There are reasons to scrutinise sharply the priorities of the ruling party in India that makes them so single-mindedly concerned about winning the elections in Bengal, he added. “The Mamata Banerjee government has taken a number of good initiatives, including the launch of its welfare programmes, especially the ones for girls. Also, the beneficial expansion of rural infrastructure (including much-needed rural roads), and very importantly a workable system of food security are worth appreciation,” the Nobel laureate said. The fact that children in Bengal, despite their families having smaller incomes than, say, families in Gujarat, seem to have better health conditions than Gujarat’s children is a tribute to the governance in Bengal, Sen said. “But there are gaps too that need to be addressed, including corruption check,” he added. Asked about the “outsider-insider” debate launched by Trinamul’s description of the BJP as a party of outsiders, Sen said it is “certainly a bad thing” because Bengal has historically been tolerant to outsiders. “There have never been movements against, say, Tamil or Malayali immigration into Bengal, unlike what happened in, say, Bombay. It is always unfortunate if anti-outsider criticisms have to be used — it is certainly a bad thing,” he said. But, he argued, “when one of the major political contenders in the electoral battles portrays a part of the ‘insider’ population of Bengal — in particular, Bengali Muslims — as less deserving of support, while deriving their strength from the support of Hindu activists coming originally from outside Bengal, the dividing lines are hard to be kept pure”. The reference was to the BJP’s campaign that has included branding of Muslims as Bangladeshis. The “outsider-insider” issue demands a fuller political analysis and it is important to understand that “excluding resident outsiders is always a bad thing, but excluding resident insiders is far more illegitimate”, Sen explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: A cottage  industry thrives around bomb-making every election season||Elections are back with a bang, literally. Ballots in Bengal have spawned a cottage industry over the years — that of bomb-making. Political clashes before polls have often involved crude bombs and many lives have been lost, prompting police crackdowns in which large caches of explosives have been seized. Bomb-making, however, continues unabated. “Do you think BJP and CPM workers will reciprocate with rosogollas if Trinamul men hurl bombs at them?” asked a 45-year-old crude bomb-maker in Birbhum’s Nanoor, breaking into laughter. “Yes, we get orders to make bombs from both the ruling party of the day and those in the Opposition. Bombs are a badge of strength. Those who have more goons and bombs are stronger. It is a weapon. Can the army fight with bamboo sticks against opponents armed with AK-47 rifles?” he asked, requesting anonymity. “Election is like war time. The demand for bomb-makers and explosives increases before polls. Political parties start stocking bombs a few months before elections,” he said. Central Bengal districts such as Birbhum, East and West Burdwan, Murshidabad and Malda witness frequent clashes with bombs. The use of bombs is not uncommon also in North and South 24-Parganas and some north Bengal districts. Politicians this newspaper spoke to said the practice of using bombs during elections dated back decades. Besides political murders, bombs are used to spread panic or to take control of villages after elections are declared. According to police records, 2,000 crude bombs have been recovered in the past year only in Birbhum. The number is around 250 since the elections were declared in February. Police sources said at least a dozen complaints had been lodged over clashes with bombs. Bombs stocked in vacant government establishments like ICDS centres, abandoned buildings of health centres and other places have often accidentally gone off in Birbhum, the sources said. A senior police officer who has served in Birbhum for at least 10 years said the stocks of crude bombs appeared unending. “We get tired recovering bombs but the stocks never end. This has been continuing since CPM rule,” the officer said, preferring anonymity. The bomb-maker this newspaper spoke to said he had no idea that a seven-year-old boy in Burdwan town had died on March 22 while playing with a crude bomb that he had apparently mistaken for a ball. “It was the fault of the local people who had stocked bombs…. But do you know how many people lose their limbs preparing bombs? No political party looks after them after they become useless,” he said. Sources said three types of crude bombs were usually used in political fights —known locally as sutli (tied with jute cord), kouto (explosives crammed into an iron canister) and socket (explosives stuffed into an iron pipe whose two sides are closed). A sutli bomb costs Rs 500, a kouto bomb can be had at Rs 600 and a socket is sold at Rs 1,000-Rs 1,200. “A bomb-maker charges Rs 150 to prepare a crude bomb (sutli). Every poll season, I receive orders for at least 100 crude bombs,” the bomb-maker said. “We earn between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh by making crude bombs during elections. Orders come from all the prominent political parties. At the beginning, the fight was between the CPM and the Congress, then it was the CPM and the Trinamul Congress. Now, it is between Trinamul and the BJP…. The business is alive,” he added. In February, junior minister Jakir Hossain and 10 Trinamul workers suffered splinter injuries when unidentified people hurled around a dozen crude bombs at them at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad. Political leaders did not deny the use of crude bombs during elections but passed the buck onto each other. Recently, the BJP candidate from Bolpur, Anirban Ganguly, had accused Trinamul of stocking crude bombs and demanded that all booths in Birbhum be declared as sensitive. Abhijit Tah, the BJP president of East Burdwan, said: “It is Trinamul that always uses crude bombs to create panic among voters and threaten our leaders in the villages. The BJP does not believe in such violent tactics. Trinamul claims that we use bombs but people know the allegations are false.” Birbhum Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal alleged that the CPM had started the culture of using bombs and now the BJP was emulating it. “The CPM used bombs to manipulate elections. Now, a large number of CPM goons have joined the BJP and are using bombs freely,” Mondal said. The CPM distanced itself from such claims. “Those who fight with bombs are criminals, not political persons. It is unfortunate that some political parties are using bombs,” said Goutam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member. Asked about the allegation that the CPM had encouraged the use of bombs, Ghosh said: “Our party never supported such people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Never an outsider in Calcutta||I was born in a house whose walls were carpet-bombed with framed portraits, many of which were of blood relatives I had never heard of, let alone seen. Those impossible not to recognise were not related to us at all: Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel…. My home was not godless but even the original triumvirate of Vishnu-Shiva (Brahma’s pictures are usually kept out) found themselves on a lower pedestal — not because of any discrimination but probably driven by the practical reason that the lamps would be within the reach of the children to be lit at dawn and dusk, every day if possible or occasionally in those days of easy forgiveness. Still it is undeniable that the Mahatma, Panditji and Sardar commanded at my home a higher profile, so to speak. They were surrounded by a legion of lords, which included Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the scholar and the second President of the Republic, and C. Rajagopalachari, freedom fighter, the first governor of West Bengal and the last governor-general of India. My life has been inextricably linked to S. Radhakrishnan and Rajaji for the facile and uncomplicated reason that my parents, products of the Nehruvian age, chose to name my brother and me after the two national figures. I was not particularly — and prophetically — fond of the name. One, even after sandpapering the edges (which made me Rajagopal, not Rajagopalachari), it was a decidedly unfashionable name. Rajiv and Sanjay (or Sanjeev) were the names that were hot then, which derived their firepower from the sons of Indira Gandhi. In the 20th century, such choices were commonplace. I was told my grandfather wrote to Gandhiji — even though they did not know each other — when my father was born, requesting that the Mahatma suggest a name for the newborn. Gandhiji apparently wrote back saying one of his sons was named Ramdas and it’s a name that he likes. I used the disclaimer “apparently” because I have no evidence, documentary or otherwise, other than the fact that my father was indeed named Ramadas. Two, I could figure out from the faint shadow of annoyance that crossed faces that it is a curse to be saddled with a name that has more than three or four letters. So, I generally ended up being called “Raj” or “Rajan” in Trivandrum (before it was reborn as Thiruvananthapuram, by when I had left the Kerala capital.) I suspect my brother Radhakrishan paid a higher price. Introduced, it would be a matter of moments before he would be called “Radha” (good for gender-sensitivity but bad for interpersonal relations with school bullies). So, although “Raj” and “Rajan” had given me a fair warning early in life, nothing prepared me for the breathtaking metamorphoses my name would undergo once I reached Calcutta to pursue a career in journalism. Here, “Raja” is the most popular derivative — among the callers, not the called. The shortened name offers opportunities at humour — and sometimes fake humility —– so that gems like “Tumi Raja, ami Praja” can be flashed. The next day, the name can become “Rajagopala”, “Rajagopale” and then “Rajagopalan”, only to take a longer leap to “Rajagopalachari” with a pause to decide if it is “Rajagopalacharya” or “Rajagopalacharjee (my favourite as it makes me a Bengali without having to wait for the CAA to be implemented.) Then there is the delayed letdown. Just when I heave a sigh of relief at being addressed as “Rajagopal”, the damper must surely follow with a wedge in between: it is almost always “Raja Gopal”, rarely Rajagopal. On the phone, some commit the cardinal sin of adding a dramatic twist by making it “Raj Gopal” (the effect of the name “Raj” for heroes in Hindi movies). But, should they come face to face, they rapidly correct themselves and change the call sign to “Raja Gopal”, my girth and the rest of the appearance curing them of any illusions of heroics in me. Make no mistake. By no means is the name-calling a one-sided match. My atrocious pronunciation mercilessly butchers almost every Bengali name. I plead guilty as charged on this count. But in the 30 years I have lived in Calcutta, I have mostly not felt hurt or offended at my name being mispronounced or misspelled. In fact, my name has often acted as an ice-breaker or a conversation-starter that led to delightful anecdotes. One day in Calcutta, I found myself in a roomful of Indians and a bewildered Scot who was struggling to remember names like “Gopalakrishnan”, “Parthasarathi”, “Achyut”, “Damodar”, “Brijesh”, “Keshav”, “Nandlal” and, of course, “Rajagopal”. The problem was solved when an enterprising gentleman told the foreigner: “All these names have the same meaning. You can just call them Krishna1, Krishna2, Krishna3….” My name has also bailed me out of tricky (and potentially physically perilous) situations. Soon after I reached Calcutta in 1991, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eeelam (LTTE or Tamil Tigers). I had moved to a PG accommodation, woken up to find the taps dry and, consumed by indignation, had rushed to the landlord to enquire. A bear of a man, the landlord sized me up and took in my scrawny frame but asked with respect bordering on slight hesitation: “Are you a Tamil Tiger?” It was then that I realised in my anger, I had marched up to the landlord in a lungi that was tied at half-mast (I did so involuntarily to ensure that I did not trip but forgot for a moment that it is a universal sign for a call to arms). I also realised that the landlord was genuinely grappling with a snowballing doubt: did he give shelter to a terrorist? I did not mind at all. Neither did I smell any racist or ethnic slur. A manhunt was then going on across the country for possible collaborators who took part in the plot to assassinate Rajiv. I burst out laughing and he called me “Rajagopalachari” while calming me down with an endearing mix of Hindi and Bengali: “Rajagopalachari, shant ho jaiye, shant ho jaiye, jol aashbe, jol aashbe.” When I corrected him, the landlord guffawed and told me: “You will always be Rajagopalachari in Bengal.” Until then, I had little idea of Rajaji’s close association with Bengal. (By coincidence, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, the grandson of Rajaji as well as the Mahatma, would become the governor of Bengal in 2004.) Eventually, during the evening load-shedding that was fairly common in the early 1990s, my roommates and I would go to his shop downstairs that had a battery-operated lamp. The sight of me would set the landlord down memory lane and he would tell us stories about Nehru and the crowd that packed the Brigade when Indira Gandhi and Bangabandhu appeared together after the Liberation War. The lungi inadvertently helped me on another occasion, too — and it had nothing to do with my identity. My PG mates and I went for a late-night movie at Globe and were walking through the dark corridors of New Market when some of my friends decided to rib me for wearing a lungi (but at full mast now) to a movie hall and kept calling me “lungi, lungi, lungi….” We were walking in a procession through the narrow corridors with me at the head. All of a sudden, there was a commotion and several lung-wearing men — workers sleeping in New Market — encircled us, thinking that we were poking fun at them. I convinced the bleary-eyed and fuming men that my friends meant me and I struck a pose with my lungi at half-mast — probably the only occasion I played a hero in my life and it did work. They let us go unharmed. The last I remember of the landlord is him bellowing from his top floor in Moulali at my wife and I standing below on the road when I took her there to meet him on my off day: “Any issue?” “Tomorrow night,” I shouted back, assuming that he was referring to the journalistic jargon for the edition of a newspaper. The landlord let out that “Rajagopalachari” guffaw again. And to my utter embarrassment, I realised that he was asking us if we had any children, choosing the archaic word “issue” (the 12th meaning of the word in Webster’s dictionary is “offspring” or “progeny”) to fire the question. When the “issue” was born four years later, a child in a Bengali family in our neighbourhood called our daughter Bulbul because her parents could not reach a consensus. Bulbul remains Bulbul’s given name even now, 25 year later. So, what is the moral of this story? None, none at all. Just a footnote that seeks to redefine or repackage me. A few weeks ago, it was conveyed to me that an acquaintance (whom I have run into occasionally in the elevator and exchanged pleasantries or smiles with) had told a friend: “Your editor is a Malayali, a communist and a Christian.” The three “grave charges” were levelled as if they were some sort of crimes against humanity and were responsible for the positions that I took as a journalist. That I am a Malayali is a fait accompli — I had no role in that decision and occurrence. That I am a communist is fake news. True communists will be more outraged than anyone else if I, who has enjoyed the privileges that come by birth as well as feudal inheritance and served private capital in my entire working life, pretend to be one of them. Whether I am a Christian or not — that is none of his business. My faith is my private affair. Why am I making such a song and dance about a purported stray comment? The conversation came up because the person who apparently charged me with the three “offences” had joined the BJP the same day. I had once rudely tried to correct a person who had misspelled my name in a letter. Now I realise the true worth of each such wayward letter, written and uttered not with malice but with the shared confidence that such oversights will be forgiven and forgotten in this great melting pot of a city that has been indescribably kind to me. “Raja” radiates affection, and the truncated name is priceless. So are “Rajagopala”, “Rajagopalan”, “Rajagopalachari”, “Rajagopalacharya” and “Rajagopalacharjee”. I was not blessed with a banyan tree under which I could find enlightenment. All it took was a bigot to open my eyes and make me cherish the names this city has gifted me.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||North East||Covid: Meghalaya bars entry  of tourists from April 23||Meghalaya has decided to shut its doors to tourists from April 23 while neighbouring Assam has made testing of truckers entering the state compulsory to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma announced the decision to bar the entry of tourists through a tweet after a review meeting in Shillong on Monday. “#Meghalaya will close its doors to tourists from outside the state from 23rd April 2021 however, local tourism will continue. There will also be closure in tourist locations that have high tourist footfall. The time frame of RT-PCR tests will be reduced from 72 to 48 hrs,” Conrad tweeted. This is the second time since the pandemic broke out that Meghalaya, which received around 12 lakh domestic and international tourists in 2019, has barred the entry of tourists. It had lifted the bar only on December 21 last year, after about nine months. Another major decision was the closure of all schools for 14 days from Tuesday but ongoing board exams will not be affected. Government and private offices will function at 50 per cent capacity, Conrad said. In neighbouring Assam, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal too chaired a high-level meeting in Guwahati to prepare a road map to check the surge in cases. While laying stress on making the people aware about wearing masks and maintaining cleanliness, Sonowal asked the departments concerned to ramp up Covid-19 tests at bus and truck terminuses while making tests of truck drivers coming from outside compulsory at the Srirampur and Chagolia inter-state check gates. Already tests have been made compulsory for those travelling by flights and trains to the state. Sonowal also asked chief secretary Jishnu Baruah to prepare each district to fight the pandemic and director-general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to strictly maintain Covid-19 protocols and prevent mass gatherings. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was present at the meeting attended by senior officials, including principal secretary (health), Samir Sinha, Assam State Disaster Management Authority chief executive officer G.D. Tripathi, principal secretary (home), N. Verma, and additional director-general of police (law and order), G.P. Singh. Sarma has instructed health department officials to start a helpline for coronavirus consultations and problems. Sources said there was no question of imposing a lockdown but all possible measures would be taken to enforce the standard operating procedures to check the surge. The Assam government has already decided to shut lower primary schools in districts having more than 100 cases and stop Bihu functions in districts having more than 300 cases. Tests have revealed the presence of the highly infectious and deadlier UK variant during the second wave in the state, according to Sarma, who told a TV channel that there was no link between election rallies and the rise in Covid cases in Assam. “Most testing positive came from Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore. We have analysed the data. Most cases have travel history, they have tested positive at airports and railway stations. We have not been able to establish a link between election rallies and Covid cases,” Sarma said. The three-phase Assembly elections in Assam, which ended on April 6, had witnessed huge campaign rallies. Till Sunday, Assam had 5,268 active cases, including 639 detected during the day which also saw six deaths. The first case in Assam was detected on March 31, 2020, and till Saturday 2,24,455 people have tested positive, while 1,135 have died. Neighbouring Nagaland too ordered closure of all schools for students of Classes I to VIII during the day which also saw governor R.N. Ravi hold an interaction-cum-consultative meeting with the Church leaders of various Christian denominations on Covid-19, urging them to use their moral and spiritual capital to save the people from the pandemic. Ravi advised the Church leaders to make the people more conscious and aware of the pandemic challenges and the need for strictly adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
20-04-2021||Opinion||Shifting sands in the Middle East||The Joe Biden administration has initiated an outreach to Iran with the hope of eventually reviving the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action but China is seemingly ahead of the curve. Last month, the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, undertook a week-long, six-nation Middle East tour, which saw him travelling to a diverse set of states, including Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Bahrain. While the signing of the 25-year strategic partnership pact with Iran has garnered a lot of attention, Beijing also unveiled a rather ambitious plan “for achieving security and stability in the Middle East by offering constructive boosts to Palestine-Israel dialogue, resuming the Iran nuclear deal and building a security framework in this region.” This was a virtual declaration, if it was needed, that China has arrived in the Middle East and it intends to stay there for good. Ever since the days of the Barack Obama administration, Washington has been signaling that it wants to move away from the region and focus more on the Indo-Pacific, which is now the centre of gravity of global politics and economics. In the process, it has left its partners and foes in the Middle East equally confused and, so, the attraction for a Chinese presence in the region has been growing, moving beyond the economic to the wider strategic ambit. While Obama shunned America’s traditional allies, Donald Trump courted them, and Biden is still trying to figure out what to do. On the JCPOA, however, the Biden administration is putting all its energies to revive that pact from which Trump pulled the US out in 2018, arguing that it had done nothing from stopping Tehran’s march to nuclear capability, and re-imposing debilitating sanctions on Iran. Biden has been a big votary of the JCPOA. Earlier this month, the parties associated with the pact had an initial meeting in Vienna. With Iran insisting that the United States of America should remove sanctions first and Washington asking Iran to take the first step by restarting its compliance with the pact, the divide between the two sides remains huge. The signing of the strategic cooperation pact with China gives Tehran greater space to manoeuvre vis-à-vis the US as Beijing is expected to not only buy more Iranian oil, seemingly at a heavily discounted rate, but also to invest in Iran. This new Comprehensive Strategic Partnership was first proposed in 2016 and has only now been completed although the details of the pact are still not in the public domain. Moving beyond oil, the aim of the arrangement is to enhance China-Iran strategic ties with military cooperation, joint training and high-end technological cooperation between the defence industries of the two nations. China would like to bring Iran into its Belt and Road Initiative with major investment projects in and around the country. While various reports have talked about a potential $400 billion investment commitment from China, Beijing has been more circumspect, saying that “[the plan] does not include quantitative specific contracts or indicators”. How far this expansive vision of China-Iran strategic partnership gets operationalized on the ground remains to be seen, especially in a context where fears of overdependence on China have been quite explicitly expressed in Iran in the past. For all the rhetoric, Chinese companies have been risk-averse in investing in Iran and have shied away from major investment projects because of American sanctions. For both China and Iran, the first priority is to manage ties with the US. In their outreach to each other, they are also signaling to Washington and if the US manages to improve its ties with Iran, it will have an important bearing on the Sino-Iran partnership as well. At the regional level, China has far greater stakes in the Gulf. For all the talk, Beijing cannot afford to ignore or antagonize regional powers like the UAE or Saudi Arabia. In the Middle East, UAE, Saudi Arabia Iran and Israel are China’s largest trading partners and the fault-lines between the Arab Gulf states and Israel on the one side and Iran on the other have only sharpened in recent years. Even as part of the BRI, Gulf partners are witnessing growing investments from China. During Wang Yi’s recent visit to the region, China also engaged in vaccine diplomacy with the UAE deciding to produce 200 million doses of China’s Sinopharm vaccine. Beijing has kept the doors of defence partnership open with other regional states as well and is in no hurry to put all its eggs in Iran’s basket. During the much talked about Alaska summit in March, China expressed its desire to work with the US in managing the Iranian issue. While some have described the recent Sino-Iran agreement as a “momentous change”, arguing that Beijing had long avoided getting too close to Iran because of US “sensitivities”, but “with fundamental changes in China-US relations in recent months, that era has gone”, it is not readily evident even now that Tehran can become the key issue for Beijing in its engagement with Washington as well as in its regional priorities. As the great power contest takes shape between the US and China, the Sino-Iran deal underscores that the Middle East is fast emerging as an important theatre for competitive jostling. But whether it heralds a new era in Chinese foreign policy or Middle Eastern geopolitics is still far from clear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Fill the void: Afghanistan||September 11 is a solemn occasion for the United States of America. Tragedy of an unprecedented scale had shaken the US and, along with it, the world on that date nearly 20 years ago. The symbolism of the announcement by the US president, Joe Biden, that his country would complete the withdrawal of almost all American troops from war-ravaged Afghanistan by September 11 this year would thus not be lost. It would, once again, be a solemn occasion. Having spent two trillion dollars and lost over 2,000 men, the US departs from Afghanistan without achieving substantial peace. The policy of withdrawal, ironically, is one of the rare points of convergence between Mr Biden and his predecessor: the Donald Trump administration had agreed that the troops would leave by May. Domestic political compulsions and Mr Biden’s firm belief in minimal commitment of American personnel to Afghanistan may have been instrumental in the decision. The external implications, however, are likely to be substantial. Of immediate concern would be the fate of the current Afghan government. With the US on its way out, the present dispensation would find it difficult to maintain its tenuous grip on the provincial capitals. What is even more ominous is the refusal of the Taliban — the power in ascendancy, once again — to participate in the peace talks scheduled to take place in Turkey. The stakeholders must elicit a positive response from the Taliban; else, more blood would be spilled as the Taliban begin to mop up remnants of the present government to consolidate its hold after the US pull-out. The choices for New Delhi are equally stark. Given the history of fractious ties between New Delhi and the Taliban and Islamabad’s patronage of the regime, India must work out ways of neutralizing possible threats to its borders. But this does not mean that New Delhi should limit its outreach. What it lacks in terms of smooth diplomacy with the Taliban can be compensated, to an extent, by the long history of goodwill that binds the two nations. New Delhi must also engage with Russia and China — both have substantial strategic interests in the region — so as not to find itself in a lonely corner in the western part of the neighbourhood. Above all, the vacuum that is being created with the departure of the US’s military machine must be filled with forces that are not inimical to the peace, prosperity and stability of Afghanistan and its neighbours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Bitter pill||India is now firmly in the ferocious grip of another Covid wave. Daily new cases, which raced past the previous peak in early April to double in just 11 days, are trending above two lakh by the mid-month; positivity rates are still accelerating. Extrapolating these facts for another fortnight, month or more is scary. But that is exactly what has to be done to respond to this fresh health and economic emergency — assume the worst-case scenarios and plan for them. If the United States of America could see an unbridled two-lakh-plus new cases daily for one and a half months (December-mid-January) and almost six lakh deaths to date, the same is not unimaginable elsewhere, including in India. Daily sights and reports of breakdowns in health facilities, testing capacities unable to cope, shortages in oxygen and drugs, overflowing crematoriums, and migrants’ second flight to safety are scarier and more depressing. There is no point remonstrating over lapses, complacency, and quack beliefs. Neither is there time to hesitate over necessary expenditures for what is a real emergency. Nor fretting about the risks involved. What has to be done must be done. What follows would have to be handled too. It is increasingly apparent that various state and local authorities will soon have no other choice except to shut down activities, places and more to cope with this frightening surge. Public learning from and adjustments to the virus over a year of its existence have evidently failed to restrain, mask, or limit mobility, necessary or otherwise. Vaccination, faltering from poor planning and absent foresight, does not provide quick passage; it is not an immediate solution for the emergency situation the country is facing now. Even the United Kingdom, the earliest to commence vaccination and next to Israel in population coverage (48 per cent and 62 per cent, respectively), had lockdown intervals to check the virus’s spread. Lockdowns of varying intensity and duration were the main recourse in the repeated waves of Covid-19 in other countries too. India is in a far worse state. Meanwhile, the government must get back to the drawing board. On the pandemic front, it is very clear that investments in fresh and/or additional capacity creations last year — hospitals, special Covid facilities, testing laboratories and suchlike — have fallen grossly short for this wildfire spread of Covid-19. Their inadequacy in metropolitan cities, which bore the initial brunt of Covid-19 and where maximum capacities were created, is evident from the widening curbs, curfews and shutdowns therein. So there’s need for rapid emergency upscaling of these in the time gained from lockdowns. This has to be complemented with raising production and capacities for oxygen, drugs, other supplies and vaccines; where possible, imports should be the first choice. Recruitments and skilling of paramedical personnel to address emerging shortages are essential too. There’s also the fresh economic fallout of the pandemic upon business and household incomes to be addressed. Here, it’s important to consider that this is a second, successive income shock in just one year, the first one coming atop a three-year deceleration in aggregate income to 4.2 per cent in the financial year ending March 2020 before Covid arrived. So no, the economy is not on better footing this time round compared to one year ago — the worst downturn of April-June 2020 is past but the damages it inflicted are yet to be reclaimed. The April-June 2021 performance will worsen over the previous quarter (January-March). Prolonged economic hardship and duress can permanently submerge the affected, vulnerable populations and, hence, the country as whole. Insufficient redress is simply unacceptable. While it is good that the government has promptly extended and widened the coverage of existing emergency credit line guarantees and some other measures, these do not address the fresh injuries to employment and incomes. The MGNREGA, which is one channel for such support, is limited to the rural segment. The government has to quickly reach out to urban parts too; after more than a year’s duration of the pandemic, expressing challenges and difficulties of such outreach cannot be an excuse — if solutions haven’t been thought of so far, consumption still has to be supported at the risk of leakages. This especially applies to personal and other services, involving public interaction that are yet to recover from the first-round lockdown effects, which are visible in the uneven economic normalization after reopening six months ago. This brings us to the economics of this all — the additional expenditure requirements. This is no doubt challenging given the adverse state of public finances and debt. Neither is it risk-free. It will inevitably result in more deficit financing and increased public debt. It will also have consequences — market reactions and macroeconomic instability. There will be the temptation from some quarters to embrace debt monetization. This is not advisable given the sky-high debt level (90 per cent of GDP) and the unfortunate context: coincidence of rising domestic inflation because of the pandemic and from outside (accelerating price growth of commodities); increased challenge from divergent growth paths of advanced economies; the powering fiscal stimulation of the US, and the risks arising from unexpected changes in its monetary policy. These pose grave macroeconomic concerns that could snowball with the adoption of this path. The correct, responsible way is for the government to move fast and do everything to gain credibility: prepare and share a believable debt-redemption plan over the medium term; if establishing its commitment requires setting up a separate body for monitoring and evaluation, then do that. And it should be prepared to compromise on medium-term growth prospects in the process. There’s no doubt that the nascent economic recovery that was steadily gaining strength as recently as one month ago will suffer setbacks of unknown magnitude, pulling down tax revenues. Analysts have already started lowering growth forecasts for this year. But the virus is no respecter of predictions. The only course for now is to spend to save lives and mitigate sufferings — even the most resilient abilities can slide into despair with constant, repeated knocks. The economic consequences will have to be faced. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Warning sign: wholesale price index||The wholesale price index inflation rate has risen to a eight-year high of 7.39 per cent in March 2021, measured on a year-on-year basis, compared to March 2020. This rise has been mainly due to the increasing cost of crude oil, power and metals. The WPI is a weighted average of wholesale prices and is distinct from the consumer price index inflation rate. The latter is a weighted average of prices faced by consumers where food, fuel and other services are important items. In the WPI, services are not included at all. The CPI inflation rate is monitored by the Reserve Bank of India and is used as the appropriate measure for inflation-targeting and policy setting. The current rate of CPI inflation is more than 5 per cent, which is on the high side of the tolerance corridor of 2 to 6 per cent. The WPI and CPI measure different goods with different weights. The CPI includes transport costs and retail mark-ups. While the CPI inflation rate influences the setting of monetary policy stances of the RBI, the WPI inflation is an indicator of base costs in the economy for some important goods that serve as inputs in many industries. For instance, increases in prices of metals do not affect the consumer directly. However, it has an impact on CPI inflation through rising costs of production of manufactured goods that use metals. The rise in WPI inflation will have two important effects going forward. The first is that inflationary expectations will tend to go up. As people begin to get apprehensive about future inflation, they might make their purchases earlier than planned and cause a rise in actual current inflation. The other is the more direct effect on producers and traders. Part of the price rise is passed on to consumers implying that the CPI inflation will be pushed up in the near future. In either case, it is an indication of hardening prices. It is amply clear that the aggregate demand for new goods and services in the economy is sluggish, and might become worse as the Covid-19 situation deteriorates rapidly. The economy might witness another supply-side shock, thereby increasing both costs and unemployment. It should be considered as an early warning signal, although it is not clear at all whether the policymakers are prepared for a fresh round of disruption in the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
20-04-2021||Opinion||No lessons learnt from pandemic||The board outside a private hospital in Nagpur reads: No beds. It’s mid-April and the devastating second wave of Covid-19 has fast engulfed my hometown of Nagpur, nay Maharashtra, with desperate pleas for hospital beds, oxygen, and emergency use medicines getting shriller and shriller. No one knows how long this wave will last and the number of lives it will claim. That’s my town — fearful, precarious and edgy. The situation in most cities across India is no different. The daily log of cases is a horrible two lakh-plus, a third of them from Maharashtra alone. Reports suggest, while it evaded the countryside in the first wave, the virus is now ravaging the villages and people are unable to access medicines or hospitals. The summer of 2021 does not bode well. The only solace is that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government isn’t at least lying about the numbers, although the data from Maharashtra would undergo correction upwards when that exercise happens. But elsewhere, in most states, particularly in the cow belt, things don’t look good. In most districts there’s no Covid hospital or if there’s one, it is without oxygen or Covid specialists. Covid data and ground reality there are poles apart according to most reports. It’s not the numbers alone that are bewildering, what’s also scary is the stupidity and mismanagement at micro and macro levels. Take, for instance, the vaccination drive: in the ‘Tika Utsav’ of four days in the midst of this mess, India actually saw a reduction in vaccines administered, and non-BJP states sparred with the Centre over shortage of vaccines. In rural areas, the vaccine drive is yet to take off. We are witnessing another wave of reverse migration: migrants in big cities desperate to board trains or buses to return home. Lying does not help. Brazening it out either, particularly by the State. You can put up tin sheds to block the view as one state did but can’t douse the reality of pyres burning non-stop in crematoriums. How did we reach here — where the situation got out of our hands? For one, the Centre and the states failed to prepare for the fresh wave in spite of warnings from the scientific fraternity. But, at the root of the problem is the callous, unconscionable behaviour by institutions, the executive, political establishment, the citizens — all of us. For another, the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah juggernaut, good at electioneering, is proving to be a dud when it comes to dealing with financial, health, and societal crises. That rhetorical boast — ‘Apda mein avsar’ — is what it was meant to be, a mere chicanery wrapped in hollow deeds. Good at coining slogans, the Centre is nowhere near imagining and delivering robust policies that could heal or heed in time. For example, was there a need to hold a Kumbh Mela in Haridwar this time around? If the people, the religious heads, and Uttarakhand failed to call it off, the Centre should have stepped in. It didn’t. When the pilgrims return home, in the hinterland and heartlands, we will most definitely see a spurt in Covid-cases, while the state health apparatuses are already overwhelmed by the current caseload. Another issue is that major exams got postponed, rightly so, but elections that could actually become superspreader events, are being continued. By the time results from the five assembly elections come on May 2, India would have lost hundreds of voters and thousands will be sick, to put it bluntly. The pandemic did not unite us or make us any wiser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
20-04-2021||Opinion||Proud moment||Sir — The Indian weightlifter, Saikhom Mirabai Chanu, recently set a new world record in clean and jerk at the Asian Weightlifting Championships in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Chanu, along with the fencer, Bhavani Devi, and the sailor, Nethra Kumanan, has also qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. This is an extraordinary moment for women in Indian sports. It is time that the sports ministry extended its full support to upcoming female athletes. Swarnali Moitra, Siliguri Sir — The passing of the Tamil actor, Vivekh, at 59 years of age in Chennai on Saturday as a result of a massive cardiac arrest is shocking. Vivekh was a Padma Shri-winning actor and a fine comedian. He is best remembered for his roles in Pudhu Pudhu Arthangal, Kadhal Mannan and Anniyan. But not many know that Vivekh was an accomplished musician as well. He did not have any formal training in music but nurtured his passion over the years, having grown up listening to the tunes of M.S. Viswanathan and Ilaiyaraaja. Vivekh was also known for his philanthropic activities. He was an admirer of Swami Vivekananda and A.P.J Abdul Kalam. Based on Kalam’s advice, Vivekh undertook the mission of planting a billion saplings in Tamil Nadu. He managed to plant over 30 lakh saplings before his demise. A day after taking his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the actor suffered a heart attack. Following the event, the Tamil Nadu health department was forced to clarify that the cardiac arrest may not be linked to the vaccine. Whatever the case may be, he will be sorely missed. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — There is no doubt that Vivekh had made his mark on Tamil cinema. A household name, he stood out for his ability to convey social messages through comedy, thus carving out a unique space for himself. His uproarious dialogues and punch lines, couched in common sense, always got us thinking. Vivekh had wide interests outside cinema like conservation and music. The trees he planted are an indication of the meaningful life he led outside the glitz and glamour of the film industry. In many ways, Vivekh has broadened our horizons and enriched our lives. Tamil cinema will always be indebted to him. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Very few comedians can blend social messages with comedy the way Vivekh could. His demise is a great loss for cinema. Rupali Vaidya, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former player and football administrator passes away||Jharkhand’s veteran football administrator S Zubair Alam passed away at the Tata Main Hospital on Monday late evening. He was admitted to the hospital after experiencing breathing problems and later tested positive for Covid. Alam (65) was the joint secretary of Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) and was actively involved in the functioning  of popular Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. A pall of gloom descended on the steel city’s sports fraternity as the news spread. Alam was a national level footballer who also donned Mohammedan Sporting's jersey besides representing and mentoring Tata  Steel football team in the local JSA league. Alam also mentored football sides of Bihar and Jharkhand for the Santosh Trophy. A suave and every smiling Alam was a helpful man and was considered as one of the pillars for development of football in Jharkhand and Jamshedpur. He was also the chairman of JFA’s referees’ committee. “It is difficult to believe that he (Alam) has passed away. I still remember his smiling face. He always played an active role to ensure the local league was efficiently conducted. His demise leaves a vacuum in Jharkhand football which will be difficult to fill,” said Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choundhari. “I am stunned to hear the news of Zubair bhai's demise. We always discussed development of football whenever we met. I am feeling alone with his passing away,” said former FIFA referee Binod Kumar Singh. Expressing grief, JFA secretary Ghulam Rabbani said they have lost a football warrior. “I feel very sad. Alam played a very active role in channelising the game in Jharkhand. We have lost a football warrior,” he added. “Jharkhand has suffered a huge loss with the demise of Alam,” said Ahmad Ansari, coach of state fooball team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders welcome state’s decision to impose lockdown||Members of several Dhanbad trade associationFederation of Dhanbad ZiIla Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI) and Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA) on Tuesday welcomed the state’s decision to impose a week-long lockdown from April 22. A section of businessmen dealing in electronics also imposed a self-lockdown of three days beginning Tuesday following a meeting of the Dhanbad Electric Traders Association. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Rajiv Sharma, the president of Dhanbad Electric Traders’ Association, said, “Though we are bound to follow the government decision, we also advocated that a self-lockdown by traders would have been a better option.” “Around 90 wholesalers and retailers of electrical products who convened an online meeting yesterday (Monday) decided to shut down their outlets for three days from April 20 to 22,” he added. Sharma noted that the traders wanted a similar self -lockdown initiative for other shops so that daily wage earners may be shielded against the impact of government initiated lockdown. “We welcome the government's decision  as it has given a day’s time to make preparations. However, we wanted the government to make some provisions for the daily wage earners for the period,” said Sharma. “Instead of imposing lockdown on it’s own, government should have encouraged the traders to go for self-lockdown as it would have led to more than 55-60 per cent shop closure, which would have been enough to break the chain of infection and simultaneously would have allowed the daily wage earners and traders to continue with their occupation,” he added. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “We were advocating for self-lockdown since more than a fortnight as many of traders have tested Covid positive” Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce and Industry, did not agree fully with the others. He said, “Though we wanted the restrictions on the shop opening on our own, we waited for the government's decision to impose the lockdown due to practical difficulties.” Citing an example of problems in implementing self-lockdown, Surolia said ,“Though the traders the last year took an initiative to close the shops by 6 pm instead of the government allotted time for closure of 8 pm, within a fortnight some started saying that there is no advantage of closing shops earlier as it leads to rush.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coaching centre operators hit hard by Covid, plan PIL in court||Over a hundred coaching centre operators of Dhanbad, reeling under the economic crisis due to Covid-19, are planning to file a PIL at the Jharkhand High Court, seeking directions to the government to fix a provision of minimum wages for them to sustain. Operators under the banner of state unit of Coaching Federation of India have also demanded other concessions like rent waiver, fixed electricity charges exemptions for their institutes etc. Majority of the mid-level coaching centre operators are the worst sufferers due to this, as they have to pay teachers as well as the rent and electricity charges despite suffering loss of business. This is not the case with small operators as they have to pay lesser amounts for rent and electricity. Online classes for these operators have also failed to turn as a feasible option due to technical glitches and poor network connectivity. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Manoj Singh, a coaching centre operator of Luby Circular Road in Dhanbad said, “We charge Rs 40,00 per subject for classes 11 and 12 and as per admissions taken ahead of the lockdown during March 2020 we were to get Rs 1.2 lakh. However,  despite completing the course online, around Rs 87,000 is still pending.” “Many students and their parents have blocked our numbers after we asked them to pay, while others have removed us from WhatsApp groups of students and teachers. A few parents have misbehaved with us for demanding the coaching fee,” said Singh. Sanjay Anand, operator of Goal Coaching Institute in Dhanbad, said, “After the year-long closure, coaching centers were given permission to resume operation from March 7. However, we were again ordered to shut down from April 17, leaving us with no scope to clear our debts.” “Only a few students took admission in the new batch this year and very few among  them  have paid the fee for the month of March as they were also sceptical about the operation of centres,” added Anand. The operator also said that they could not pay the fee for many of the teachers during the last year and had promised them to clear the dues as soon as the situation normalises but failed to pay them again due to closure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to station  Covid care coaches in Ranchi, Jamshedpur ||South Eastern Railway will come up with Covid care coaches which will be stationed at various railway stations under its jurisdiction for treatment of  patients. Between March and June last year, several old railway coaches were converted into Covid care coaches by the Indian Railways. Railway officials at Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, said that Covid care coaches would be available at Rourkela, Tatanagar in Jamshedpur  and Ranchi railway stations. Both Ranchi and Jamshedpur have witnessed a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and deaths. For the last few days Ranchi has been witnessing over 1,400 positive cases while Jamshedpur around 700. This has led to a serious crisis of beds  in various hospitals in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said , " Covid care coaches are the result of  hard work and prompt action taken by officials of Indian Railways, health experts, and doctors . They held numerous  consultations to design the coaches, identify minute details such as a place  to keep medicines in the coaches, etc." He went on to say that  the Jharkhand government can use the Covid care coaches in case other medical facilities are exhausted. According to ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, the Covid care coaches can be used by the state governments when they  exhaust their own medical facilities. In addition to the overall transformation, the  process of conversion of such coaches entail removal of the middle berth and refurbishing  toilets into shower rooms etc. Currently, 4,002 converted railway coaches are available with Indian Railways in 16 zones and will be made available for  state governments on request. "Railways is helping the country recover from the second Covid-19 wave. With the Centre and state governments taking all possible steps to ensure that the interest and welfare of the citizens is prioritised, the contribution of railways at such a crucial juncture will be, once again, of immense value, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association, a leading passengers' outfit of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers, on a mission to save a 100-year-old pond, to move court against NHAI||Villagers of Jhumri Charadih in the Koderma district on Tuesday said they will move Jharkhand High Court to save an old pond after the National Highways Authority of India  (NHAI) announced it will occupy a part of the reservoir for an ongoing project. A team of village residents, led by AJSU’s Shalini Gupta, also met deputy commissioner of Koderma Ramesh Gholap and requested him to take action. Gholap assured them that he would talk to officials of the NHAI and those of the land acquisition department to solve the problem. NHAI is working on a project to extend the Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-31) and villagers complained that the authority suddenly started dumping waste bitumen in huge quantities in the pond which has been a lifeline for more than a dozen villages for the last 100 years by providing water for irrigation. The villagers said that widening the highway is essential and they have been supportive of the project but protested when officials at the NHAI said that the pond was coming in their way and they will acquire a huge chunk of it to carry forward their work. “When the NHAI have already acquired land on the other side, why are they after a pond which is a lifeline for humans and animals,” the villagers questioned. On Gholap’s intervention, the authorities took out some of the waste on Tuesday, after which villagers performed a puja at the reservoir in order to ‘purify’ it. “We will go to any extent, right from agitation to jail bharo abhiyan (fill the jails), to save the pond.. We have also formed Jhumri Bachao Sangharsh Samiti and will intensify our agitation in coming days if NHAI fails to listen to us,” the protesters said, after announcing their decision to go to the high court. “We have informed the higher authorities about the issue,” an NHAI official told The Telegraph Online on condition of anonymity. The official said that the project head had also visited the site due to the reason and took stock of the land available at the other side of the road, and they were waiting for directions from higher authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand declares week-long lockdown from April 22||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren announced a week-long lockdown in the state from Thursday, April 22, calling the measure "Swastha Suraksha Saptha" and appealed to everyone to cooperate to emerge victorious in the fight against Covid-19, a second wave of which is now wreaking havoc across the nation. The lockdown will come into force from 6 am on April 22 and will get over at 6am on April 29, he said. As per an official media release, essential services and actvities related to agriculture and mining are among the few sectors that have been kept out of  ambit of the lockdown. All religious places will remain opened, but there will be total bar on entry of devotees. In a video message, Hemant said, “We have deliberated extensively to balance lives and livelihood and finally decided on these dates. We assure you that all essential services will remain unaffected. As far as offices are concerned, only select entities run by the Union and state government will be allowed to function and rest all will be closed. All religious places will remain open but entry of devotees will be banned.” Gathering at public places has been prohibited. “Not more than five persons can assembly at any place at any point of time,” said Hemant, adding that details of the impending lockdown would be notified later in the day. He also appealed to the people to follow all prescribed protocols to fight the pandemic. Hemant said that essential services will remain unaffected while only select establishments of centre and state governments will be allowed to run, details of which will be notified later in the day. “Roughly, agriculture activities, mining, things that are essential for public will remain unaffected. All religious places Jharkhand has imposed a sort of night curfew with all shops and commercial establishments, barring emergency services, being closed after 8pm till morning and prohibited gathering of more than four persons at a place. The government has also closed educational institutions, gyms and other public places and prohibited congregation of any kind, apart from strict enforcement of Covid protocols. The Jharkhand government on Sunday announced postponement of the May 2 state civil services examinations and all other exams in schools, colleges and ITIs with immediate in the wake of mounting Covid-19 cases in the state. As of now, all educational institutions and anganwadis will remain closed, while social gatherings like weddings would be allowed with only 50 people as opposed to the earlier announced 200. The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark while the Covid toll jumped above 1,500 on Monday as the state reported 4,290 cases and 46 casualties in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: mutated variants of virus may dodge RT PCR tests, warns Jharkhand govt ||The state health department has admitted that mutated variants of the coronavirus were capable of dodging RT PCR tests, thereby recommending that those with Covid-19 symptoms undergo High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) even if they test negative in RT PCR test – the most preferred way of testing the infection so far. In a letter addressed to the Director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), health secretary K.K. Soan said new variants of the virus, already traced in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, can “escape” RT PCR tests sometimes. HRCT, that can detect lung abnormality using a CT scan,  has the potential of a diagnosis under the current circumstances even in patients who have tested negative in RT PCR, Soan said. In the wake of the importance of HRCT test and the government’s responsibility of providing affordable medical attention to all residents of the state, the health department has decided to cap the cost of HRCT at Rs 3,000. “It is hereby decided to fix the rate of HRCT in state setups to Rs 2,500 in 16 slice machine. It can exceed up to maximum of Rs 2,750 in 16 to 64 slice machine and to a maximum of Rs 3,000 in 64 to 256 slice machine. The price shall include the cost of PPE kits and sanitisers required, if any,” the letter stated, directing all radiological, imaging and sonography centres in Jharkhand to adhere to the rate chart fixed by the government. Last week, the Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory at Bhubaneshwar's Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) confirmed that the UK mutant strain and double mutant strain of the coronavirus were found among patient samples in Ranchi and East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of caseload and casualties. The mutant strains of the virus have higher transmissibility and are also likely to evade the immune response of the body developed after exposure to the unmutated virus or vaccination, claim scientists. HRCT, doctors say, is used to diagnose infection in lungs through a CT scan. It is used for imaging of lungs to identify any abnormality. However, health experts also say that HRCT is not necessary for all Covid-19 patients and should be used only for such patients who show severe symptoms of the infection. Ideally, people staying in home isolation do not need an HRCT test, doctors say. Jharkhand is facing the worst ever wave of Covid-19 since the beginning of April. As per government data, the state is reporting around 4,000 cases and 50 deaths every day on an average, leading to a shortage of beds in hospitals and long queues outside crematoriums for cremation of Covid-infected bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
20-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs 4290 fresh Covid cases, 46 casualties in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand crossed the 30,000 mark while the Covid toll jumped above 1500 on Monday as the state reported 4290 cases and 46 casualties in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Ranchi, which already has an active caseload of over 10,000, reported 1404 fresh cases on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The state capital also reported 14 Covid fatalities, which took the toll in the district 381, the NHM stated in a bulletin released on Monday night. At least 11,737 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a spike of over 1000 cases on the day. However, at least 10 more Covid patients died in East Singhbhum on Monday, taking the toll there up at 438, which is highest among Jharkhand districts, NHM data highlighted. At least 639 cases against 178 recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 4661. As per government data, the state tested swab samples of 36,290 people on Monday and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. However, the state also reported 1777 Covid recoveries on the day, which contained the active caseload to 30,477. Government records highlight that as many as 1,67,235 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far, and around 80.87 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in the state has dropped from over 98 per cent to 80 per cent in the past one month. The growth rate of infection in the state has also jumped to 2.10 per cent from hardly 0.10 per cent in March. The growth rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national average of 1.18 per cent. With the unprecedented rise in cases, the doubling rate in Jharkhand has dropped to 33.35 days against the national average of 59.25 days. This indicates that it would take hardly 33 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. While the second wave of Covid-19 has revealed lacunae in the health machinery in Jharkhand, the vaccination targets against Covid-19 have also been difficult to achieve. On Monday, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to 18,758 people, hardly 27 per cent of those registered. The second jab was administered to 7,622 beneficiaries, only 3 per cent of the more than 2.68 lakh registered for the dose, stated a report released by the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-76
