21-04-2021||Calcutta||Shankha Ghosh breathes his last while fighting Covid-19||Noted Bengali poet Shankha Ghosh passed away on Wednesday morning while he was in isolation at his residence after testing positive for Covid-19, his family said. Ghosh, 89, was found to be Covid-positive on April 14. He was in home isolation on the advice of doctors, according to Health Department sources. Ghosh, who suffered from several comorbidities, was hospitalised a few months ago due to deterioration of his health condition. Considered to be having authority on Rabindranath Tagore, Ghosh is known for 'Adim Lata - Gulmomay' and 'Murkha Baro Samajik Nay', among other books. Ghosh, known for being vocal on various social and political issues, was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2011 and conferred the prestigious Jnanpith Award in 2016. He received the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1977 for his book 'Babarer Prarthana'. His works have been translated into several languages, including English and Hindi. Ghosh is survived by his daughters Semanti and Srabanti, and wife Pratima. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the demise of  Shankha Ghosh and said he will be remembered for his contributions to Bengali and Indian literature. "Shri Shankha Ghosh will be remembered for his contributions to Bengali and Indian literature. His works were widely read and admired," Modi tweeted. "Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," he said. Litterature Subodh Sarkar said Covid-19 snatched away Ghosh when he was needed the most as "the state was faced with the threat of fascism". "He was soft-spoken but his pen was razor-sharp, always speaking against intolerance. He used to be a participant in all conventions and movements for free and liberal thinking," Sarkar said. Ghosh was born on February 6, 1932, at Chandpur in present-day Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Drive-in Covid test centres in New Town||A couple of drive-in and as many walk-in coronavirus testing centres will be opened in New Town, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The New Town authorities have offered space to set up a drive-in kiosk in front of Utility Building in Action Area II and another near the Akankha crossing. Both will be run by Apollo Day Care,” an official said. Apollo Day Care runs New Town’s lone drive-in Covid testing centre near the New Town fairground, opposite Marriott Fairfield hotel. “Those who want to get themselves tested can drive to any of the kiosks in their vehicles. People can get themselves tested even if they do not have any doctor’s prescription,” an NKDA official said. The existing kiosk near the New Town fairground is modelled on those set up in South Korea. It has a glass shield that separates the person collecting samples, who is inside the kiosk, from the person whose samples are being collected. Despite the glass shield, the person who collects samples wears full personal protective equipment (PPE). Once the test is complete, the report is mailed to the person. Apart from the drive-in kiosks, two walk-in sample collection centres will start functioning on the permanent stage of the New Town fairground, an NKDA official said. Those who want to get tested for Covid can walk into the centres for sample collection without any doctor’s prescription. One of the walk-in centres will be run by SP Diagnostic and the other by Suraksha Diagnostic. Both are private facilities. Appointments can be booked over the phone to avoid rush. The contact number for SP Diagnostic is 6292212643 and for Suraksha is 7595055017. All kiosks will collect samples from 10am to 4pm, the official said. A 20-bed safe house for Covid-19 patients has been readied in New Town. The unit, adjacent to tank 12 and near City Centre in Action Area I, has come up in a building owned by the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). Logistical support for the facility will be provided by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and Hidco. The health department will provide doctors, nurses and medical equipment. Officials said the safe home would have doctors as well as nurses to monitor the patients. “The safe house is meant for people who cannot isolate themselves at home because of space constraints,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Raghib Parwez surrenders in Calcutta court||Raghib Parwez, the prime accused in the Theatre Road hit-and-run case, whose interim bail was cancelled by Calcutta High Court last week, surrendered before a city court on Tuesday. The surrender came a day after the Supreme Court upheld the high court order cancelling Raghib’s interim bail and setting April 20 as the deadline for his surrender. Had Raghib not surrendered by Tuesday, the police would have been free to arrest him. Raghib, a scion of the family that runs the Arsalan chain of restaurants, surrendered before the trial court on the Bankshal court premises on Tuesday and was remanded in judicial custody till May 5. The police said the court directed the jail authorities to provide proper medication to the accused and keep him “segregated” in the jail. Raghib has charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash and negligent driving, mischief, jumping signal and destruction of public property against him. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to 10 years. Raghib was sent to the Presidency correctional home from the Bankshal court. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar F-PACE had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshi nationals, killing them on the spot. The police said Raghib was at the wheel of the car. A chargesheet has been submitted in connection with the case. However, the framing of charges was stalled because of Raghib’s bail in April 2020 on the ground of his “mental illness”. A purported medical report from a government institute that declared him “fit to face trial” had prompted the high court to cancel his bail and ask him to surrender by April 20. Raghib’s family had moved the Supreme Court against the high court order but their petition was dismissed. “The next legal step in the case is framing of charges, which the trial court is likely to do next month,” an officer said. During framing of charges, the magistrate will evaluate the charges slapped by the police against the evidence collected and submitted along with the chargesheet. “The court has the power to add or remove some sections. The trial will start under the sections approved by the court,” a criminal lawyer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: NIT Durgapur decides to shut hostels||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, has decided to close the hostels and asked all residents to vacate hostels “immediately” to contain the spread of Covid-19. The institute had early this year recalled 250-odd research scholars and 37 MTech students who needed laboratory work and they had been put up in the hostels on the campus. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar, Soumya Sen Sharma, says: “To control the spread of Covid-19, the hostels will be closed and all the boarders shall be required to vacate the hostels immediately. The day-scholars also will not be permitted to enter into the campus.” Several research scholars have tested positive and had to be quarantined in a special facility set up on the campus. Project and PhD scholars at NIT Durgapur had started returning to the campus in January following production of parents’ declaration about the health and recent community interaction of a scholar’s family. The institute had decided to call the scholars back to the campus on the basis of the Centre’s Unlock-V guidelines, which allow higher education institutions to reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams who require laboratory work. But the rising number of cases and lack of beds in hospitals to treat Covid patients in Durgapur town and across the state has made the stay of students unsafe, said an official of the institute. “Hospitals in the city are full of patients coming from Durgapur town and adjacent areas. Even the hospitals in Calcutta don’t have beds as the city is reeling under a fresh wave of cases. So, it is advisable that students are sent home early to minimise the chance of getting infected by the virus,’’ said an official of the institute. NIT Durgapur director Anupam Basu said they wanted to send students home before any travel restrictions are imposed as a precaution against Covid. “Although no such decision has been taken so far, we are apprehending that if such restrictions are imposed again, the students would get stuck. At a time when cases are being reported on the campus, it won’t be safe to stay on the campus,’’ said director Basu. At the NIT Durgapur half of the students come from states outside Bengal. Their return would become uncertain. The notice issued by the institute’s registrar says: “It may be further noted that till further notification keys to the laboratories of the departments/centres shall not be issued to students/research scholars by the security personnel to restrict access. Online classes shall be taken up as per the academic calendar’’. The institute last week had disallowed the delivery of goods booked on online platforms inside the campus to contain the spread of Covid-19. “But getting the hostels vacated became crucial as we have to undertake an elaborate sanitisation drive on the campus,” said an official. The institute has scrapped the recall of final-year BTech students following the rising number of cases on the campus and across the country. IIM Calcutta last week asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels “due to developing Covid-19 situation in the country and Calcutta”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||33 pairs of local trains cancelled after staff test Covid positive||Dozens of local trains in the Sealdah and Howrah divisions have been cancelled because many drivers and guards have tested positive for Covid-19. On Wednesday, 33 pairs of EMU local trains in the Sealdah division will not ply. In the Howrah division, 19 pairs of EMU local trains and 16 passenger trains will remain cancelled, the Eastern Railway said in a statement on Tuesday night. The cancellation of local trains started on Sunday. “Several drivers and guards have tested positive. We are trying to restrict the cancellations to non-peak hours for local and passenger trains as far as possible. But if the cases continue to surge, then the office-hour disruptions will also go up,” said an official of Eastern Railway. An official in the Sealdah division said over 60 drivers and around 30 guards had tested positive till Sunday. In the Howrah division, around 50 have tested positive, said sources. “So far, we have not disrupted the schedule of long-distance trains. But no one knows what will happen in the coming days,” said an official of the Howrah division. “The drivers of long-distance goods trains can be deputed to drive long-distance express trains. But they cannot be deployed on suburban trains,” he said. The trains cancelled in the Sealdah division on Wednesday include five pairs in the Sealdah-Barrackpore section, six pairs in the Sealdah–Bongaon section and four pairs in the Sealdah–Naihati section. The railway authorities have launched a drive to impose a fine of Rs 500 on any passenger entering the station premises without a mask. But the drive is yet to pick up steam, said officials. “The number of penalisations will go up in the coming days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE schools prepare to start Class XI online lessons||ICSE schools in the city are planning to start Class XI early after the council cancelled the Class X exams on Monday and advised schools to start “online classes for the Class XI students at the earliest”. Several schools said they were planning to start either by the end of this month or in the first week of May. Schools are considering the students’ academic performance in Class X and IX before granting them admission. In some schools, admission tests have been conducted in science subjects and mathematics to assess the students’ aptitude. “Students had to submit their choice of stream at the time of annual report card in April. Now, we will speak to the academic coordinators, look at their marks in Classes IX and X and then offer them their subjects. We will also speak to parents to see whether a child can pursue in Class XI a stream he has selected,” said Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School. He plans to start classes by the end of this month. Those applying to St Xavier’s from other schools will have to upload their marks and appear for an online interview after the school makes the announcement. La Martiniere for Girls, Sri Sri Academy, Rammohan Mission High School and St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta plan to start classes by the first week of May. Schools like Modern High School for Girls will start next week and Calcutta Girls’ High School and Julien Day School, Ganganagar, where admissions have been completed, will start this week. The Loreto schools in the city have completed their admission process. La Martiniere for Girls will consider the “computed year’s average of the last academic year” for admission. “The admission to Class XI will be based on school records. We have already tested them and if we do not consider that we will be contradicting our assessment,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. Unless students choose to move to a school with a different board, only the “syllabus and pattern will change” when they move to the next class, Sarkar said. Some schools took into account the Class IX marks because they were offline exams so schools could understand the progress and aptitude of the student, at least two heads said. In the circular issued to school heads on Monday, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, said: “All CISCE affiliated schools (having the ISC section) are hereby advised to begin the admission process for Class XI, if not already started. In addition, schools should prepare a schedule to begin online classes for the Class XI students at the earliest.” Some schools had already decided to start making use of the time. “We welcome the decision of the council because students now can concentrate on Class XI without having to stress over the Class X exams. It is a relief for both parents and students,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Gomes said that in Class XI, the students choose a stream and the subjects they want to study. Now that Class X exams has been cancelled, students need not study subjects that they do not want to pursue. Devi Kar, the director of Modern High school, said students will “look forward to new subjects and carry on”. “The best part of this announcement is children can move ahead instead of hanging on to something because no one can guarantee when things will get better. The excitement amongst children is obvious and their mind is now free,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, had decided to start classes for those students who would choose not to appear for the exams but from Wednesday, they will start classes for everybody. “We were thinking of starting the classes and the  council’s announcement has made the decision easier for us,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals defer planned surgeries||Private hospitals across Calcutta on Tuesday started postponing elective surgeries and are not booking any planned surgery for the next 15 days so more beds can be set aside for the treatment of Covid patients. The hospitals are also opening satellite treatment centres for Covid patients with mild symptoms. Hospitals, however, said some planned surgeries could not be deferred because patients had already spent thousands of rupees on pre-surgery tests and had got insurance clearances. The state government on Monday asked all private hospitals to increase their Covid bed count. On Tuesday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, the regulatory authorities for private hospitals, issued an advisory: "...Covid situation is really grim and it is unanimously held that it can be fought in a better and more effective way if the elective/planned surgeries other than emergency and life saving ones are kept pending and held up for a period of a fortnight for the time being.” The advisory added: "All the CEs (clinical establishments) in CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation) and BMC (Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation) areas will keep elective surgeries held up for a period of 15 days for the time being until further order in this respect. However, emergency and life saving surgeries will be exempted from its application." Most hospitals started postponing planned surgeries from Tuesday. The Telegraph has reported that Covid beds have become scarce at private hospitals and some Covid patients have to wait for days to get admitted. Peerless Hospital postponed around 80 surgeries for at least two weeks. However, there are many who have already got their mandatory pre-surgery tests done and some others have got clearances from medical insurance companies, said officials. “On Tuesday, we decided to defer around 80 surgeries. Deferring these surgeries will help us set aside more beds to treat Covid patients. However, there are many who have spent Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 on pre-surgery tests. It would be unfair to postpone their surgeries as they will have to spend money again for the tests,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has 63 Covid beds and will add more beds once patients recovering from other diseases get discharged. Orthopaedic surgeon Sudipto Mukherjee of Peerless said three of his surgeries had been postponed. “All three are knee replacement surgeries. I have asked the patients to wait because these are not emergency surgeries,” Mukherjee said. At Belle Vue Clinic, the authorities on Tuesday deferred 12 out of 18 surgeries scheduled for the next three to four days. “Only surgeries like Cesarean section (for childbirth) are not deferred. We have seen the list of surgeries in the coming few days and have asked doctors to consult with the patients and let us know whether more could be deferred,”said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The Covid bed count at the hospital has gone up to 171, with the addition of four beds on Tuesday. “We will add 23 more after non-Covid patients on these beds are discharged,” Tondon said. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, officials will meet senior doctors of all departments to decide how many surgeries can be deferred. “A lot of elective surgeries are getting postponed because many patients are testing positive for Covid in pre-surgery tests. Of the remaining cases, we are working on categorising life-saving procedures from the rest. A meeting with all consultants will be held tomorrow for smooth implementation of the advisory," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. Other hospitals like AMRI have deferred around 20 surgeries at its three units. They were scheduled over the next three to four days. Several private hospitals are either opening satellite units or increasing the bed strength of the ones they have already opened. The government wants Covid patients with mild symptoms to stay at satellite units so that critical patients are not denied beds at hospitals. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria set up a satellite centre for the first time on Wednesday. “The centre has been opened at a hotel on Southern Avenue, where 32 beds have been kept. Patients will start getting admitted from Wednesday,” an official of the hospital said. “We are also looking for facilities to set up more satellite units in Mukundapur and the Lake market areas,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. He said the hospital chain had set up a satellite unit in Salt Lake, where all 24 beds are occupied by patients. The hospital will rent another hotel, where 34 more beds will be set up. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences increased the capacity of its satellite unit from 16 to 24 beds on Monday. “We will set up another unit adjacent to the hospital soon,” an official of the hospital said. If I don’t get a call, where can I dial? Helpline: 1800 313 444 222 CMC control room: 033 2286 1212/ 1313 Who will be admitted to the institutional quarantine centre? If all members of a family test positive and they don’t have facilities for self-care, the members can move to the institutional quarantine centre. How will patients be transported to a safe home or quarantine centre? The CMC will arrange for the transportation What if the condition of one of the family members deteriorates? The patient will be immediately shifted to a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Biker dead in crash with car in Thakurpukur||A motorcyclist allegedly driving without a helmet down Diamond Harbour Road died after suffering head injuries in a collision with a private car in Thakurpukur on Tuesday afternoon. Police said Anil Kumar Dey, 65, a resident of Kalipada Mukherjee Road in Behala’s Barisha, was taken to Vidyasagar State General hospital, where he was declared dead. “The CCTV camera closest to the accident spot does not cover the place where the collision took place. But the two-wheeler is seen tumbling over and the man falling on the road,” said an officer of Thakurpukur police station. Police officers said Dey had suffered head injuries. The person at the wheel of the private car was apparently returning home with his wife. “The accused is a driver by profession. The car belongs to his employer. He and his wife were in the car when the accident happened,” an officer said. A case under IPC sections related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief has been started against the accused driver. A senior officer of the traffic department said it was not clear whose fault it was but the case would be against the person at the wheel since the victim (motorcyclist) had died. Cops engaged in managing traffic on Diamond Harbour Road said the stretch where the fatal accident happened was mostly congested with vehicles and pedestrians throughout the day. Another accident A motorcyclist was injured in an accident on Hospital Road, near the Queensway crossing, on Monday night when he apparently lost balance and skidded off the carriageway, police said. Ayan Kumar Dey, 35, a resident of Andul Road in Howrah and a police constable by profession, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital with head and facial injuries. Amherst Street: A stationary private bus on route number 204/ 1 that was parked along APC Road caught fire on Tuesday afternoon. No one in the bus, police said. Two fire tenders doused the flames but the cause of the fire could not be ascertained till late in the evening. The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jadavpur University sets limits on open days ||Jadavpur University has announced that all sections, departments and schools will remain open for only two or three days a week with skeleton staff because of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A notice issued by registrar Snehamanju Basu on Tuesday said the offices would remain open for “preferably two days” and “maximum three days”. The offices had reopened in accordance with the Centre’s unlock guidelines and non-teaching employees were asked to report for duty five days a week. A section of teachers was visiting the campus regularly so they could use the virtual classroom facilities to conduct classes on digital platforms. As a result, the administrative staff attached to the departments had to attend office, too. Since research scholars were visiting the labs, a section of teachers who act as guides and employees who oversee the facilities were also turning up regularly. The authorities had in January restored hundred per cent attendance of the non-teaching staff and officials. But as a number of JU employees who were going to the campus tested positive for Covid, the authorities had to cut down the duration of the campus remaining open and staff attendance, registrar Basu said. “According to a government guideline, skeletal staff not exceeding 50 per cent in any department can enter the campus for administrative work. The sections and departments concerned have been told to prepare their rosters accordingly,” said Basu. The notice says research scholars and others are not allowed on the campus unless there is a pressing reason. “Permission from the registrar duly forwarded by the supervisor/HoD is required in that case (exigency),” the notice says. The entire campus will be sanitised at least twice a week. Among the employees who have tested positive is pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, who is in home isolation. The campus has been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||A sense of mutual respect and stronger bondings||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently arranged a virtual picnic for the students of classes Nursery to III. Each class selected a separate theme and wore informal clothes accordingly. The Nursery students enjoyed a virtual trip to Disneyland, while Kindergarten and Class I students visited Dubai Miracle Garden. Students of Class II were taken to Tulip Garden, Srinagar, in keeping with their theme, flowers. The enthusiastic students even made boarding passes for themselves. Class III children sought an entry into Jurassic Park at Universal Studio, Hollywood. Children thoroughly enjoyed the creative activities organised for them and danced on peppy beats along with their dance teachers. Parents, too, actively took part in the event and praised the teachers and the school for the initiative. “Picnic is one of the most-awaited events in our calendar. And it was a pleasure to see the enthusiasm with which both students and parents joined in,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Students of Fun-Learn Day Boarding School observed the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar on October 14 by celebrating the spirit of our constitution that makes India a secular nation. Since the occasion also happens to be the first day of the calendar year of many states and communities of India, the children put up a show representing all of them. They donned traditional outfits of Assam, Bengal, Kashmir, Maharashtra, Manipur, Punjab, Sikkim, Telangana and Tamil Nadu and performed the songs and dance steps of those states. “The occurrence of so many festivals around April 14, which happens to be B.R. Ambedkar’s birthday, makes the day even more meaningful to us. It is through these differences that we celebrate the oneness of India, which is exactly what Ambedkar rooted for. If the children understand that India is not only our motherland, but also our way of life — that it means respect and equality for all irrespective of caste, colour, creed, social standards, religions or beliefs — our work as teachers is done,” said founder Udita Chakraborty. Akshar School Akshar School broke the monotony of online classes with an out-of-the-box activity for the UKG students. Kids aged four and above from the UKG were encouraged to read newspapers in the virtual classrooms to inculcate the habit of reading to enrich their vocabulary. The tots were asked to delve into their areas of interest such as comic strips, fashion, food and sports and find words that they could read. The school held this activity for the primary students, too.  “The oral skills are important to know the child’s ability and attitude. Reading newspapers is a good habit and students can enrich their vocabulary through reading. Besides, we also asked the students to share pictures showing them reading in their comfort zones. We started with the UKG students, and it is running through the school,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Krishnagar Public School A group of students from Krishnagar Public School recently performed at the inaugural ceremony of the Maitree Cup at Battalion 54 grounds in Shikarpur, Nadia. It was an exhibition football match between India and Bangladesh, organised by Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), to build cross-border co-operation and commemorate the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence. The BSF had invited the students. The inauguration ceremony commenced with the national anthems of both the countries and then the children presented a special dance performance. It reflected the traditional culture that are common on both sides of the border and the spirit of camaraderie across the two nations. Several BSF and BGB officers of rank and former India goalkeeper Bhaskar Ganguly were present on the occasion. “We feel honoured to have been invited to perform at such a historical event. They maintained all Covid protocols for the safety of our students and all. It was a privilege for our young students to experience such fruitful bilateral exchange,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. BDM International BDM International recently conducted a series of online activities for the pre-primary and primary students, highlighting kindness as an essential virtue in everyday life. Kids for Peace, a non-profit global youth organisation, has been awarding the school with the kindness certificate for the last three years. This year, students made kindness hearts and thank you cards, wrote letters to friends, donated educational kits and made chains with their teachers, spreading the message of kindness as part of the celebration. The kids also thanked the caregivers and teachers, recognising their efforts and hard work. “A small act of kindness can go a long way. At BDM International, we work to instil the power of kindness in all our students and make them believe that they have the power to make a difference. Kindness is a virtue that is never wasted and amidst the uncertain times, our little ones have extended their unadulterated love to everyone. I wish them all the happiness and pray for them to become ideal citizens of the world,” said principal  Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Lowdown on Covid safe homes in Calcutta||The state government has converted Uttirna, a six-storey building next to Women’s Correctional Home in Alipore, into a safe home to accommodate Covid-19 patients. The Alipore Road cultural complex has an open-air theatre, guest rooms, dormitories and a 10,000-square foot office space.The safe home to be set up in the building will be run jointly by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. Here’s a lowdown on some safe homes Capacity: 90 beds on the third floor of the building to begin with. The capacity will be scaled up to 500 beds. The fourth floor will be reserved for women patients. Two other floors will also be made ready over the next two weeks to accommodate more patients. “Our aim is to gradually scale up the number of beds,” said Satyarup Siddhanta of the Covid Care Network. “Once we do that, Uttirna will accommodate patients admitted in hospitals but whose condition has stabilised. This will create room for more serious patients in hospitals.” Capacity: 200 beds on the second floor of a building on the Park Circus connector. More beds can be set up on another floor. Capacity: 700 beds across three floors in the safe home. The fourth floor of the building off EM Bypass will be dedicated to doctors and nurses. Patients can be accommodated over the next few days. Capacity: 200 beds in the safe home at the stadium. The facility at the stadium adjoining Acropolis Mall, on the Rashbehari connector, is being readied. Capacity: 200 beds at the institutional quarantine centre at Kishore Bharati Stadium, Santoshpur. The capacity will be scaled up. Who will be admitted? Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who cannot isolate themselves at home or lack a full time caregiver. In some cases, patients with very mild symptoms will be accommodated, too. How will they get admitted? Once a person tests positive, doctors in the civic ward where the patient lives, will get in touch with him or her to know about the health condition. Health officials in the borough office, too, will contact the person. Finally, someone from Swasthya Bhavan will connect with the person and find out the symptoms and whether he/she has comorbidities or not. After that a decision will be taken on whether the patient can be admitted to a safe home. What next “Once a person is identified as asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and he or she lacks space at home to stay isolated, an ambulance will take him or her to the nearest safe home,” said a CMC official. Will the patient have to pay? No. The cost will be borne by the state government? When will the patient be discharged? The decision will be taken by a team of doctors that will monitor the patient’s condition. If the condition worsens, the patient will be shifted to hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||One held for dupe, cop impersonation||A man was arrested for allegedly duping people by impersonating police officers and pressuring them to part with money and jewellery if they did not want to be arrested in a false murder case against them, police said. Cases have been reported in Burrabazar, Bowbazar, Hare Street, Muchipara, Entally and Amherst Street police stations about such a crime, where victims were convinced by a “cop” that they were “wanted” in a murder and the only way to get rid of the case was to handover the money and jewellery they had on them, a senior officer in Lalbazar said. As a part of his modus operandi, in all the cases, the victims were allegedly made to wait on the pretext that the “cop” was going to make a call to his senior officer. The victims would wait while the accused would flee, the police said. Police officers, during the probe, examined CCTV cameras of all the locations where the victims were duped and found the image of the same person in all six locations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||In Calcutta school and no fans, for a tower of cards||In a closed school, a Class VIII student had been working alone without a fan for six to seven hours at a stretch for over 10 days. The fan was switched off because the breeze would blow his hard work away. Arnav Daga, 13, was making a replica of the Qutab Minar with playing cards. He was in school because his house would not be able to accommodate the near-16ft structure that he decided to build. Arnav’s pursuit of making structures and buildings out of cards started during the early days of the lockdown last year and the Qutab Minar, which he completed on Tuesday, is the highest so far. The student of Sri Sri Academy used 21,000 cards for the tower. The 5ft and 8 inches-tall boy climbed onto desks and stools to reach the higher levels, with his parents or family members holding on to the desks to save him from a fall. “I started with smaller structures but this time I wanted to make something tall. But height is just one category. I have also made wide structures like the Iowa State Capitol,” Arnav said. “While at work, I have to keep the fans switched off, the air conditioner off and the windows shut. I cannot afford the slightest breeze because that could make my structures collapse,” he said. It’s not always that he has been able to keep his structures intact while making them. Once, while making the Big Ben at the end of the second day the clock tower collapsed on him. “Its part of the game. You fall then you get up,” Arnav said. On teachers’ day, he made the school building as a tribute to his school. It takes him a few days to a month to complete his structures, depending on what he is making and how much time he gives to it. “For the Iowa State Capitol, it took me about a month because I was doing it in between my exams,” said Arnav. His interest was sparked while making small houses with cards in March last year and he was “inspired by card stacker Bryan Berg and addicted to trying out new structures”. This was a skill that he acquired during the lockdown and the school kept encouraging him. His teachers vouch for his art of balancing studies and his passion, one does not interfere with the other, they said. During the last few days, Arnav attended all his classes before starting the day’s work on the Qutab Minar in the school auditorium. “I get a good sleep because I am tired,” was his response to the principal when she asked him if he got tired. “He requested for a space because he was planning a 16ft structure. We provided him with the auditorium which is almost 20ft. What he has displayed is rare determination and fortitude. While making the structure he did not take a single day’s break. There were days when he came to school in the morning, attended all his class before going to the auditorium,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Arnav’s houses of cards are not permanent structures, he brings them down himself. “If I do not to break them, how will I make something new?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: With electoral paraphelpia missing, is BC road less political?||There is no more telling an address where the hackneyed Election Juggernaut slows to a crawl. Other than glow signs featuring a beaming Narendra Modi at some bus stops and handbills seeking votes for Subrata Mukherjee, BC Road betrays not too many sights and sounds that must engulf Bengal in election season. The south Calcutta neighbourhood is usually happy minding its own business — which is considerable, considering the unmistakable signs of wealth that peep through the nonchalant air the stretch affects — and gives the impression that it wants others to reciprocate the disinterest in the affairs of others. The Telegraph did not risk knocking on the doors because of the pandemic but tried to get past some of the intimidating gates on BC Road over phone to connect with a few residents of the prosperous belt where Old Money and the nouveau riche have learnt to live with each other. The objective was not to gauge the mood — the sample size was too small to reach any credible conclusion — but to gain an insight into what goes on behind the seemingly placid environs encircled by a choppy sea of electoral politics. The ground rules were assurances that those who want to remain anonymous can do so and disclosure of their political preferences is entirely voluntary. The sole condition that they should speak their mind. Quick takeaways from the dial-up: ⚫ Electoral paraphernalia may be missing but BC Road is as political as they come. ⚫ Almost all wanted to be anonymous. Few, including those who live in one of the safest zones in Calcutta, want to take chances when it comes to politics. ⚫ Not all have taken decisions driven by emotive issues. Careful consideration has gone into weighing the pros and cons and then reaching a conclusion. ⚫ In spite of prosperity and good station in life, two persons confirmed that there are takers for the conspiracy theories that are spun about Muslims. One person said Murshidabad looked like a Muslim country, conveniently forgetting that an overwhelming majority of districts in India also have highly visible Hindu symbols. The two persons showed a remarkable familiarity with Amit Shah’s discourse on the Bangladesh economy. ⚫ Some did speak their mind. A few were frank, frighteningly so. At least one who got married right after school acknowledged that her source of information is the so-called “WhatsApp University”. Senior citizen  Presidency College alumnus Former teacher Lives in a bungalow with spouse Children settled abroad Very worried about the election. Cannot tell you which party I will vote for. We grew up in a cosmopolitan society. In school and college, we were taught to be inclusive. We want a better society, a safe country for our children to come back to. But I can see that today there is a lot of divisiveness all over the country. I have not been travelling much within the country in the last few years but get to hear from friends and relatives living outside Bengal that in other states the economic conditions are probably better. We need economic growth, jobs in the state, especially after the pandemic. But we also need a society where women feel safe and we do not see any human rights violations. Retired management professional Ex-IIT, ex-IIMC Husband of the teacher mentioned above This might be an Assembly election but it has national significance. We need to think very carefully. The current state government’s performance is nothing to write home about. It is a city of retired people, nothing to keep the young generation here. But if we look at the central government, certain radical economic measures taken did not instil confidence — like demonetisation and the GST implementation. The demonetisation sucked out the liquidity from rural areas and GST implementation was a disaster. Socially, the country is bifurcated. Step out of the city and it is very apparent that there is a higher percentage of Muslim population — much higher than the national average. Though we have been brought up not to differentiate between people on the basis of religion, it is alarming. But again, we also do not need to be at the other extreme. Having to prove one’s patriotism, having to chant Jai Shri Ram, all these are extremely worrying. And at our age, we really cannot accept a change in the concept of India we grew up with. India and Bengal are a cosmopolitan country and state where everybody, including the Hindus, Sikhs, Jain, Buddhists, Christians, Muslims should love to live together. Airlines professional 30-plus Lives in a bungalow We need the same party at the helm at the Centre and in the state. Makes processes easier. Look at how Uttar Pradesh is developing. Why do people leave Bengal? Where are the jobs, where is growth? I don’t think demonetisation was a failure, a lot of black money is out of the system, GST implementation has had a few hiccups but most traders, exporters believe things have been simplified. We are making progress. I wish the intelligentsia, instead of criticising the government, contributes to policy-making. We are from Murshidabad. In Murshidabad, you will feel like you are in a Muslim country. Much of our property has been occupied by Muslims from across the border. In Bangladesh, the fruits of development are being reaped by the top layer. The poor are still coming here. I have a lot of Muslim friends, I work for an airline in the Middle East. I have nothing against the educated, non-radical Muslims. But here the population of Muslims has multiplied. In the Burrabazar area, a lot of Muslims are buying up property at exorbitant rates. The money is coming from the Gulf. Suddenly, areas like Lake Town are bustling with burqa-clad Muslims. It’s not just Park Circus or Beckbagan. Former political science professor of a CU college 79 Lives in a bungalow alone Children are abroad I will not go out to vote this time because of the surge (in Covid cases) though I have exercised my voting right every election, including the last Lok Sabha polls. My priority now is to keep myself safe. But I try to follow politics and feel Mamata Banerjee will win though her winning margin might be less than before. The BJP might win a few seats but will not be able to capture power here. The party, unlike in other states, cannot make a dent here because Bengalis owing to their culture cannot identify with them. The BJP is a parochial party and cannot understand the Bengali ethos and will try to impose its own hegemonistic culture here. On the other hand, Mamata has tried to work for the people within the limitations that she has. Her work is mostly for people who form her votebank. She gives them doles, builds roads and hospitals. The intelligentsia here might vote for the Left, particularly Jadavpur University academics, but the Left’s tie-up with the Congress and the ISF does not really bode well. It’s an opportunistic alliance for elections. Senior corporate executive 70 Lives in a highrise apartment I will vote for the ruling party here. The Left-Congress alliance might win a few seats but ultimately it’s a fight between the TMC and the BJP. Of the two, the TMC is the lesser evil. If jobs and growth are the issues this election, both were going down in the rest of the country from before the pandemic. Covid is not the excuse. The two central government moves of demonetisation and sudden lockdown have dealt a lethal blow to the economy. Of course, the BJP has its strengths, like taking decisions much faster. But when you take decisions fast, you don’t consult and you do not consider what can go wrong. Again, the central government has done a good job with GST, has been allowing other vaccines developed in advanced countries to come here. But polarisation is the worst thing that has happened this election. And it is a permanent damage. You have stirred the pot. Don’t think that things will go back to what it was just by putting out the fire. Look at Amit Shah talking about Bangladesh. Even when his foreign minister asks him not to talk, he still does. All the good that might have come from Modi’s visit to Bangladesh gets nullified. Agree that there has been some Muslim appeasement but it should not have been treated so roughly. Tomorrow you can’t tell me to read my newspapers in Hindi and become a vegetarian. You can’t kill people because they store beef in their fridge, and form anti-Romeo squads. Bangalorean 45-plus Self-employed Had dropped in at a friend’s home on BC Road Vote for change. Vote for the BJP. Three major reasons: Jobs. Generation after generation of the youth are out of Calcutta, it’s a dead city. Jobs needed at the cost of everything. The BJP isn’t rocking at the Centre or in the states it is in power but even then, we need to give them a chance here, they can do something for this state since nothing is here. They will bring their capitalist cronies here and create jobs. Trinamul has no organised plan or growth strategy Corruption. It’s embedded in Bengal. Increasing Muslim population: Changing demography. Muslims are still coming from across the border. Bangladesh’s growth is skewed, the top 3 per cent are reaping the benefits of growth, the poor in Bangladesh are still seeking better lives here. India is secular as long as Hindus are in majority. Beef and mutton are available in Bangalore, it’s not as if all shops are shut in Karnataka where the BJP is in power. Engineer 32 Lives in Baroda and works for an MNC. Grew up at his BC Road home and has his vote in Calcutta Will vote for the Left-Congress combine for change. Can’t vote the BJP for its ideology. I don’t believe voting for the Left will help the BJP. Want media to give same coverage to the Left as it does to the TMC and the BJP. I have a major grouse against the syndicate culture and corruption. No wonder bridges and flyovers crash in Bengal. Hindi imposition is not welcome, nor is the TMC’s open invitation to people from Bihar, letting them do Chhath Puja…. Content provider Wife of engineer  mentioned above Will vote for the BJP. Women are safe in BJP country. I have seen women in Baroda and wish Calcutta women had a life as safe as theirs. Jobs are the main issue. Yes, I know the BJP doesn’t have a good economic record but even then, we need change after 10 years of TMC. Hindi and Hindi culture cannot be imposed by the BJP if Bengalis don’t want it. Homemaker Lives in Alipore Visits friends, boutiques on BC Road We were taught certain things in school like unity in diversity and secularism and all that. But now I read the WhatsApp forwards and I have truly begun to understand the politics that went on during the Independence movement and Partition. Why did Nehru have to make India a secular country? We, like Pakistan, should have been a state for Hindus — Hindustan, Sthan for Hindus. Because of Nehru’s politics and the Congress, and now the TMC, we have extremists from the Muslim community spreading so much hate. I saw on a Bangladeshi television channel a Muslim spreading hate. I feel the future of the coming generation is not secure in our country. Every religion in the world has their own land, but ours does not. In 1962, China took Aksai Chin from us, then the Bangladesh war happened, slowly our territory is going. Recently I heard a member of the community saying that north Bengal, the neck of eastern India, “will be ours”. They have bought off 10km of land along the border. And they are being aided by people from the Middle East. So long we treated the other community members as equals, what is the result? We have been very resilient. And they have spread hatred. Salim-Javed made so many Bollywood films, not a single hero belongs to the Muslim community but all the Mumbai dons are Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
21-04-2021||Business||Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs clears sops for urea fertiliser||The government has approved an “exclusive subsidy policy” for urea fertiliser produced through coal-gasification by Talcher Fertilisers Ltd (TFL). Commerce minister Piyush Goyal said the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given its approval for “a specific subsidy to promote this innovative technology of coal-gasification for the first time in India”. The estimated project cost of the TFL urea project is Rs 13,277.21 crore. Coal gasification plants are strategically important as coal prices are non-volatile and coal is abundantly available in the country, he said. “...India has large coal reserves but not adequate gas. This effort to convert coal to gas, and then gas to urea will truly help India become Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant),” Goyal said. The gasification process adopted in the Talcher unit is a Clean Coal Technology giving negligible sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and free particulate emissions as compared to directly coal fired processes, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Aditya Birla Capital arm files for IPO||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the arm of Aditya Birla Capital, has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for its initial public offering (IPO). “Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC Ltd (ABSLAMC), a material subsidiary of Aditya Birla Capital, filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) dated April 19 with Sebi for an initial public offering by way of an offer for sale (IPO) of shares of ABSLAMC, subject to relevant approvals as required,” Aditya Birla Capital said in a regulatory filing. The company added that it has approved the sale of up to 28.5 lakh equity shares held in ABSLAMC out of the total paid-up share capital of 28.8 crore  equity shares of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC. Sun Life (India) AMC Investments Inc, the joint venture shareholder in Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, has also approved the sale of up to 3.6 crore shares held in the fund house through the IPO. The proposed sale of equity shares by Aditya Birla Capital and Sun Life India in the IPO will together constitute up to 13.50 per cent of the paid-up share capital of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, Aditya Birla Capital added. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla Group and the Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Flight permits for Boeing 737 Max, says DGCA||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday allowed foreign-registered Boeing 737 Max aircraft, which were grounded in the country since the March 2019 fatal crash of such a plane in Ethiopia, to overfly India after taking the agency’s permission. Moreover, foreign lessors are allowed to fly their grounded 737 Max aircraft out of India after taking the regulator’s permission, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) order said. On March 13, 2019, all Boeing 737 Max planes were grounded in India by DGCA after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max plane on March 10 near Addis Ababa which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. The regulator said on Tuesday it would issue “special flight permits” to fly 737 Max planes “to a base for storage, repairs, alterations or maintenance”. Aircraft manufacturer Boeing has been modifying the 737 Max plane since March 2019 so that various countries’ regulators, including the DGCA, permit its passenger flight operations again. The DGCA stated on Tuesday that the ban imposed on March 13, 2019 would not be applicable on foreign-registered 737 Max plane that want to overfly “the Indian airspace”. The second provision of DGCA's order said foreign-registered 737 Max plane, currently grounded in India, can conduct “operational readiness flight” followed by “ferry flight outside India”. The second provision will allow foreign lessors to fly their 737 Max planes, currently grounded in the country, out of India. On March 13, 2019, SpiceJet had to ground 12 Max planes, forcing it to cancel a significant number of flights on that day as well as on the next day. Jet Airways also had five Max planes in its fleet but they were already grounded as on March 13, 2019 because of non-payment of dues to the lessors. A month later, the full-service carrier had shut down its operations due to lack of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman allays Bengal Inc fears||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday met Bengal -based industrialists in the midst of the ongoing assembly elections in the state and assured full cooperation to industry to meet challenges emanating from the second wave of Covid-19. She asked industry to have confidence in the Modi government but did not make any specific commitment to allay apprehensions raised by different sectors. “Year 2019 was about liquidity, 2020 was about Covid. 2021 shall not be about Covid in spite of the second wave. Look at the various steps the government has taken. Revival was happening and it will continue to happen,” said Sitharaman during a session organised by MCCI. Members of industry associations in Bengal made representations before the finance minister. A delegation of the Consultative Committee of Plantation Association, an apex body of tea associations in India, led by Indian Tea Association chairman Vivek Goenka, Tea Association of India president Raj Bansal and other members of the industry told the minister of the need to digitise of wage payments of tea garden workers and sought exemption from tax deducted at source under section 194N of the Income Tax Act till the time of banking infrastructure in tea gardens is improved. A delegation of Indian Jute Mills Association, led by deputy chairman Rishav Kajaria and other members of the association, flagged off the need to persist with anti dumping duty on imported jute, particularly from Bangladesh with the duty soon to come up for review. Realtors expressed their concerns that the second wave of Covid may affect demand and requested the government to boost buyers confidence. “We requested that there should be more income tax breaks for a home buyer. We also said stamp duty should be subsumed in GST and tax burden on consumers should come down,” said Harsh Patodia, president, Credai (national). However the timing of the meeting has not escaped the attention of the members present. “It appeared that she wanted to have a public relation exercise with industry leaders in the midst of election. Many of whom were present today are voters in Calcutta, which will go to the polls later this month,” an industrialist present in the meeting later said. At the end of the meeting with MCCI, Rajya Sabha member and ICCR president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, stunned the gathering by parading three BJP candidates from Calcutta, ostensibly to make the audience aware of the choice they would have in the poll. “We have never seen something like this where a non partisan chamber meeting turned into a political one,” said an attendee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Nestle India reports 14.62% rise in its net profit at Rs 602.25 crore||FMCG major Nestle India on Tuesday reported a 14.62 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 602.25 crore for the March quarter of 2021, driven by an increase in sales volume of its key products. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 525.43 crore in the same period a year ago. Net sales were up 8.9 per cent to Rs 3,600.20 crore against Rs 3,305.78 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, the company said in a BSE filing. According to the company, “Growth was broad-based and largely driven by volume and mix” as “key products boosted by in-home consumption and posted double-digit growth”. Nestle India’s domestic sales were up 10.17 per cent to Rs 3,442.03 crore against Rs 3,124.23 crore of the January-March of 2020. Export sales were down 12.9 per cent at Rs 158.17 crore against Rs 181.55 crore of the corresponding quarter. Nestle India has witnessed a 66 per cent growth in sales from the e-commerce channel, which contributed 3.8 per cent of domestic sales. “E-commerce has continued to deliver strong performance and grew by 66 per cent to maintain its robust contribution to our domestic sales,” it said. In the March quarter, Nestle’s total expenses were up 6.16 per cent to Rs 2,828.61 crore against Rs 2,664.27 crore of the corresponding period. Nestle India chairman and managing director Suresh Narayanan said, “The quarter has been another test of resilience of my team and our partners.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Sensex and Nifty erase early gains to finish with losses for the second day on the trot||Domestic equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty erased early gains to finish with losses for the second day on the trot on Tuesday as surging Covid-19 cases and growing localised restrictions continued to dent sentiment. The rupee also pared its initial gains to close marginally down 1 paisa at 74.88 against the dollar on Tuesday, with rising oil prices weighing down the local unit along with foreign investors selling stocks. Gold in the national capital on Tuesday fell  Rs 305 to Rs 46756 per 10 gram in line with a fall in international precious metal prices. The 30-share Sensex on Monday oscillated in an 1040-point range as it touched an intra-day high of 48478.34 — a rise of almost 529 points as markets cheered the opening up of the vaccination programme all  above 18 But investors used the rally to lighten their positions as the concerns of more lockdowns weighed on their sentiment. Analysts said investors were booking profits at every rally and the trend is likely to continue till the current wave subsided. The Sensex closed 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 47705.80 after hitting an intra-day low of 47438.50. The NSE Nifty climbed over 167 points to reclaim the key 14,500-level during the day, but surrendered all its gains to end at 14296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. “Global markets were seen to be negative which did not support the  initial recovery. Moreover, various state governments are implementing stricter local restrictions due to which the markets started giving up the gains,’’ Sandeep Gupta of  Motilal Oswal Financial Services said Growth warning A Crisil report has warned of the grim economic scenario as with even limited restrictions on people’s movement and some businesses, power consumption and e-way GST bill collections are already down. The report has also called for speeding up the vaccination drive that of late has been on the decline on a weekly basis. More and more states are clamping down more localised restrictions on people movement and commerce, falling just short of a complete lockdown. This already has electricity consumption and GST e-way bills collection, which are used as proxies to track economic activity, softening somewhat and it needs to be seen whether this softening is a blip, or marks a shift in a trend, Crisil said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||India trashes US's currency manipulator charge||The Centre has rejected the grounds on which the US treasury department classified India as a potential currency manipulator. It insisted that the Reserve Bank of India's interventions in the currency market were balanced and warranted while denying that the central bank was beefing up its foreign exchange reserves with an ulterior objective. For the second time since the start of the pandemic, India on Monday figured on the US treasury department’s watchlist of currency manipulators. The central bank’s dollar purchase at 5 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) exceeding the 2 per cent threshold was cited as the reason. Commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan said that these watchlists are a recent phenomena and it is an intrusion into the policy space of central banks, which “I personally do not understand its rational or economic logic”. He said that India’s overall forex reserves have been fairly steady, below $500-600 billion, and the country is not accumulating reserves like China. “These are, in my view, very legitimate market based operations of a central bank. It is a mandate of the central bank to provide stability in the currency, as a result of which the central bank buys and sells foreign currency . Our overall forex reserves have been fairly steady.” “We are not accumulating reserves, which are steadily growing. We have a steady pattern of reserves holding...So I think the central bank's activity in the foreign exchange market has been perfectly balanced and completely legitimate,” he told reporters. The US treasury department last week put India and 10 others on its “monitoring list” that needed a close scrutiny of currency practices. The latest move by the US to put India on the watchlist may discourage the Reserve Bank of India  from aggressive intervention in the foreign exchange market, reports quoting some economists said. When asked about the proposal of India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) about the temporary waiver of certain provisions related to an agreement on intellectual property rights to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, Wadhawan said that proposal has received “widespread” support from different members, while some nations have opposed that. “The proposal has met with tremendous success and more importantly highlighted the importance of the issue,” he said. On a question whether the government is planning to waive 10 per cent customs duty on Covid vaccines, the secretary said that departments of revenue and pharmaceuticals would take a joint decision on that, but “I do not have any information on that”. On oxygen supply in the country, he said although the issues are being coordinated by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), on war footing and efforts are underway to make supplies available. This is being coordinated on 24x7 basis and the supply position has improved tremendously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||Supreme Court halts property seizure for GST dues||The Supreme Court has ruled that revenue authorities cannot provisionally attach citizens’ property using “draconian” provisions of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) legislation except in extraordinary circumstances when there is a “dire necessity” to protect the revenue interests of the State. The ruling handed down Tuesday by a bench comprising Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah will come as a huge relief to small businesses that have been locked in disputes with revenue authorities over arbitrary reckoning of dues and precipitate action. “The exercise of unguided discretion cannot be permissible because it will leave citizens and their legitimate business activities to the peril of arbitrary power,” the apex court bench said. The court passed the ruling while upholding an appeal filed by Radha Krishan Industries which had challenged the Himachal Pradesh government's order provisionally attaching its bank accounts and receivables from its customers in order to recover dues arising from tax, interest and penalty for an amount of Rs 5.03 crore. Later, this was bumped up to Rs 8.30 crore through a fresh tax demand issued in February this year. The verdict washailed by industry and tax advisors. “The Centre had issued guidelines earlier this year stating that provisional attachment of taxpayers property under the GST law should be exercised by the authorities only in extraordinary circumstances. “The apex court of India, holding a similar view, overturned the judgment of  the high court of Himachal Pradesh, stating that... the provisional attachment of the property is draconian in nature,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY India. “The stand of the apex court that provisional attachment of property should be exercised when there is no other alternative remedy available, will help prevent unnecessary harassment of tax payers.” . The dispute arose over an order issued in October 2020 by the joint commissioner of state taxes and excise, southern enforcement zone, in Parwanoo (Himachal Pradesh) for the provisional attachment of the payments that Fujikawa Power and Deepak International — customers of Radha Krishan Industries — had to make to the company in order to realise a sum of Rs 5.03 crore. The order was issued after the Himachal revenue authorities unearthed an input tax fraud involving Radha Krishan’s supplier GM Powertech which had claimed and utilised input tax credit on the basis of invoices issued by fake and fictitious companies. Radha Kishan was sucked into the mess even though it argued that it had paid GST output tax of Rs 12.49 crore during the period 2017-18 and 2018-19 — which was in excess of the disputed input tax credit of Rs 3.25 crore which Radha Krishan was accused of claiming fraudulently. The state revenue authorities, which had withdrawn an attachment notice in January 2019, reopened the case in October last year, arguing that the payment of Rs 12 crore in tax did not imply that Radha Krishan did not engage in the input tax fraud. The provisional attachment was ordered while invoking Section 83 of the Himachal Pradesh GST Act, 2017 and Rule 159 of Himachal Pradesh Goods and Service Tax Rules, 2017. The Himachal Pradesh High Court had dismissed the company’s appeal challenging orders of provisional attachment under Article 226 of the Constitution. “The power to levy a provisional attachment is draconian in nature. By the exercise of the power, a property belonging to the taxable person may be attached, including a bank account...The attachment is provisional and the statute has contemplated an attachment during the pendency of the proceedings under the stipulated statutory provisions…” Justice Chandrachud said in his verdict. “The.. provisions are not intended to authorize Commissioners to make pre-emptive strikes on the property of the assessee, merely because property is available for being attached. There must be a valid formation of the opinion that a provisional attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of the government revenue,” Justice Chandrachud said. “There has, hence, been a fundamental breach of the principles of natural justice. Ex facie, the above order passed by the Joint Commissioner does not indicate any basis for the formation of the opinion that the levy of a provisional attachment was necessary to protect the interest of the government revenue,” Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp to temporarily halt operations at all of its manufacturing facilities||Hero MotoCorp has decided to halt operations temporarily at all of its manufacturing facilities across the country, including its Global Parts Center (GPC), in view of the rapid spread of Covid-19 across the country. The company will utilise these days to carry out necessary maintenance work at the plants. The shutdown will not impact the company’s ability to fulfil its orders. Demand has been low because of the localised lockdowns in many states and production loss will be compensated during the remainder of the quarter. All plants will resume normal operations after this period. Each plant and Global Parts Center will remain shut for four days in a staggered manner between April 22 and May 1. All corporate offices of the company are already in a work from home mode. Maruti Suzuki India Limited has transported over 7.2 lakh vehicles using Indian Railways in the past five years. In 2020-21, more than 1.8 lakh vehicles took the rail route for transportation, the highest-ever railway despatch by the company, against nearly 88,000 units in 2016-17. The company has been increasing the use of railways for its vehicle transportation. The transportation by rail exceeded 1.8 lakh in 2020-21, which accounts for nearly 13 per cent of total sales in the same period. Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director & CEO, Maruti Suzuki India, said, “The transportation of finished vehicles via railways has many tangible benefits. It is a clean, environment friendly mode of transportation. It reduces congestion on highways.” The company at first used single deck converted rakes. The operations started with the use of railway wagons (converted from old passenger coaches). These single deck wagons had a rake capacity to transport 125 cars. Bajaj Auto has launched the Pulsar NS 125 in India. The Pulsar NS 125 is an addition to the Pulsar ‘NS’ range of motorcycles. The Pulsar NS125 is powered by a 125cc BS6 DTS-i engine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||India||Over 21,000 people tested positive after getting first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||More than 21,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 after taking the first dose of either Covishield or Covaxin, while over 5,500 contracted the infection after taking the second dose, the Centre said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said 0.04 per cent of 17,37,178 individuals, who received the second dose of Covaxin, were positive for Covid-19, while 0.03 per cent of 1,57,32,754 people, who took the second dose of Covishield, contracted the infection. Bhargava who presented the data said vaccines reduce the risk of infection and prevent death and severe infection. "After vaccination if one gets infection then it is known as breakthrough infection," he said. So far, 1.1 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered. Out of which 93 lakh received the first dose and out of that 4,208 (0.04 per cent) people got the infection which is four per 10,000 individuals. About 17,37,178 people received the second dose of which only 695 (0.04 per cent) tested positive for Covid-19, Bhargava said. Of Covishield, 11.6 crore doses have been given. Ten crore received the first dose and 17,145 i.e. 2 per 10,000 people contracted the infection. About 1,57,32,754 individuals took the second dose of covishield and of that 5,014 (0.03 per cent) got infected. Two to four per 10,000 breakthrough infections have occurred, a very small number. This was mainly healthcare workers prone to more occupational hazards, he said. According to the data, 5,709 people contracted the infection after the second dose of either of the two vaccines. "This is a very small number and not at all worrisome. Secondly, the highly transmissible second wave also contributes miniscule to the percentage so this could have been even zero per cent," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul noted that there is a risk even after taking vaccination so "we stress people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour even after taking the vaccination". Amid oxygen shortage in the country, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen is being produced in the country per day and 6,600 metric tonnes is being supplied to the states for medical use. "Presently, we have issued instructions that, leaving a few industries, the supply of industries will be restricted so that more and more oxygen can be made available for medical use. We have allocated 6,600 MT out of 7,500 MT to states," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
21-04-2021||India||Covaxin shows 78% efficacy against mild, moderate severe Covid cases||Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said its coronavirus vaccine Covaxin has shown efficacy of 78 per cent against mild, moderate and severe cases of Covid-19, as per Phase III interim analysis results. The vaccine maker noted that the second interim data of the Phase III study also showed that chances of hospitalisation due to the infectious disease were reduced by 100 per cent after taking the Covaxin jab. “Due to the recent surge in cases, 127 symptomatic cases were recorded, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 78 per cent against mild, moderate, and severe Covid-19 disease,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement. The efficacy against asymptomatic Covid-19 infection was 70 per cent, suggesting decreased transmission in Covaxin recipients, it added. "Efficacy against SARS-Cov-2 has been established. Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in usage under emergency use. Covaxin is now a global innovator vaccine derived from R&D in India," Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said. The efficacy data against severe Covid-19 and asymptomatic infections is highly significant, as this helps reduce hospitalisations and disease transmission, respectively, he added. The protocols for manufacturing, testing and release of inactivated vaccines have been tried, tested and validated across several of the company's vaccines. These also meet the requirements of WHO as well as Indian and other regulatory authorities, Ella said. "These protocols have delivered consistent results over a 15-year period with more than 300 million doses supplied globally, with excellent safety and performance record," he added. Bharat Biotech said safety and efficacy results from the final analysis will be available in June. The final report will be submitted to a peer-reviewed publication. The Phase III study for Covaxin enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 10 per cent over the age of 60, with analysis conducted 14 days post the second dose. Covaxin has been developed with seed strains received from the National Institute of Virology. The Phase III clinical trial was co-funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), making it a public private partnership towards public health. "The tireless efforts of our scientists at ICMR and Bharat Biotech have resulted in a truly effective international vaccine of the highest standards and efficacy. "I am also happy to note that Covaxin works well against most variants of SARS-CoV-2. These findings together consolidate the position of our indigenous vaccine in the global vaccine landscape," Secretary, Department of Health Research and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Ramesh Pokhriyal tests positive for Covid-19||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The 61-year-old minister said he is following medical advice after his report came positive. "This is to inform you all that I have tested COVID positive today. I am taking medication and treatment as per the advice of my doctors. Request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, and get themselves tested," he tweeted. "All the work of @EduMinOfIndia is being conducted normally observing necessary precautions," he added. The education minister on Tuesday had announced that UGC NET December 2020 exams set to be held in May 2021 has been postponed due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. "Keeping in mind the safety and wellbeing of candidates and exam functionaries during COVID-19 outbreak, I have advised the National Testing Agency to postpone the UGC-NET December 2020 cycle (May 2021) exams," he had said. Pokhriyal is one of the many political leaders who tested positive for Covid-19. On Tuesday, senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Anand Sharma got infected by the virus while on Monday former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh was shifted to AIIMS in New Delhi following the same diagnosis. A total of 2,95,041 fresh Covis-19 infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry said on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||24 Covid-19 patients dead after oxygen leakage in Nashik||At least 24 COVID-19 patients on ventilator support died on Wednesday due to an interrupted supply of medical oxygen at a civic-run hospital at Nashik in Maharashtra caused by the leakage of the gas from a storage plant, officials said.  A senior civic official said of the 150 patients admitted to the hospital, 23 were on ventilator support at the time of the incident while the rest were on oxygen support.  "As per the current information, 22 people have died due to the interrupted supply of oxygen at the Zakir Hussain municipal hospital. The patients were on ventilators as well as on oxygen supply, which got interrupted after the leakage in the oxygen supply tank," district collector Suraj Mandhare told reporters. He later told that two more people had died in the incident.  He said the municipal corporation immediately shifted dura cylinders from other facilities in the city to help the patients at the Zakir Hussain Hospital. According to local officials, the oxygen leakage was noticed around 12.30 pm, following which hospital authorities were alerted. Hospital officials in turn contacted municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav seeking technical help to stop the leakage, they said. Mandhare said a private company looks after the maintenance of the oxygen storage tank located on the premises of the hospital. "We have given all the information to the government. As far as the oxygen supply is concerned, the NMC has received dura cylinders from places where the consumption is less. Oxygen will be supplied to the patients from these cylinders," he said. Divisional Revenue Commissioner Radhakrishna Game said a 13 KL (kilolitre) oxygen tank was set up on the premises of the hospital, located in Dwarka area in the north Maharashtra city. "Around 10 am, a socket of the oxygen storage tank broke and the leakage started. When the hospital staff came to know about it, they deployed jumbo cylinders to supply oxygen to the patients and started shifting some of the patients," he said. Game said the leakage has been stopped, the tank repaired and the oxygen supply is being normalised. "As the incident happened, people rushed to the hospital wards which created hurdles in the rescue operations. When this happened, an oxygen tanker reached the hospital premises. Technicians who came with that tanker and technicians at the hospital broke open the lock of the tank and closed the valve which prevented the further leakage of oxygen," Game added. Expressing grief, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the 22 deceased, including 11 men and 11 women, died due to a low supply of oxygen caused by the leakage from the storage tank. They all were on ventilators and COVID-19 positive, he said, adding the kin of the deceased will be given financial assistance from the CM relief fund, which will be announced by the chief minister's office. Commenting on the leakage from the oxygen tank, Tope said, "The liquid oxygen which was filled in the tank has the temperature of around (minus) 180-degree celsius. There is extreme pressure on the walls of the tank which supplies the oxygen to patients on ventilators. It is more of a technical issue". Tope said a probe will ascertain whether the leakage was caused due to negligence or due to any other issue. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Kailas Jadhav said no patient is in serious condition now. "Out of the 150 patients admitted in the hospital, 23 were on ventilator support at the time of the incident while the rest were on oxygen supply," he said. Jadhav said the oxygen level was around 25 per cent in the storage tank at the time of the incident. Sources said two oxygen tanks were recently set up at the hospital and the task of maintaining the oxygen storage and maintenance has been given to a private company. They also said the incident occurred when oxygen was being filled in one of the tanks from a tanker, which disturbed the supply to the patients who were on ventilators as well as to those dependent on oxygen for breathing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while expressing his grief over the incident, tweeted, "The tragedy at a hospital in Nashik because of oxygen tank leakage is heart-wrenching. Anguished by the loss of lives due to it. Condolences to the bereaved families in this sad hour." Union Home Minister Amit Shah has expressed deepest condolences to the family members of patients. "I am distressed to hear the news of the accident of oxygen leak in a hospital in Nashik. I express my deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this accident. "I pray to God for the speedy recovery of all the other patients," Shah tweeted in Hindi. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged the Maharashtra government to provide all assistance to the families of he victims. "The news of patients' death at Nashik's Zakir Hussain Hospital is extremely tragic. My heartfelt condolences to the aggrieved families. "I appeal to the state government and party workers to provide all possible assistance," Gandhi tweeted. BJP MLA and former Maharashtra minister Girish Mahajan demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation for the kin of the deceased. "We fear more patients will die due to the lack of oxygen supply as the government has failed to upgrade the health infrastructure in the state," Mahajan said. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, alleged the government has become lethargic in addressing the woes of people, which is a cause of worry. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced financial assistance of Rs five lakh each to the families of the victims. "These deaths in Nashik bear testimony to the government's failure in saving lives of people," he added. He also announced a thorough probe into the incident. Meanwhile, senior police officers and personnel rushed to the hospital to control the situation. Police dispersed the crowd of onlookers and restricted entry to the hospital. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey said the tragedy occurred due to the oxygen leakage while filing up the storage tank. Police personnel are deployed in large numbers at the hospital. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in India both in terms of the number of COVID-19 cases and fatalities. The state on Tuesday reported 62,097 fresh infections, taking the tally to 39,60,359, while 519 more patients succumbed to the infection, as per the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Serum Institute hikes Covishield price to Rs 400 for states, 600 for private hospitals||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker, on Wednesday announced a price of Rs 600 per dose for Covid vaccine supplies to private hospitals and Rs 400 per dose to state governments. In a statement posted on its Twitter handle, SII said it will address the limited capacity by scaling up the vaccine production over the next two months. "Going ahead, 50 per cent of our capacities will be served to the Government of India's vaccination programme, and the remaining 50 per cent of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals," it said. SII said Covishield vaccine will be available to state governments for Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. It also clarified that its vaccines will still be more affordable than foreign jabs that cost between Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 per dose. "We would urge all corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state facilitated machinery and private health systems. Post four-five months, the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade," the statement further read. SII’s announcement comes two days after the government liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure doses directly from manufacturers. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Wednesday criticised the Union government over differential pricing of Covishield vaccine, saying the Centre getting it at Rs 150 per dose and states at Rs 400 is no cooperative federalism. He demanded the Centre and state governments pay the same price for the Covid-19 vaccine. He said overcharging state governments for the anti-coronavirus shots will bleed dry their already stressed finances. "The Central government will continue to pay Rs 150 per dose for Covishield. State governments will now be charged Rs 400 a dose. This is not cooperative federalism. This will bleed dry the already reeling state finances. Atrocious," he said on Twitter. "We demand One Nation, One Price for Centre and State governments," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||UP police get clean chit in Vikas Dubey encounter case||The three-member inquiry commission probing the encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his alleged associates has given a clean chit to Uttar Pradesh Police because of lack of evidence, sources said on Wednesday. The commission is headed by former Supreme Court judge B S Chauhan. The other two members are former Allahabad High Court judge Sashi Kant Agrawal and former UP Director General of Police K L Gupta. The panel submitted its report to the state government on Monday, eight months after it was set up. "Yes the commission has submitted its report to the state government on Monday. A copy of the report will be submitted in the Supreme court also," Gupta told PTI. He, however, did not elaborate on the contents of the report. Asked about it, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, "I would not like to comment on it." According to the sources, the inquiry commission has found no evidence of wrongdoing by the state police. Speaking to PTI, a senior police official said, "No witnesses came forward to challenge the police claims even after advertisements in newspapers and media. Also, no one from the media came forward to get their versions recorded." There were, however, witnesses supporting the police version, he added. On July 3 last year, eight policemen were killed in an ambush in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Vikas Dubey. Police later killed Prem Prakash Pandey (55) and Atul Dubey (35) in an encounter in Kanpur on July 3. On July 8, Amar Dubey (30), who carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on him, was killed in an encounter in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district. On July 9, Praveen Dubey, alias Bauwa (48), and Prabhat, alias Kartikeya (28), were killed in separate encounters in Etawah and Kanpur districts. Six PILs were filed in the Supreme Court after this to seek a court-monitored probe into the encounter killings. The apex court had then on July 22, 2020 approved the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to institute the inquiry commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||India registers over 2.95 lakh fresh Covid cases, record 2,023 casualties in a day||The single-day rise in new coronavirus infections inched closer to 3 lakh, pushing India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,56,16,130, while the death toll increased to 1,82,553 with a record 2,023 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. A total of 2,95,041 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 21-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 42nd in a row, the active cases have increased to 21,57,538, comprising 13.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 85.01 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,32,76,039, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.17 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,10,53,392 samples have been tested up to April 20 with 16,39,357 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 2,023 new fatalities include 519 from Maharashtra, 277 from Delhi, 191 from Chhattisgarh, 162 from Uttar Pradesh, 149 from Karnataka, 121 from Gujarat,77 from Madhya Pradesh, 64 from Rajasthan, 60 from Punjab, 51 from Bihar, 48 from Tamil Nadu, 46 from West Bengal, 45 from Jharkhand and 35 each from Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. A total of 1,82,553 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 61,343 from Maharashtra, 13,646 from Karnataka ,13,205 from Tamil Nadu, , 12,638 from Delhi, 10,652 from West Bengal, 10,159 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,045 from Punjab and 7,472 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid impact: Centre drags feet, migrants back on knife edge||Migrant worker Bibhuti Khatua has mostly been confined to his one-room dwelling in Kotla Mubarakpur here with his ailing wife since Saturday. After the weekend lockdown, the plumber in his mid-40s had on Monday reported for work at the construction site where he is employed. But the state government then announced a total lockdown from Tuesday morning till the next Monday morning. For the next five days, therefore, Khatua will be dipping into his meagre savings of Rs 4,000 to meet his daily needs and buy medicines for his wife. Returning to his village in Kendrapada, Odisha, will cost him his entire savings without offering hope of work back home. Staying back means surviving five days on the uncertain hope that the lockdown would be lifted on Monday and work will resume. Khatua has chosen the second option but remains anxious. “I get worried when I think of next week. If the lockdown is extended, I’ll be in a mess. I shall possibly have to borrow money and return home,” he said. His wife has been ill six months and regularly visits AIIMS, where her next date for consultations is August 31. The couple’s son is a BSc student at a college in Bhubaneswar. Khatua said: “Even if I go home I have to come back in August. I’ll have to pay these four months’ rent for my lodgings, where I shall be leaving my belongings. That’s a costly affair too.” He said that if the government provided some sort of help like subsidised rations, he could have stayed on longer. The Centre claims to have implemented a “one nation one ration card” (ONOR) scheme since last year that allows migrant workers to obtain PDS food at their place of work. “Last month I visited the ration shop here and requested the owner to enrol me. He said, ‘No’,” Khatua said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked the states to appeal to migrant workers to stay put. “States should appeal to workers to stay wherever they are. In some days, they will get the vaccine,” Modi said, implying this would help a return to workplace normality. However, with the Centre having put the onus on the states and the private sector to vaccinate those aged 18 to 45 — and amid a lack of clarity on the pricing of the doses and the volume of the supply — it’s unclear when the millions of migrants might get vaccinated. While Khatua is undecided, thousands of his fellow migrant workers have already started leaving Delhi, nervous at the uncertainty and the looming spectre of joblessness and mindful of the miseries the community faced after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year. The inter-state bus terminal and railway station in Anand Vihar were crowded on Tuesday with migrants looking for transport back home, as were railway stations in the various other big cities. Among those who have decided to return home is Meraj Ansari, who works at a dress-making factory in Mumbai that has been shut 10 days. With him will be returning five of his co-workers from their village in Giridih district, Jharkhand. All six share a single-room lodging in Wadala, paying a monthly rent of Rs 6,000. “We are all going back tomorrow. What is bothering us is the lack of clarity on how many days the lockdown-like situation will continue,” Ansari said. “There’s been no word from the factory when work might resume. Last year, we had suffered a lot without food; we don’t want to take that risk.” He added: “If we were given the assurance that things would become normal after a week or, say, 10 days, we could have stayed. We could have stayed on also if the government had provided food and rent.” Labour economists have for weeks been stressing the uncertainty in the labour market and urging the government to support the working class with food and rent wherever necessary, and provide more jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and start a similar scheme for urban areas. No state government has begun providing any relief or assistance yet to the migrants. Database concern Labour economist Ravi Srivastava regretted that no comprehensive database of migrant workers had yet been created a year after the nationwide lockdown inflicted untold horrors on the community across the country. The Centre and the states never implemented the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979, which stipulated that all migrant workers be registered with the state labour departments. The 1979 act has now been subsumed under the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, passed by Parliament last September, which mandates the creation of a database of unorganised-sector workers. However, the Centre is yet to notify the rules, so the efforts to create the database are yet to start. Srivastava said that collecting data on each migrant worker’s home and workplace address would enable governments to arrange help during crises like the current one. “Without data on the identity of workers, aid cannot be ensured,” he said. Srivastava said that many of the migrant workers had to borrow money last year, and the current crisis would further impoverish them. “The government should provide free rations and give them some money through funds transfer, enhance the MGNREGA and start a job guarantee scheme in urban areas,” he said. “Eventually the government should establish universal social security as an entitlement for all workers. There is an urgent need to improve healthcare facilities in urban areas.” A labour ministry official said that the Labour Bureau, an arm of the ministry, had launched a survey last month to track the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers. The survey is to collect data on the migrant workers’ condition before the Covid outbreak, during the first peak of the outbreak, and now. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the survey would take six months to generate the data. He said such data about migrant and other unorganised-sector workers could have been collected under the existing laws between August 2020 and March 2021, when the pandemic situation was better. In his recently published book, Impact of Covid 19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights, Sundar has highlighted the poor implementation of laws mandating social security and registration of workers. “There is an immediate need to work out a database of workers and provide them assistance. It’s still possible to do it. The government can collate some data on migrant workers from its different schemes and services,” Sundar said. The rural development ministry has data about the fresh job cards issued — mostly to returned migrant workers — under the rural job guarantee scheme last year, he said. The railways have data on the workers who returned home on the Shramik Special trains. Since the food ministry claims that 65 crore of the eligible 81 crore people have been enrolled under the ONOR scheme, it should have data on how many had secured PDS rations outside their native places, Sundar suggested. He said that funds should be diverted from non-essential projects like the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train to provide welfare to the workers. Last month, in a reply to Parliament, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had quoted data provided by the state governments to say that about 1.14 crore migrant workers had returned to their native places during last year’s lockdown. Srivastava said this was “a huge underestimate” that highlighted the need for a comprehensive database. “Nearly 10 to 12 crore workers migrate with their family members in search of work every year,” he said. Even if only half of them had returned home last year, the number would be far higher than 1.14 crore, he argued. Last year, tens of thousands of migrant workers had attempted to walk hundreds of miles home during the lockdown in the absence of transport, and hundreds of them had died on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Narendra Modi rules out countrywide lockdown, asks states to opt for it as last resort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ruled out a countrywide lockdown and urged the states to use the measure as a last resort. In an address to the nation amid signs that the healthcare system is being overwhelmed in some states, Modi emphasised expanding the vaccination campaign and the health infrastructure. “Humein desh ko lockdown se bachana hai (We have to save the country from a lockdown),” Modi said in the 20-minute address. “I would urge the states to use the lockdown as a last resort. Our focus should be on micro-containment zones,” he said. “We will take care of the economic health as well as the health of the countrymen,” he added, betraying fears of the economy getting further crippled if there was a lockdown. Modi mentioned that Ram Navami falls on Wednesday and hailed the importance of Ramazan while urging people to observe Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||National health crisis: All-adult vaccine scepticism grows||Two sets of figures have brought out the enormity of the task confronting the states that seek to procure Covid-19 vaccines, strengthening a perception that the Centre is keen on passing the buck during a national health crisis. ⚫ The Centre’s decision to allow Covid-19 vaccination for adults aged 18 or above more than doubles the target population from May 1. The number of the potential beneficiaries rockets from around 350 million to nearly 900 million, jacking up the number of required doses from 700 million to nearly 1.8 billion. India currently has access to around 90 million doses per month of vaccines made within the country. Although production capacities are being ramped up and a scramble for imports has intensified, the surge in demand and the lag in supply augmentation are likely to aggravate vaccine shortages in the coming weeks. Any crisis on this front will then be laid at the door of the state governments, feel analysts. ⚫ Open market pricing (those aged below 45 will have to pay these rates) is another issue. On Tuesday, G.V. Prasad, co-chairman and managing director of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, told a television channel that the Sputnik V vaccine that the company intends to import from Russia will be priced at $10 per dose — or Rs 740 per shot. (The government-set price for the vaccines now is Rs 250 a dose but private companies will have the freedom to set pre-announced prices for those aged below 45 from May 1.) Dr Reddy’s has secured approvals to make the Russian Sputnik vaccine under the guidelines for emergency use authorisation but will meet the initial demand through imports. Prasad said the imported vaccine would be sold at a price equivalent to $10 a dose — which is the rate at which it is offered everywhere else in the world. But he was quick to add that this would not be the price of the domestically made vaccine. “We will not profiteer out of this; $10 will be the maximum price… and it will be lower (for the domestically manufactured vaccine),” he said. However, late in the evening, the company did a quick about-turn by clarifying that the price of the imported vaccine had not been fixed yet and negotiations were still on with the government. The caution is understandable, given the conspiracy theories and profiteering fears swirling around the Centre’s “liberalisation” of the vaccine policy on Monday night. Such is the feverish speculation that brokerages have started quick calculations to assess the profits that pharmaceutical companies will earn from their Covid vaccine production strategies. Motilal Oswal said that considering a base case scenario where the domestically produced vaccine will be priced at an equivalent of $2 per dose, Dr Reddy’s would stand to rake in revenues of $300 million (around Rs 2,220 crore). The humungous potential demand and the lack of clarity on price have muddled the field with many suspecting that the Centre is now cutting its losses and running, leaving the states to face a possible backlash from the public. India could have had much larger supplies of Covid-19 vaccines than it has access to at present if the Centre had provided financial support to vaccine makers during the second half or third quarter of 2020 as had many other countries. The Centre did not sign advance purchase pacts with vaccine makers, either, and directed the states not to independently engage with vaccine companies. India’s pledge of Rs 4,500 crore to vaccine makers, announced this week, should have been similarly made at that time. “We’ve already seen shortages reported with the pace of vaccinations increasing in recent weeks. The question is, where will the extra doses come from, starting May 1? We’re hoping the government will explain this,” said a public health specialist who requested not to be named. The Centre has entrusted the responsibility for the expanded vaccination campaign to the states and the private market, saying it would procure 50 per cent of doses and allow the balance to be sold to the states or in the private market. “We’ve never had a precedent of our states procuring vaccines. This is like the Centre abdicating its responsibility — this could create conditions where states will have to compete with each other to procure vaccines and where states will be at the mercy of the companies from whom they choose to (procure) at rates fixed by them,” said K. Sujatha Rao, former Union health secretary. The Centre has announced grants to help both Serum and Bharat to ramp up production, but this is expected to take weeks to months. Bharat’s production capacity, for instance, is expected to increase to 100 million doses per month by September 2021. India has also approved Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, which will be manufactured in India, but the government has not specified yet how many doses will be available in the coming weeks. A senior vaccine industry executive who requested anonymity said the decision to open up vaccination for all adults appeared “abrupt and resulting from a mix of strategic and political reasons”. T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists, said: “A vaccination campaign of this size would be very challenging — for supplies and logistics. This would allow the Centre to blame the states for any problems or shortages they might face.” While the Centre has invited foreign companies such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their Covid-19 vaccines in India through a fast-track process, experts say India is unlikely to get large numbers of doses from them in the immediate future. “Most vaccine manufacturers are so oversubscribed relative to short-term supply that there isn’t much spare supply that could quickly be redirected to India,” said Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor of global health at the Duke University in the US. “It will likely take months, not weeks, for any substantial increase in supply,” he told The Telegraph. “But private sales of domestically manufactured vaccines could help raise additional revenue for those manufacturers that could be reinvested to increase capacity.” Udayakumar said the large majority of vaccine doses abroad had been government-purchased. The few examples of private sector purchases and sales, he said, have taken place in the Philippines, Pakistan, Thailand and Brazil. Public health activists fear that private sales can inject inequity into the campaign. “Ideally, the campaign should have moved downwards from the most vulnerable ages,” said Leena Menghaney, a New Delhi-based public health lawyer. “In the private market, we might see some vulnerable people left out while younger people get access to vaccines.” Duty waiver plan The Centre is likely to waive the 10 per cent customs duty on imported Covid-19 vaccines, official sources said. The government currently levies 10 per cent customs or import duty plus a 16.5 per cent integrated GST and social welfare surcharge on imported vaccines. These taxes would make the imported vaccines costlier than the ones made in India. On Tuesday night, the government notified a full customs duty waiver on remdesivir’s active pharmaceutical ingredients, on beta cyclodextrin which is used in the manufacture of remdesivir, and on remdesivir injections. Remdesivir is an anti-viral medication prescribed for the treatment only of hospitalised Covid-19 patients. The customs duty waiver on vaccine imports is still awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Poor Indians bear the brunt of “pandemic policing”||Poor Indians are bearing the brunt of “pandemic policing” as the country struggles to contain a deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases by imposing stricter curfew rules and curbs on movement, rights advocates said. Hawkers, slum dwellers, food couriers and migrant workers are most likely to fall foul of lockdown rules — from fines for failing to wear a face mask or being out in the street to having roadside stalls closed down, according to unions and activists. “Our ground experience shows police target the poor, marginalised and those who cannot speak up,” said Dharmendra Kumar, secretary of Janpahal, a charity that works with street vendors. “As micro-containment zones are being set up and markets shut, the police are in charge on the streets. On the pretext of pandemic policing they victimise hawkers, pedestrians and the poor,” he said. Police enforcing lockdown rules have faced accusations of arbitrary and heavy-handed treatment, especially since the deaths in custody of a father and son locked up for violating a nationwide coronavirus lockdown last June. A policeman was caught on camera beating customers and staff at a restaurant in Tamil Nadu last week after ordering them to close even though they were not in breach of lockdown rules. It is the uneven enforcement of lockdown rules that has led to the targeting of marginalised communities, tribes and other vulnerable groups, according to a study by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project (CPAProject). The independent research body analysed 500 police complaints and 34,000 arrests in Madhya Pradesh, and found officers were using “enormous” discretion in enforcing restrictions. “The police decided who had a valid reason to be out and who didn’t... even in cases where a person was out to refill their gas or buy essentials. All police complaints said was ‘reason not satisfactory’,” said Nikita Sonavane, co-founder of the CPAProject. The proportion of cases against pedestrians increased from 50 per cent in the first lockdown to 89 per cent during the third lockdown, with shopkeepers and street vendors among the largest category of “offenders”, the research found. Dayashankar Singh, president of Azad Hawkers Union, which represents about 31,000 vendors in Mumbai, said roadside fruit and vegetable sellers had been asked to shut shop. “I submitted a letter to the police that they should follow government instructions and fine those flouting guidelines, not act against the entire community of hawkers,” he said. “Food vendors are threatened that their food will be thrown away. We also got complaints that their pans and cooking oil were being seized by the police,” Singh said. Such stories were an “eye-opener” for illustrator Anurag Ekka, who worked with the CPAProject to create a comic called “Policed during the lockdown”. Based on a fictional vegetable seller who struggles to understand her rights and make a living under lockdown, the comic has been translated into 10 Indian languages and is being used as an advocacy tool by human rights organisations. “Facts and figures are always very abstract and the idea was to put a face to the numbers,” Ekka told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. While the comic’s protagonist Phullobai has her vegetables thrown to the ground by a police constable and a man out to buy medicines for his parents is fined, a driver found breaking the lockdown is let off. For street traders struggling to scrape by as restrictions keep many customers home, such incidents have aggravated their pandemic woes. Joginder Verma, 23, a fruit vendor in Mumbai who comes from Uttar Pradesh, said last year police refused to let him set up his stall — forcing him to join an exodus of migrant workers out of the big cities. “My fruits were rotting and I had to dump them in the garbage before leaving for my village,” he said. “Now I have a loan of Rs 20,000. I never had a loan before.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
21-04-2021||India||Supreme Court allows high courts to appoint ad hoc judges to clear massive backlog of 57 lakh cases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a slew of directions to the Centre for expediting appointment of judges besides exercising its extraordinary powers to permit appointment of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the massive backlog of 57 lakh cases. The directions were passed by a special bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant while taking suo motu cognisance of 40 per cent vacancies in high courts across the country. The development comes in the backdrop of frequent irritants between the Centre and the top court on the judiciary. While the Supreme Court and the collegium has often criticised the Centre for delaying the appointments, the government had passed the buck to the judiciary saying the recommendations for appointments were being made considerably late beyond the six-month period prescribed under the MoP (memorandum of procedure) which governs the appointment/transfer process. Under the MoP, the appointment process to fill up a vacancy must commence six months before the actual vacancy. Against the sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges in high courts, there are only 664 judges and 416 posts are vacant. “The high courts are in a crisis situation. There are almost 40 per cent vacancies in the high courts, with many of the larger high courts working under 50 per cent of their sanctioned strength,” the bench said. The directions given by the apex court follow: ⚫ The Intelligence Bureau (IB) should submit its report/ inputs within 4 to 6 weeks from the date of recommendation of the high court collegium to the central government. ⚫ It would be desirable that the central government forward the file(s)/recommendations to the Supreme Court within 8 to 12 weeks from the date of receipt of views from the state government and the report/input from the IB. ⚫ Government to thereafter proceed to make the appointment immediately on the aforesaid consideration and undoubtedly if government has any reservations on suitability or in public interest, within the same period of time it may be sent back to the Supreme Court collegium with the specific reasons for reservation recorded. ⚫ If the Supreme Court collegium after consideration of the aforesaid inputs still reiterates the recommendation(s) unanimously such appointment should be processed and appointment should be made within 3 to 4 weeks. “We are conscious that the aforesaid exercise is collaborative in nature and we would expect promptness in this process to facilitate the larger cause of dispensation of timely justice. With the above directions, we close this proceeding,” the bench said. Ad hoc judges The apex court said that in view of the large vacancies in the high courts, it has decided to activate a dormant provision of the Constitution — Article 224A — for the appointment of ad hoc judges to deal with the unprecedented situation arising from the backlog of over 57 lakh cases and the consistent ratio of vacancies of almost 40 per cent. Article 224 deals with the appointment of additional and acting judges. Its objective is take care of any temporary increase in business of the high court, or by reason of arrears of work therein.  The appointment of an additional judge duly qualified to be the judge of a high court has to be for a period not exceeding two years, or as the President may specify. The Supreme Court said on Tuesday the high court chief justices are free to appoint two to five ad hoc judges and laid down the guidelines for such appointments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka hospitals stare at imminent shortage of medical-grade oxygen||Hospitals in Karnataka are staring at an imminent shortage of medical-grade oxygen, with the rising number of Covid-19 patients with severe respiratory distress threatening to increase the demand fourfold. While the total consumption of medical-grade oxygen in the state was around 280 tonnes on Saturday, it had crossed 300 tonnes on Monday, sources in the state health department said. “Our statewide requirement could go up to 1,200 tonnes per day if the spike continues in this manner for another couple of weeks,” a health department official, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Karnataka has seven plants that manufacture liquid oxygen, with a total daily capacity of 810 tonnes. The shortage, currently limited to some small hospitals in rural and semi-urban areas, could soon hit the bigger hospitals if oxygen production was not ramped up, the source said. Dr K. Harish, associate dean in-charge of the Covid-19 wards at the Ramaiah Medical College Hospital and the Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bangalore, said the two facilities had stocks of about 20 kilolitres (approximately 7 tonnes) of oxygen. “Usually this stock lasts six days, but now we have to refill the (storage) plant every alternate day. Such is the rise in the demand for oxygen,” he said. The two hospitals together had 550 Covid patients on Tuesday morning. A doctor who works at the Covid ICU in the government-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital here painted a grim picture. The doctor said the Charaka Superspeciality Hospital, launched in October 2020 as part of the state government’s plan to ramp up facilities to treat Covid-19, lacked a dedicated oxygen storage facility. “Any big hospital should have a proper oxygen manifold system that maintains a steady supply to the wards and operation theatres. But Charaka does not have one yet. So we are forced to use regular cylinders to administer oxygen to patients with severe respiratory issues,” the doctor, who requested anonymity, said. An oxygen manifold is an array of inter-connected oxygen cylinders linked to an oxygen pipeline that caters to patients. The doctor said the oxygen shortage had already begun to bite government hospitals in Karnataka. “Ideally, all Covid-19 patients who need respiratory support should be provided ‘high-flow’ oxygen. But the way the shortage is staring at us, I fear tough times ahead unless the government ramps up manufacture and supplies,” the doctor said. An aide to health minister K. Sudhakar told this newspaper: “Oxygen manufacturers have assured full cooperation in ramping up production since we would need between 800 and 1,000 tonnes daily if the spike continues for a few more weeks.” Also, some Karnataka hospitals are short of the drug remdesivir, used to treat Covid patients. “Our daily requirement is 120 vials of remdesivir but yesterday (Monday) we could manage just 40 vials,” Dr Harish said. “We don’t know how things will pan out with the shortage of remdesivir and an impending shortage of oxygen.” R. Ashok, state revenue minister and vice-chairman of the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority which is in charge of Covid management, dismissed the fears. “Today we are releasing 20,000 vials of remdesivir — 10,000 each for government and private hospitals,” he told reporters ahead of an online meeting with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is under treatment for Covid. Karnataka recorded 15,785 Covid cases on Monday, which took its total active cases to 142,084. The state’s Covid death toll is 146.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress accuses Modi govt of abdicating responsibility to ensure free vaccines||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Narendra Modi government of abdicating its responsibility to ensure free vaccines to all, alleging the modified policy announced on Monday indicated the Centre had “passed the buck” to the cash-strapped states. “Who will bear the cost of vaccination to citizens between 18 and 45? Has the Centre passed the buck to the states?” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said at a news conference, which he addressed jointly with fellow party seniors Jairam Ramesh and Ajay Maken. The Congress has steadfastly been demanding free vaccination for every citizen although private hospitals have been allowed to sell the vaccine at Rs 250 a dose and millions have accepted that option. Chidambaram said the government should have months ago worked out a comprehensive vaccination protocol and placed the necessary orders. “The government did nothing for the last three-four months. They took their eye off the ball and started taking credit for defeating (the) corona(virus),” he said. Rahul Gandhi, who tested Covid-positive on Tuesday, tweeted: “No free vaccines for 18-45 year olds. Middlemen brought in without price controls. No vaccine guarantee for weaker sections. Government of India’s Vaccine Discrimination-Not Distribution-Strategy!” A statement issued by Chidambaram, Ramesh and Maken said: “Under the modified vaccine policy the Union government is running away from taking responsibility. (The modified policy) overburdens the states, encourages vaccine manufacturers to profiteer, and will worsen the inequality between states as well between poor and rich Indians.” It added: “Nowhere in the world has any government left its vaccination programme to be determined by the vagaries of market forces, and for good reason.” The statement, though, thanked the government for acknowledging the vaccine shortage and deficiencies in the current vaccination policy. “(The) states will now bear the responsibility and cost of vaccinating the poorer sections who are below the age of 45 years and are neither health workers nor frontline workers, as defined by the central government,” it continued. “The Centre appears to have abdicated its responsibility towards the poor by excluding them from the government’s vaccination programme. In a country where the median age is 28 years, to leave those who are below the age of 45 years out of a public-funded programme is, to say the least, callous. “The migrant workers who live and work in other states and are the lifeblood of the economy of our cities will be the worst affected by this directive. “By liberalising the pricing of vaccine, and by not fixing a price for states at the same rate as it is available to the Union government, the Centre is paving the way to unhealthy price bidding and profiteering. “States with limited resources will be at a considerable disadvantage. States that are already weighed down by shrinking GST revenues, lower tax devolution, reduced grants-in-aid and increased borrowing would have to bear this additional burden. Meanwhile, nobody knows where the thousands of crores of rupees collected under PM-CARES are being deployed.” Recalling that the government had advocated one-nation-one-election, Ramesh asked: “Why has it not ensured one price for the vaccine throughout the country? There will be one price for the Centre, one for the state, one for the private, one in the black market….” Chidambaram said: “How will the price for the states be fixed? Will the two manufacturers (Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech) decide the price together? If yes, that will be an anti-competitive practice.” The joint statement said the government had failed to grasp that the issue was not only one of production but also one of financing, procuring and distributing the vaccines, and of coordinating with the states. “Ignoring the suggestion of Manmohan Singh in his letter to the Prime Minister, the modified vaccine policy does not provide funds for capital investment to the vaccine manufacturers to ramp up production. Furthermore, the modified policy does not invoke the provisions in law for compulsory licensing to allow other domestic vaccine manufacturers to manufacture the approved vaccines and augment total supply,” it said. The Congress leaders underlined that there was no clarity whether any foreign manufacturer had agreed to export its vaccine to India and, if so, whether it had promised to supply adequate quantities according to an agreed schedule. “It is also not clear if the central government will take the initiative to import foreign-made vaccines and distribute them among the states,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan urges Centre to ensure free jabs to states||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the Centre to ensure that the states are provided with vaccines free of cost and not made to compete with private players to purchase from the open market as announced by the Union government. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vijayan on Tuesday sought reassurance from the Centre on free supply of vaccines in view of its announcement on Monday that 50 per cent of doses would be distributed to states and in the open market while the remaining 50 per cent would be earmarked for the Union government. “The state governments have constitutional obligation in the health sector and do need an assured quota of Covid-19 vaccine which has to be provided free in the pandemic situation. It is imperative that vaccines are provided to the states as a public good, free of cost,” Vijayan wrote. The Kerala chief minister highlighted the additional financial burden faced by the states due to the handling of the pandemic and noted it was imperative to provide vaccines free of cost. “The state governments are already facing additional financial commitments from the consequences of the pandemic. Given the present scenario, we have to provide vaccine to the public free of cost. As the economic downturn is still persisting, the additional burden of purchasing Covid vaccine will place considerable strain on state finances,” Vijayan wrote. The requirement for vaccines is set to increase manifold as the Centre on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible for Covid jabs from May 1. While Vijayan welcomed the decision to provide vaccines to more people, he noted that his state was already facing shortage of vaccine supply. “I would like to bring to your notice that we had requested 50 lakh doses of vaccine to implement our vaccination plan. We have received only 5.5 lakh doses, due to which we have been constrained to stop on-the-spot registration affecting our effort to deal with the rapid surge,” Vijayan stated, urging Modi to allot the remaining doses at the earliest. The chief minister sought a unified government channel involving all states for distributing vaccines. “Though the policy states that the government of India will provide vaccine free of cost to the state governments from its 50 per cent quota based on criteria, the states need a reassurance that they will not be left to compete with open market players. Instead of having a government of India channel, we need to have a government channel which will include the state governments through whom the vaccine will be distributed.” He also called for fixing the price for a specific quota of vaccines meant for the open market. “The open market distributors may be permitted to have a specified quota of vaccine for which affordable price has to be fixed so that unscrupulous players do not exploit the public,” Vijayan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court to Centre: Get oxygen, save lives||Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that lives were more important than economic interests and suggested a reduction in steel and petroleum production to divert oxygen to Covid patients. “Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” the bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government, alluding to the shortage of medical oxygen amid a Covid resurgence. The court asked the Centre why it had banned industrial use of oxygen only from April 22. “Shortage is now. You have to do it (impose the ban) now. Look into taking some oxygen from steel and petroleum industries. They have big pockets and big lobbies, but tell them if they have to cut production, then they can cut production. Lives have to be saved,” the bench said. It cited how a central government counsel’s father was being provided oxygen at a reduced pressure because the hospital wanted to conserve its scarce stocks of the gas. “Can you ask him to hold on till April 22?” the court asked. It said it had heard that doctors at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce the oxygen flow to Covid patients because of a shortage. The court argued that if the lockdown continued, all activities would come to a halt and there would be no immediate need for steel, petrol and diesel. “During lockdown, what would be the development?” the bench said. It said that if nothing were done, “we are heading for a bigger disaster”. “We might end up losing nearly a crore of people. Are we willing to accept that?” it said. The bench suggested increasing Covid beds in hospitals that can generate their own oxygen. Earlier, the health ministry had in its affidavit claimed there was no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi and added that all the states must rationalise oxygen use, refraining from administering it to patients who do not need it. Waste ‘criminal’ The court said the waste of even a single shot of the Covid vaccine was “criminal” and directed the Centre to vaccinate whoever it could to ensure each vial was used fully. It said the waste was a result of the age restrictions on eligibility (over 45 only) for vaccination and suggested the government register volunteers aged 18 to 45 who would be inoculated with the leftover doses after 5pm every day. The bench cited news reports about a daily wastage of six per cent of the doses amid a vaccine shortage. It noted that 44 lakh of 10 crore vaccine doses (overall) had been wasted, with the highest wastage reported from Tamil Nadu. “This is a huge wastage. Give it to those who want it. Whomsoever you can vaccinate, please vaccinate. Whether 16-year-old or 60-year-old, all need vaccination. The pandemic does not discriminate,” the court said. “In our view, wastage of a single dose of vaccine, which has proven to be life-saving, is a criminal waste.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Allahabad High Court’s order on Covid curbs in UP cities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed Allahabad High Court’s order on Monday imposing restrictions in five cities of Uttar Pradesh — Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakphur — to check the spread of Covid-19 after the state government rushed to the top court seeking an urgent hearing. The apex court, however, made it clear that the state government has to report back to the high court on the steps taken by it to deal with the pandemic situation. The court also directed the state government to delete the name of Allahabad High Court as a respondent in the matter. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramaniann passed the order after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the State sought an immediate stay pleading that a blanket order would not be “appropriate”. Mehta further argued the State had already taken several steps and was also willing to abide by other directions passed by the court. “Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor-General of India, seeks permission to delete the name of respondent no. 1, that is, High Court of Judicature at Allahabad from the array of the parties. Prayer is allowed. The name of respondent no. 1 is deleted from the array of the parties,” the apex court order said. “Mr Mehta, learned Solicitor-General, states that the State Government has issued several directions to contain the spread of coronavirus and are taking adequate precautions at their own. He further submits that the directions issued by the High Court vide the impugned order are as rigorous as a lockdown though the High Court has observed that ‘they are nowhere close to a complete lockdown’. Issue notice. Until further orders, there shall be an ad interim stay of the impugned order passed by the High Court. “However, the petitioner — State Government — shall immediately report to the High Court about the steps it has taken and proposes to take in the immediate future within a period of one week in view of the current pandemic. “We appoint Mr P.S. Narasimha, learned Senior Counsel, as amicus curiae to assist the Court in the matter...The Registry of this Court is directed to furnish a copy of the present petition to the learned amicus curiae forthwith. Put up after two weeks,” CJI Bobde said while dictating the order. On Monday, in a scathing attack on the Yogi Adityanath government’s handling of the massive surge of Covid cases, a division bench of Allahabad High Court had observed: “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance...” While issuing the directive for imposition of the restrictions in the five cities, the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar had said the night curfew “in the name of corona curfew and the weekend curfew are nothing else but a mere eyewash”. Chief minister Adityanath is in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Kumbh mela returnees in Odisha test positive for Covid||Twenty-three Kumbh mela returnees have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha. While 13 were found to be infected with the virus while undergoing RT-PCR tests at the Cuttack railway station the rest who have tested positive belong to Rayagada in southern Odisha. So far 70 people have returned to the state from Kumbh and all are in self-isolation. “We are keeping a close watch on these people. Special squads have been deployed at all the railway stations to ensure that those returning from Haridwar undergo the corona test mandatorily. “As per the official records more than 400 people from the state had gone to Kumbh mela to take a holy dip in river Ganga,” said officials, adding that passengers coming from Haridwar need to produce the RT-PCR negative reports not more than 72 hours-old. Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made RT-PCR negative reports mandatory for passengers de-boarding at the Biju Patnaik International Airport to prevent the rise of covid cases in the city. Keeping in mind the exponential rise in corona cases the BMC has also announced to keep all the religious institutions closed for devotees from Wednesday. Only daily rituals will be allowed to be carried out in them. “All religious institutions, including temples, mosques, churches will be closed for the devotees for the time being. Once the situation improves, the restrictions will be eased,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary. In Puri, the 12th Century Shree Jagannath temple is open for devotees but devotees from outside the state have to produce RT-PCR negative reports. With reports of five more deaths, the death toll in the state reached to 1,953 on Tuesday. While the situation in the coastal belt of Odisha is grim, the condition in western Odisha districts adjoining Chhattisgarh has worsened further despite the night curfew. “As people from districts adjoining Chhattisgarh are frequently visiting Raipur and other cities of Chhattisgarh, the corona cases in the bordering areas are increasing alarmingly. Besides, people coming from Covid hotspot states are also instrumental in the rise of positive cases in Odisha,” director Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Ajay Parida told reporters. Parida further maintained that Odisha need not worry much as the virus mutants of Brazil and South Africa have not been found here. “Only three to four per cent cases of double mutation of Covid variant of the United Kingdom have been found here,” Parida maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||India||Covid: BJP questions Nitish Kumar's decision to implement night curfew till May 15||The BJP has questioned the decision of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to implement a night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the state till May 15 wondering how such a measure could help halt the raging pandemic. “How will the night curfew contain the pandemic?” asked state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal on social media, expressing concerns about the “half-hearted” measure announced by Nitish on Sunday. “The Bihar government has taken several essential decisions. I am no expert but these are very good decisions. However, I am unable to understand how the night curfew will stop the spread of coronavirus,” Jaiswal further said. Advising that the infection chain could be broken only with a weekend lockdown from Friday evening to Monday morning, Jaiswal argued that it will keep the people confined to their homes and control the spread of Covid-19 to some extent. “The situation in Bihar will become akin to Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh if strict curfew is not imposed,” Jaiswal asserted. The Bihar BJP chief had given these suggestions at the all-party meeting on Covid-19 chaired by governor Phagu Chauhan on the request of Nitish following a suggestion by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nitish had said that his government will take into account all the suggestions while deciding about the measures to tackle Covid-19. However, not taking into account the suggestions of Jaiswal, who is a qualified medical practitioner and is also on the board of directors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, was seen as a snub to ally BJP by Janata Dal United (JDU) leader Nitish. It was said to be the main reason behind Jaiswal criticising the night curfew in public domain. There have been no reactions from the JDU on his criticism so far. The JDU and the BJP are partners in the NDA government in the state, but have been at loggerheads over issues ranging from ministerial berths to allocation of departments and nomination of MLCs, among other things. The JDU had held the BJP responsible for propping up Chirag Paswan and his Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) against it to cut votes in the Assembly polls held last year. The JDU had asserted that this was the reason behind it’s debacle in the elections — in which it was relegated to the third position with 43 seats — while the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the BJP won 75 and 74 seats respectively. However, the JDU tally is now 45 after the two MLAs of the LJP and the Bahujan Samaj Party of Mayawati merged with it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions vaccine price disparity, will write to Modi ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she would write to the Prime Minister about the discrepancy in price of vaccines being supplied by Serum Institute of India to the Centre, states and private hospitals. “I will write to the Prime Minister on this. Why would the private sector have to pay more? In a situation like this, should one look for profits or help the afflicted?” Mamata said while addressing the media. “We have given around 93 lakh doses so far. Our target is another one crore, for which we are asking the Centre to supply. The rest we will buy from the market,” the chief minister said. She also said that the Bengal government had secured an additional Rs 100 crore for the vaccination programme. Mamata announced that the universal vaccination programme would start in Bengal from May 5, three days after the Assembly election results are announced. The Centre has opened up the vaccination programme to everyone above the age of 18 from May 1. The privately-run Serum Institute had announced earlier in the day that prices for vaccines produced by the company was fixed at Rs 400 for states and Rs 600 for the private hospitals . The Centre, hwoever, woul dget to buy the vaccine at Rs 150. The Serum Institute’s decision to have different prices has raised questions on how it would prioritise supplies? Would the highest payer—in this case  private hospitals—be given priority over state-run facilities? Although the Centre had announced that those above 18 would be eligible to get the vaccine from May 1 (the current age limit is 45 years and above), a statement issued by the ministry of health and family welfare made it clear that states would have to procure vaccines on their own for those between  18-45. The second wave of Covid has led to a scarcty of medical resources across the country. Oxygen and medicines for treating Covid-19 patients are in short supply but BJP leaders in different parts of the country have been tomtoming their availability at their offices. Last week, Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil had distributed around 5,.000 doses of Remdesivir, for which the Gujarat High Court  issued a notice on Tuesday.  East Delhi MP Gautam Ganbhir tweeted on Wednesday, notifying party supporters of another drug available at his constituency office. “People of East Delhi can get Fabiflu from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhaar and prescription,” Gambhir tweeted. In Trinamul-run Bengal, Mamata admitted there was a scarcity of medical supplies. “This is a disaster. Even in calamities we work. Emergency is emergency. We have our responsibilities, and we have to make arrangements. There is scarcity of oxygen. We are also trying to stop illegal stocking and profiteering,” she said. The chief minister, who also handles the health portfolio, said in Bengal, around 6,793 Covid-19 patients were at various stages of treatment in state-run and private hospitals, while another 51,593 Covid patients were recuperating at home in isolation. “We have 11,000 beds and will add another 2,000 beds by Friday. There are 3,888 patients in government hospitals and 2,905 patients in private hospitals,” Mamata said. The chief minister ruled out any possibility of a lockdown in Bengal. “I can tell people to be cautious., I can ask them to wear masks, but I cannot tell them to stop their work, businesses and stay at home,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dubs second wave of Covid-19 a ‘Modi-made disaster’||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday sharpened her attack against the prime minister over resurgence of Covid-19 in the country calling it "Modi-made disaster" and demanded that he quit if he cannot provide adequate medicine to fight the disease. She alleged that 65 per cent of the drugs manufactured in the country for tackling the pandemic have been exported. "The Covid-19 pandemic had subsided in the country but has made a resurgence owing to the monumental failure of the central government and negligence and total incompetence on its part," she said addressing public meetings at Chanchal in Malda and at Harirampur in Dakshin Dinajpur districts. As the Election Commission did not accede to Trinamool Congress' request to hold the last three of the eight-phase election in Bengal on a single day, Mamata said she is having to take care of the sharp rise in the pandemic in the state as its chief minister as well as the election campaign for Trinamool Congress, her party. Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mamata said "The country is facing a Modi-made disaster. Modi Babu will have to take responsibility for why medicines to treat Covid-19 are not available in the market ... You have to provide medicines or leave the seat. Either you control Corona or move out." She alleged that 65 per cent of drugs manufactured in the country to treat coronavirus have been exported. Medicines may be given to other countries, but it has to be also ensured that people of the country get adequate supply. BJP is attempting to break the spine of Bengal and "we (TMC) have also resolved to break its backbone," the feisty TMC supremo said and claimed that none else has the power to fight against Narendra Modi other than her. "Bengal is the land of Royal Bengal Tiger and we fight like one," Mamata said. The chief minister claimed that her government has done a lot for the welfare of Rajbanshis and the minorities in the state. "We have done everything - the only task left to be done is to drive out the BJP," she said and assured that she will not allow implementation of National Register of Citizens or the National Population Register in Bengal. Mamata urged the people "not to allow division of votes" and to unitedly support the TMC. She said if TMC is re-elected for the third consecutive term, her government will arrange soft loans of up to Rs 10 lakh for higher education so that the deserving students can establish themselves in different fields across the country and the world and return to Bengal. Addressing a gathering in the Muslim-dominated Malda district, which is considered a Congress bastion, Mamata asked the electorate to cast their votes in favour of TMC irrespective of their religious beliefs as it is the "only party party which has not allowed any division on the grounds of religion. There is "no one else in the market" to ensure a government which will protect the religion and rights of all the people but the TMC, Mamata said and urged people not to divide the votes against BJP by supporting the Congress or the Left Front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Mamata Banerjee reminds Narendra Modi of jab stupor in February 24||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi that she had requested his intervention as early as on February 24 to allow Bengal to purchase vaccines directly with state resources and give free vaccination to the people of the state. “No response was received from your end,” Mamata wrote to Modi on Tuesday, a day after the Centre changed its policy on vaccines. “I am informed that the central government has announced the much-delayed ‘universal’ vaccine policy… which appears to be hollow… and a regrettable show of evasion of responsibility by the central government at the time of crisis,” Mamata said. “Now when the number of cases in the second wave of Covid is spiralling like anything, the Centre has chosen to tactically indulge in empty rhetoric….” Mamata added in the letter that the Centre was shying away from “its responsibility for making available vaccines to the people of the country”. In her one-page letter, Mamata told Modi that his government’s Monday announcement lacked several key elements. “The announcement does not address major issues like ensuring the quality, efficacy, stable flow of supply of required number of vaccines by the manufacturers and also the price at which vaccines are to be purchased by the states,” wrote Mamata. She expressed apprehension over how the announced policy could lead to unscrupulous mechanisms in the market, including pricing of vaccines, as it appears to be based on market prices. This “may put the common people under huge financial burden”, she wrote. “More important, the supply would also become very erratic because the vaccine manufacturers are hardly prepared to scale up their production capacities to the desired levels to meet the nationwide demand,” read the letter, adding that the required vaccines are not currently available in the market. “In sum, I would earnestly request you to kindly ensure a fair, transparent and credible vaccination policy addressing all the issues outlined above, which would enable the people of the country to get vaccines urgently at affordable prices as per current scale as applicable,” Mamata conveyed to Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Darjeeling hills see greetings and clashes ||In the past 48 hours, the political atmosphere in Darjeeling hills blew hot and cold like Darjeeling’s weather, ranging from warm greetings between political leaders to attacks to missives of peace. On Monday morning, Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, adopted an unconventional method to reach out to his archrivals Anit Thapa and Binay Tamang through social media apprising them of an alleged attack on GNLF workers by supporters of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Tamang-Thapa faction. Edwards said that a small skirmish had taken place between the Tamang-Thapa supporters and the GNLF workers at Lopchu on Sunday night following which the former beat up a GNLF supporter and broke the windshield of his car. “I told our agitated cadres to...not take law in their own hands…please inquire and instruct your people to do the same. We are not enemies here in Darjeeling hills, and this kind of incident should be avoided by all political parties,” Edwards told Tamang-Thapa on social media. Thapa immediately responded to Edwards’s post and said he, too, did not encourage such incidents, and that the welfare of the hills was above party interest. “Please feel free to call me on my phone,” Thapa said. Many hill residents appreciated this warm exchange between the two leaders. However, late on Monday night, news poured in about a clash between rival Bimal Gurung and Tamang-Thapa camps of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Mahendra Pradhan, the leader of the Morcha (Tamang-Thapa camp), and former Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Sabha member from Sonada, alleged that Bimal Gurung had personally assaulted him. “I was on my way to Nalichor (a Sonada village) while Bimal Gurung was returning (to Darjeeling). There was a traffic jam. I was alone and it was then that daju (Bimal Gurung) assaulted me and I sustained injuries on my head,” said Pradhan. The Binay camp leader also admitted that he also threw a stone at Gurung’s cavalcade after the attack. Gurung denied the charge and said while he was on his way from Ringtang tea garden, a group of eight-nine boys along with Pradhan were standing and whistling. The whistle is the Tamang-Thapa camp’s election symbol. “I carried on with my journey. Later I heard that they attacked one of the vehicles at the end of my cavalcade. One worker is injured and the charge that I assaulted Mahendra Pradhan is false,” said Gurung. On Tuesday, there was a war of words between the two camps. However, late on Tuesday evening, leaders of major political parties from the hills issued a joint statement calling for peace in the hills following an all-party meeting convened by Darjeeling police. Leaders who issued message of peace included Morcha (Gurung camp) general-secretary Roshan Giri, Darjeeling subdivision committee president (Tamang-Thapa camp) Alok Kant Mani Thulung, GNLF’s Edwards, BJP (hills) district secretary Raju Gurung and Trinamul’s Devendra Ghatani. “Politics is in its own place, but we are not enemies. Leaders are united here and it is foolish for cadres to fight,” said Edwards. “Political relations might change but we are all brothers in the hills,” added Thulung. “If anything happens, instead of informing party leaders it is better to go to the police station and allow law to take its course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stricter hygiene rules for tourism industry||The fresh surge in Covid cases — 9,819 new infections in Bengal on Tuesday — has prompted the Bengal tourism department to issue a number of fresh guidelines for stakeholders of the industry. S. Pradhan, a joint director of the department, has issued a set of instructions for transporters, tour operators, hoteliers, as well as management protocols for private and government accommodations. Transporters will have to sanitise vehicles thoroughly with disinfectants, use disposable seat covers, ensure proper physical distance of 2 feet each among passengers on board, limit the number of stops and train the driver and helpers on maintaining hygiene and safety protocols. Also, use of masks and gloves are mandatory for drivers and cleaners. “The transporters are also instructed to strictly follow a pre-plan itinerary. Tour operators or travel agents must tell tourists the dos and don’ts of travelling safely amid the pandemic,” said a source in the department. Since November last year, tourist inflow has increased in north Bengal. Covid cases had also shown a decline across the state. “However, over the few weeks, the number of Covid cases has suddenly shown an alarming surge,” said an official. “In Darjeeling district a major attraction for tourists, around 1,300 cases have been reported during the first 17 days of April. This spurt in infections is the key reason for strict safety guidelines.” The state tourism department has underlined guidelines for tourist lodges run by the West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation Ltd. “Sanitisation would be carried out every alternative day in these properties. Tourists and housekeeping staff will have to follow strict Covid protocols,” the official added. Other instructions include allowing only asymptomatic visitors to use the facilities, avoiding big gatherings in entertainment shows, introduce online or web check-in, having one isolation room  for every 50 rooms and one day gap to be maintained between two consecutive bookings for a room for thorough sanitisation. Those associated with the industry have welcomed the guidelines but are worried of a downturn. “In the past couple of weeks, almost 90 per cent of bookings were cancelled,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP rejigs campaign plan with virtual focus||Senior BJP leaders on Tuesday revised the party’s campaign plan for the last two phases of Assembly polls in Bengal and said they would try to reach out to the maximum number of voters virtually and refrain from bringing in large crowds at their public meetings in the next few days. Amit Malviya, the IT cell head of BJP, said that the itinerary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been redrawn. “It has been decided that he (Modi) will visit the state only on April 23, and speak in four public meetings. In each of these venues, there will be 500-odd persons in the audience. The meetings will be telecast (and livestreamed on various platforms) at smaller grounds or at the booth level,” Malviya said. Modi, sources said, will speak in Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum districts. He will also address a meeting in Calcutta. Virtually, his speeches are scheduled to reach 56 Assembly segments. Similar arrangements — small crowds and telecast/ livestreaming of speeches — will be made for public meetings of home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. Bengal elections of the last two phases – seven and eighth — will be held on April 26 and April 29 in 36 and 35 seats, respectively, for which campaigning is on. Over the past few days, mega public meetings organised by the BJP across the state drew flak, with people commenting on the dangers of crowding amid the pandemic. Trinamul has time and again approached the Election Commission with requests to club the final three or two phases of polls in the wake of the surge in the number of Covid cases. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that she would not speak at multiple public meetings in Calcutta and deliver shorter speeches in districts. These developments, observers said, made the BJP redraw its campaign plans. On Tuesday, the party’s national chief Nadda cancelled four public meetings which he was supposed to attend in the state. Instead, he held meetings with party leaders and workers. This change transpired a day after he was in Raiganj of North Dinajpur for a road show. In Murshidabad district, which has 22 Assembly seats, Modi’s main meeting will be held at the Behrampore stadium. “Around 500 people will be present there. Simultaneously, we will set up giant screens at least in one place in each of these constituencies. People will be encouraged to listen to the speeches virtually instead of being at the venue,” said a party leader. A senior Trinamul leader in Malda said: “In Malda, Covid infections are rising…we are perplexed. On the one hand, we can’t sit idle and let others (rivals) campaign, but there is always a risk of infection if people crowd.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Report on Sitalkuchi boy sought||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the district magistrate of Cooch Behar for a report on Mrinal Haque, 14, of Jorpatki village under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat, who was reportedly beaten up by the CISF on April 10. His assault purportedly prompted some villagers to go to the booth in protest when some CISF personnel opened fire, killing four voters. The letter sent by an official of the WBCPCR to Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan said the commission had come to know from newspaper reports that the boy was “beaten up by central forces.” “The commission has taken suo motu cognisance and sought a report from the administration,” said a source. The commission has asked Kadyan about Mrinal’s present physical health, steps taken for his treatment and administrative action after the incident. Mrinal’s family members and neighbours have alleged that the district child welfare committee took no initiative to help with his treatment. “None from the administration came and stood by us. My son is still ill and we have not yet received any help for his treatment,” said Majid Mian, Mrinal’s father and a farmer. Alizar Rehman, a local Trinamul leader, added: “The administration should have taken some initiative for the boy’s proper treatment.” Representatives of the child welfare committee, however, said they have not yet received any official directive. Dora Bhattacharjee, chairperson of the CWC in Cooch Behar district, said they were aware of the case but needed official intimation to act. On April 10, when Mrinal was roaming in a market near the Amtali MSK (booth 5/126) of Sitalkuchi, some CISF men reportedly beat him and shoved him to the ground. Later, the boy was taken to the subdivisional hospital for the treatment of his injuries on his buttocks, back and shoulder. When villagers went to the booth and the CISF opened fire, killing four young men, Sitalkuchi shot to national prominence. However, the CISF maintained the firing was in self-defence. After the firing, some villagers ransacked the EVM and the VVPAT and also assaulted some members of the polling team. Polling came to a halt at the booth. Additional forces took the polling personnel away. On Tuesday, all five polling personnel posted on April 10 at the booth in Sitalkuchi— Md Abdul Rehman, a high school teacher who was the presiding officer, Abhijit Burman, Dipendranath Roy and Dilip Majumdar, the first, second and third polling officers respectively, and Minati Roy Burman, a health worker — reached the district magistrate’s office in Cooch Behar. They met Reena Joshi, additional district magistrate (development), and narrated their experiences. “We were told to submit our experiences in writing, which we did. We were inside the booth and whatever we saw that day we have written,” said Dipendranath. Sources in the administration said this was a part of the ongoing probe by the Election Commission after the incident. “The EC however is yet to decide on the re-poll date in the booth,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM alert on  Ram Navami riot plan||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said she was worried about the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday, alleging that the saffron camp had plans to foment communal tension during the festival to extract electoral mileage by furthering its agenda of polarisation. Addressing a rally in Murshidabad’s Jiaganj on Tuesday afternoon, she said: “Tomorrow is Ram Navami. I am worried about the day because the BJP has a plan to create a riot…. We will resist the efforts (of the BJP).... I request you not to be provoked by anyone. You please observe Ram Navami and Ramazan simultaneously in peace and harmony.” “Please be careful. Hindus and Muslims, we both have to continue to live as brothers,” added the Trinamul Congress chief in the course of her 30-minute address. Sources said Mamata’s alert came as an ostensible warning to the people of the Murshidabad Assembly constituency, which is one of the three constituencies with a Hindu majority, out of 22 in the otherwise Muslim majority district. It is also the only Assembly segment in the district where the BJP had a lead — of 3,399 — in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The BJP can do anything, including triggering an actual riot, to win elections. The BJP is on the backfoot in many Hindu-majority seats across Bengal, even in places it led in 2019, as many voters swung back to Trinamul in the past two years…. The BJP, therefore, is desperate to achieve immense polarisation as 114 crucial seats remain,” said a Trinamul leader in Murshidabad. A section of Trinamul leaders said Mamata had started alerting people to be careful against provocation by the BJP on Ram Navami with reference to the riot that was reported from Asansol following a Ram Navami rally in 2018. Owing to the pandemic’s second wave, most major constituents of the saffron ecosystem, including the Visva Hindu Parishad and the Hindu Jagran Manch, have announced cancellation of all processions and mass gatherings on Ram Navami. “However, we have been permitted to organise a puja for Lord Ram in every neighbourhood. However, we will have no control if unorganised groups take out their own rallies,” said a senior RSS leader. “The allegations being levelled are baseless. There will be no provocation from our end,” she added. Sources said several saffron wing units had decided to decorate the area with large festoons and cutouts of Ram and Hanuman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: 10 rallies in a day in Covid-hit Murshidabad||Poll-bound Murshidabad was carpet-bombed with crowd-puller events by both Trinamul and the BJP on Tuesday despite the recent surge in Covid-19 infections in the district. Murshidabad saw 10 rallies on Tuesday. Caution seems to have fallen on deaf ears in the district, going by the number of rallies and Covid infections. On April 1, Murshidabad had only 90 active cases. That number shot up to 2,093 by Tuesday, with 389 new infections detected in the district in the past 24 hours till 9am. Despite this scenario, and all the promises by political leaders amid safety concerns, the key players of the election are yet to withdraw from poll campaigns with scant regard for basic Covid-19 safety protocols such as social distancing. Murshidabad — a key district with 22 seats, with minorities comprising nearly 70 per cent of the electorate — witnessed three rallies by the Trinamul chief, and three more by her nephew and political heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. The BJP conducted four road shows, two each by its state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and Union minister Smriti Irani. “This is really sad, that lofty claims are being made by the parties on curbing election campaigns in view of the Covid-19 situation, but none is actually doing anything about it,” said an attendee of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s first rally of the day at the Jiaganj High School. Mamata’s rally at Jiaganj was delayed by an hour and started at midday, causing the two others at Sagardighi and Farakka to be delayed as well. All three reported crowds in thousands with practically no social distancing. “It does not matter whether she speaks for three minutes, or 30 minutes, or 300 minutes, because people gather in thousands for hours before she starts speaking and spend a long time dispersing, in total disregard of the safety norms,” said a middle-aged schoolteacher at Sagardighi who would have liked to attend Mamata’s rally but stayed away because of Covid-19 fears. Union minister Irani’s road shows were in Kandi and Suti, Ghosh held two more in Burwan and Beldanga. “If such people (well-known leaders) come for such events in our areas, and the event is not virtual or televised, people will turn up… in the absence of major restrictions such as a lockdown,” said a Kandi-based shopkeeper, who was part of the crowd for the Irani road show. The Congress too had plans for two road shows — which would have taken the total of such events in the district to exactly a dozen — but they stood cancelled because its state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is on home isolation. Of the major players in fray in Bengal, only the Left had sworn off all political programmes that draw crowds, on account of the grim Covid-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Panel glare on chant-linked assault on boy||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken suo motu cognisance of a BJP worker’s assault on a 10-year-old boy for refusal to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and asked Ranaghat district police to probe the incident. Mahadev Sharma was admitted to the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital with multiple injuries. The boy was beaten up by Mahadeb Pramanik when the former was passing by a tea stall run by the BJP worker at Phuliapara near Santipur in Nadia district. The commission requested the Nadia district magistrate to ensure best possible medical treatment to the boy. At the same time, it directed the chief of the Ranaghat police district to conduct a probe and submit the report within three days. In a statement, the commission said on Tuesday: “It is a clear case of severe violation to child rights which attracts the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 as well as Indian Penal Code and United Nations Convention of the Rights of the Child (UNCRC).” The children’s rights body has also requested the Bengal chief electoral officer to conduct a probe on behalf of the Election Commission of India, take appropriate action and file a report. Nadia district child protection officer Anindya Das on Tuesday called on the boy at the Ranaghat hospital and spoke to his father. “The boy’s condition is stable. But he is traumatised. We have ensured all required treatment for him. The boy narrated the incident to me and showed me bruises on the body,” said Das. Santipur police started a case against Pramanik. A specific complaint was lodged against him by the child’s father, Shymanchand Sharma. However, the accused remained “absconding”. The Nadia BJP leadership preferred to disassociate itself from the incident to avoid embarrassment. “Mahadeb is not a BJP worker,” a district leader said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court stresses public caution to fight virus||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday highlighted the need for greater public awareness in combating Covid-19 in Bengal in the backdrop of the ongoing Assembly polls. Last week, a division bench of the court had expressed its regret in regard to politicians not showing enough restraint on the campaign trail, as reflected in the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. “Unless and until common people realise the gravity of the situation, no government or any other agency can do anything. The public should be aware of the disease,” said chief justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan while presiding over the division bench hearing petitions seeking judicial intervention to ensure that infections didn’t increase because of the election campaign. The Chief Justice and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the state government and the Election Commission of India to work jointly in raising public awareness of the situation. Following the litigations, the division bench had last week framed guidelines for the commission that they could adhere to Covid protocols on the campaign trail and during the casting of votes. The counsel appearing for the poll panel on Tuesday informed the court that the commission had undertaken all possible measures for the safety and security of common voters. An all-party meeting was also convened by the commission, said the lawyer. The commission’s counsel added: “Representatives of all parties attended the meeting and gave their word that they were ready to assist the EC on the issue.” Then, the bench asked both the state government and the commission to work jointly to raise awareness. “The norms laid down for combating Covid-19 must be fulfilled,” said Justice Radhakrishnan. The counsel appearing for the state government also told the court: “Since the poll process has already started, the state has had no power to take any steps. It is the EC which has had the power to take any steps so that Covid rules were followed during the polls.” The bench decided to monitor the matter and fixed it for hearing on Thursday when the commission will have to file a status report in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal readies for Covid test on migrants||The Bengal government has decided to increase vigil at railway stations and entry points in border districts amid apprehensions that migrant workers will return from Maharashtra, Delhi and Kerala, where Covid-19 cases have increased alarmingly in the last few days. The authorities of the border districts have been asked to intercept the returnee migrants, conduct tests and treat them if found positive. “Some restrictions like wearing masks and sanitisation have already been put in place by the railway authorities, but we need to start screening of passengers coming from states with high Covid caseload. We also need to ensure testing facilities for the returnees and lead them to quarantine centres or safe homes in the coming days to contain the spread of the virus,” said a senior health department. Sources in the health department said a majority of the exercises were taken up during the first wave of the pandemic last year. “But last time, we had to do it in a hurry and that’s why the migrants had lodged several complaints. We want to handle the issue more efficiently this time. So, we have started making arrangements in advance,” said a source. A senior bureaucrat said the steps had been planned after the government had sensed that there could be a rush of migrants to Bengal as restrictions had already been imposed in Mumbai and Delhi. “Some more states like Kerala could announce restrictions in the coming days. And once restrictions are put in place, migrants tend to return to the state. So, we have to keep arrangements ready,” said the bureaucrat. According to the sources in the health department, management of returnee migrants is extremely important to prevent the spread of the disease in rural areas. Health experts in Calcutta said the state government had successfully managed the flow of nearly 14 lakh migrants during the lockdown last year. “All returnees were taken to quarantine centres for certain periods and kept under observation to check whether they developed symptoms... If they had developed symptoms, tests were conducted. This is how the spread of the virus was prevented from entering rural areas,” said a health expert. State government officials said they felt that similar steps were needed this time. “If the virus spreads in rural areas, it would spell a disaster. As the health infrastructure is literally poor at villages where a majority of Bengal’s 10 crore people live, the situation could go out of control if the virus spreads to the rural areas,” said an official. Sources in the state government said the ruling establishment would not take any chance in terms of management of migrants. “Migrants are mainly from districts like Murshidabad, Malda, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur where elections are yet to be held... If the migrants come back and face mismanagement, it could leave the ruling party in real trouble,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt lays stress on adding more beds to Covid-19 facilities||The Bengal government is laying stress on adding more beds to Covid-19 care facilities in Calcutta and its surroundings as the health department apprehends a sharp rise in infections in the next couple of weeks. “It has been decided that a total of 8,000 beds will be added to the Covid hospitals across the state. Majority of them would be added in the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority area. The steps are being initiated after it is apprehended that the number of cases could rise sharply in Calcutta and its surroundings in the next few weeks,” said a senior official. The state government has already added 3,400 beds to the Covid care facilities in the CMDA area and some more beds would be set up by the end of this week. According to the plan, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital would be converted into a 220-bed Covid hospital. Besides, the polyclinic of the SSKM hospital would also be converted into a Covid care facility under the SSKM hospital. Besides, all medical colleges in the state have been asked to reserve 25 per cent of beds for Covid patients. “For example, the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has about 1,100 beds but currently, it has only 60 beds for Covid patients. The medical college has been asked to increase Covid beds to at least 250. This rule is applicable to all medical colleges and district hospitals,” said a senior health department official. Sources in the administration said the stress had been laid to increase beds in Calcutta after it was found that the districts where elections are over, positive cases had gone up significantly within a span of 8-10 days after the day of the voting. For example, elections were completed in Hooghly on April 10 and the district had reported a total of 191 positive cases on the day. But on Monday, the district reported 440 positive cases, which is a significant jump. Similarly, polls were completed in South 24-Parganas on April 10 and the district had reported 291 cases on the date. But the number of positive cases reached 522 on Monday, which is also a significant rise in the number of daily cases. “Elections will be held in Calcutta on April 26 and April 29, so it is being apprehended that the daily positive cases in the city could be up to 8,000 a day by the end of the first week of May,” said a source. The situation, sources said, could be less critical if political parties decide against holding large gatherings. Besides, the state administration is laying stress on implementing the Covid-19 protocols strictly in the city. “But no strict measures like curfew have not been planned right at this moment,” said an official. TMC plea The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday appealed yet again to the Election Commission of India to club the remaining three phases of the Bengal Assembly election — with 114 seats between them — in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation. The last two phases include seats in the core of the city and its immediate neighbourhood. A delegation led by Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien met Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab, placing the formal request for Nirvachan Sadan’s consideration. “We are at a point where the nation, including Bengal, is faced with a gargantuan task of using all its resources to fight the ongoing pandemic. We have also the colossal task of completing the remaining three phases of the polls over the next 10 days,” said O’Brien. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||North East||Three ONGC employees kidnapped by suspected ULFA(I) militants in Assam||Three employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) were on Wednesday kidnapped by suspected ULFA(I) militants from its Lakwa oilfield in Sivasagar district along the Assam-Nagaland border. The PSU, in a statement, said that the three employees have been abducted by unknown armed miscreants in the early hours of Wednesday from a rig site of ONGC in Lakwa field of Sivasagar. The three employees have been identified as M M Gogoi and Ritul Saikia -- both junior technicians (production) -- and Alakesh Saikia, a junior engineering assistant, an ONGC spokesperson told PTI. "The abducted employees were taken by the miscreants in an operational vehicle belonging to ONGC. Later, the vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle close to the Assam-Nagaland border," the statement said. A senior official of the Sivasagar district administration said that suspected ULFA(I) militants are behind this kidnapping and they escaped through Nagaland. "These are very preliminary findings. We can talk about it after some investigation," he added. No demand for ransom or anything else has been received so far. ONGC said a complaint has already been lodged with the local police and higher officials have reached the site. "Local administration has been informed about the incident and ONGC is in constant touch with the higher authorities," it added. The company stated that it has been exploring and producing oil and gas in Upper Assam since the early 1960s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
21-04-2021||North East||Manipur High Court directs state govt to provide safe passage to 7 Myanmar nationals “in hiding” ||High Court of Manipur on Tuesday not only directed the BJP-led state government to provide safe passage to seven Myanmar nationals “in hiding” in Moreh to Imphal but also prevented the state or central government from taking any “coercive action” against them till further orders. The seven had sneaked into Moreh in Manipur, bordering Myanmar, to escape possible persecution by the military junta following the February 1 coup in the neighbouring country. It is not known when they entered Moreh. The interim order was passed by a division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Lanusungkum Jamir acting on a writ petition filed by senior lawyer and human rights activist Nandita Haksar. The petition sought a direction to the Manipur government to provide safe passage to the seven persons from Myanmar, four adults and three children, to go to Delhi, to enable them to seek protection from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Vasant Vihar. She had filed the plea last Friday. Since the state government and Centre sought an adjournment and the petitioner sought interim relief to bring the stranded Myanmar nationals to state capital Imphal, around 100km from Moreh in Tengnoupal district, the bench directed the administration to “arrange for the safe transport and passage” of the seven individuals because the court was told that these persons “need to be protected and are under constant threat of apprehension/deportation by the authorities”. The seven persons included three journalists from Mizzima, a multimedia news organisation in Myanmar, and their family members, Imphal-based human rights activist Babloo Loitongbam told The Telegraph. The court said the petitioner “undertakes” to accompany the Tengnoupal deputy commissioner to the location where these persons “are in hiding so that they may be given safe transport to Imphal under appropriate escort”. However, the court said, before they are brought to Imphal, the district authorities are permitted to take these seven individuals to the senior immigration officer at Moreh for the purpose of noting their details and also obtaining their biographic and biometric information. “Thereafter, they shall be brought safely under escort to Imphal and stationed at the residence of the petitioner/party-in-person under adequate security and guard till the next date of hearing. It is also made clear that, pending further orders, no coercive steps or adverse action shall be taken in relation to these 7 Myanmarese persons, be it by the State or by the Central Government authorities,” the bench said. The next date of hearing is April 26. Five of Manipur’s 16 districts — Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong, Ukhrul and Churchandpur — share border with Myanmar. The Manipur government had on March 26 directed the five districts to “politely turn away” those seeking refuge in the state from Myanmar only to withdraw its order following widespread criticism of its “unconstitutional” approach in dealing with the aggravating humanitarian crisis. Loitongbam said Haksar has gone to fetch the seven refugees from Moreh. “They will be staying at Haksar’s residence in Imphal till the next date of hearing. Reports suggest thousands of Myanmar nationals have already sneaked into Manipur and are in hiding along the border because of government policies. There is a shortage of food, clothing and mosquito nets. We are raising funds to provide them basic amenities. We have already collected over Rs 1 lakh,” he said. Manipur (398km), Mizoram (510km), Nagaland (215km) and Arunachal (520km) share their borders with Myanmar’s Sagaing and Chin regions. The international border with Myanmar is guarded by Assam Rifles personnel. On April 18, the Citizens Committee, Manipur (CCM), under the chairmanship of former chief minister Radhabinod Koijam, deliberated on the possible humanitarian response to the Myanmar crisis, Loitongbam, who is the convener of the CCM, said. The committee has appealed to the people to contribute, in cash or kind, in order to extend all possible humanitarian assistance to the Myanmar citizens taking refuge in the border villages of Manipur. “It has also decided to make a representation to the Prime Minister to ensure that the Myanmar citizens fleeing their country from persecution are treated humanely in the spirit of vasudhaiva kutumbakam (the world is one family),” Loitongbam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
21-04-2021||North East||Covid: Mizoram govt announces near-lockdown for seven days in Aizawl and 10 district headquarters||The Northeast continued to fortify itself from the onslaught of Covid-19 cases with state governments announcing stringent measures to break the chain of transmission. The Mizoram government has been the first to announce a near-lockdown for seven days in Aizawl city and ten district headquarters from Tuesday following a recommendation by NGOs, academicians, Church leaders following the rise in Covid cases, 91 testing positive during the day itself, taking the number of active cases to 414 and death toll to 12. Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma, the official spokesperson on Covid-19 in the state, told The Telegraph that the decision to impose “partial lockdown” was taken on Monday night on the recommendations of leading organisations, community and church leaders. The term lockdown, however, was not used in the SOP issued at midnight. Aizawl district  has 319 active cases followed by Lawngtlai 24 and Lunglei 25. Mizoram has 11 districts. “It is not a lockdown per se but there is restriction on movement in the city and the district headquarters to break the transmission chain. People are allowed to enter or leave their compounds only with necessary permissions and tests. Time will be fixed for fetching essentials,” he said. “Anybody body leaving the district headquarters will have to  take permission from the local level task forces for Covid-19 and will have to give their date of journey and destination. Anybody entering the state will also have to compulsorily undergo the RAT and seven-day quarantine after which there will be the RT-PCR or TrueNat,” Lalmalsawma said. Shops selling essentials and other businesses will be allowed in accordance with guidelines fixed by the local level task force. However, religious places, educational institutions, parks, gyms, community halls, shopping complexes will remain shut till April 26.    Those returning from aboard or states affected by new Covid19 variant will be quarantined in designated centres if they test positive. Neighbouring Assam too imposed fresh curbs till April 30 to check the spread, including closure of shops in malls and markets by 6 pm and imposing fines of Rs 1000 for not wearing mask or spitting in public places. The SOP will be reviewed after three-four days. Chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said though cases are rising the situation is not alarming but he can’t say what will happen six-seven days down the line, hinting at more stringent measures if the surge is not checked. Restrictions on gatherings have been imposed, maximum 100 for weddings and 20 for funeral and not more than 400 persons in open spaces. Monday saw the highest single day rise in the second phase with 1367 persons testing positive. The total number of active cases stood at 6316 till Monday with seven deaths since March 24. Meghalaya has already barred entry of tourists from April 23 and closure of schools for 14 days from Tuesday.  Nagaland too ordered closure of schools for students from Class 1 to VIII. Arunachal has also started RAT at Banderdewa and Hollongi Check Gate from Tuesday and so has Manipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
21-04-2021||Opinion||A flawed but pragmatic view||Last month, a bench of the Calcutta High Court ordered that “the Sundarban area cannot be utilized or permitted to be accessed except for its preservation, management, protection and custody by and under the control of its custodians in law; and, to extremely limited purpose to which human access could be permitted under controlled conditions that would be imposed by those in custody of that area”. The bench hearing WPA 8514 of 2020, directed that “there shall be no activity whatsoever by human intervention in any part of the three parcels, the Sundarban Biosphere Area, Tiger Reserve [STR] and the Reserve Forest... except to the extent such activity may be permitted by the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests & Director, Sunderban Biosphere Reserve”. The court order, issued in good faith, is intended to provide as much protection as possible to the Sundarban natural area. However, it is flawed, cannot be implemented, and has the potential to overwhelm the office of the SBR director and breed corruption. It is flawed because the SBR (referred to as Sundarban Biosphere Area in the court order), the Tiger Reserve and the Reserve Forest are not three parcels of land. The SBR encompasses the STR, the Reserve Forest and the human-inhabited area with a current population of about five million. It is spread over an area of 9630 sq km and not 4,000 square kilometres as submitted by the ‘learned’ government advocate. The Sundarbans region, notified by the government of West Bengal through an administrative order (807/2C-6/73) dated March 1, 1973, and the natural area including the STR was declared a Biosphere Reserve on March 29, 1989. Neither the SBR website nor the Compendium  on Indian Biosphere Reserves are difficult to find. The implementation of “no activity whatsoever by human intervention” in the SBR is an impossibility since about 5,705 square kilometres are designated as the ‘transition area’, home to about five million people, practising agriculture, fishing and fishery in the main. Tourism and trade are also significant economic activities. The Calcutta High Court direction dated March 5, 2021, requiring that there be “absolutely no activity of converting any part of Sundarbans from its ‘as is where is’ condition, as obtained now” will come in the way of the socio-economic activities of the residents of the SBR. The livelihoods of such a large population cannot be wished away, particularly in the absence of any mechanism to settle the inhabitants away from the SBR and provide them with livelihoods. The office of the SBR director within the Wildlife Wing of the forest directorate has limited resources for the protection of wildlife and the regulation of human activity and entry into natural areas. Even if the SBR director were to delegate the authority of issuing permission for human activity in the SBR to subordinate senior officials, it would be a humongous task since there are only five office-holders of the rank of divisional forest officer or above. Moreover, it is common knowledge that permit raj breeds corruption. Mangroves undoubtedly need protection. From time to time, mangrove patches outside designated forest areas in the SBR come under assault in spite of being protected everywhere by the Supreme Court judgement of December 11, 1996. In the present case, it appears that the court has been given to understand that mangrove forest land is being converted into fisheries. This is apparent from the observations made by the bench on December 10, 2020: “[t]he writ petitioner complains of illegal activities undertaken to convert forest land into fisheries upon uprooting the mangrove trees”. This is not the case. Information provided to the court prior to or during the hearing on October 21, 2020 appears to be off the mark. Observations made by the bench on that day are thus: “This matter pertains to the pristine mangrove forests in the Sundarbans being destroyed by converting forest land into fisheries upon uprooting the plants.” To begin with, the mangrove forests of the Sundarbans are not pristine; systematic extraction of timber began at least 150 years ago. The first forest working plan was formulated in 1871 to regulate harvesting of sundari (Heritiera fomes). At that time, Richard Temple and Dr S. Schlich had noted that “due to unregulated felling no good quality forest remained”. Secondly, barring three instances since 1947, forest land in the Sundarbans has not been converted. In spite of the flaws, the judgment is pragmatic in that it has put a system in operation for a period of six months, unless modified. It is also timely and has touched upon a crucial aspect of governance of the Sundarbans. It has asked the state government to examine “whether all the areas, to which reference is made in this order, could be brought under one umbrella...”; in effect, a Sundarbans district. This is long overdue and should be on the agenda of the incoming administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Due place: women as judges||Has the time come at last? According to the Chief Justice of India, the time had come for the appointment of a woman as CJI. He was responding to a plea filed by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association asking that the Supreme Court intervene to ensure the appointment of more women as judges in high courts. Considering the scale of gender imbalance in the higher judiciary, the plea was a modest one. No woman has been appointed as CJI so far; in 25 high courts today, there are 81 women judges against 1,078 male and there is one woman among 29 judges in the Supreme Court. The CJI’s statement opened up the horizon of possibility. But he also qualified it, adding that according to the chief justices of high courts, women advocates often refused to become judges because of domestic responsibilities, such as the education of their children. In other words, the ‘time’ for a woman CJI may have come, but women did not have the time because of duties at home. Leaving aside the responses from women lawyers that followed, including one declaring that they were more than happy to take up professional duties, the assumption of inequality in the idea of women prioritizing domestic responsibilities over their profession cannot be ignored. It diminishes the achievements of women in every professional field, including the hard work of thousands in the unorganized sector. Besides, as one woman advocate remarked, if this is a reason for women not to become judges, then they should be given institutional support. The structural inequality should be addressed, not taken for granted. Men are appointed even though many refuse in order to continue practising as lawyers, pointed out another. Two facts must be taken into account to address gender imbalance in the judiciary. One, the position of a judge cannot be applied for and two, the collegium that appoints judges is all-male. Without a shift in viewpoint — alertness to assumptions and jettisoning them, to start with — the imbalance will not be corrected. Why should women lawyers have to ask the court to intervene? The judiciary must set an example to society about never devaluing women’s work and achievements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||The fiddler: PM playing to the gallery||Future chroniclers of India may well say that when the country burned, ravaged by the fire of a pandemic, its most popular leader was playing not the fiddle but to the gallery in election rallies. One of the most shocking aspects of the second, crippling wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the absence of reassurance from the highest echelons of power. The prime minister has prioritized politics over the lives of the people: Narendra Modi is reported to have addressed as many as 16 rallies in poll-bound Bengal at a time when Bengal and the rest of India were groaning under the weight of a resurgent pandemic. That Mr Modi’s government had been lulled by a drop in India’s caseload cannot be disputed. When the virus reared its ugly head again, both the political leadership and the health administration were caught woefully unprepared to meet the challenge. The paucity of dedicated Covid beds in hospitals — Calcutta is not an exception to this alarming trend — is frightening. It has been reported that had the Centre made adequate funds available for vaccine-makers, the pitifully slow rate of vaccination and the shortage of vaccines could have both been avoided. That is not the end of the government’s long list of lapses. It refused to enforce strict rules to control mass gatherings, stepping in — the ongoing Kumbh is one instance — when the damage had already been done. Unlike the instance of the first wave, the prime minister has desisted from sharing his vacuous wisdom with the nation. The situation is perhaps too grim for cheerleading. Shamefully, the Centre is attempting to conceal its ineptitude with hubris. Meaningful advice by experienced Opposition leaders — be it Manmohan Singh or Rahul Gandhi — is first being dismissed in an intemperate manner and then — wonder of wonders — implemented. Some of Mr Singh’s suggestions — the incentivization of vaccine manufacturers, for instance — have been accepted even though the Union health minister’s response to the former prime minister, now battling Covid-19, left a lot to be desired. Mr Gandhi’s earlier appeal to widen the ambit of vaccination has also met its mark with the Centre opening up the programme for all citizens aged 18 or above. Had this been done earlier, India could have saved many more lives. The scale of the crisis — the nation is at war with a virus — makes it imperative for the Central government to be collaborative in its approach. It is this shared spirit of cooperation that has helped the country stand together during many a crisis in the past — medical, political or economic. It is a pity that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party refuses to learn useful lessons from this history. Bolstering federalism and a conciliatory approach towards the Opposition, some of whose constituents have vast experience in running the country, should be deemed important in these desperate times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Rite of passage||We are living through a time when the founding ideals of the Indian republic are changing seismically. The cult of the leader overpowering the party at Central and state levels means that India today is a presidential system masquerading as a parliamentary democracy. The unashamed invocation of majoritarian prejudices and minority appeasement means India’s much-vaunted secularism is irrelevant in electoral politics. The profusion of love jihad laws across the country to widespread popular acclaim demonstrates how deeply vindictive society is. It is precisely to contain such changes that Constitutions are written. The founding fathers of the Constitution of India created a comprehensive document to account for and tackle a diversity of possible transgressions. The Constitution unequivocally set India on the path of liberal democracy secured through a parliamentary form of government, a federal structure, fundamental rights for every individual and a secular polity that treats all faiths equally. From the inauguration of the Constitution itself, many celebratory accounts of it have been written. These have both created and, in turn, fed off a lofty international image of India as the shining jewel of the global South, a colony that made it as a liberal democracy. While such accounts, with more than a kernel of truth, may have burnished India’s self-esteem as a new nation on the global stage, over time they have masked a fundamental reality — by and large, the Constitution does not matter in daily life or politics in India. This is not to say that the Constitution is not a powerful symbolic presence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi regularly extols the foresight of B.R. Ambedkar in hard-coding reservation for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the Constitution; Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee excoriates the prime minister for shredding the secular fabric of the Constitution; a popular song in the lead-up to the Bengal elections ends with a rousing invocation of the Preamble to the Constitution; several lawyers and judges invoke the Constitution regularly in courts of law and in the media. Despite such seeming pervasiveness, the Constitution appears to be singularly failing at its core task of circumscribing the limits of acceptable politics. Often a simple explanation has been offered for this — that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its ideological mentors in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have systematically denuded the Constitution because they had no part in drafting it. Historians of the RSS and political psychologists may be able to test the soundness of this claim. But there is a more uncomfortable truth that we have steadfastly refused to confront — that the Constitution itself has never seeped into the body politic in a way its drafters envisaged. This vulnerability dates back to the very making of the Constitution itself. While many views have been expressed about the Constituent Assembly, two facts are relatively undisputed — first, the Assembly wasn’t an elected body and, consequently, operated in a different plane from mass politics; second, while most major political leaders were part of the Assembly (with the prominent exception of M.K. Gandhi), their dominant interests lay in the actual securing of freedom and then, after freedom was achieved, in governing the country. The task of drafting the Constitution was left primarily to Ambedkar and the Drafting Committee, a group dominated by lawyers who believed in establishing a liberal democratic order based on an enlightened European modernity. This is why Shankarrao Deo, Gandhian and member of the Constituent Assembly, wistfully remarked that its merits notwithstanding, “the Constitution can hardly be called the ‘child’ of the Indian Revolution.” Although the Constitution contained a lot of promising material to build a modern India, it often appeared abstruse, unable to speak directly to the people. To resolve disputes it chose law and litigation over customary practices and mediation, guaranteed freedoms without recommending concomitant obligations, established a top-down governance structure firmly rejecting local self-government. These were conscious choices aligned with the modernizing mission of the drafters. But they were a continuation of choices that India’s colonial masters had made in the last two centuries, ignoring practices and forms of governance of older provenance. Many of these practices were retrograde and unsuited for incorporation in a democratic nation-state. But a refusal to seriously consider them while drafting the Constitution meant that the process would inevitably someday be seen as inauthentic. The Constitution we gave to ourselves in 1950, distant as it may have been to reality, could have plausibly settled over time. In fact, it still might, as a lot of academic work seems to suggest. But today, 70 years on, the constitutional vision and the political reality of India have frontally collided. Such collisions are not surprising; in fact, it is precisely when these collisions occur that the Constitution as the highest normative expression of sovereignty is expected to get to work and overcome all challenges. But unlike several occasions in the past when the Constitution and its guardians have risen to the challenge of upholding the law in the face of overweening governments, this time it appears that the governments and a majority of the people are on one side and the Constitution on the other. This is a reactionary moment for inchoate political ideas, which have always simmered in the constitutional subterranean, to emerge into the mainstream. Neither will this collision resolve itself quickly nor will its resolution lie in the realm of the law and the courts as the Constitution envisages. The fault lines are so numerous and deep that any resolution lies in the realm of ideas alone. These ideas are an augury of India’s approaching second constitutional moment — one that is truer to a people dismissive of checks and balances, god-fearing and religious, placing community and family over the individual, yet able to take such a reality and devise a constitutional order that works for all. There is some distance to travel before we reach such a moment but we are definitely headed there. Currently, though, we are at a phase in our constitutional life when we are desperate to shake off our Westminster detritus, yet unable to replace it with anything either original or empowering. Instead we have a perpetual state of polarization that promises to take India back in time, rejecting wholesale the modernizing vision of the founding fathers. This is a rite of passage. It is our reactions to these developments that are critical — we can choose to hark back to the avowedly liberal ideals of the original constitutional founding and champion a resurrection. That would be easy to do but would equally be a misjudgment. A challenge to the Constitution cannot be answered by invoking the Constitution itself — that won’t get very far. Alternatively, we can choose a different starting point — the messy and incoherent amalgam of practices that together constitute political life in India. This amalgam has, over the centuries, been shaped by Manu and Ambedkar, Macaulay and Gandhi, Akbar and Krishnadevaraya, Nehru and Modi. This pastiche is our reality — the second coming of the Constitution needs to reflect it honestly, rising above it when it needs to. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Golden opportunity||Sir — At present, India is reportedly facing a crisis in animal nutrition. In particular, a shortage has cropped up in the availability of pet food. On an average, there is a demand for 30,000 tonnes of pet food in the country, but much of it remains unmet. There is scope for India to take this situation in its stride. Most pet owners cannot afford imported brands of pet food even though they want the best for their pets. With a little investment in this sector, the Indian pet food manufacturing industry could not only meet this demand but also contribute to boosting the country’s economy. Ranjana Guha, Sir — With the steep spike in Covid-19 cases, the fear of another lockdown has sparked worries of another exodus of migrant workers from cities. Many have already started leaving for their native places. Calling for a war-like preparedness to deal with the surging number of Covid cases, several state governments have started imposing night curfews and weekend lockdowns, which have further increased the speculations about a complete lockdown. The plight of migrant workers last year is not hidden from the world — everyone is aware that the sudden lockdown imposed by the Narendra Modi-led government led to a great human tragedy. Workers of the informal sector, which is widely recognized as the ‘backbone’ of the economy, were left stranded on the roads. With no arrangements for transport, they had to travel to their hometowns on foot. A similar situation is arising once again. But the government does not seem to have learned from its earlier missteps. Deprived of even the basic amenities to survive, migrant workers are on the road again. The government still does not have a proper plan to solve these problems caused by the pandemic. Sandeep Rawat, Chandigarh Sir — If there is one class of people that has been affected the most by the pandemic — during the lockdown last year and now again this year — it is the migrant workers. The previous lockdown — a national shutdown with only four hours’ notice — was a disaster for them as they were left stranded, with no livelihood or means to travel home. It was surely hunger that affected them more than the coronavirus. The brief lockdowns recently imposed in Maharashtra, however, have been a little kinder to the migrant labourers, in the sense that they at least got the time to travel back home if they so wished. Migrant workers are mostly daily wage earners and it is difficult for them to survive in the absence of employment. The authorities must be more sympathetic to the migrant class. After all, they are the ones who keep the wheels of the economy turning in cities. Melville X. D’Souza, Mumbai Sir — Amidst another exodus of migrant workers from cities, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has reassured industries that there will be no complete lockdown this year. This is not surprising. Clearly, the Indian economy would not be able to survive another national lockdown. But rather than convincing heads of industries, the government should make an effort to reach out to the migrant labourers who are scared of a repeat of last year’s horrors. In this regard, the Delhi government has set a good precedent. While announcing a week-long lockdown in Delhi, the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, has urged migrant workers to stay back. The Centre should follow suit. There should be clear communication between the two sections. If the workers wish to leave, arrangements should be made for their transport. For those who choose to stay, the government should take steps to convey to them that they are a valued part of the economy. Shraddha Joshi, New Delhi Sir — The editorial, “Burning country” (April 19), rightly points out that India does not seem to have learnt any lessons from international precedents of wildfires. It is disturbing to learn that Uttarakhand has witnessed over a thousand incidents of forest fires in six months, and both human and animal lives have been lost. Although forest fires can occur naturally, they are often caused by humans. Climate change has a role to play as well. Weak monsoons can lead to dry soil, making matters worse. Reports suggest that northeastern and central parts of India are most vulnerable to forest fires. But the recurrence of such fires does not seem to bother the government. Inadequate infrastructure and equipment still pose a challenge. Without the concerted efforts of the state governments and the Centre, it would be difficult to tackle the threats to biodiversity that forest fires pose. The government should ensure that help is sought from both international experts as well as local people in order to improve the situation. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Rajrappa temple darshan closed till April 29||Ramgarh: Rajrappa temple’s Nyas Samitee held a meeting on Wednesday to implement the Covid directives of the state government during Swasth Suraksha Saptah. The committee announced that darshan for devotees will be closed from April 22, 6am to April 29, 6am. Traditional worship at the main temple will be continued. "Pat of temple will open at 4 am and Mangal Arti will be held. At 12 pm, Bhog and arti will be organised. At 7pm, Shringaar and Aarti will be performed. The Pat will close in the evening after these daily rituals," said Shubhashish Panda secretary Nayas Samiti. On Ram Navami, there was less number of devotees at the temple. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 23-year-old youth was beaten by Korra police on Tuesday when he stepped out past the night curfew to buy medicines for his Covid infected brother and sister. Requesting anonymity, the youth said he was waiting near the Nilambar Pitambar chowk for a bus to drop off the medicines when officer-in-charge Prashant Mishra came and beat him despite his repeated pleas. Mishra refuted the charge and said the youth was trying to blame the police that too when he himself was wrong. Mishra said the police are trying to do their job to prevent the spread of the virus. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid fears in Dhanbad village after 5 die||The district administration of Kasitand village of Govindpur block has sealed the boundaries of the village to carry out a Rapid Antigen Test drive, after five people including 4 members of a family died in the last week. A team led by Block Development Officer, Santosh Kumar and Circle officer, Ramji Verma accompanied by officer in charge of Govindpur Police station, Ganga Sagar visited the village on Wednesday to take stock of the situation and persuade the local residents to cooperate in the testing drive. Rabbani Ansari, an ailing villager died six days ago, his cousin brother, Tale Ansari died two days after. Another member of the same family, Riyazul Ansari died on April 19. Rabbani’s distant relative died on Wednesday and an unidentified woman of the same village died three days ago. The five deaths created a sense of panic among villagers. “With four members of a family dying till April 19, we have taken the issue seriously and carried out intensive contract tracing of the family and identified 65 persons whose samples have been sent for RT PCR tests,” Santosh Kumar said. “Though the RT PCR results have yet not arrived so we can’t say whether the deaths have been caused due to Covid or not,” said Kumar. “We however have carried out a survey of the village today to identify the families where people are unwell and will carry out a RAT Test in the village tomorrow with the focus on such families,” elaborated Kumar and added that villagers have been asked not to panic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Ram Navami celebrations in steel city||Ram Navami celebration was a low-key affair in the steel city on Wednesday for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the 170-odd akharas performed a simple puja with a low turnout of devotees. The city's biggest and oldest Jumbo Akhara in Bhalubasa kept the rituals simple, limiting the number of devotees inside the temple after a thermal screening. The Jumbo Akhara witnessed a footfall of around 1,000 devotees. All those who went to the Jumbo Akhara were asked to strictly follow social-distancing norms apart from the use of face masks. The volunteers present offered hand sanitisers to the devotees before starting the puja. Health department officials were also deployed at the venue for sanitising the temple complex in regular intervals so as to check the spread of the virus. Functionaries of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS), the apex body which ensures peaceful conduct of the festival, hailed the Akhara committee for maintaining hygiene and social distance. "The Jumbo Akhara at Bhalubasa attracts the maximum number of devotees on Ram Navami. This year the turnout was much less due to the pandemic. The Akhara committee members did a good job for ensuring mandatory Covid protocols," said Rambabu Singh, general secretary of JDPKS. According to the senior functionary of the apex body no immersion processions will be taken out on Thursday due to the Covid restrictions imposed by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Free Covid-protective vaccines for state athletes ||Following union government’s announcement to allow vaccination for all above 18 years of age from May 1, Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) has decided to fund the vaccination of member sportspersons, the decision to safeguard its talent pool from Covid-19 coming days after the Centre opened up the immunisation drive to those above 18 from May 1. JAA president and treasurer of Athletics Federation of India Madhukant Pathak said he has written to all district affiliates to prepare a list of eligible beneficiaries within a week so that the associaton can coordinate with the authorities and make necessary arrangements for the special vaccination drive. “Being the state outfit, we believe it is our responsibility to ensure that our players are safe. They are our talent pool and future of the state. Hence, after a meeting with state office- bearers of JAA, we have decided to fund the vaccination of all those who are deserving and needy so that they are able to beat Covid-19,” said Pathak. The official added that they have broadly worked out a few eligibility criteria for funding the vaccination of an athlete. “Players who are above 18 and have won medals for their district or state at national, senior national or east zone meets, among others, will be getting free jabs. This apart, players, whose performance have been improving over the last three years even if they have not won medals will be eligible. Most important, he/she should be holding a  government job.” Pathak hoped the association's move will help many medal winning athletes who hail from poor backgrounds. “In Jharkhand, players are mostly from poor families and remote areas. Despite battling odds, they pursue the game and win medals for the state. So, in the time of a pandemic, we want to stand by them in whatever possible way we can,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Weddings cancelled, band operators lose chance to recoup ||The government’s restrictions on participants at a wedding, has affected the band operators at these functions, already reeling under losses from last year’s lockdown. Around 90 per cent of the 20 thousand marriages scheduled during the wedding season of April, May, June and July have been cancelled while the remaining 10 per cent are not opting for a band. Manjit Kumar Soni, operator of one of the oldest band party based at Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad said, “We had 200 bookings for the entire marriage season beginning from April 19 to July 15 but with new restriction limiting participants to 50 persons, around 90% of these bookings have been cancelled.” “Majority of the instrument players come from Darbhanga, Samastipur, and some from Asansol and we have to pay them in advance. Due to cancelations we are going to suffer huge losses,” he said. “My simple question to the government and administration is that if the virus has not spread during the political rallies and meetings, how can it spread during the marriages,” Soni added. Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Decorators association, said, “As large majority of marriages were cancelled during the last year and there was a long lagan season from April 19 to mid July during which there were huge booking for the decorators and we were expecting to compensate for the losses from last year but with increased restriction, all our expectation have been dashed.” “We are also facing a dilemma due to lack of clarity with regard to transportation facilities for work at marriage sites as we need to transport materials and labour to the site for which any restriction will add to our difficulties, ”said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Some Ranchi residents down with Covid even after 2nd dose of vaccine ||Amid an alarming rise in cases of Covid-19 infection, many Ranchi residents have tested positive for the viral infection even after taking the second jab of the vaccine, but most displayed mild symptoms. But some, like Seema Choudhury, did complain of severe symptoms. “I took the second jab on April 11. I had mild fever and weakness for a few days, which I thought were side effects of the vaccine,” she said, adding that her symptoms gradually aggravated . A resident of Ratu Road, Choudhury tested positive for Covid-19 hardly 10 days after receiving the second jab of Covishield vaccine at a private hospital in Ranchi. She said she was battling weakness and fever, and was also suffering from shortness of breath and heaviness in the chest due to formation of patches in her lungs. Seema is currently in home isolation. The FAQ shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare claims it would take two to three weeks for an individual to develop sufficient antibodies  after completing the vaccination course. However, it is unclear whether infection during this period could lead to severe symptoms or not, say doctors. Doctors spearheading the vaccination programme, however, claim that vaccinated individuals are unlikely to show severe symptoms of the virus even if they get infected. “You can still get infected by Covid-19 even after taking both the vaccine jabs. However, the symptoms would be less severe and the infection will not be life-threatening,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the state immunisation officer, who is qurantined at home after testing positive for the virus. As per government data, more than 24 lakh Jharkhand residents have received the first dose of the vaccine so far. Of them, over 3.74 lakh have received the second jab. A city-based doctor associated with the Union government also tested positive for Covid-19 a week after taking the first jab of the vaccine. “I knew that I could get infected even after vaccination. I regularly took all the medicines for Covid-19 and tested negative after 15 days. The symptoms were minor,” he said, requesting anonymity. So far, the response to the vaccination drive has not been enthusisastic among those above 45 years, reveals government data. As per NHM, only about 24 per cent of the over 83 lakh such residents registered for the  jabs have received their first dose. Around 40 per cent of the over 2.34 lakh people above the age of 45 years, who were registered for the vaccination, have got their second jab as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
21-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 5,000 fresh Covid cases, 45 casualties in a day||Close to 5000 Jharkhand residents, including Health Secretary KK Soan, were found to be infected by the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday, taking the active caseload in the state above 33,000, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Soan, who had received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on April 13, isolated himself at home after testing positive for the viral infection. Development Commissioner Arun Singh will take charge as the Health Secretary in Soan’s absence, a government notification stated. Meanwhile, Jharkhand also reported 45 Covid casualties, which took the Covid toll to 1547. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of the active caseload, not only reported the highest number of cases but also the highest count of fatalities on the day. As per NHM data, the district alone accounted for 1703 of the 4969 fresh cases of infection and 15 of the 45 deaths reported in the past 24 hours. While the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 12,394 on the day, the number of patients in East Singhbhum drew close to the 5000 mark. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported 692 cases and 10 casualties on Tuesday, which took the active caseload there to 4,744 and the Covid toll to 448 – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Government records indicate that Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for more than 50 per cent of the active cases in the state, and more than half of the casualties reported on Tuesday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported six casualties, while four Covid patients died in Koderma. However, barring East Singhbhum and Ranchi, no other district reported a higher spike than 500. The Covid recovery rate in the state also dropped below 80 per cent on Tuesday, while the growth rate reached 2.22 per cent against the national average of 1.21 per cent. The national recovery rate of 85.60 per cent was also better than Jharkhand’s 79.84 per cent, highlights government data. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 33839 people and nearly 15 per cent of them were found infected. The state also reported 2334 Covid recoveries on the day, but the fresh cases outnumbered the recoveries by a huge margin. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 22,391 people, achieving only 33 per cent of the day’s target. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to 12,656 beneficiaries, around 5 per cent of the over 2.68 lakh registered for the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
