22-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Checklist for voters||Dry day rules Liquor shops in the Assembly constituencies going to the polls and the ones in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed till the end of voting on Thursday. According to orders issued by the state excise department, all categories of retail excise licensed premises shall remain closed in Dum Dum (North), Khardah, Barrackpore, Naihati, Bhatpara and Noapara and the adjoining Bidhannagar, Maniktala and Cossipore-Belgachia Assembly constituencies till the end of voting on April 22. Restaurants that are licensed to serve liquor may remain open but cannot serve liquor during the period. Election Commission of India:1950 Barrackpore police jurisdiction: 9874447929 Voters have to present any of the following documents at the polling station to establish his or her identity ⚫ Aadhar card ⚫ MNREGA job card ⚫ Passbooks with photograph issued by bank/post office ⚫ Health insurance smart card issued under the scheme of ministry of labour ⚫ Driving licence ⚫ PAN card ⚫ Smart card issued by the Registrar General of India under National Population Register ⚫ Passport ⚫ Pension document with photograph ⚫ Service identity card with photograph issued by central/state government./PSUs/public limited companies ⚫ Official identity card issued to MP/MLA/MLC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Shankha Ghosh: Tireless writer, never shy of protest||Which particular scene should I recall at this melancholic moment? Scene one: In a capacious room filled with admirers, Sankha Ghosh is reciting his poems from Dinguli Raatguli, published in 1956, to his Gandharva Kabita Guccho, published in 1993. His voice is almost inaudible and the listeners are straining their ears to catch the fascinating words. Scene two: Sankha Ghosh is leading a vibrant protest march from College Street, adjacent to Presidency College, to the Dharmatala crossing which is condemning the Gujarat massacre. Scene three: In spite of his ever busy schedule he is listening meticulously to what the danseuse Surangama Lala Dasgupta is saying on her future project based on the dance dramas of Tagore, and then recommending the most appropriate title for the production which is Etodine Taar Ahobaan. I am most reluctant to choose one from the above three because all three together constitute the personality of the great poet who expired on Wednesday. In fact, I need to add a fourth scene which depicts the poet alone in his study writing inimitable prose which will lead to masterpieces of creative critical writing like Nirman o Srishti or Kaaler Matra o Rabindra Natok. While the former is undoubtedly the most brilliant work on poetics and aesthetics written after Abanindranath’s treatise on the same subject Bageshwari Shilpa Prabandhaboli; the latter forcefully negates the verdict that Rabindranath was a second grade dramatist whose poetic dramas are unfit for stage production. Yet why should I limit myself only to his high-grade work? He has written for children as well. His Sakalbelar Alo, for instance, is a must read for juniors who would like to know more about the partition of Bengal and the exodus which followed it. This text is full of love for the village the Ghosh family left behind and the arduous journey thereafter is described in such a humane and heartfelt manner that even a fragment of rancour does not find a place in it. Sankha Ghosh was a dutiful teacher and indefatigable writer. But still he could scoop up the time required to protest and demonstrate. This fighting aspect of his personality was revealed after the Gujarat massacre when he, veritably, led the agitation against the communal holocaust that raged in Gujarat. We all looked up to him respectfully in that phase and he led the movement, quietly and firmly, in his own splendid style. The same story was repeated after the mayhem in Nandigram. Supporters and sympathisers of the CPM earnestly requested him not to come out on the streets but he remained adamant. His politics was of a redemptive nature, and thereby it crossed the suspicious limits of petty politics and realpolitik. When we read his political poem Jamunaboti, included in his first book of poems Dinguli Raatguli, we realise what constituted his political self — courage, fearlessness, stubborn idealism and an aspiration for redemption. Like the famous neo Marxian aesthetes he practised nothing short of what we may term “redemptive politics”. Only a stirring, redemptive passion can write the following lines —  “Jamunaboti Saraswati Kaal Jamunar Biye, Jamuna Taar Basor Roche Barud Buke Diye (Jamunaboti Saraswati tomorrow is Jamuna’s marriage / Jamuna prepares her bridal chamber by placing gunpowder in her breast)”. Still he was not a pre-dominantly political poet like Subhash Mukhopadhyay and Birendra Chattopadhyay. He was more like Pablo Neruda who remained steadfast to the kindred points of Home and Heaven. With masterly fluency he could write romantic poems as well which could be burning and impassioned in character. To cite one specific instance, the title poem Dinguli Raatguli rolls out like volcanic lava inspiring the poet to write lines such as: “Akankha Unmotto Hoy, Premer Nishaane Tara Chhute Chhute Matha Kute Kute Morey, Bhoy Knaape Door Durantor (Desire turns mad, inflamed by the calls of love they run amok and crush their heads. The distant and far away trembles in fright).” I have deliberately used these lines to prove that Sankha Ghosh, who excelled in formal versification, could turn severely passionate when the theme so demanded. Indeed his restless and turbulent dedication which was couched within a very soft-spoken exterior, drew him close to the Naxalites. When I questioned him deliberately on this issue, he said: “We endorsed the idealism, desire and aspiration of the Naxalite youths — with that we did not have any problem. But we questioned their method, course of action and violent programme. We were dead against the ruthless state oppression that was launched against them.” When his favourite student and Naxalite Timir Baran Singha was shot dead in Behrampore jail, he wrote a moving elegy that still haunts, “the Maidan drops heavy in the midst of fog/ route march melts towards the horizon/ I sit low and pick up with my hands/ your cutout head Timir.” Sankha Ghosh’s best friend Alokeranjan Dasgupta, a remarkable poet himself, predeceased him five months ago. He was also deeply attached to Timir Baran Singha, his student, on whom he also wrote an elegy. Perhaps the two — Sankha and Alokeranjan —are together now in some other realm and conversing animatedly with each other planning a joint production, as they did once in Saptasindhu Dash Diganta. The latter is a selection of world poetry translated into Bengali, which they edited. There is no point in counting the number of books Sankha Ghosh wrote. His collected prose and poetry are being compiled and published. What is more important are the words and lines written by him, which have become a part and parcel of our spoken language. Lines such as, “Bhikhari Banao Kintu Tumi Toh Temon Gauri Noyo (Turned me into a beggar but you are not like that Gauri)”, “Mukh Dheke Jaye Bigyapone (the face is covered with ads)”, “Nibhonto ei Chulli te Maa Ektu Agun De (Light up the fire of the ebbing oven, Maa)”, are now an indispensable part of the language we speak. Sankha Ghosh has enriched our lives and language in the very basic sense of the term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
22-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST sets up Covid-care unit on campus||The primary healthcare centre on the IIEST Shibpur campus has been turned into a Covid-care unit with beds, oxygen support and isolation facilities after several residents, including teachers and staff, tested positive and had trouble finding beds in hospitals the institute has tie-ups with. The unit became operational on Wednesday. Since the beginning of April, at least 15 people on the campus have tested positive for Covid-19. The institute was forced to scrap its decision to call its students back to the campus for laboratory work and supplementary tests because of the rise in cases. Atharba Thakur, one of the medical officers looking after the Covid-care unit, said 16 beds have been set up on the unit’s first-floor. “There are eight beds each in the male and female wards — four for confirmed cases and four for cases found unconfirmed in the rapid test but whose RT-PCR results are awaited,” said Thakur. Rapid test facilities have been set up on the ground floor of the unit. There are cases where a person has tested negative in the rapid test but his or her oxygen saturation level has dropped, another medical officer said. “Samples of such people will be sent to the labs the institute has tie-ups with for the RT-PCR test. If the report confirms the infection, the person will be shifted to the confirmed cases ward, if beds are available. We are trying to arrange an oxygen concentrator,” he said. In a worst-case scenario, if beds are unavailable or a patient’s condition deteriorates severely, he or she will have to be admitted elsewhere, said assistant registrar Bivore Das. The doctors running the unit will be able to determine the cases that can be treated through home isolation, director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. “For such cases there would be telemedicine facilities,” he said. Chakrabarti said a lack of beds in hospitals came in the way of the family members of an official trying to get admitted last week and this was the trigger behind setting up the unit on the campus. “This will work as a back up to some extent at a time when cases are on the rise on campus. The unit armed with preliminary facilities, Covid-related medicine and oxygen support is expected to provide the critical care,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||CM asks hospitals to increase number of Covid beds||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked officials of both private and state government hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. She also asked them to open more satellite units where Covid patients with mild symptoms can be admitted, some of those who attended the online meeting told Metro. Mamata asked senior state government officials to ensure that there was no scarcity of oxygen in the state. Officials will have to ensure that no one hoards oxygen or sells it at a higher price. The state government on Wednesday identified several crucial areas of Covid management like facilitation of hospitals admission, availability of ambulances, bed augmentation in hospitals, creation of new satellite facilities and funerals. Senior government officials have been entrusted with ensuring that all these facilities are rolled out and work smoothly. During the meeting, state government officials told the chief minister that the state had 11,000 Covid beds on Wednesday. “The chief minister told us to increase the number of beds. She told us to keep the commitments we made regarding bed augmentation. When the chief secretary told her that we have promised to augment beds within a week, she said to speed it up and complete the new bed addition before that deadline,” said an official of a private hospital who attended the meeting. “She also asked all hospitals, both private and government, to set up more satellite facilities so that patients who have mild symptoms can be treated there. This will keep a lot of hospital beds free for patients who cannot do without hospital care,” said the official. Addressing a news conference after the meeting, Mamata said that safe homes should be categorised into A, B and C grades. “The A grade is for more serious patients who should be transferred to hospitals next. The B grade is for those who are mild. The C grade should be for those who have no space at home to isolate themselves,” she said. “Hospital beds should be occupied only by those who need it. Those who do not require hospitalisation should be at home or in safe homes.” “Our officials will see to it that there is no problem with oxygen availability. They will also ensure that there is no hoarding of oxygen to sell it at high price,” Mamata said. The state government has given the responsibility of oxygen supply to two senior officials who will coordinate with all stakeholders to ensure a steady supply of oxygen. In the meeting, the chief minister also suggested that the safe home or satellite units can also be used to keep patients who were in hospital earlier and need a few days observation before they can be discharged. “There are many patients who do not have any severe symptom after a few days but they are still kept in hospitals for observation before they are discharged. It seems that she suggested that these patients can be kept in satellite units for observation once they stop having any symptom. We can discharge the patients after a few days,” said an official of another private hospital. The chief minister’s meeting with heads of hospitals from Malda via videoconferencing came in the wake of a rapid rise in infections and deaths from Covid-19 in the state. According to the state health department, 10,784 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. The rise in cases has resulted in a Covid bed crisis in hospitals despite several of them augmenting their bed strength. “We have increased our Covid bed count from 110 to 161 beds with 95 critical care beds. We have commissioned 32 beds in our satellite unit and plan to increase it to 50 by this weekend,” said an official of the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Peerless Hospital had 63 Covid beds on Wednesday, up from 40 a few days back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math closed indefinitely for visitors  from today||Belur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will remain closed indefinitely from Thursday. At an emergency meeting of the governing council of the organisation on Wednesday, it was decided that Belur Math would have to be shut down immediately because of the surge in Covid cases. “Because of the rapid spread of the coronavirus, the premises of Belur Math will remain closed to visitors and devotees from April 22,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission. Over the last week as numbers kept rising across India, the governing council realised it would have to take a call considering the health of the nearly 300 monks and around 250 workers who stay on the Math premises. Belur Math had reopened its gates to visitors on February 10 after remaining closed for six months as a precaution against Covid. Around 200 visitors have been turning up every day and the number goes up on weekends and holidays. So, after deliberations, the monks decided that gates would be closed indefinitely. “...it is a prudent decision,” said a senior health department official. On Wednesday, senior monks of several other centres of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission came together to discuss their course of action. “Similar restrictions are likely to be in place for centres in Calcutta and other urban areas. A final decision will be taken after discussions with the centre-heads,” said Swami Nityamuktananda, of Mayer Bari at Bagbazar. At Ramakrishna Math in Cossipore (Udyanbati), timings for visitors have been curtailed. “The gates will remain open for two hours from 9am. In the evening, it will remain open from 4pm to 7.30pm,” said Swami Pareshatmaananda, a senior monk at the Math. The managing committee of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission in Kamarpukur has decided that all pranams will have to be done in the standing posture. “If the numbers continue to rise out here, we might decide to close the gates,” said a senior monk at the Kamarapukur centre in Hooghly. Shilbhadra Dutta, the BJP candidate from Khardah, alleged that a group hurled bombs at his car. The alleged attack came less than 12 hours before Khardah votes on Thursday. Dutta was having tea at a roadside stall in the Bandipur area when bombs were hurled, police said. A man was detained with Rs 33.87 lakh in central Calcutta on Wednesday night. Bubai Chakraborty, 27, of Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, could not provide any information about the source of the money, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Keen to step out, man falls to death on Hazra Road||An 87-year-old man who was confined to his room for a few days as others in the family had tested positive for Covid, fell off his apartment's second-floor balcony while allegedly trying to climb down a getaway rope he had made with clothes. On Hazra Road around 9.30am, neighbours and onlookers shouted and tried to stop the elderly man when they saw him cross the balcony railing and hang from the rope. The man lost his grip on the rope and fell on a car parked below, police said. He suffered head injuries and was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. His son, who is quarantined at home along with his wife, told Metro that he was too unwell to speak, especially after the tragedy. The elderly man lived with his son and daughter-in-law, both of whom tested positive for Covid a few days ago. His daughters live in Ahmedabad and the US, the police said. Like most elderly people whose movements have been restricted by their families to protect them from the coronavirus, the victim was confined in the apartment for several weeks. Restrictions were further increased when his son and daughter-in-law contracted the disease, a police officer said. The building is located on the busy Hazra Road and has a car showroom on the ground floor. The remaining four storeys have residential apartments. The police said he had landed on a car breaking a rear view mirror of the vehicle. The family has purportedly told officers of Rabindra Sarobar police station that around 7.30am last Thursday, the elderly man had sneaked out of his room and tried to leave home for a haircut. He was stopped and asked to get back into his room. “The victim’s family was trying to protect him by keeping him confined in his room, especially because two members in the family were infected. He was given the only room that had a balcony so that he would feel better,” said an officer of the police station. The police said they were certain that this was not a case of suicide but an attempt to escape the captivity. The tragic incident is another grim reminder of how the coronavirus has affected lives, so much so that the son of a deceased person could neither step out of the home to take care of his injured father nor perform his last rites. The victim’s son sent an authorisation letter through phone to one of his cousins, who took the elderly man to the hospital and then arranged for his last rites, the police said. Hundreds of elderly people are feeling suffocated because of restrictions on movement that have been necessitated by Covid-19, said a police officer who interacts with members of Pronam in south Calcutta. Pronam is a wing of community policing in Calcutta that looks after elderly people living alone. “Elderly people feel extremely lonely and anxious, especially when they are stopped from going out for their regular walk. That is the only time when they get to meet their friends,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Sankha Ghosh passes  away||Sankha Ghosh, one of Bengal’s foremost intellectuals, poets, professors and literary critics, passed away in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. He was 89. Ghosh had tested positive for Covid-19 and was in isolation at his home in Ultadanga. He leaves behind his wife and two daughters. According to his family, Ghosh had got himself tested last week after running a temperature for a couple of days. He also had a bout of cough and cold. “The report came on April 14. He did not want to get hospitalised. His condition started deteriorating from Tuesday night. He breathed his last this morning. A doctor declared him dead around 10.30am,” said a relative. As in life, Ghosh’s last journey was bereft of pomp. Of late, a gun salute has been a regular affair at the last rites of cultural luminaries in Bengal. Not for Ghosh because he would not have it that way. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I extend my condolences to his family and well-wishers. He was down with Covid-19. But despite that, we will cremate him with full state honours. I have instructed the chief secretary. Ghosh did not like gun salutes. I spoke to his daughter. We will respect the family’s wishes. We will not do that.” Ghosh was a man of few words. But his public utterances had an indelible impact in the corridors of power. Ghosh had spoken out against the 2007 Nandigram firing during the Left Front regime, the 2012 arrest of a professor for circulating a cartoon lampooning chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the 2013 Kamduni gang-rape and murder. He had also been vocal against the citizenship thrust of the Narendra Modi regime and supported the long-standing farmers’ protests. A few lines from a poem called Sabinay Nibedan (Humble Appeal), written after the Nandigram firing, is topical even today. “Ami to amar shapath rekhechhi, akshar e akshar e; jara pratibadi tader jiban diyechhi narak kore/ dapiye berabe amar dal, onnye kobe na katha; bajra katheen rajya shashone setai swabhabikata (I have kept my pledge, letter by letter; have turned into hell the lives of protesters. My party will run amok, others will not utter a word; this is the normal in the rule of a State with an iron-fist).” On Wednesday, condolences poured in from all quarters, including from the Prime Minister. Born in Chandpur (now in Bangladesh) on February 5, 1932, Ghosh had graduated in Bengali language and literature from Presidency College and did his master’s from Calcutta University before taking up teaching as a profession. He taught at Bangabasi College, City College, Jadavpur University, Visva-Bharati and Delhi University, among other places. He won multiple awards, including Sahitya Akademi, Jnanpith and Padma Bhushan. Dinguli Raatguli (Days and Nights), Babar-er Prarthana (Babar’s Prayers) and Mukh Dheke Jaye Bigyapan-e (Face Covered in Advertisement) are among his noted collection of poems. He was also an authority on Rabindranath Tagore. Actor-director Koushik Sen, a veteran of “civil society protests” alongside Ghosh, said the poet was the chief architect of an “apolitical space” in the state. “Being apolitical does not mean not being political. It means asserting your opinion without being the stooge of any political party. Sankha Ghosh was not only a poet and a literary critic, he was the chief architect of this apolitical space. He was not with us. We were with him,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rise to 63,496||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 5,110 on Wednesday, to 63,496. After five months of gradually climbing down from 37,190 to 3,110 cases, the total is now at its highest this pandemic, beating the October 26-level by over 26,000. Of the 58 deaths reported on Wednesday, 13 were from the city and 14 from North 24-Parganas. The state recorded 10,784 new infections on Wednesday. While Calcutta recorded 2,568 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 2,149. The state logged 5,616 recoveries. The CPM’s candidate from Jadavpur, Sujan Chakra-borty; Trinamul Congress’s Kamarhati candidate Madan Mitra; Trinamul’s Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha; and Congress’s state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury have tested positive for Covid “It is the extensive campaign, with little or no regard for Covid-19 safety protocols, and for the mega eight-phase polls that dragged Bengal down, after that exemplary turnaround,” said a minister. “Every party in the state now has thousands of infected people, because they took part in the campaign,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Painful wait of 10 hours for Covid vaccination||Soma Das, 52, and husband Santanu Das, 59, got their first dose of Covid vaccine at 2.20pm on Wednesday, after standing in a queue outside a Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinic in Kasba since 4am. There were hundreds like them who had joined the queue outside the civic clinic on P Majumdar Road in Kasba, in Ward 107, before sunrise. When Sandip Roy, 60, arrived at 4.45am, there were around 80 people in front of him. Many elderly people were seen desperately seeking a shade to avoid the scorching sun. A group of such elderly people jostled under the shade of a sweet shop, forced to violate the protocol of safe distancing. Others, who were less lucky, stood under the sun, protecting themselves with umbrellas and caps. The uncertainty over the supply of Covid vaccines has led to a situation where officials of civic clinics are no longer in a position to tell potential recipients when the jabs will be administered, something they used to do in the early days of Covid vaccination. “We were getting a steady supply at that time, but no longer. If we are not sure how many people we can vaccinate on a given day, how can we assign assured slots to potential recipients? We do not want to give a specific date and time to someone and then tell him or her that doses are not available,” said a CMC official As the clinics are not allocating specific slots, potential recipients, many of them elderly, have no option but to queue up since 4am or even before. “When we came here at 4am on Wednesday, we were 43rd and 44th in the queue. A man was noting down the names,” said Santanu. The husband and wife, residents of Kasba’s Kayasthapara, took turns to stand in the queue. Santanu went back home around 5.30am and returned an hour later. Wife Soma then went home to prepare breakfast for the family. She rejoined the queue at 8.30am. “Neither of us left after 8.30,” Santanu said. “I had tried to get the jab at a few private hospitals but there, too, people were queuing up since 6am. Since this clinic is close to my house, my wife and I decided to stand in the queue here,” said Santanu. Sandip Roy had visited the clinic last week but there were 276 people ahead of him. It was not clear whether all of them would get the jab. “Those who were in the queue told me that I had almost no chance of getting the shot that day. So I had to go back,” he said. When Metro visited the clinic on Wednesday morning, an official was heard telling a person they were not in a position to say how many they would be able to vaccinate. “We will get to know only when we receive the vials. Please stand in the queue. If we have enough doses, you may get the shot today. Else, you have to try your luck another day,” the official said. An official of the CMC told Metro that the clinic had been receiving between 20 and 30 vials daily for a week. Each vial has around 10 doses. “Earlier, we were going door to door and handing over tokens to eligible people. The tokens had a serial number and the date and time when the person has to turn up at the clinic for the jab. We had a fair idea how many people could be vaccinated on a given day. But we are no longer so sure because of the uncertainty over the supply of doses. Also, we have to keep aside some doses in anticipation that a few people would turn up for their second dose,” the CMC official said. A notice outside the clinic’s gate said tokens to get vaccinated would be distributed from 9am every day on a first-come-first-served-basis. But many of those in the queue said they would not have received the jab had they turned up as late as 9am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine ordeal as supply drops when demand surges||Vaccination centres across Calcutta are struggling to cope with a rush of people, many of whom are elderly who are queueing up for hours to get the shot. Long queues and people being turned away from vaccination centres are triggered by several reasons, officials said. Some of them are ⚫Uncertainty over the supply of doses, because of which vaccine centres are unable to calculate how many people can be given the shot on a particular day ⚫Fear of being unable to get vaccinated later if fresh supply fails to come ⚫Malfunctioning of the CoWin portal, where one has to register to get the jab. Several hospitals had to suspend Covid vaccination for hours on Wednesday after running out of stock. Vaccination resumed at these centres in the afternoon but many potential recipients had to be turned away because of shortage of doses. “Even around 15 days back, we were asking private hospitals and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to organise awareness campaigns so that more people came forward to get vaccinated…. But the situation has changed completely in the last week following a steep surge in Covid cases. People are scared and are desperate to take the shot,” said Joly Chaudhuri, the joint secretary of the state urban development department. “Added to the scare of Covid is the fear of vaccine shortage. So more and more people are queuing up at vaccination centres.” Chaudhuri said 227 centres across Calcutta are vaccinating around 40,000 people daily. The state government’s target is to vaccinate at least 50,000 daily, provided there are enough doses. Dover Lane residents Shyamal Mukherjee, 81, and wife Kamala, 75, are scheduled to take the second dose of Covishield after April 22. Their elder son had called up the private hospital in south Calcutta where his parents had taken the first dose to know when the second dose would be administered. “An official of the hospital said they were not giving the second dose to more than 100 people a day and recipients were queuing up from 4am,” said their son. Officials of several private hospitals said problems in the CoWin portal and uncertainty over supply made it impossible for them to tell in advance how many people could be vaccinated on a particular day. “We are accepting appointments by phone calls. But every day at least 100 people are coming for walk-in registration. But we are not sure how many doses we will get,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. On April 18, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to the Prime Minister highlighting the inadequate supply. “Unfortunately for us, the supply of vaccines from the GOI (government of India) side has been scarce and erratic, which has been negatively affecting our vaccination programmes,” she had written in the letter. The erratic supply is also affecting distribution of doses, said state government officials. On Wednesday, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had to suspend vaccination for about three hours. “We had been advised to keep a limited stock of vaccines from the previous day to tide over the crisis the next morning. But there were so many recipients in the morning that we could not manage... and had to wait for fresh supply to come at noon,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which owns the Mukundapur hospital. “On an average, over the past three days, we have been vaccinating around 425 people - around 150 first doses and 275 second doses. Because of limited availability, the second dose is being given priority. We had to counsel and send back around 50 to 60 people coming for the first dose,” Venkatesh said. The shortage is also creating a waiting list for the second dose. “There is a daily backlog of more than 60 people for the second dose,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 375 points to finish above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 375 points on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank despite mounting COVID-19 cases in the country. After falling 501 points in opening session, the 30-share BSE index pared all losses to end 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48,080.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,406.15. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Titan, HUL, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra and Nestle India were among the laggards. "In a volatile session, markets ended on a positive note despite the country recording its highest daily COVID spike as investors focused on broad basing of the vaccination program," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Sharp bounce back in financials and favourable global cues supported the market's rebound, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Barring FMCG and IT, most of key sectoral indices traded positively. Notably, after seeing sharp rally in last couple of days, profit booking was seen today in many pharma counters. Volatility index hardened further by approximately 3 per cent," he added. India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. The oxygen crisis, precipitated by the second wave which has left tens of thousands hospitalised, appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent lower at USD 64.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||India, EU to join hands to build global infrastructure projects||India and the European Union (EU) are looking to team up and build infrastructure projects globally that would counter China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The key focus for what has been described as a “connectivity” partnership would be on energy, digital and transportation projects in Europe, Asia and also Africa, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. Both sides were at pains to emphasise that the new partnership won’t attempt to “compete” with the BRI but the effort clearly is to block China from stitching together an “all roads lead to Beijing” zone in the three continents. The FT reported that both sides are looking to unveil this new infrastructure-building partnership at a virtual summit that’s taking place on May 8. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been scheduled to travel to Portugal for the summit but the visit has been cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. "In view of the Covid-19 situation, it has been decided, in consultation with the EU and Portuguese leadership, to hold the summit in a virtual format on May 8," the Ministry of External Affairs announced Tuesday. India and Japan have already teamed up to develop infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Bangladesh. The partners had been scheduled to build Colombo’s East Container Terminal but the Sri Lankans suddenly pulled permission when it was about to be signed. Sri Lanka has offered an alternative port project instead. But India has indicated that it is lukewarm to this proposal. The US and EU have accused China of putting up expensive projects that the host country ends up not being able to pay for. One example is Sri Lanka’s Hambantota Port which added to the country’s debt-servicing problems. The Chinese have taken parts of the port on a 99-year lease. Similarly, tiny Montenegro in Central Europe took a huge loan from China to build a highway and it’s now trying to obtain a loan from the EU to repay it. Diplomats say the new India-EU partners would ensure that their projects do not impose a heavy debt burden, like the Chinese ones. In Pakistan, for instance, China-backed power projects have received financial backing from Chinese banks at onerous interest rates. Several highways and industrial parks are also being built under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)agreements. The CPEC projects were estimated to be worth $60 billion but they have slowed since Prime Minister Imran Khan has come to power. In 2018, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad cancelled the huge $20-billion East Coast Rail project linking but negotiations have continued to do the project at a lower price. Also, India and the EU will look at backing R&D projects in countries across the three continents. However, it’s not clear where the funds would come from for these projects, though the EU says both the public and the private sectors will be involved. The EU is simultaneously looking to build up economic ties with China. It had signed the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investments (CAI) in December but that has now run into headwinds due to European sanctions imposed in response to the Uighurs, human rights and forced labour issues. US President Joe Biden is also thought to be pushing the EU to take a tougher stand against China. The Financial Times quoted an EU diplomat saying: “The EU and its allies have a common interest here, in presenting an alternative to the Belt and Road Initiative, rather than allowing Chinese investments to dominate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and HUL as mounting COVID-19 cases in the country kept investors on edge. After falling 501 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 463.36 points or 0.97 per cent lower at 47,242.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 130.10 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,166.30. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Axis Bank, HUL, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, ONGC, Infosys and HDFC were among the gainers. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex slipped 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent to close the session at 47,705.80, an over two-month low. Likewise, Nifty ended at 14,296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,082.33 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Stock exchanges were closed on Wednesday on account of Ram Navami'. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a storm-like resurgence of COVID cases is impacting the economy as well as market sentiments. Localised lockdowns and severe restrictions on movements are sure to take a toll on the expected GDP growth for FY22. "Uncertainty has impacted sentiments and the sustained selling by FIIs in April is a reflection of this concern," he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 22,91,428, up from 21,57,538 cases registered on Wednesday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave which has left tens of thousands hospitalised appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses on Wall Street too ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent lower at USD 65.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Covid-19: Air India slots two weekly flights to UK between April 24 and 30 ||Air India will operate only two flights during April 24 to 30, instead of 13 weekly flights as the UK government has put India on the red list of countries that pose high Covid risk. The carrier will operate only one flight each between Delhi, Mumbai and London during this period, officials said. Indian citizens will not be allowed to enter the UK from 8.30am (India time) on Friday. And British citizens will need to quarantine in a hotel on arrival in the UK for 10 days. Air India in a tweet said:  “Passengers who were to travel between India and the UK, may kindly note that in view of recent restrictions announced by the UK, flights from/to the UK stand cancelled from April 24 to 30, 2021.” “Updates on rescheduling, refunds and waivers will be informed shortly. The following flights between April 24 and 30 stand cancelled: AI131/AI130 Mumbai-London-Mumbai. AI161/AI162 Delhi-London-Delhi. AI131/AI178 Mumbai-London-Bangalore and AI177/AI130 Bangalore-London-Mumbai,” AI tweeted. The UK government has said: “If you have been in or through any of the (red list countries) in the previous 10 days, you will be refused entry to the UK. If you are a British or Irish national, or you have residence rights in the UK, you will be able to enter. You must quarantine in a government approved hotel for 10 days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Gold imports surge to 160 tonnes in March on price drop, duty cut: GJEPC||Gold imports during March have surged to 160 tonnes on the back of duty cuts to 7.5 per cent, a reduction in gold prices and a rise in demand in India and overseas according to industry body Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). Total imports during March was 160 tonnes, a growth of 470 per cent compared with the same period last year. During 2020-21, total gold imports into the country was 632.73 tonnes, a decline of 11.87 per cent compared with the previous fiscal. The industry body said that the growth of gold imports has been aided by a low base effect as imports in March 2020 was 28 tonnes because of the outbreak of Covid-19. “In a normal scenario, the average import of gold in a month remains 60 tonnes to 80 tonnes. But, outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020 resulted in a nosedive in jewellery demand in domestic and international markets and so the import of gold in March 2020 was only 28 tonnes vis-avis 93 tonnes in March 2019,” GJEPC said in a statement. Gold prices have also declined on an average to Rs 40,179 in March 2021, which is the lowest through the financial year 2020-21. “Factors such as low base effect, reduction in gold price, reduction in import duty may be attributed to the increased imports in the country in this period. An important observation is that from an average import of approximately 80 tonnes in a year in 2018-19, it is down to 50 tonnes last year,” said GJEPC chairman Colin Shah. He added that the growth indicates a positive sentiment in both domestic and international markets, with expectations of export growth in the ongoing fiscal as well. “The import duty reduction has encouraged imports through official channels. While the duty cut by the government is not much, it has helped bring duty on a par with other countries and more formal import of metal through official channels,” said Shah. The industry, however, does not anticipate any immediate policy intervention amid the spike in imports. “Going by the RBI data, there has been an improvement in the foreign exchange reserves (from $476475 million as of April 10, 2020 to $581213 million as of April 9, 2021). So, there should not be any immediate concern,” said a senior banker. But there are concerns among jewellers over a slowdown in demand amid the rising Covid concerns across the country. Globally, international gold prices rose on Wednesday, hovering near a seven week high hit earlier this week as a softer dollar and easing of US treasury yields lifted demand for the safe haven metal. Spot gold prices climbed 0.5 per cent to $1786.06 per ounce earlier in the day after hitting $1789.77 on Monday, the highest since February 25, said Reuters. “Gold's pain over the last couple of months has been the rising Treasury yields and now that has pretty much been alleviated,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Care Ratings revises India's GDP growth forecast to 10.2 pc for FY22||With economic activities getting affected across the country because of curbs imposed by states amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Care Ratings has revised down its forecast for GDP growth to 10.2 per cent in 2021-22 from earlier projection of 10.7-10.9 per cent. This is the third revision by the rating agency in the last one month. “We have revised our forecast for GDP growth for 2021-22 as the underlying conditions have changed rapidly in the last 30 days or so. It stands now at 10.2 per cent,” Care Ratings said in a report. On March 24, 2021, the agency had projected GDP growth between 11-11.2 per cent based on GVA (gross value added) growth of 10.2 per cent. The spread of the virus in Maharashtra had led to the announcement of a “lockdown” by the state government which began in a less stringent manner from the first week of April, it said. Factoring the potential loss of economic output due to the restrictions in the state, the agency, on April 5, lowered its GDP forecast for the current fiscal year to 10.7-10.9 per cent. But the “lockdown” was made more obtrusive to business activity by April 20, with more stringency expected for the forthcoming fortnight, it added. Further, the spread of the virus to other states has caused similar actions by governments which have ranged from night curfews and weekend lockdowns to full lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India decides not to activate countercyclical capital buffer||The Reserve Bank of India has decided not to activate the countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) framework as the current situation does not warrant such an action. The RBI in February 2005 had put in place CCyB guidelines with the overall objective of strengthening the banking sector. It was envisaged that the CCyB would be activated as and when the circumstances warranted. “Based on a review and empirical testing of indicators, it is not necessary to activate the counter-cyclical buffer at this stage,” the RBI said in a release. The framework on CCyB was put in place by the Reserve Bank of India in terms of guidelines issued in February 2015 wherein it was advised that the CCyB would be activated as and when the circumstances warranted, and that the decision would normally be pre-announced. The framework envisages the credit-to-GDP gap as the main indicator, which may be used in conjunction with other supplementary indicators like credit-to-deposit ratio, industrial outlook assessment survey, interest coverage ratio, and asset quality. The Reserve Bank had said the aim of the countercyclical capital buffer regime was two-fold. First, it requires banks to build up a buffer of capital in good times which may be used to maintain flow of credit to the real sector in difficult times. Second, it achieves the broader macro-prudential goal of restricting the banking sector from indiscriminate lending in the periods of excess credit growth that have often been associated with the building up of system-wide risk. In the backdrop of the 2008 global financial crisis, the Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision (GHOS), the overseeing body of the standards set by the Basel Committee, had envisaged introduction of a framework on countercyclical capital measures. The RBI has set up a committee to undertake a comprehensive review of the working of asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) in the financial sector. The six-member committee will be headed by Sudarshan Sen, former executive director, Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Markets in distress as Covid woes resurface||The domestic markets were closed on Wednesday on account of Ram Navami but cues from overseas bourses were not encouraging as a spike in Covid-19 cases, particularly in India and Japan, have re-ignited concerns about its impact on global recovery. In Asia, while the Nikkei-225 plummeted 2.03 per cent, or 591.83 points, the Hang Seng index fell by around 1.76 per cent and South Korea’s Kospi was also in the red as it declined 1.52 per cent. However, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading in the green at the time of writing this report. Meanwhile, crude futures extended declines from a one-month high on speculation that coronavirus restrictions in India, the world’s third-largest oil importer, will hurt energy demand. Gold was, however, perking up again as investors started to show growing signs of risk aversion. Spot gold rose to $1,783.89 per ounce, close to a seven-week high. According to a report from Credit Suisse, there are signs of slowing goods movement in India which has also affected truck rentals on trunk routes. Market circles feel equities are likely to remain under pressure because of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country leading to lockdowns. Already various brokerages have pruned their growth estimates for the year due to these restrictions which would hurt economic activity. “It is, therefore, imperative that the vaccination roll out is faster,” an analyst said. On Tuesday, the Sensex closed 243.62 points, or 0.51 per cent, lower at 47705.80, thus wiping out all gains accrued during the day while the same trend was seen in the Nifty which fell 63.05 points after rising over 167 points. This comes at a time India Inc have begun reporting numbers for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. Though there have been no major disappointments, there are concerns that the current Covid surge may hit their earnings for the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Ratan Tata invests in Mailit||Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata has invested in Mailit, a technology-driven mailroom management and logistics company. While the financial details of the investment were not disclosed, Mailit said it plans to launch 500 mailrooms across India in addition to establishing fully mechanised warehouse and distribution centres in the next five years. Mailit offers courier, cargo, 3PL, mail room management digital solutions and postal services to leading corporates and several blue chip companies in Tata Group. The strategy focuses on building India’s first digitally Integrated Logistics & Mailroom Solutions (IL&MS) platform bringing the much-needed consolidation, enhanced efficiency and visibility to a fragmented market place, a statement said on Wednesday. Mailit will focus on consolidating the entire value chain, bringing seamless end-to-end distribution with real-time visibility, thereby reducing the overall logistics and distribution costs, it added. “With the government reiterating its commitment to strengthening the infrastructure sector, Tata believes the Mailit IL&MS platform will bring in cost optimisation, build operational efficiencies in the supply chain and create employment opportunities across India,” it said. Mahesh Shirodkar, founder and CMD of Mailit, said the investment by Tata “opens up a wider growth prospect” for the company. The Tata Sons chairman emeritus has been aggressively investing in start-ups, ranging from e-commerce firms, pet care companies to cab aggregators. In the past, he has backed companies such as Snapdeal, Kaaryah, DogSpot, Urban Ladder, Bluestone, CarDekho, Sabse Technologies, Xiaomi and Ola. Digital therapeutics firm Fitterfly on Wednesday said it has raised $3.1 million (around Rs 23 crore) in a funding round led by Fireside Ventures. The pre-Series A round also saw participation from 9Unicorns, Venture Catalysts and a clutch of angel investors from India, US and Singapore, Fitterfly said in a statement. Energy efficiency company Smart Joules has raised $4.9 million (about Rs 36.75 crore) in funding from a clutch of investors, including Raintree Family Office.  Other investors included ADB Ventures, Sangam Ventures, Max I Limited and Saket Burman from Dabur family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Lenders to Future Enterprises, Future Supply Chain Solutions approve debt restructuring||The Future group got yet another relief when lenders to two more firms —Future Enterprises and Future Supply Chain Solutions — approved resolution plans to restructure their existing secured financial debt. This comes on the back of a consortium of 28 banks giving the green signal to the debt recast of the group’s flagship firm Future Retail Ltd (FRL), under the resolution framework for Covid-19-related stress announced by the RBI last year. The boards of both Future Enterprises and Future Supply Chain Solutions have approved their lenders’ plans to restructure their existing secured financial debt, they said in separate regulatory filings. Among them, Future Enterprises has 19 lenders, including HDFC Bank, IDBI Bank, Indian Bank, Axis Bank, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Punjab National Bank, Bank of India and SBI. Though the company did not announce the total debt under the restructuring, a December 2020 report from Care Ratings, has put it at around Rs 1,777 crore. This includes long-term term loans of Rs 550 crore, long-term fund-based bank facilities of Rs 625 crore, and short-term non-fund based bank facilities of Rs 602 crore. Under the debt restructuring scheme for Future Enterprises, the lenders have approved the “repayment of short term loans, term loans, non convertible debentures, overdue working capital loans/CPs (converted into working capital term loans) to be extended up to a maximum of two years’’. For Future Enterprises, there would an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021 and all penal interest and charges, default premiums, processing fees unpaid between the period is to be waived off fully. Further, there will be an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021. Interest during the period shall be converted into Funded Interest Term Loan (FITL) which shall be payable by March 2022. The debt recast at Future Supply Chain Solutions has been approved by three lenders, including SBI, Yes Bank and IDFC First Bank. The terms are similar to the other two group firms. While repayment of all term loans will be extended by two years, the upaid interest on loans shall be converted into FITL which shall be payable in two tranches by December. FITL is a fresh loan provided to a stressed borrower for repayment of existing debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Oxygen reallocation to impact small biz in some sectors: Crisil Ratings||Re-allocating oxygen for medical purposes to take care of the rising Covid cases will have an adverse impact on small businesses in some sectors, domestic rating agency Crisil said on Wednesday. It said the “hiccup” seems temporary for now, and it is unlikely to impact the credit quality of the affected businesses. The impact will be greater for companies in Maharashtra, New Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, where medical oxygen demand has increased multiple times because of high Covid-19 caseloads, the agency added. The Centre has barred industrial use of oxygen except in nine designated sectors from Thursday onwards to divert the available stocks for life-saving medicinal use. Demand for medical oxygen is estimated to have rocketed five-fold in the second week of April versus pre-pandemic levels as Covid-19 infections took off, Crisil Ratings said. “The disruption in the supply of oxygen for industrial use would temporarily impact the revenues of small and mid-sized companies in metal fabrication, automotive components, shipbreaking, paper, and engineering,” its director Gautam Shahi said. These sectors typically do not have captive oxygen plants and source their requirement through merchant suppliers for operations such as welding, cutting, cleaning and chemical processes, he added. Setting up an air-separation plant or importing oxygen is not a viable option because it requires significant lead time and involves relatively prohibitive costs. Oxygen is consumed by industry in two ways — on-site and merchant sales. On-site is through captive plants for process-driven industries, which account for 75-80 per cent of oxygen manufactured in India. The balance 20-25 per cent is supplied through merchant sales through cryogenic tanks and cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Shoguns leap to avert Covid crisis||More and more business houses are stepping in to plug the oxygen shortage in the country amid a huge rise in Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the Tata group joined the likes of JSW Steel, Reliance Industries, Indian Oil Corporation, BPCL, Vedanta and others to offer oxygen supplies from its plants. The Tata group said it will import 24 cryogenic containers to transport liquid oxygen and help ease the oxygen scarcity. The group said it is “committed to doing as much as possible to strengthen the fight against Covid-19”. The import of the cryogenic containers via chartered flights to mitigate the oxygen crisis is one such effort to boost health infrastructure. Last year, when the first wave of the pandemic hit India, the group had also imported ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and gloves as well as Covid-19 testing kits in large numbers from countries such as South Korea, the US and China. Reliance Industries has also tweaked manufacturing at its Jamnagar oil refineries to produce over 700 tonnes a day of medical-grade oxygen. The oil-to-telecom giant is supplying this free of cost to states badly affected by the second wave of the pandemic. The plant in Gujarat initially produced 100 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen. A PTI report said the supplies being made to states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh will provide relief to over 70,000 critically ill patients every day. The company also plans to raise medical-grade oxygen production capacity to 1,000 tonnes “We are supplying oxygen for medical purposes as our priority is response to the current crises. Currently, the supplies are ramped up to over 185 tonnes and we are making every effort to increase it further from all our steel plants,” JSW Steel had said in a statement earlier this week. HLL Lifecare, which is present in segments such as contraceptives and hospital products, said it will procure almost 50,000 tonnes of imported medical oxygen for distribution to various central and state government hospitals. It floated a global tender on April 16 on behalf of the ministry of health & family welfare for supply of medical oxygen at the earliest. The last date for submission of the tender is April 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||India||Former Delhi minister A K Walia succumbs to Covid||Senior Congress leader and former Delhi government minister A.K Walia died of Covid-19 in the early hours of Thursday, party leaders said. He was 72. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others condoled his demise. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar expressed grief over the former MLA's death. He said Walia breathed his last at the city's Apollo Hospital. A four-time MLA, Walia headed several portfolios, including health and finance, in the Sheila Dikshit government. Party leaders said Walia, who represented the Laxmi Nagar constituency in the assembly, was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after testing positive for coronavirus. He died around 1.30 am on Thursday, they added. In his message, Rahul Gandhi said Walia was a "very helpful" member of the party with a deep social consciousness. "I'm saddened by the death of AK Walia ji. He was a very helpful member of the Congress party with a deep social consciousness. My condolences to his family & friends," he said in the message on Telegram. Family members of the deceased Congress leader said his last rites were performed in adherence with COVID-19 protocols at the Saray Kale Khan cremation ground. In a tweet offering his condolences, Kejriwal prayed for strength to the bereaved family. Priyanka Gandhi recalled how Walia helped many people in distress. "I personally witnessed Shri A.K.Walia help so many people in distress as Health Minister of Delhi. We are all deeply saddened by news of his passing. May his soul rest in peace," she tweeted. AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also condoled Walia's death, saying he promoted positive politics in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Ensure hassle-free supply of oxygen in Delhi, HC orders Centre||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed the Centre to ensure oxygen is supplied to the national capital as per the allocation order and is transported without any hindrance. The high court said there has to be strict compliance of oxygen allocation order issued by the Centre and non-compliance would attract criminal action. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre's allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states like Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needs to be resolved immediately. It directed the central government to provide adequate security to lorries transporting oxygen and to form dedicated corridors for the same. The directions came after the Delhi government told the court that oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The Delhi government also told the court that oxygen which was to be picked up from some units in Uttar Pradesh could also not be lifted from there. With regard to Delhi government's suggestion to transport oxygen by air, the bench said research by its legal researchers has shown that airlifting of oxygen was very dangerous and it has to be transported either by road or rail. Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta told the bench "If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with". He said if Individuals are involved, then protection would be provided to ensure the commitments are met. "We must respond with a sense of urgency and sense of responsibility which the situation demands," the SG said. The high court on Wednesday issued strong strictures against the Central government and private industries and had ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it seems human life is not important for the state . "You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal," the court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. The observations and directions by the court came on Wednesday during hearing of a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, contending that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Registration for Covid vaccination for those above 18 to begin from April 28||Registration for vaccination against Covid-19 for all those aged above 18 will begin on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app from April 28, officials said on Thursday. The inoculation process and documents to be submitted to get the jab remains the same. The central government had announced that the vaccination for those above 18 years will begin across the country from May 1 as part of the third phase of the inoculation drive. Certain modifications, including the age criteria and a few other features, have been done and the CoWIN platform is ready to meet the rising demand as is expected once the vaccination for all is opened up, an official said. From May 1, the present system of private COVID-19 vaccination centres receiving doses from the government and charging up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist and private hospitals will procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy, COVID-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 45 years of age in government vaccination centres, which receive doses from the government of India. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1. Based on this price, states, private hospitals, industrial establishments may procure vaccine doses from manufacturers. Private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of COVID-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for other than the government of India channel. "While the Centre has liberalised the vaccination policy, it does not mean that vaccines will be sold in pharmacists or chemist shops in the open market," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had clarified on Wednesday. The price charged for vaccination by private hospitals would be monitored, he said. "The present dispensation where private COVID vaccination centres receive doses from the government and can charge up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist," the Union health ministry said. Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the government of India and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. For government of India vaccination centres, the eligible population would be the same, which exists today, that is healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and population above 45 years of age. For other than the government of India channel, the eligibility would be all adult citizens of the country, the document said. Vaccination against COVID-19 will continue to be free for eligible population groups in all those government COVID vaccination centres which receive vaccine doses from the central government. All vaccination (through government of India vaccination centres and other than the government of India channel) will be part of the National Vaccination Programme, will follow all existing guidelines, will be captured on the CoWIN platform along with the stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all vaccination centres, will comply with Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) management and reporting, digital vaccination certificate and all other prescribed norms. The division of vaccine supply, which would mean 50 per cent to the government of India and 50 per cent to other than the government of India channel would be applicable uniformly across for all vaccines manufactured in the country. However, the fully ready to use imported vaccine would be allowed to be utilised entirely in the other than government of India channel, it said. The Centre from its share will allocate vaccines to states and union territories based on the criteria of performance (speed of administration, average consumption), extent of infections (number of active COVID-19 cases), the document stated. Second dose of all existing priority groups i.e. HCWs, FLWs and people aged above 45, wherever it has become due, would be given priority, for which a specific and focused strategy would be communicated to all stakeholders. This policy would come into effect from May 1 and would be reviewed from time-to-time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Amid tussle with states, Centre orders ‘uninterrupted’ supply of oxygen across country||The Centre directed states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transportation along inter-state borders on Thursday, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting to review oxygen supply across the country. In its order, the Centre said the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned will be held responsible if there is any violation. The directive under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 was issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it. At the review meeting, Modi asked top officials to work rapidly on increasing oxygen production, boosting speed of distribution and using innovative ways to provide oxygen support to health facilities. Modi also said that states must act against any hoarding of oxygen and directed officials to ensure that the oxygen supply to various states happens in a smooth, unhindered manner and called for fixing responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. The meeting also discussed ways and means to boost oxygen availability amid demands from many states for an increase in its supply. Bhalla said the availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and with the increasing cases, the medical oxygen supply will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states and union territories. "Therefore, to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of Covid-19 patients, in exercise of powers conferred under section of the DM Act, the undersigned, in the capacity as chairperson, National Executive Committee, hereby directs the state and Union Territory governments and state and Union Territory authorities to ensure the following measures within their areas of jurisdiction," the home secretary said. The order said there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles. “No restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state and the union territory in which they are located. There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without any restriction,” it said. “No authority shall attach the oxygen carrying vehicles passing through the district or areas for making supplies specific to any particular district or area,” it further said. Supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those (nine specified industries) exempted by the government, is prohibited from April 22, 2021 and till further orders, according to the directive. The order said that the states and union territories shall strictly abide by the supply plan of medical oxygen prepared by Empowered Group-I and as revised from time-to-time. The district magistrates, deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police, superintendents of police, deputy commissioners of police will be personally liable for implementation of the above directions, it said. Modi in his meeting discussed ways and means to boost oxygen availability amid demands from many states for an increase in its supply, and was told that the supply of life-saving gas to states has been steadily increasing. Railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long-distance transport of tankers,a statement said. The first rake has reached from Mumbai to Vizag to transport 105 MT of the liquid medical oxygen. Similarly, empty oxygen tankers are also being air-lifted to oxygen suppliers to reduce one-way journey time in oxygen supply. The prime minister was informed that an elaborate exercise is being done in coordination with states to find their demand for oxygen and ensure adequate supply accordingly, the statement said. Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
22-04-2021||India||Almost a national emergency, says Supreme Court on Covid-19 ||The Supreme Court Thursday termed the Covid19 situation as almost a "national emergency" while agreeing to hear Vedanta's plea for opening of its Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu on the ground that it would produce thousand tonnes of oxygen and give it free of cost to treat patients. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was unimpressed with the objection of Tamil Nadu government which initially sought hearing of Vedanta's plea on Monday and opposed its opening on various grounds including that it has been rejected by the apex court earlier. "We understand all this. We will ensure compliance of all environmental norms by the plant and its oxygen producing facility would be allowed to operate. We are on the oxygen plant," the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said when senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan for Tamil Nadu objected to the plea of the company. "There is almost a national emergency and you (Tamil Nadu) don't put spokes in the solution. We will hear it (plea of Vedanta) tomorrow," the bench said in the hearing conducted through video conferencing. "The country is in dire need of oxygen and the Centre is augmenting oxygen from whichever source. Vedanta wants to make its plant operational, but let Vedanta only make it operational to manufacture oxygen for health purposes," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. “Between protecting the environment and protecting human life, we must lean in favour of protecting human life,” Mehta said. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Vedanta, sought urgent hearing of the plea during the day itself and said people are dying on a daily basis and we can produce and supply oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. "We can start in five to six days if you give a go ahead today. The company can manufacture tonnes of oxygen there everyday and is ready to supply them free of cost," Salve said. The Tamil Nadu government, however, referred to the records and said no oxygen production can be started by the company before two to four weeks. The bench would hear the interim application on Friday. The copper unit was closed after a May 23, 2018 order by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board following violent protests against the unit which left 13 people dead in police firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||SC wants national plan on Covid situation, oxygen supply||As the country grapples with the current wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Thursday told the Centre that it wants a national plan on issues including supply of oxygen and essential drugs for treatment of patients infected with the virus. Taking suo motu cognisance of the prevailing grim situation across the country, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it would also consider the matter pertaining to the method and manner of COVID-19 vaccination in the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat, said it would examine the aspect relating to judicial power of the high courts to declare lockdown amid the pandemic. It further said that at least six high courts are hearing COVID-19 related matters, leading to "confusion and diversion of resources" based on different priorities. The apex court appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as an amicus curiae to assist it in the suo motu proceedings. The bench issued notice to the Centre and said it would hear the matter on Friday. We, as a bench and as a court, wish to take suo motu cognisance of certain issues, the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The top court said at least six high courts -- Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta and Allahabad -- are dealing with issues pertaining to the prevailing situation. It said these high courts are exercising their jurisdictions in bona fide and in the best interest. What is happening is that it is creating some kind of confusion and diversion of resources, the bench observed. One high court thinks there is priority for one group while the other thinks there is priority for others. We want to know with regard to four issues -- supply of oxygen, supply of essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination. We want to keep the power to declare lockdown to the State and this should not be by judicial decision.., the bench said. We want to issue notice on these four issues, it said, adding, We want to see a national plan on these four issues . As the apex court said it would issue notice to the Centre and hear the matter on Friday, Mehta asked the bench whether the government would respond to the high courts on the COVID-19 issues pending there. The top court said the Centre may present the national plan to the high courts. The bench also observed that it might withdraw certain issues pending before the high court and deal with them. Mehta said he would intimate the high courts that the apex court has taken suo motu cognisance on the issue. India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. Issuing unusually strong strictures on the Modi government and private industries, the Delhi High Court had on Wednesday ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious COVID-19 patients, observing it seems human life is not important for the state . "You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal," the high court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. "Fact of the matter is there is an oxygen shortage. It is there for us to see. We cannot shut our eyes to it, the high court had said during an extraordinary hearing of a plea on the matter on a public holiday, and added that the government cannot say it cannot provide more oxygen and people can be left to die on roads. The Central government, represented by the Solicitor General, had thereafter, assured the high court that it will facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions. The high court was conducting an urgent hearing on a public holiday on a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, stating that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Abandonment of Centre’s responsibility towards youth, Sonia tells PM on vaccines||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the new Covid-19 vaccine policy, terming it as arbitrary and discriminatory and urged him to intervene immediately to reverse it. In a letter to the prime minister, the Congress chief alleged that the new vaccine policy implies that the central government has abdicated its responsibility of providing free vaccines to all Indians between 18 and 45 years of age. "It is surprising that despite the harsh lessons of last year and the pain inflicted on our citizens, the Government continues to follow an arbitrary and discriminatory policy, which promises to exacerbate existing challenges," she said in her letter. "The policy implies that the Government of India has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age group of 18 and 45 years. This is complete abandonment of the Government's responsibility towards our youth," she said. Noting that any reasonable person will agree on the benefit of a uniform price for vaccination, she urged prime minister Modi to intervene immediately and "reverse this ill-considered decision". The Centre on Monday announced a liberalised vaccine policy, making all adults above 18 years of age eligible for getting vaccination from May 1. The Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||India records highest-ever single-day Covid spike in any country||India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. The national COVID-19 recovery rate fell below 85 per cent. Registering a steady increase for the 43rd day in a row, the active cases have increased to 22,91,428 comprising 14.38 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 84.46 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,34, 54,880. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.16 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,27,05,103 samples have been tested up to April 21 with 16,51,711 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 2,104 new fatalities include 568 from Maharashtra, 249 from Delhi, 193 from Chhattisgarh, 187 from Uttar Pradesh, 125 from Gujarat and ,116 from Karnataka. A total of 1,84,657 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 61,911 from Maharashtra, 13,762 from Karnataka ,13,258 from Tamil Nadu, 12,887 from Delhi, 10,710 from West Bengal, 10,346 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,114 from Punjab and 7,510 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Sitaram Yechury's elder son succumbs to Covid in Gurgaon hospital||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said his son Ashish died of COVID-19 in the morning. Ashish, a journalist by profession who would have celebrated his 35th birthday on June 9, was recovering well at Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital, people close to the family added. They described his sudden death at 5.30 am after a two-week battle with the disease as a shock. "It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us," Yechury said on Twitter. Ashish, who studied at the Asian College of Journalism, Chennai, worked in several publications, including the Times of India in Delhi, before moving to Pune. Journalists who worked with him remembered him as a mild-mannered and warm professional who was knowledgeable and well read. The CPI(M) Politburo issued a statement announcing the death and offering its condolences to the family. "We are deeply sorry to announce the passing away this morning (22 April) of Ashish Yechury, son of Sitaram Yechury and Indrani Mazumdar. He died of Covid related complications. He was 35 years old. "The Polit Bureau conveys it deepest condolences to Sitaram and Indrani, his wife Swati, his sister Akhila and all other members of the bereaved family," the statement said. As news of the death came in, condolences for the family poured in from political leaders, including from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti, Modi said on Twitter. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was devastated by the news. There is no greater loss for a parent to endure. May you find the strength to bear the inexpressible grief of your loss. My heart goes out to you at this painful time," he said. "Deeply saddened and pained to hear about the loss of Ashish Yechury. I offer my heartfelt condolences to Comrade @SitaramYechury, his family and friends at this difficult time," tweeted DMK leader MK Stalin. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her "shock" at Ashish's death. "Shocked and very saddened to hear about the untimely passing away of Ashish, son of @SitaramYechury Ji. My deepest condolences to the grieving family," tweeted Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh hospitals rip oxygen veil, blame Yogi||Several private Covid hospitals in Lucknow have put up notices accusing Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the Centre of failing to provide oxygen and requested families to shift patients elsewhere, prompting some helpless relatives to bemoan a “non-existent government”. In the notice pasted at its gate on Wednesday afternoon, Mayo Medical Centre at Gomti Nagar and Make Well Hospital and Trauma Centre said: “After repeated request to the UP CM/Central Govt, we are not able to get enough oxygen supply. Hence we are requesting the family members of those patients who are on oxygen support (to) please take their patients to (a) higher centre for further management. We are extremely sorry for the inconvenience.” Hours later, 10 jumbo oxygen cylinders were sent to Mayo Medical Centre from the government-run King George’s Medical University. Nishant, the manager of Make Well Hospital, told The Telegraph: “We have made some arrangements for the 44 patients in our hospitals and hope that the government will resume the supply of oxygen by Thursday morning.” Shantived Institute of Medical Sciences said in an “urgent announcement”: “Even after repeated requests to the appropriate authorities, continuous/regular supply of oxygen cannot be maintained. In the midst of this pandemic the supply and demand ratio remains unmet. In this scenario the safety of patients on continuous oxygen support cannot be overlooked. “…We request the family members of all patients on oxygen support to please transfer within the next hour the said patients to any centre where continuous oxygen supply can be ensured. We regret this deplorable situation and the inconvenience caused.” The majority of government and private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh are facing an acute shortage of oxygen at a time Covid cases have ballooned. The state reported 33,106 cases on Wednesday, the highest after Maharashtra. The death toll for the day was 187, although overflowing crematoriums and graveyards have spawned allegations that the real number of deaths was being hidden. When journalists reached Mayo Medical Centre to report about the notice and interview crying relatives of patients, a middle-aged woman came out of the hospital around 5.30pm and said: “I cannot let people die in my hospital. I can show you a WhatsApp group in which the state and the central government have added us for providing quick support to those suffering from Covid-19. We are frantically trying to tell them to provide us the promised oxygen or the patients would start dying soon. They are silent.” The woman didn’t reveal her identity but said it was the decision of the hospital management to speak out. A source in Mayo Medical Centre told this newspaper: “When the state government turned us into a dedicated Covid hospital five days ago, we were promised more than 400 oxygen cylinders. But we have got less than 100 cylinders till date. We have at least 40 patients who need round-the-clock oxygen. Tomorrow, the government will ask us how the patients died and put us in jail. It is better for us to speak up now.” The source said, before the 10 cylinders arrived, that since most relatives had not taken away their patients, “we have made some personal arrangements that will last a few hours”. Asha Verma, the relative of a patient who was crying inconsolably and trying to call someone for help, told reporters: “Where will I take my patient now? He cannot survive even for five minutes without oxygen. I beg the hospital to take whatever money is required from me and provide oxygen to my patient. I know the government is non-existent. But doctors are seen as gods.” The situation was dire at Balrampur Hospital and Civil Hospital in Lucknow, the two biggest government health facilities in the state capital. While the families of several relatives took their patients elsewhere, the hospital staff refused comment. Some relatives of Covid patients said they were having to pay between Rs 20,000 and Rs 40,000 for an oxygen cylinder, while the actual cost was about Rs 1,200. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a virtual meeting with officials in the evening and said: “There should be sufficient beds, oxygen, medicines, equipment and health workers in every district. Ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen in every hospital.” Himself in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, Adityanath said: “Responsible officers should be deployed at the oxygen refilling centres. The oxygen tankers should be connected with GPS. Deploy police at the (oxygen) plants. There shouldn’t be black marketing of oxygen and those who are doing so should be booked under the Gangster Act and the National Security Act.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Odisha Class X board examinations cancelled||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced the cancellation of the Class X state board examination and postponement of the Class XII exam. The announcement came following a protest rally by Class X students near Naveen Niwas, the residence of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, on Tuesday demanding cancellation of their examination amid the surge in coronavirus cases. Minister for school and mass education Samir Ranjan Dash said: “In view of the rise in corona(virus) cases, the Class X examination to be conducted by the Board of Secondary Examination from May 3 stands cancelled. The results of the Class X board exam will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the BSE.” Dash, however, did not spell out the detailed mechanism for deciding the results of the Class X examination. He said students who are unhappy with the marks awarded to them could get an opportunity to sit for the examination once the conditions improve. The state government in a media release said the Class XII examination conducted by the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE), scheduled to be held from May 18, has been postponed. The examination will be held once the situation improves. The state government will take a call on the examination in the first week of June. The students will be given 15 days time to prepare for the exam. All the students of Classes IX and XI will be promoted to the next class without appearing for any kind of examination, the notification said. Odisha on Wednesday reported 4,851 fresh Covid-19 cases, with Khurda district registering the highest 703 cases. The deaths due to Covid-19 touched 1,958 with another five fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. “The second wave is likely to reach its peak either in the last week of April or in the first week of May,” said C.B.K. Mohanty, chief of the Directorate of Medical Education and Training. The administration of Ganjam, the home district of Naveen, has launched a door-to-door health screening drive. The district administration also shut down religious places for devotees till May 15. It has prohibited the entry of visitors in parks, sea beaches and such other places of mass congregation. On the other hand, the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has decided to vaccinate all the servitors aged above 18 years. The chief minister has directed the district administrations to prepare a mechanism for the return of migrant workers from other states and follow the protocols. “The quarantine norm and testing should be ensured for all the returnees from other states,” Naveen said. He added that the number of medical facilities, including the number of beds with oxygen facilities, should be increased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Maoist leader behind collector kidnap surrenders||Maoist leader G. Jalandhar Reddy, who was involved in the abduction of former Malkangiri collector R. Vineel Krishna in Odisha, surrendered before the police in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna was one of the top leaders of Andhra-Odisha border special zonal committee of the banned CPI (Maoist). Reddy was mainly active in what is now known as the Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district in Odisha. Vineel was kidnapped by Maoists from this area in 2011. He was released after spending nearly a week in their captivity. Source said Reddy decided to lay down arms after Malkangiri police assisted by the BSF and its Andhra counterpart stepped up its hunt for rebels. His decision to join the mainstream might prompt other Maoists to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Few infections after vaccines ||Only three to four persons per 10,000 vaccinated with either Covaxin or Covishield have developed Covid-19 infections after two doses, India’s health research agency said on Wednesday, releasing preliminary results of real-world efficacy. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMCR) said it had counted 695 (0.04 per cent) infections among 1,737,178 people who had received two Covaxin doses and 5,014 (0.03 per cent) infections among 15,732,754 people who had received two Covishield doses. “These are very small numbers and not at all worrisome,” said Balram Bhargava, the ICMR’s director-general. “We call infections after vaccinations breakthrough infections. The two vaccines we’re using are designed to reduce infections and prevent severe disease and deaths.” Multiple anecdotal accounts have emerged of Covid-19 infections among vaccine recipients, including some who had received two doses, since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. Among them is former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. But health officials and vaccine researchers have underlined that the Covid-19 vaccines currently in use are primarily intended to prevent severe disease and deaths and only lower the risk of infections — and that some breakthrough infections could occur. Bhargava said the preliminary results were based on early phases of the vaccination campaign that were open only to healthcare workers and frontline workers. “Healthcare workers and frontline workers are vulnerable to occupational exposure and therefore, these numbers,” he said. The epidemic’s current second wave — that has pushed the seven-day average of daily new infections to over 248,000 from a peak count of 93,000 during the first wave in September — may have also contributed to some extra infections, Bhargava said. Otherwise, the numbers could have been even lower. But some researchers said they were puzzled on Wednesday with the lack of significant differences in the proportion of the breakthrough infections after the first dose and the second dose of either vaccine, although full protection is expected to occur 14 days after the second dose. The ICMR data show breakthrough infection incidence rates of four per 10,000 after the first dose of Covaxin and after the second dose of Covaxin and incidence rates of three per 10,000 after the first dose of Covishield and four per 10,000 after the second dose of Covishield. “If all else was equal, we would expect to see lower incidence rates after the second dose,” said Rahul Siddharthan, a computational biologist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. “But the numbers probably reflect the timing over which the data was collected. If the infections were counted among second-dose recipients in April during the second wave, the incidence rates might be sharply higher than what they would be in the absence of the wave.” A senior Calcutta-based medical researcher said he would not use only a Covid-19 positive result to measure a vaccine’s efficacy. “I would have tried to follow these patients further to see how many of them develop serious disease requiring hospitalisation or have fatal outcomes,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. “And this should be compared with similar data for unvaccinated people who also develop Covid-19 infections.” India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has shown 100 per cent protective efficacy against severe disease and 78 per cent against symptomatic infections, the vaccine’s producer Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday, announcing fresh results from clinical trials. The trial recorded 127 cases of symptomatic Covid-19 infections among about 25,800 participants — half of whom received the vaccine and half of whom received placebo injections. But 100 per cent protection from severe disease implies that all severe cases among the 127 occurred among placebo recipients. The ICMR also announced on Wednesday that studies at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, have shown that Covaxin works well against several coronavirus variants, including a double mutant strain that currently accounts for about 50 per cent of new infections in some parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||Covid: Migrants heading back home to Bihar from Delhi, by auto||The green and yellow autorickshaws bearing Delhi number plates have suddenly become a common sight on the highways entering Bihar from Uttar Pradesh. Loaded with passengers, they zoom past, increasing their speed if you signal them to stop. The reason behind this is the lurking fear that the drivers would be stopped for Covid tests, or maybe quarantined. However, such restrictions are allegedly non-existent these days in Uttar Pradesh. A large number of auto drivers in Delhi hail from Bihar and Jharkhand. Impelled by the lessons learnt during the lockdown last year, the drivers are fleeing with their families back to their native places as a brutal second of the Covid-19 pandemic surges across the country. However, their journeys have been far from smooth, and after traversing around 1,000km, worries about the future are nagging them. Suresh Kumar Mahto, 36, a native of Barkagaon in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, has been driving an autorickshaw in the national capital for over a decade. He also doubles as a tea seller when not driving. Suresh decided to return to his village in his auto the moment he came to know about the lockdown announced by the Delhi government from 10pm on April 19 (Monday) to 5am on April 26. “Last year the lockdown kept getting extended as the coronavirus spread. We decided to return to my village after sitting idle for several weeks in Delhi, but faced horrendous situations on the way. People are not the focus of the government. It never paid any attention to our plight or hunger. So this time I decided to return to my native place on the very day the lockdown started,” Suresh told The Telegraph on Wednesday, still on the way to his village. Suresh had left his auto in Delhi last year. The vehicle would not start when he returned after five months. He had to spend a small fortune to make it roadworthy again. So this time he decided to take his auto all the way to his village. His wife, three children, a brother-in-law and another auto driver are accompanying him on the homebound journey. “We started from Delhi at 10pm on Monday and have been travelling since then. We have to stop every 70-80km because the engine heats up. Moreover, to escape the scorching heat during the day, we prefer moving more at night. Our journey was okay till Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, but then the CNG (compressed natural gas) stations are rare to find after that. The petrol tank of my vehicle can hold just two litres, so we have to fill it often,” Suresh said. Another problem that he and his family faced on the way was getting food. The restaurants dotting the roads are allegedly fleecing hapless travellers, charging exorbitantly for simple items like rice, dal and vegetables. As if all these were not enough, Suresh’s auto developed some fault near Basti in Uttar Pradesh. It would not gain speed, sputter and finally stop. The family would push it again and again to start, jump in and travel a couple of kilometres, and then repeat the process. “We pushed and drove the vehicle like this for around 70km to Gorakhpur, where a mechanic charged Rs 1,500 to repair it,” Suresh said. The family entered Bihar around 6pm on Wednesday and they are expected to reach their native place late at night. “We will reach our village for sure and stay there till the lockdown and Covid remain. But I am now worried about what I will do there. Maybe I will drive my autorickshaw for hire and lend a hand for farming on the patch of our land,” Suresh added. A few hundred kilometres away another auto driver Tarkeshwar Yadav, 28, entered Bihar via National Highway 2, also known as the Grand Trunk Road, while travelling to his native Masmohna village in Domchanch in Koderma district of Jharkhand. “Corona(virus) is surging in Delhi and lockdown has also been imposed. So we set out for home on Monday night. Everybody there is afraid. My parents and elder brother are travelling with me,” Tarkeshwar told this correspondent when he stopped his auto near Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas district on Wednesday. Narrating his woes, Tarkeshwar said he and his brother have “not slept for around two nights. We have been resting under the trees during the day to escape the heat. We haven’t bathed for two days. Finding a toilet is also a problem, especially for my mother. We don’t even get water for several hundred kilometres on the way”. The expressways and highways they took have very few shops or eateries on the way. Luckily the family was carrying a portable cooking gas cylinder fitted with a stove on which they cooked some rice and dal at regular intervals. Tarkeshwar had taken a train to his village just a few days before the lockdown was imposed in March last year. He chose not to stay back this time as well because he had heard and seen the plight of colleagues who stayed behind. “Covid test in Delhi is free. But beyond that the government there has not provided us any support that would have kept us back. We need to earn daily to keep our kitchen running,” he said. Tarkeshwar lamented that he would not be able to drive his auto in Jharkhand because it bears a Delhi registration number and the police would keep fining or fleecing him on the roads there if he gets caught. “But then, life is more important than work right now. We hope that things will improve in a few months. Till then we will manage somehow by doing odd jobs,” the auto driver added before starting his vehicle again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
22-04-2021||India||PIL on Covid ‘double standards’||A PIL has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre, the Election Commission of India and others to strictly implement the guidelines of the Disaster Management Act restricting people from congregating at the Kumbh Mela and election rallies in view of the massive surge in Covid cases. The PIL filed by advocate Sanjai Kumar Pathak has questioned the alleged double standards being adopted by the authorities while dealing with the common man for violating Covid protocols on the streets and those flouting the norms at the Kumbh and poll rallies. The petition said such discrimination by the State was a violation of citizens’ fundamental rights under Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty). Citing the over two lakh Covid-19 cases being reported across the country over the past one week, the petitioner has submitted that the “… health infrastructure is crumbling in many states. Hospitals and crematoriums are running out of space. Shortage of essential drugs is reported from many cities. “…Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Bengal Assembly elections are being held. The respondent no. 4 (ECI) has not been able to enforce the Covid-19 rules and regulations during the political rallies and campaigning. “The respondent no. 2, the home minister, the chief ministers of respective states and host of star campaigners can be seen flouting the Covid-19 norms.” The petition further said that as India witnesses its highest surge in Covid cases since the onset of the pandemic, visuals have surfaced of lakhs of people crowding in Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela and at election rallies in states, ignoring the most basic Covid protocols. “Even though the disease is currently spreading at breakneck speed across the country, the Indian Railways has organised 25 special trains to… link Haridwar Kumbh Mela to various locations for the pilgrims… Union health minister blamed the heightened spread of Covid-19 on ordinary citizens, saying that they ‘became very careless’ and were no longer following social distancing norms,” the PIL stated. “On the one hand, poor common man on the street is often punished and treated violently by the police and executive authorities for individual violations of Covid-19 rules and regulations in the name of strict enforcement, on the other hand, the authorities are not only permitting but facilitating and promoting congregation of people in the events like Kumbh-2021 and election rallies. It is visibly clear that two separate and mutually inconsistent standards are being adopted by the authorities in dealing with the citizens of India,” the petition added. Therefore, the PIL, among other things, urged the apex court to direct the government to immediately withdraw all advertisements inviting people to the Kumbh, to clear the mass gathering from Haridwar city and provide a safety protocol for people returning from the Kumbh. It wanted the authorities to identify the violators of Covid guidelines during the election and take action besides ensuring uninterrupted supply of crucial drugs to hospitals and provisions for free distribution of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Son fails to find bed, 70-year-old dies in Lucknow||As Sushil Kumar Srivastava’s breathlessness worsened, his family bundled the 70-year-old into a car and drove him to a hospital in the capital of Uttar Pradesh, where he tested positive for the coronavirus. After the private hospital turned the retired government official away because it didn’t have any vacant beds, his son Ashish brought two oxygen cylinders and drove his father on a hunt for  a hospital that could admit him. “All the hospitals asked for a referral letter from the chief medical officer (CMO),” Ashish said. “I was shooed away by the police,” he said, when he tried to meet the CMO. Three days later, Ashish said someone from the government called him offering a bed  — a day after his father had passed away. The family’s ordeal reflects the worsening Covid-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh. To get a Covid-19 bed in Lucknow, families say they need to first show the result of an RT-PCR test, which are in short supply, and then register with the CMO’s office. Ahmedabad: Two Covid-19 patients who were on life support died because of a shortage of oxygen at a private hospital in Deesa town of Gujarat’s Banaskantha district on Wednesday, PTI reported, quoting the district’s health officer Jignesh Hariyani. “As against the demand, we had oxygen stock till Tuesday and the new stock was ordered, which reached during the day. Two patients lost their lives in the intervening period due to shortage of oxygen,” he said. Bharat Patel, who said his father was one of the victims, claimed that three others had died at the hospital since Tuesday night because of oxygen shortage. The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Oxygen, bed crisis as Covid-19 cases surge ||India’s count of active Covid-19 patients surged overnight by over 125,000 to cross 2.15 million on Wednesday, double the peak during the first wave last September, portending additional strain on healthcare resources struggling with shortages of beds, oxygen and critical care staff. Health authorities on Wednesday detected 295,041 new Covid-19 cases and recorded 2,023 deaths, the highest so far, but experts predict the daily casualty count is likely to increase in the coming days, given the lag between new cases and deaths. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of active cases with over 680,000 patients, followed by Uttar Pradesh (over 223,000), Karnataka (159,000) Chhattisgarth (125,000), and Kerala (118,000). In the hardest hit cities, doctors reported patients struggling for intensive care unit beds and some hospital administrators with only hours of medical oxygen left awaited fresh supplies, amid growing concerns about inter-state supply disruptions. At Delhi’s St Stephen’s Hospital, a senior hospital administrator reported on Wednesday afternoon that the hospital had only two hours of oxygen left and fresh supply ordered had been blocked at Faridabad near the Delhi-Haryana border by the authorities in the neighbouring state. “It is devastating to hear this — we have oxygen that we expect will last until 11am tomorrow (Thursday),” a medical administrator in another Delhi hospital told The Telegraph. Both hospitals on Wednesday evening had all their available ICU beds for Covid-19 patients occupied. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre was aware of these concerns and has directed Haryana and all states to allow unhindered passage of medical oxygen. The health ministry said it has also increased the oxygen quota to the hardest hit states such as Delhi, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Even healthcare workers are scrambling for hospital beds. “The biggest crisis is getting a bed,” said Raymond Savio, a critical care medicine specialist in Chennai. “There’s always someone in our own circle of friends and family for whom we find it difficult to accommodate in hospital.” In Tamil Nadu, the seven-day average of daily new cases has climbed to over 9,400, from the earlier highest count of about 6,400 last year. “The numbers of daily new cases have crossed earlier peaks in almost all states,” said a senior government epidemiologist. A doctor in Madhya Pradesh said Bhopal and Indore are both running short of ICU beds. “The number of isolation beds appear adequate for now — but people who need oxygen or critical care are unable to get ICU beds,” said Shankul Dwivedi. The health ministry has said the case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed patients has — fell from 1.4 per cent in January to 1.3 per cent in March to 1.2 per cent in mid-April. But doctors say the absolute numbers of deaths are expected to rise in the coming days and weeks, given the continued rise in cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||3,700 paramilitary jawans test Covid positive||Central paramilitary forces deployed across the country have recorded 3,700 Covid-19 cases amid the sharp surge in the second wave of the pandemic. Over 1 lakh paramilitary personnel are deployed in Bengal for the ongoing Assembly polls. The BSF (Border Security Force) has registered 1,864 cases, followed by 837 cases in the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) and close to 650 cases have been reported in the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force). Likewise, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has recorded 186 cases followed by 125 cases in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 28 cases in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 14 in the National Security Guards (NSG). Since last year, the CRPF has reported 15,791 cases, the BSF has recorded 15,278 cases and the CISF has registered 11,682 cases till now. The SSB has reported a total of 5,758 cases and the ITBP has recorded 4,767 cases so far. The NDRF has recorded 664 cases and the NSG has registered 358 cases in its ranks. “Since last year the CRPF has reported 87 deaths due to Covid-19, including 10 casualties this year. The BSF has suffered 51 casualties due to the pandemic so far, including six this year. The CISF has suffered the loss of 49 personnel, including one in March and four in April this year,” said an official of the Union home ministry. So far the central paramilitary forces have lost 215 jawans in the past one year because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Covid victim body mix-up in Uttar Pradesh||The body of Mohammad Nasir, a Covid victim in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, reached a crematorium on Wednesday while that of another coronavirus patient, Ram Prasad, was carried to a graveyard, the PPE jackets in which they had been wrapped obscuring their identities and causing the mix-up. Farmers Nasir and Ram Prasad had been admitted to Cosmos Hospital. Nasir’s relatives received a body wrapped in a PPE jacket from the hospital and took it to Shah Bulaki Graveyard in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad city and buried it in the afternoon. The relatives of Ram Prasad took the body handed over to them to the Moksh Dham crematorium on Delhi Road and were waiting for their turn when a relative realised something was wrong. Pavitra Kumar, the relative, said: “Ram Prasad was a stocky and tall man. But the body that we were carrying was 40-45kg and the height was barely 5 feet. So we opened the PPE jacket and found that it was someone else. We tried to contact police but didn’t get a response. We called the hospital and they suggested that we cremate the body we had received. Then we informed the local administration.” Prashant Tiwari, the sub-divisional magistrate of Moradabad, said: “We exhumed the body of Ram Prasad from the grave and handed it over to his relatives. Now the relatives of Nasir are taking his body to the graveyard. We are probing the case and will fix responsibility. Those responsible for this blunder must not be spared.” Sources in the administration said officials, accompanied by policemen, found out during the probe that the bodies of Ram Prasad and Nasir had been released at the same time. Anurag Agarwal, the manager of Cosmos Hospital, said the bodies were wrapped in PPE suits and had been kept side by side when staff members put them in the wrong ambulances. The police said a probe was being conducted and “would give a report to the administration soon”. The relatives of Nasir, 45, said he hailed from adjoining Rampur and had developed some complications a few days ago. He had been admitted to the hospital three days ago after he tested positive for Covid-19. Ram Prasad, 61, who lives in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad, had suffered a heart attack on April 16 and was admitted to Cosmos Hospital, where he tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Farmers at Delhi borders: We kept road open, government blocked it ||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders beat back the BJP’s attempts to blame them for the shortage of oxygen in the national capital, pointing out that while they had always kept open a lane for emergency vehicles to pass, it was the Narendra Modi government that cut off access by barricading the national highway. “Delhi is choking for oxygen because national highways leading to the city have been blocked by Andolan-jeevis, leading to suppliers losing precious time. (Arvind) Kejriwal has been feeding these protests with an eye on Punjab elections next year. Delhi can suffer. Kejriwal doesn’t care,’’ BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner some 500 farmer organisations from across the country are protesting against the Modi government’s three laws, issued a firm rebuttal early on Wednesday. From the first day of the protests, which began on November 26 last year, the farmers had kept open a lane for emergency vehicles to pass, it said. “Not a single ambulance or essential goods service has been stopped. It is the government that has put multi-layered barricades, not the farmers,” the Morcha asserted. “Yes, we are protesting but not against the Covid patients, warriors or common citizens; we are against the government’s discriminatory policy on agriculture,’’ it added. The Morcha repeated its call to the government to remove the police barricades “which is the biggest obstacle to free vehicular movement’’. The multiple layers of barricades that the Modi government has installed at all three borders where the farmers had been protesting peacefully had earned criticism, with many pointing out that even the international borders are not as fortified. Not only had the government used concertina fencing, it had built concrete walls on the highways and fixed nails on the roads to cut off the farmer protest sites. Before Malviya tweeted, a message purported to have been written by a company supplying oxygen claimed that the delay in supplying oxygen to Sri Balaji Hospital in Paschim Vihar on Monday was because farmers had blocked NH 24 at the border in Ghazipur. Earlier this week, the Morcha had warned the government against trying to cite the Covid surge to evict them and pointed out that top BJP leaders, led by the Prime Minister himself, had been addressing large election rallies as the pandemic swept the country. Even as they battled the BJP’s renewed bid to use the pandemic to turn public sentiment against them, the Morcha on Wednesday began feeding migrant labourers fleeing Delhi during the lockdown. Farmer organisations and volunteers prepared food packets and distributed them at bus and railway stations, which saw a near repeat of the crowds in March last year when Modi had announced a countrywide lockdown at a four-hour notice. The only difference was that this time there were buses and trains to ferry the workers because inter-state travel has not been stopped. The Morcha also issued a detailed statement recalling what had brought the farmers to Delhi’s borders. “Farmers have never intended to sleep on the streets and stay away from their homes and land. The government has inhumanly imposed these laws on the farmers,” it said. “The farmers are not asking for anything new, they are only fighting to save what they have. In this battle of existence, they are fighting against both coronavirus and the government,” the Morcha added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Covid: Scramble to douse vaccine pricing fire||Vaccine maker Serum Institute of India on Wednesday ignited a political firestorm after announcing a differential pricing system for its Covid vaccine under which state governments will have to pay Rs 400 per dose while private hospitals will have to fork out Rs 600. The Pune-based entity currently supplies the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose. The Congress seized on the announcement and slammed the Narendra Modi government for allowing vaccine makers to profiteer while shrugging off its responsibility for sourcing, financing and distributing the vaccine in stark contrast to the way other nations have tried to deal with the pandemic. Congress leader P. Chidambaram criticised the Modi government for fostering unhealthy market practices and encouraging profiteering by failing to fix a price for the states at the same level that the Centre had negotiated with the companies. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute, scrambled to douse the controversy by clarifying that it would sell the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 400 per dose once it fulfils its obligations under an earlier contract. “Let me clarify: all government prices will be Rs 400 per dose under the new contracts. The Rs 150 price that is being bandied about (for central government purchases) relates to a prior contract. After that ceases to exist — that is, after we supply about 100 million doses to them under a bulk contract signed a long time ago — we will charge the same price of Rs 400 per dose from every government,” Poonawalla said in a television interview. Poonawalla said the company was losing money by selling the vaccine to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose because it had to pay royalty of up to 50 per cent of the price to AstraZeneca, which developed the vaccine. Industry observers said the royalty rate was way too high but said it could be justified as the Serum Institute had not been granted any pricing freedom until now. The Serum Institute CEO claimed that the earlier contracts with the government and the Covax facility — the global partnership that was created to equitably allocate 2 billion doses to WHO-defined priority populations by the end of 2021 — were struck in 2020. “We were sharing the risk because at that stage, we were not even sure that the vaccine would work,” Poonawalla said while explaining the low-ball pricing. At present, the Covid vaccines are being administered to people above 45 at Rs 250 per dose at private hospitals and free of cost at government-run health centres. From May 1, all adults in the country will be eligible for the vaccine. A serious vaccine shortage is feared early next month and hospitals and health centres may not be able to cope with the swarm of young people who are expected to line up for the vaccine. Under the new pricing policy that was announced on Monday, vaccine makers are permitted to divide their domestic supply of doses equally between the Centre, on the one hand, and the state governments and the private hospitals, on the other. “Going ahead, 50 per cent of our capacities will be served to the Government of India’s vaccination programme, and the remaining 50 per cent of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals,” the Serum Institute said. The vaccine makers must declare their prices before May 1 when the new policy comes into force. The vaccine maker contended that its prices were lower than that charged by rivals in the global markets. It claimed that the American vaccines cost more than Rs 1,500 per dose in the private market while the Russian and Chinese versions were priced at more than Rs 750 per dose. Poonawalla said Serum Institute was planning to ramp up vaccine production by 15-20 per cent per month and it would be in a position to produce 100 million doses by July. Serum Institute expects that its vaccines will be available in the retail markets after four to five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Bengal Polls 2021: Second Covid wave a Modi-made disaster, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called the second wave of the pandemic a “Modi-made disaster” and drew attention to the “monumental failure” of the Centre. At a campaign rally in Balurghat in South Dinajpur, Mamata said: “During Left rule, here in Balurghat people had been plagued by the annual problem of floods. Those days, I would call it man-made. Now, I consider this recent spike in Covid-19 cases… it is not a man-made disaster, which he (Modi) is now trying to prove. It is a Modi-made disaster.” The chief minister called the Modi government “incompetent”. “Around five-six months ago, the (Union) health minister had said the pandemic had ended…. Now, it has returned. Why didn’t they do proper planning ahead, why didn’t they vaccinate people earlier?” Mamata asked. “It is a monumental failure on their part,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court questions the Covid fight leadership void ||Questions rarely heard before are ringing out in the courtrooms. “Why is the Centre not waking up to the gravity of the situation? We are shocked and dismayed hospitals are running out of oxygen but steel plants are running,” Delhi High Court said without mincing words on Wednesday. Declarations never seen before are sprouting on the gates of private hospitals, leaving little to the imagination who is responsible. “After repeated request to the UP CM/Central Govt, we are not able to get enough oxygen supply. Hence we are requesting the family members of those patients who are on oxygen support, please take their patients to higher centre for further management. We are extremely sorry for the inconvenience,” said a notice at Mayo Medical Centre in an affluent locality in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. At Delhi High Court, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli convened on a holiday to issue a reminder that the responsibility to ensure oxygen supply lies squarely on the central government’s shoulders. The court made it clear that it was not speaking for the capital but for the entire country. “Our concern is not just for Delhi, we want to know what the central government is doing with regard to oxygen supply across India,” the bench said. It pulled up the Centre for not diverting sufficient oxygen supply from industry to hospitals although people were dying. “You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal,” the court said. “Do you want to see thousands of people dying in the country? …It seems human life is not important for the state.” The irony of patients gasping for breath in several parts of the country despite India producing surplus oxygen has come to represent the Centre’s perceived mismanagement of the Covid crisis. The following charges levelled by the Opposition suggest proactive leadership could have alleviated the depth of the Covid crisis although its enormity is something no government has had to contend with in recent memory: Figures cited by the Congress indicate there is a problem in supply chain management and logistics. “The government has said India’s oxygen production capacity is 7,127 tonnes per day. The maximum that Covid patients will need despite the enormity of the crisis is 5,500 tonnes per day. The problem clearly is not of availability but we are not able to transport oxygen to the hospitals. The problem is of planning and execution because the key functionaries of the government were so engrossed in elections,” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said. Maken said cryogenic tankers, which can store materials at very low temperatures, were needed to ferry oxygen and that hospitals did not have adequate storage capacity. “It took 15 months for the government to change the rules and allow cryogenic tankers licensed to carry nitrogen to also carry oxygen, and a week later they issued guidelines for unrestricted movement of tankers. The railways have been roped in now for the transportation of oxygen,” the Congress leader said. Delhi High Court also focused on logistics. The bench said the Centre shall consider ways and means for transporting oxygen to hospitals, either by creating dedicated corridors or airlifting it from the place of production to the place of usage. The court was conducting an urgent hearing on a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, stating that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered. Maken pointed to the increase in the quantity of oxygen exported amid the pandemic. “Instead of planning for logistics to provide oxygen to hospitals all over the country, we doubled the export in 2020-21 in comparison with 2019-20. This, despite the knowledge that oxygen is crucial in treating critical patients,” he said. “What is worse, the government took eight months to invite bids for onsite oxygen generation plants as taking oxygen to hospitals in remote corners of the country is difficult and takes time. “Despite realising that oxygen was going to be precious in the fight against the virus at the very start of last year, it was only on October 21, 2020, that the Central Medical Services Society, an autonomous institution under the Union health ministry, floated a tender online calling for bidders to establish pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants in 150 (12 plants were added later, taking the figure to 162) district hospitals across the country — the total outlay of which was just Rs 201.58 crore. So far, only 32 out of 162 plants are ready. Even the storage capacity of hospitals wasn’t enhanced. This is how we wasted 15 months,” Maken said. The Centre’s move to pass the buck to the states abruptly reeks of opportunism. The same Centre did not allow concessions to the chief minister’s funds while extending it to the opaque PM Cares Fund, which is meant to help fund the fight against Covid. Yet, the Centre is now asking the states to buy vaccines and inoculate the people. “Where will the cash-strapped states bring money from? Modi created this scary situation and now he wants to shift responsibility to the states,” Maken said. The Congress also took strong exception to the Serum Institute of India fixing the price of vaccines at Rs 400 per dose for states and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Serum’s price for the Centre has been Rs 150 per dose for the initial supplies. Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Prime Minister, saying: “Aapda desh ki, awsar Modi mitron ka, anyay kendra sarkar ka (Calamity is nation’s; Opportunity is for friends of Modi; injustice is by the central government).” In another tweet, the Congress leader said: “The Centre’s vaccine strategy no different from demonetisation. Common people will stand in queue, will suffer loss of wealth and health and some crony capitalists will gain.” Maken asked: “Would the Prime Minister answer that India being the world’s biggest vaccine producer, why is it that only 1.3 per cent of Indians have so far been fully vaccinated? Why is it that despite being one of the largest medicine manufacturers, we are facing acute shortage of life-saving medicines? Why is it that at many places including Delhi, Covid tests are taking three to seven days? Why did we fail to anticipate the second wave despite it being a global phenomena?” Wondering why 6.5 crore doses and 11 lakh injections of the anti-viral drug remdesivir were allowed to be exported apart from two crore testing kits, Maken said: “Remdesivir export was stopped just 10 days back. Stockists and traders have been hoarding large quantities and selling them at exorbitant prices in the black market. Several BJP leaders have been caught with huge stocks of remdesivir. We demand the Centre use the CBI, NIA and the ED against those leaders and traders who are encouraging this black market,” Maken said. Iterating its demand for Rs 6,000 to be deposited every month in the bank accounts of the poor and daily-wage earners to check migration, Maken called for proper arrangements for food and reduction in the rates charged for Covid testing and CT scans.  “The Rajasthan government reduced the RT-PCR test rates to Rs 350 and also capped the CT scan rate at Rs 1,700. Why are other states charging so high?” the Congress leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Every Indian should get the vaccine free of cost, says Mamata in letter to PM||Terming the Centre's new 'liberalised and accelerated Covid-19 vaccination' strategy is biased in favour of the market and against the interest of people, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make it free for all. In her second letter to Modi in a week on the Centre's inoculation policy, Mamata also said that manufacturers should not do business with vaccines at this hour of crisis. The Modi government on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine from May 1. "I wish to invite your kind personal attention to the recently announced GoI policy on liberalised and accelerated Covid-19 vaccination with Phase 3 from May 1. I am afraid this is highly discriminatory and anti-people. "Moreover, it appears that there is a bias in favour of (the) market against common people's interest," Mamata’s letter read. Every Indian should get the vaccine free of cost, she said in her communication to the prime minister. "There is no place for making business by the vaccine manufacturers and instead efforts should be directed towards good of people without discrimination. And also fixing the rate for private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose is not only discriminatory but also unhealthy as it is likely to trigger unscrupulous mechanisms in the market," she added. Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced that its Covishield vaccine will cost private hospitals Rs 600 per dose and state governments Rs 400, a rate which will also apply to central government procurement once the existing contract for Rs 150 a dose ends. In another letter to Modi on April 20, Mamata described the Centre's vaccine policy as hollow and without substance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Modi cancels Friday rallies, Mamata promises free vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cancelled four of his election meetings scheduled on Friday, his office announced on Thursday evening, hours after he chaired a high-level meeting on the logistics of oxygen supply amid a national crisis of surging Covid-19 cases numbering over 3 lakh in the last 24 hours. He will, however, address a rally virtually at 5pm, according to BJP sources. “Tomorrow will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Due to that, would not be going to West Bengal,” the Prime Minister tweeted around 5.40pm on Thursday while an hour of voting was left for the sixth phase of the eight-phase assembly elections. The BJP’s poll blitzkrieg in Bengal has come for criticism from all over the country amid the spiralling Covid numbers. Scientists have also zeroed in on a new strain of the coronavirus, calling it the Bengal strain. The CPM was the first to cancel big public meetings citing the surge in cases, followed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who tested positive for Covid-19. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also been spending less time on the dais. But the BJP kept the poll juggernaut rolling. On Thursday, while voting was on, Union home minister Amit Shah addressed three campaign meetings in Harirampur, Gajole and Durgapur East. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh held four roadshows, while another party leader held roadshows in Calcutta. While campaigning in South Dinajpur’s Tapan, Mamata announced that the state government would bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccines to be administered to those above the age of 18 from May 5 in Bengal. “After the results are declared we will provide vaccines for free to those above 18,” she said. “This year, there was no chance of a Corona outbreak, had the Centre started vaccination six months ago. The Centre does not allow us to do anything. Last year, there were so many cases and deaths, we had handled everything.” Mamata accused the Modi government of botching up the Covid situation. “We wanted to buy vaccines much earlier, but the Centre would not allow us. Vaccines were sent abroad. Now there are no vaccines left for the country. After the cases spiked, Modi is blaming the people. Where will we get the vaccines from?” she asked. Till 6.00pm on Thursday about 79.04 per cent voters had turned out to vote in the 43 Assembly seats where polling was held under the shadow of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases stood at 10,784 till Wednesday evening, while the death toll was reported to be 58. Calcutta HC critical of EC While electioneering went on in full swing, a division bench of Calcutta High Court led by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan reminded the Election Commission that it was the implementing authority. “The Election Commission is empowered to act, but what is it doing about polls in these Covid times? The EC is just issuing circulars and leaving it to the people. But the EC has implementing authority,” the court observed. “The EC is not doing one-tenth of what T.N Seshan had done. If the commission did not take action, the court will,” the court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||EC dismisses TMC allegations of firing by central forces||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday dismissed allegations by Trinamool Congress that two of their activists were injured in firing by central forces in Ashok Nagar assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas district, an official said. TMC activists had alleged two party activists were injured after they were hit by bullets fired by central forces outside booth number 79 in Ashok Nagar's Tangra area on Thursday when a few party members protested against a visit by BJP candidate for the seat, Tanuja Chakraborty. Clashes broke out in the area between BJP and Trinamool Congress' activists and bombs bombs were hurled, police said adding that unidentified people vandalised one vehicle carrying central policemen. "Two of my party colleagues were injured after bullets fired by central forces personnel hit them in their legs. Both are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital. The central forces are not doing the right thing," TMC candidate Narayan Goswami alleged. Following this, the ECI sought a report from officials posted in the district and based on inputs dismissed the allegations. "There was no incident of any firing by central forces. We have no such report. This is a baseless allegation," a senior official told PTI. During the fourth phase of polling held on April 10, four persons were killed after CISF personnel opened fire in self defence outside a booth in Cooch Behar districts Sitalkuchi area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams BJP govt over vaccine price disparity||Hitting out at the BJP-led Centre over the disparity in the price of vaccines being supplied to the Union government, states and private hospitals, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said rates should be the same for every buyer. Mocking the BJP over its slogan of 'One nation, one party, one leader', she stressed that every Indian needs vaccine free of cost, regardless of their age and location. "One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can't have one price for vaccine. Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays Centre or the States," the TMC supremo tweeted. The Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced that prices for its vaccine 'Covishield' have been fixed at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. The Pune-based company sells Covishield to the Centre at Rs 150 a dose. West Bengal on Wednesday registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new COVID-19 cases, which took the tally in the state to 6,88,956. The death toll rose to 10,710 after 58 fresh fatalities were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Most single-screens in Calcutta to shut as Covid cases surge||Most of the single-screen theatres in Calcutta will shut down for an indefinite period as the city grapples with the second wave of the coronavirus, an industry official said on Thursday. The alarming rise of COVID-19 cases in the last two weeks forced most of the single-screens to take the extreme step for public safety, an office-bearer of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said. Single-screens such as Navina, Menoka, Jaya, Ajanta and Orient are among the theatres downing their shutters from Friday, he said. Screenings will not be started before the situation turns conducive for the public to enjoy a film at a theatre without the fear of infection, he added. "We have no alternative. We were chugging on despite poor footfall since October last year when the cinema halls reopened after lockdown. The surge in COVID-19 cases is another blow. We cannot afford to be oblivious to the emerging situation," said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta Cinema and a multiplex chain. Notably, India on Wednesday registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. The national COVID-19 recovery rate fell below 85 per cent. Registering a steady increase for the 43rd day in a row, the active cases have increased to 22,91,428 comprising 14.38 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 84.46 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling underway at 43 constituencies as Covid cases rise||The sixth phase of the Assembly elections in Bengal saw 79.09 per cent voter turnout till 5 pm in 43 seats where polling is underway amid a huge surge in Covid-19 infections across the state, which has been reporting a record number of cases recently. Around 79.09 per cent turnout was recorded till 5 pm, an EC official said. Long queues were seen outside most of the polling booths even before the voting began. In this phase, elections are being held in 17 seats in the North 24 Parganas district and nine seats in Nadia -- most of which have a significant presence of the Matuas, who are crucial to the electoral success of any party in the state. Besides, elections are also being held in the nine seats in Uttar Dinajpur district and eight in Purba Bardhaman. The 43 seats undergoing polls on Thursday had hugely contributed to the jump in the BJP's vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, NDTV reported. From 10 per cent in the 2016 assembly polls, the BJP had cornered 41 per cent votes in 2019. The Trinamool Congress won 32 of 43 seats In 2016. In 2019, it led in 24 segments only, while the BJP, which did not win a single seat in 2016, led in 19 segments. The TMC alleged that two of activists were injured in firing allegedly by the central forces outside booth number 79 in Ashoknagar's Tangra area after a few party members protested against BJP candidate Tanuja Chakraborty's visit to the area. Clashes broke out in the area between the two rival parties in which bombs were hurled, police said adding that unidentified people vandalised one vehicle carrying the central forces. "Two of my party colleagues are injured after bullets fired by central forces personnel hit them in their legs. Both are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital," TMC candidate Narayan Goswami alleged. The EC, which had sought a report from the officials posted in the district, later dismissed the allegations. "There was no incident of any firing by the central forces. We have got no such report. This is a baseless allegation," a senior EC official told PTI. The allegations brought back memories of the fourth phase of polls held on April 10 when four persons were killed after CISF personnel opened fire in "self-defence" outside a booth in Cooch Behar district's Sitalkuchi area. In Uttar Dinajpur's Chopra area, shots were reportedly fired after clashes broke out between activists of the TMC and the BJP over allegations of heckling by agents of a polling booth. Both the parties denied having used any firearm and blamed the opposition for the violence. The office of the chief electoral officer has sought a report on the incident from the local administration. In Raiganj, sources in the TMC said one of its activists sustained serious injuries after BJP workers allegedly stabbed him. The saffron party has, however, denied the allegations. Sporadic violence was also reported from the Bijpur constituency in North 24 Parganas, where TMC and BJP supporters clashed outside polling booths. Both the parties accused each other of trying to rig votes. Two supporters of TMC and three of BJP were reportedly injured in the clashes and a huge contingent of security forces was rushed to the troubled areas to control the situation. In the Halisahar area of Naihati constituency, the saffron party alleged that bombs were hurled at the residence of a local BJP leader, whose mother and younger brother are known to have suffered injuries. The TMC and the BJP traded charges against each other. In a separate incident in the area, a TMC worker was injured after unidentified miscreants hacked him. In the Titagarh area of Barrackpore constituency, clashes broke out between the TMC and the BJP supporters, following which bombs were hurled at each other, leading to severe injuries to five BJP activists. The injured have been admitted to a nearby hospital, official sources said. Film director-turned-TMC candidate Raj Chakraborty was gheraoed in the Barrackpore constituency by BJP supporters, who accused him of influencing voters. Chakraborty denied the allegations. TMC supporters had a verbal duel with the central forces in Habra constituency when its TMC candidate and state minister Jyotipriyo Mullick visited a polling booth in the area. In the Dum Dum Uttar constituency, a scuffle broke out between the TMC and BJP supporters when the ruling party opposed the visit of the saffron party candidate Archana Majumdar to the polling stations. In the Amdanga constituency, country-made crude bombs were recovered by police personnel. Over 1.03 crore voters are set to decide the political fate of 306 candidates in this phase. As many as 1,071 companies of central forces have been deployed to ensure free and fair polling, officials said. The voting exercise is underway in 14,480 polling stations of the 43 assembly segments. Bengal has been reporting a record number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days, breaching the 10,000- mark of daily infections on Wednesday. The Election Commission on the day turned down the TMC’s requests of clubbing the remaining phases of the elections. However, the poll panel has prohibited campaigning between 7 pm and 10 am to discourage public gatherings. It has also extended the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours prior to polling in the sixth, seventh and eighth phases of the elections. The state registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while 58 more people lost their lives. At least six persons, including a child, sustained splinter injuries in North 24 Parganas district's Titagarh assembly constituency after bombs were hurled indiscriminately on Thursday afternoon amid the voting exercise for the sixth phase of polls, a police officer said. A huge team of police personnel and CAPF jawans were rushed to the area following the incident, the officer said. Preliminary probe has revealed that unidentified persons, wearing masks, hurled several crude bombs near Tata Gate in Titagarh, he said. "The injured are undergoing treatment at BN Bose hospital. We are looking into the matter," the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Fear and anxiety among Muslims, but also a new churning to challenge binaries  ||It is the third day of Ramzan. Farida and her husband have just broken their fast. They offer their visitor from Delhi an assortment of jol khabar (teatime snacks) served in delicate bone china crockery. There is an air of genteel calm in their drawing room. The polished red oxide cement floor, the ebony and glass showcase filled with silver enamelled artefacts, the unflashy furniture and the understated carpets, evoke an old-world charm far removed from the raucous din of Park Circus a stone’s throw away. Farida’s husband – let us call him Farooq – traces his ancestry to Avadh but has lived in Calcutta all his life. It is a city he loves without reservation, a city where his religion or his language never made him feel alien.  On the first day of Ramzan, he tells us, a Hindu Punjabi neighbour sent a platter of food for iftar. The next day, haleem came from the home of a Sikh friend. This year’s Ramzan is special – their younger daughter will keep the first roza of her life. In Muslim homes, a girl’s first ever day of fasting -- known as roza khushai – is celebrated with a big feast after sunset. Although the festivities will be scaled down this year on account of the raging pandemic, Farooq makes it a point to mention that a “Bengali Hindu” friend is sending across choice Bengali sweets for the occasion. “This is the city I grew up in, a city full of love and affection,” he says, and wonders how long it will remain that way. Though he speaks in gentle tones, never raising his voice in agitation or anger, he admits being horrified by “the amount of poison, the anti-Muslim venom, the lies and fabrications” being spread via Whatsapp, and often echoed by colleagues he had never suspected of harbouring such prejudices. The prospects of BJP coming to power fill him with dread and despondency. So even if he and Farida are not unabashed admirers of Mamata Banerjee and even less so of the TMC, they have “no choice” but to vote for the incumbent party. Nasir Ali and Jamat Ali live in a very different world – bereft of both refined elegance and quiet despair. Their fear is raw, their anger vocal. Nasir is perched inside a hole-in-the-wall kiosk selling pan and bidi in a small junction called Horibari that falls under the Haroa assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas. “Ekhane aamra  chirokal ek thala te bhaat khai, (Here we all eat from the same plate),” he says. There is no question that “Didi” will sweep Haroa for one reason and one reason alone: “The BJP is out to divide people; Didi stands for unity.” Jamat Ali, a much older man who joins in the conversation, is seething with anger.  Many of the villagers in these parts make a living out of fishing in the bheris that abound. Others till the soil. “We have lived here for generations. This is our land. This is our water,” he says. But their way of life, their life itself is under threat if the BJP wins. “Haven’t you heard the speeches of Dilip Ghosh?” he asks, and he almost breaks down with the lament: “Ora jodi aashe, NRC kore aamader taraabe, taraabe, taraabe. (If they come, they will use the NRC to kick us out).” Farooq and Nasir have very little in common. But in this assembly election, every effort is being made by political leaders and the media alike to bracket them together, to see all Muslims as one monolithic whole. If the blatantly divisive speeches by local and visiting BJP leaders are aimed at stoking animus among the majority community against an undifferentiated Muslim “other”, Mamata Banerjee has cast herself as their sole protector and is banking heavily on a “consolidated” Muslim vote to secure a third term in office. But as we travel through some of the Muslim dominated areas of Bengal, it soon becomes clear that the reality on the ground is far more complex than what the pundits of polarization assume; that beyond the emotions of fear and anxiety there is also a new churning within the Muslim community that challenges the double binary of Hindu versus Muslim, BJP versus TMC. We first get a glimpse of it further down the road from Horibari. In Aminpur Bazar, also in the Haroa assembly constituency, a large group of men in a roadside chai stall speak out strongly in favour of Mamata Banerjee.  But even while attacking the BJP, their bigger target is “Bhaijaan” – the popular name for Abbas Siddiqui who heads the Indian Secular Front (ISF) which has joined hands with the Left and the Congress to form the Samyukta Morcha, colloquially referred to as “Jot.” Their anger is understandable because the main fight in Haroa is not between the TMC and BJP but the TMC and ISF. Most of the people we meet do not even know the name of the BJP candidate. They only speak of Haji Nurul Islam, the sitting TMC MLA who is contesting again and his principal challenger, Qutubbudin Fatehi of the ISF. If the supporters of the TMC are more fervent in Haroa, it is the converse in the neighbouring constituency of Bashirhaat North. The trees and lamp posts that line the road that snakes through this seat are festooned with the ISF’s blue, green and white flag embossed with the image of a large white envelope. In a small marketplace called Swaroopnagar which falls under the seat, there is a chorus of voices rooting for ISF candidate Baijid Amin. One reason is that the TMC’s Rofiqul Islam Mondol is seen as a turncoat. He had narrowly won the seat last time as a CPM candidate but has since switched over to the TMC. But won’t a division of votes between the TMC and ISF help the BJP win? An elder in the group patiently explains why they have no such fear. “There is no BJP here. Have you seen a single BJP poster? The party does not even have workers to put up posters. Here it is hadda haddi lorai between Rofiqul and Baijid.” “Hadda haddi lorai” is a phrase we come across in yet another constituency in the district. The phrase, whose Hindi equivalent (kante ki takkar) is a stock response of voters in north India, denotes a very close contest between two strong candidates.  In the Deganga seat in the same district, we are told that the “hadda haddi lorai” is between TMC’s Rohima Mondol and ISF’s Karim Ali. The third contender in the fray is Hasanujjaman Chowdhury – but he belongs to the Forward Bloc and not the BJP.  Here too, there is little fear that a three-way division of the Muslim vote might help the BJP candidate Deepika Chatterjee. While TMC supporters decry Bhaijaan as a “BJP dalal” or dismiss him as a passing phenomenon with no roots on the ground, many ordinary voters seem to be drawn to the ISF because of their disenchantment with the TMC. The Muslim dominated belt across the districts of North and South 24 Parganas faced the brunt of the Amphan cyclone, and the mismanagement of Amphan relief funds is a raw wound that is yet to heal. We hear the same complaints of “cut money” culture and TMC “goondagiri” that was voiced by voters in other parts of the state.  As Azizul Islam, a shopkeeper in Deganga, cynically puts it: “Jodi CPM chilo ek nombor chor, era holo dosh nobor chor (the TMC workers are ten times more corrupt than the CPM used to be).” The anti-incumbency sentiment, it would appear, cuts across district borders and religious affiliations – with one crucial difference. If elsewhere the criticism of TMC is invariably followed by a stated desire for poriborton (which usually means a vote for the BJP), in these areas it largely translates into support for the ISF. The varied political response of Muslims in seats such as Deganga, Bashirhaat North, Baduria, Bhangor and Canning East reveal another irony. They are among the 31 assembly constituencies across the state where Muslims account for over 60 per cent of the electorate. In a polarized election, therefore, these ought to have been impregnable TMC bastions. But ground realities often throw up surprises. In areas where the Muslims form a majority, the fear of the BJP is relatively muted. The election becomes much more normal as a result: issues of land and livelihood, governance and delivery rise to the fore. In contrast, where the Muslim community has a moderate to sizeable presence (between 20 to 50 per cent), the BJP’s thoughtless polarizing campaign is likely to impel large sections of them to vote for the TMC. But whether or not the ISF does well in the elections, the presence of this untested new force is part of a much bigger churning within the Muslim community that has been going on for some years now -- even if it has not gained the kind of attention as the rise of the BJP and its much touted “subaltern Hindutva.” Although Muslims comprise 27 per cent of Bengal’s population (the highest in the country after Kashmir and Assam), there was never a “Muslim factor” in the state’s politics. Neither the Left nor the Congress stressed on communal identity.  Moreover, unlike in the rest of India, Muslims in Bengal are predominantly rural. According to a well researched report titled “The Living Reality of Muslims in West Bengal” brought out some years ago, their rural roots made them “almost invisible in urban public domain -- educational institutions, public services, media, cultural platforms, and other podiums of importance.”  In rural Bengal, they belonged to the ranks of small cultivators and sharecroppers, and were part of the CPM’s formidable “mass base.” Muslim activists and scholars say that a turning point for the community was the publication of the Sachar Committee Report in 2006. The committee, headed by Rajinder Sachar, was appointed by the UPA government to examine the socio-economic and educational status of Muslims in India. The findings were   particularly startling in the case of Bengal. Although Muslims in the state had a sense of security under Left Front rule, the report revealed that they remained among the poorest and most deprived in terms of access to education, health, and other key amenities. But before the contents of the report could be analysed and acted upon, rural Bengal was wracked by unrest following the Left Front’s attempts at land acquisition for industry. Muslims formed a predominant section of the small cultivators who lost their land to build the Rajarhat township on the eastern fringes of Calcutta that forms part of South 24 Parganas. The Singur and Nandigram agitations further alienated them from the Red Flag, and they began gravitating to the TMC – a move that contributed in no small measure to the debacle of the Left Front in 2011. On assuming power, Mamata Banerjee promised to set up a high-level committee under the same Rajinder Sachar to go deeper into the state of Muslims in Bengal and suggest measures to improve their status. Sabir Ahamed, a researcher who has done extensive field work on the conditions of socially disadvantaged communities in Bengal, rues that Mamata never set up the committee. Instead, she started relying on “dubious clerics”. But Ahamed is appreciative of the plethora of welfare measures undertaken by the TMC government which made a material difference to the lives of Muslims. Abdul Matin, a young lecturer at Jadavpur University who has done his doctoral research on Furfura Sharif, is far more critical of the TMC than Sabir Ahamed. But he too concedes that the TMC government made a genuine effort to address the socio-economic concerns of the Muslim community in its first term from 2011 to 2016. These included the setting up of Alia University in Rajarhat, expansion of OBC reservations for Muslims (95 per cent of Muslims in the state fall under the OBC category), scholarship schemes for students, a moratorium on further land acquisitions and greater political representation at the lower levels for members of the community. But things changed sharply in her second term. With the BJP coming to power at the Centre and making inroads in the state, Mamata Banerjee began wooing Muslims by resorting to an overt religiosity. Her pro-Muslim “optics” -- such as attending the Eid namaaz at Red Road, putting up giant hoardings to greet departing and returning Haj pilgrims, covering her head in the style favoured by Muslim women, organising qawwalis and mushairas, giving monthly wages to imams and muezzins – “only helped create an impression among Hindus that the TMC is appeasing Muslims,” says a Muslim academic who preferred anonymity.  Mamata Banerjee, he adds, was “not sensitive to the fact that Bengal has the history of Partition. It is not Kerala. She has made the community much more vulnerable.” Such optics are not the only thing that has helped the BJP. “In the last three-four years, Mamata Banerjee did not leave any space to the Opposition parties, whether Congress or the Left. On the other hand, you see a lot of shakhas coming up all across Bengal,” points out Matin. It is in this backdrop that the ISF phenomenon must be seen. The ISF may have been formed just on the eve of the assembly elections, but its roots go much deeper into the past. The founding peer of the shrine, Abu Bakr, was active in the reform movement among Muslims in the late 19th and early 20th century. But after Partition, when the majority of middle class Muslims migrated to East Pakistan, the shrine’s role also shrunk in the social and political arena. With the Left dominating the political discourse in post-Partition Bengal, there was little space for any autonomous leadership to emerge based on religious or caste identity. But after the defeat of the Left ten years ago, there has been a sea change in the state’s socio-political scene. The stranglehold of pure “class” politics has been broken by the encouragement as well as the assertion of caste and communal identities. A Left leader points out that while Mamata Banerjee started identity politics among communities such as Rajbonshis, Koch, Nepalis, Lepchas, Bhutias, and Muslims, the BJP started focussing on the sub-castes within these categories as part of its “micro social engineering” project from 2016. The BJP’s aim in Bengal, as elsewhere, is to knit these various castes and sub-castes within a Hindutva framework. Projecting the Muslim as an enemy is central to this project and perhaps explains why Amit Shah keeps harping on the “infiltrator” theme even when it is not electorally necessary. The ISF, which claims to represent not just the Muslim peasantry but also similarly disadvantaged dalit, adivasi and OBC groups, is part of efforts to create an alternative platform for Bengal’s “bahujan samaj” (a coalition of the underprivileged) to counter the Hindutva offensive. Joining hands with the Left and Congress has only strengthened that possibility. Much like Kanshi Ram who coined the term “bahujan samaj” four decades ago and then set up the Bahujan Samaj Party, Abbas Siddiqui’s efforts too may get eventually lost in the quagmire of power politics. But right now, movements like the ISF seem to represent a rural, vernacular, agrarian, democratic and radical impulse that is very different from the top-down imposition of “Left, democratic, secular” ideals that was long the norm in the state till a decade ago. As far as this election goes, Mamata Banerjee is certain to garner the bulk of the Muslim vote. But in the ideological and political battle that looms ahead, the new forces that have emerged on the Bengal scene could well play a bigger role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri and Siliguri to get extra Covid beds ||Authorities have decided to set up Jalpaiguri district’s second Covid-19 hospital at Matialli in the Malbazar subdivision and create at least 900 more beds for the treatment at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. The decisions were taken at a review meeting held by senior administrative officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts on Wednesday. The meeting was held at the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad because of a sudden surge in infections. Subrata Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the state food processing industries and horticulture department, was present at the meeting, along with Gorkhaland Territorial Administration principal secretary Surendra Gupta, and Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling district magistrates, Sashank Sethi and Moumita Godara Basu, respectively. Officials of the state health department and the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) also attended the meeting. “The new Covid hospital in Jalpaiguri district will come up at Matialli. It will be set up on the premises of the Industrial Training Institute and will have 60 beds,” Basu said. “We have also identified seven safe houses for treatment of patients with mild symptoms across the district. The safe homes will have around 50 beds each. If the number of Covid cases increases, we will mull over the proposal of creating micro-containment zones,” said Basu. As of now, the only Covid hospital that is functional in Jalpaiguri district is the one set up at Biswa Bangla Krirangan in Jalpaiguri town with 100 beds. Sethi, the Darjeeling DM, said: “The number of beds at the NBMCH for the treatment of Covid patients will be increased by 200. The Triveni Hospital for Covid patients in the Darjeeling hills will also increase beds.” The existing number of beds at the NBMCH is 110 and at Triveni 150. Besides, six safe houses will be operational across the district soon. The Siliguri civic authorities will hold an emergency meeting with traders of total 19 markets on Friday, said officials. “Without using masks and sanitisers, nobody will be allowed in markets. At the meeting with traders, we will ask them to strictly maintain all Covid protocols,” SMC commissioner Sonam Wangdi Bhutia said. A 12-hour night curfew has been clamped at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district from Tuesday. “In the past one month, 192 Covid cases have been detected in the town and four persons have died. Considering the rapid increase, it has been decided to enforce curfew throughout the civic area from 8pm to 8am every day,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader’s banner of amity||A Congress leader who sells shoes on pavements of Rampurhat in Birbhum district  for livelihood set an example of communal amity on Wednesday by putting up a flex to wish people on the occasion of Ram Navami. The action of Sahazada Hossain, the 39-year-old Rampurhat town president of the Congress, comes at a time the venom of communal polarisation for the sake of winning an election threatens Bengal’s ethos to its very core. There were two messages on Hossain’s flex, though they were unwritten: 1) Religions might be personal, but festivals are social. 2) Religions or deities do not belong to any political entity. He spent Rs 250 to print the large flex with an image of Lord Ram and put it up at one of the crowded places in his locality of Railpar in Rampurhat. The flex drew many eyeballs as people noticed his name at the bottom. “It was very nice to see a flex printed by him (Hossain) to wish us all Ram Navami. He is a very good human being who takes such initiative in every festival, irrespective of religion,” said Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Railpar area, which falls under ward 14 of Rampurhat municipality. Several persons in the town, including political leaders, said the initiative was exemplary, especially at a time the administration had to stay on its toes around occasions such as Ram Navami in apprehension of communal tension. In 2018, the young son of an imam of a mosque in West Burdwan’s Asansol was killed in a riot – purportedly instigated by the saffron camp -- that took place following a Ram Navami rally. However, the imam, Maulana Imdadul Rasheedi, had famously refused to identify the perpetrators and instead appealed for restoration of peace. Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Tuesday said that she was worried about the occasion of Ram Navami, alleging that the BJP had plans to foment communal tension around the occasion, which coincided this year with the holy month of Ramazan. Hossain, who spends more time trying to sell shoes on pavements than in actual politics, has said he learnt the lessons of communal harmony since his childhood, as the area where he was brought up has a mosque, a church and many temples. According to him, over the past two years, he noticed that the celebration of Ram Navami had become more political than religious. “Even about three years ago, there were no large rallies, not that many pujas on Ram Navami in our town… but the BJP tried turning it into an important event for Bengal, to try and misutilise the occasion in order to divide people through hatred,” he said. “So, I thought: Let me wish people on Ram Navami to send out a message,” he added. Asked whether it was a political move by him to show solidarity towards the Hindu voters, Hossain said he could never associate politics with religion or festivals. “I have been wishing people similarly for Durga Puja, Christmas and Id for years,” the Congress leader said, adding that it hurt him to see attempts at politicisation of religion and festivals for the sake of winning an election, that too by promoting hatred and division. “I did not study much, for our family’s poverty, but I was always taught that we must all live happily together,” said Hossain, who makes around Rs 8,000 a month from selling shoes. State agriculture minister and Rampurhat Trinamul Congress candidate Asish Banerjee lauded Hossain. “This is what Bengal is all about. This is what we are trying to protect,” he said. The CPM’s Rampurhat candidate, Sanjib Barman, said: “I welcome the move… I am so proud of him.” The BJP’s district president Dhruba Saha, however, claimed it was evidence of his party’s success in giving Ram Navami its due in Bengal. “We welcome this…. So many Muslims are now chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress loyalty biggest asset in poll battle||Turncoats may be here, there, everywhere in Bengal’s political amphitheatre this poll season, but a 70-year-old man in North Dinajpur proudly announces that come what may, he won’t change his loyalty. Meet Mohit Sengupta, the sitting Congress MLA of Raiganj, who is reaching out to voters with his credentials of a man of political integrity. “During the past 10 years, I received a number of proposals, which some people might find alluring, to join another political party. I have never responded to such proposals and have proved my political integrity. At a time when turncoats are faces of both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, I am here to prove that there is no need to change the party to win elections... If one has the political integrity and delivers on people’s trust, one can easily win elections,” says Sengupta, who is also the North Dinajpur district Congress chief. Sengupta, who has been in politics for over 45 years, is criss-crossing Raiganj, a name that is synonymous with former Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. “Like A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury in Malda, Raiganj and North Dinajpur are synonymous with Priyoda. I have worked under him for decades and will continue to serve as a Congress worker…. This time, the number of seats we win does not matter here…. what matters is whether I manage to prove my point that people do not like defectors,” the the two-time MLA says with a smile. For years, the district was known to be a stronghold of the Congress. From Independence till the 2016 Assembly elections, the party had lost the seat only once. Sengupta, a five-time chairman of Raiganj municipality, is often credited for Priya Ranjan’s victory in the 1999 Lok Sabha polls. In 2003, the Congress bagged the zilla parishad, seven of the nine panchayat samities and all four municipalities in the district. In 2011, Sengupta contested the Assembly polls and won the Raiganj seat. Trinamul’s rise in the state did affect the Congress as scores of leaders joined Mamata Banerjee’s party and the Congress lost control of the rural bodies. In 2014, Priya Ranjan’s wife Dipa was defeated in the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. Sengupta, however, managed to win from Raiganj in the 2016 Assembly elections and his party bagged three of the nine seats in the district. However, in the 2019 general election, the Congress suffered another setback when the BJP bagged the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. As Sengupta has thrown his hat into the ring for another battle, political observers think his “political truthfulness” and integrity are his biggest USPs. Krishna Kalyani, the BJP candidate who is contesting against him, is a turncoat. “His father was a councillor of Forward Bloc…People are well aware that Krishna Kalyani was with Trinamul,” says an observer. Also, Kanaialal Agarwala (the district Trinamul president), who has been fielded against Sengupta, is the latter’s former party colleague. He had won the Islampur seat on a Congress ticket and later joined Trinamul. Raiganj will vote on Thursday in the sixth phase of the Assembly polls. “Questions might be raised whether the Congress can prove itself to be a political force across the state. But in Raiganj, Mohit Sengupta has a name and his integrity keeps him in an advantageous position,” sums up another observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Tea industry fear loss due to drought-like situation and hailstorm||Stakeholders of tea industry in Bengal and the neighbouring Assam — which produce the largest amounts of the brew in the country — are apprehensive of losing around 10 to 15 per cent of the crop during March and April because of drought-like situation and hailstorm. “The industry had lost around 140 million kilos of tea last year because of the lockdown and inclement weather. We were hopeful of a fresh start this year but prospects now look bleak because of the drought-like situation prevailing in Bengal and Assam,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. He said tea bushes needed rainfall during the summer so that production maintained a steady pace till the arrival of the monsoon. North Bengal and Assam received less rain in March and April and it directly affected the yield. “Unless there is an improvement in weather, we apprehend that the production will be less by 10 to 15 per cent. A hailstorm has damaged tea bushes and even workers’ quarters and some other properties in a number of gardens in north Bengal recently. Altogether, the situation appears to be grim,” Bhattacharjee said. He said there was production loss in the north Bengal brew belt in January and February this year. While around 40.4 lakh kilos of tea were produced in these two months in 2019, the figure has come down to 19.2 lakh kilos during the corresponding period this year. Around 10.5 per cent of Assam’s total tea production — which was 618.35 million kilos last year — is recorded during March and April. The two months account for around six per cent of the annual tea production in north Bengal. The total tea manufactured in the region last year was 387.46 million kilos. A tea planter based in Siliguri said there had been a surge in tea prices in 2020 because of less production. “The low production was largely offset by the price rise,” he said. Representatives of tea planters met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Calcutta on Tuesday and took up with her a number of issues pertaining to the sector. “We underscored that there was a steady trend to import tea into India in the past few years. This has the potential to dent fortunes of the domestic industry. The central government needs to act on the issue,” said a TAI representative. Some of the other issues which the planters discussed with Sitharaman were the need to formalise the small tea sector, subsuming welfare facilities with national programmes and more initiatives to promote export.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Vaccine crunch hits clinics amid rush||Low vaccine supply and the second wave of the novel coronavirus have hit government-run hospitals and health centres in several south Bengal districts particularly hard after preliminary phases of an aggressive poll season ended. Following the central government’s announcement of open market vaccinations starting May 1, the rush to take first doses is bound to hit services at health centres in Birbhum and Burdwan. “People were reluctant to take vaccine earlier. But the new wave of cases has caused them to wake up. Unfortunately, it is a delayed response because our public health infrastructure will simply not be able to keep up, especially after May 1,” said a health worker at the Bolpur block hospital, adding that decentralisation of the vaccination drive was the only viable option. “To make matters worse, the oppressive summer will also inconvenience a lot of people,” he added. Since Monday, health centres and block hospitals across these two districts have witnessed a surge of nearly 500 per cent in willing first-dose recipients, but have not even had a fifth of the stock. At the Bolpur block hospital on Tuesday, less than 50 people received their first doses. Sources said second-dose recipients would have to be given priority. “We don’t see an end in sight to this problem soon. May 1 is less than two weeks away and those who should have got both doses by now are queuing up for their first,” said a source in Burdwan. “And even then, most are not getting it because of shortage.” Latika Dey, 50, works as a domestic help at homes across Bolpur. On Wednesday morning, she joined an already-long queue at her local health centre around 6am but was turned away in a couple of hours. “At this rate, I will not be able to return to work nor receive my first dose soon,” she said. Nearby, retired schoolteacher Nidhi Ram Chowdhury, 74, sat under a tree exasperated. “This heat is too much,” said the septuagenarian who was awaiting his first dose. In Hooghly, cable operator Dilip Das has been visiting different block health centres since Monday but has not been able to receive his first dose of the vaccine. “In my line of work, being inoculated is important. But it seems the health infrastructure is not prepared,” he said. “There is a vaccine shortage now. However, many of the current recipients should have come forward sooner,” said a senior health official in Burdwan. “Our infrastructure and personnel cannot handle such a sudden load.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Aides try to find Mukul’s role in BJP||Mukul Roy, the former Trinamul Congress Number 2 and currently a BJP national vice-president, was up for a surprise when Union home minister Amit Shah asked him to fight the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls as a candidate. “Mukulda na korey diten, kintu Amitji bollen tumko ladna hi hoga. Dada aar na kortey parenni. (Mukulda would’ve declined the offer, but Amitji said you’ll have to contest. Dada couldn’t turn it down,” a close aide to Roy said. Twenty years back, in 2001, Roy had fought elections for the first time on a Trinamul Congress ticket from the Jagatdal Assembly seat. He was defeated by Forward Bloc’s Haripada Biswas by a margin of 13,402 votes. That was the only time Roy was fielded as a candidate in his four-decade-long political career. Roy, who had switched sides to the BJP in November 2017, is the saffron camp’s candidate for the Krishnanagar North Assembly seat. In close circles, Roy has been heard making a light-hearted joke about the turn of events. “My son is already a two time MLA. Now, his father is contesting the polls for the second time in his life. If I win, my son will be senior to me in the Assembly,” Roy was quoted as saying by sources. A through and through back-office man, it is said about Roy that he knows all booths in Bengal like the back of his palm. For the BJP, Roy was the biggest catch in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was made the chief of the election committee during the general election. Later, Shah himself had addressed Roy as the architect of the BJP’s win in 18 of the 42 seats. Roy would have preferred a similar role for himself in 2021 as well. For quite some time, he had hoped the BJP would form a similar committee again and ask him to lead it. However, the BJP’s top rung had different plans for him. For the two-time Rajya Sabha member (Roy was elected to the Upper House in 2006 and 2012) and former railway minister (2012-2013), Krishnanagar North is a safe bet, according to sources. In 2019, the BJP was ahead of Trinamul in this seat by 53,551 votes. However, many close to Roy think the party should’ve spared him the physical stress of being a candidate. He is a diabetic and only last year did he undergo two major surgeries. “Mukulda’s tryst with the BJP has not been very smooth. For three years, he remained an ordinary member of the party’s national executive committee. The Dilip Ghosh (Bengal BJP chief) lobby enjoyed complete control over the state unit and rendered Mukulda inactive,” a source in the party said. As a matter of fact, Roy had hoped the BJP would assign him some specific organisational role in the party, after he had proved his worth in the 2019 polls. However, it was only after multiple visits to Delhi and meetings with Shah that Roy was made a national vice-president. Incidentally, in the BJP scheme of things, a vice-president enjoys lesser power than a general secretary. Though for Roy his promotion to the post was an official induction into the central committee, a section in the BJP thought it was just “a consolation prize”. Things became a little more uncomfortable for Roy after another Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP in December 2020. “If you see the polls in general, Suvenduda is addressing so many rallies across Bengal. He is attending road shows. It is as if after Dilipda, Suvenduda is our crowd puller. But where is Mukulda in all these?” a state office-bearer asked. As Roy has been made one of the 294 candidates, he has almost confined himself to the two-room rented accommodation of Sunflower Apartments in Krishnanagar’s Khounish Park area. He has even restricted the number of poll campaigns for himself as well. “Mukulda is one of the most prominent faces of Bengal politics. He doesn’t need to introduce himself to his electorate. This is why he is focussing more on strengthening the organisation,” said Arjun Biswas, convenor of the BJP’s Nadia North organisational district under which falls the Krishnanagar North constituency. “We are confident that he will win and we will also increase the margin more than 2019,” Biswas added. Sources said Roy had taken a “one day one rally” policy and given more time to organisational meetings. “Mukulda still believes that BJP’s organisational capability isn’t enough and with a weak organisation, one cannot contest the polls,” a source close to Roy said. “He has denied any media interaction at all and strictly devoted himself to organisational work,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||We don’t need Modi’s double engine, ours is ‘Bengal engine’: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee came up with a newly-coined term as she countered the “double engine” narrative that the saffron camp had been trying to push hard to draw support in the Assembly elections. Mamata, who spoke at three public meetings in Balurghat of South Dinajpur, Harirampur of North Dinajpur and Chanchal of Malda said the state government had  its own “Bengal engine” that was spearheading the development process of the state. “We don’t need (Narendra) Modi’s double engine…. Ours is the ‘Bengal engine’ that has worked for development of the state. We are top in our performance and do not want Bengal to be run by Delhi…. Bengal wants to be on its own,” she said. The chief minister, who lambasted the Prime Minister and the Centre for the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, labelled herself as “Paharadar” (warden) of the state as she played the citizenship card. “BJP leaders are nothing but a group of doublespeak. They are making contradictory statements while addressing different communities on the NRC, NPR and the CAA. We want to make it clear that we will not let them implement any of these in Bengal,” she said. Her remarks indicated that in a bid to counter the BJP that has been trying to polarise votes in districts like Malda and South Dinajpur which have considerable concentration of minorities, she would go on highlighting these subjects to consolidate support among the minority population. “Remember, a ‘Morcha’ has been formed. A young boy has held the hands of some people and is fighting the election jointly with the Congress and the Left. He is trying to instigate minorities. They are no difference from the BJP. You should show them the door as Bengal has always been a proponent of liberal ideology,” Mamata said at Chanchal. There are 12 Assembly seats in Malda and six in South Dinajpur where elections would be held in the final two phases on April 26 and April 29. While addressing the audience, the chief minister also urged voters not to vote for the Left and Congress. “There is no point in voting the Left….. what would you get if you elect an RSP candidate? They will eventually sing in unison with the BJP,” she said at the rally in South Dinajpur. In Chanchal, she repeated the same request and asked voters to shun the Congress whom they had voted for “over 50 years now.” “Yet, the Congress could not do anything for Malda residents…. it is we who carried out development works,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government enlists 50 IAS officers into Covid-19 patient management system ||The Bengal government has drafted in about 50 senior IAS officers into the Covid-19 patient management system in the state considering that the situation could be worse in near future. “The senior officials will look after major issues related to Covid-19 patient management system. The primary goal of the government is to upgrade facilities to attend to more Covid patients at both government and private healthcare facilities. The officers would guide the government to initiate proper steps to enhance facilities,” said a senior government official. According to the plan, the senior officers have been given responsibilities like augmentation of beds at the Covid hospitals, supply of oxygen, admission to Covid care facilities, vaccination, management of satellite centres, Covid-related procurement and funerals of victims. They would study the existing system, following which they would submit a report pointing out the areas where facilities can be improved. While explaining why such a step was initiated, a bureaucrat said: “For example, people are making a beeline for vaccination centres. We have to find out whether we can increase vaccination tables or vaccination centres or working hours to ease the problem.” “The IAS officers would submit a report suggesting ways to solve the problem,” added the bureaucrat. Sources in the government said the ruling establishment was very careful about handling the situation in a more professional way to ensure that it did not send a wrong signal to common people. “Last year, there were issues related to funerals of Covid victims in the state, which did not send a proper message. This year, three senior IAS officers have been engaged to look after the issue in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area, besides rural and urban areas. If there is mismanagement on issues like this, people get panicky, which the state does not want at this moment,” said a source. The state government also wants to expedite the vaccination programme and that’s why the administration has sought 1 crore vaccine doses from the Centre. The health secretary, N. S. Nigam, would write a letter to the Union health secretary, urging him to send 1 crore vaccine doses immediately. “Government vaccination centres would be given 50 lakh doses and the private hospitals would be given 50 lakh vaccines to bring as many people as possible under the vaccination drive,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker arrested for boy assault over chant||BJP worker Mahadeb Pramanik who had beaten up a 10-year-old boy for refusing to chant “Jai Shri Ram” was arrested from his hideout near Santipur in Nadia district on Wednesday evening. The Class IV student, Mahadev Sharma, had to be hospitalised with multiple injuries. The assault happened when the boy was passing by Pramanik’s tea stall at Phulia in Nadia district on Monday. A senior officer of Ranaghat police district said: “We arrested the accused. He is being interrogated now. He will be produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Ranaghat tomorrow (Thursday) morning.” A case was started against him by the police on the basis of a complaint lodged by the child’s father. The BJP worker was booked for wrongful restraint, voluntarily causing grievous hurt and under relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. All the charges are non-bailable, a Santipur police officer said. Pramanik’s wife Mithu, a local Mahila Morcha leader, said: “The administration has been trying to blow the case out of proportion for political interests. We will fight the case legally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt allots Rs 100 crore to handle emerging Covid-19 situation||The Bengal government has allotted Rs 100 crore to handle the emerging Covid-19 situation in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said here on Wednesday, besides detailing how her administration was ramping up facilities to treat patients. “We have kept Rs 100 crore ready. It would be spent for the sudden Covid crisis,” Mamata told a news conference here. During her brief interaction with the media, Mamata repeatedly stressed that the situation in Bengal was well under control and also urged people not to panic, but get vaccinated. Aware that short supply of vaccines was creating problems in some areas, Mamata said: “At least one crore doses of vaccines are immediately required for residents of the state and a letter has been sent to the Centre.” She mentioned that 93 lakh residents above the age of 45 years had been jabbed so far in Bengal. “If we include the second dose, around one crore out of the 10 crore population have been vaccinated. Once the vaccination of around two crore people is complete, we are ready to purchase the doses from the market to vaccinate others. A large stock is required as all above the age of 18 years would start getting the jab from May 1,” said the chief minister. As of now, around 40,000 people are getting vaccinated in the state every day, she said. At the news conference, the chief minister also demanded that the Election Commission take steps to ensure that Covid patients under treatment at hospitals could cast their votes. “Postal ballots should be arranged for them. They should not be deprived of their democratic rights. The EC should improvise the procedure to help these people,” she said. In the state, the government has already arranged around 2,000 safe-houses where patients can stay. Also, the counselling process for patients over phone has been initiated and specialist doctors are available to help them remain at home or safe houses round the clock, claimed Mamata. “We have 11,000 beds for Covid patients in the state. The number would be increased by another 2,000 very shortly,” she said. The administration, she said, has been asked to be vigilant and prevent black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and other items necessary for Covid patients. On being quizzed as to whether the government was mulling over a lockdown, Mamata ruled out its possibility again. “Closing down everything is not a solution. We all have to act consciously to curb the infection,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Trinamul workers killed in clash and explosion||A Trinamul Congress worker was killed in Murshidabad’s Hariharpara while another was shot at in North 24-Parganas’s Hansnabad during political clashes on Tuesday night. In another incident on Tuesday night, a Trinamul activist died in a blast while allegedly making crude bombs along with others in North 24-Parganas’s Khardah. On Thursday, polls will be held across 43 Assembly seats in the sixth phase of elections, including 17 in North 24-Parganas. In Murshidabad, polling will take place for 22 seats in the final two phases, on April 26 and 29. Police said Badal Ghosh, 50, was hacked to death in the Paragaon area of Murshidabad’s Hariharpara during a political clash when he was returning home on a bicycle. The Trinamul worker was attacked with a sharp weapon and bombs were also hurled to ensure he was killed. The cops suspect that Ghosh was killed allegedly in retaliation to the murder of Kasem Ali, 52, a Congress worker, who was killed on Monday night. On Wednesday, Trinamul’s Niyamat Seikh, however, accused the BJP of Ghosh’s murder. BJP candidate Tamal Biswas rubbished the allegations and claimed that the murder was fallout of a property dispute within the deceased Trinamul worker’s family. Later on Wednesday, the police arrested three BJP supporters in connection with the murder. In Hansnabad of North 24-Parganas, Mastan Gaji, 32, a Trinamul activist, was shot at by suspected BJP supporters during a clash. Seven Trinamul workers were also injured in the skirmish. The Trinamul leadership has claimed that a group of armed BJP supporters, allied to Trinamul turncoat Feroz Kamal Gaji (alias Babu Master), attacked their party workers in the Bhawanipore area. “They kept us gheraoed in Bhawanipore. When we tried to flee, they began firing indiscriminately in which Mastan Gaji was injured”, said a Trinamul leader. In another incident, Rajkumar Yadav, a Trinamul activist, died in a blast that occurred at his home in the G.C. Road area of Khardah. Police sources said prima facie it appears that Yadav, 27, had been making bombs when the blast occurred, demolishing his home. Local people said Yadav was on Tuesday evening seen distributing voter’s slips in the area. Also, Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed near Meghna more in Jagaddal, close to the residence of BJP MP Arjun Singh, late on Tuesday. Singh reportedly had a verbal exchange with police officers during a raid in the area around that time after he had accused the cops of harassing innocent people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election officials’ hill adventures ||If the road to hell is paved with good intentions, the path to democracy can be strewn with elephants, leopards and inhospitable terrain. The effort put in by polling personnel on election days often goes unnoticed, the hardship they overcome unappreciated. The Telegraph tracked three polling teams when Darjeeling voted on April 17. One had been deputed in a forest village while the other two in remote hill villages, but all of them were united in their determination to ensure “smooth elections” in the face of adversities. Sonam Gyentsen Wangdi, Presiding officer Jangli Kotha booth Wangdi, 51, posted as employment officer in Siliguri, had been assigned to the Jangli Kotha booth in the Matigara-Naxalbari constituency. The booth is located inside the Mohurgum Gulma tea estate, about 12km from Siliguri. “The place is cut off from the outside world. Mobile connectivity was very weak and we were given walkie-talkie sets to coordinate with sector officers and police,” Wangdi recalled. On top of that, the area is frequented by elephants and leopards, he said. On the evening preceding poll day, Wangdi and his team had visitors from the forest range office. “They told us not to venture out at night because the area was an elephant zone and a few leopards had also been sighted in the immediate vicinity,” Wangdi said. Soon after the foresters left came another setback — a hailstorm. The foresters’ warning meant the team members had no option but to stay put in their booth. The hailstorm ensured that uprooted trees cut off electricity for the rest of the night. “You can imagine our situation that night,” Wangdi said. Because of the hailstorm the self-help-group assigned to them could serve dinner only at midnight, that too in near darkness. No leopard paid them a visit that night but the poll officials would frequently be awakened by the trumpeting of elephants not far away. Polling was smooth on April 17 and Wangdi reached home at 1am the next morning. The school is located just below Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal. The booth had been classified as P minus 2 along with the ones at Srikhola Primary School and Ramman Forest Primary School. P minus 2 means the polling personnel have to leave for their booths two days before elections because of connectivity issues unlike other polling officials who are required to reach only a day ahead. “We had to hurry from Darjeeling with polling materials without proper food as we had been told that it had started raining in the area and the roads would get slippery,” Sherpa said. The team left Darjeeling around 2.30pm on April 15 but when they reached a place near Srikhola they realised that the only vehicle that could take them to their destination was a four-wheel drive. That meant a pick-up truck. “We had no choice but to hop onto a pick-up truck. There was a slight drizzle but we travelled in the hoodless truck on the slippery road through the evening,” Sherpa said. When the poll officials reached their destination around 11pm, they were greeted by pitch darkness because a storm had played havoc with electricity connections. “Thankfully we had picked up dinner while on our way. However, there were no lights through the night,” said Sherpa. Electricity was restored around 3pm on polling day. The 44-year-old official did not want to be identified, nor did he want his deployment details revealed, as he felt there were many officers who had put in more effort. The official recounted how he had visited the houses of senior citizens and people with disabilities in remote areas. The Election Commission has made arrangements for citizens aged above 80 and those with more than 40 per cent disability to cast their vote at their home. “The biggest challenge for us was to trek to those houses that were far from where the nearest motorable road ended. At times we had to trek almost 6km uphill just to ensure a voter was able to cast their vote,” the official said. The team started around 8.30am in the morning and took almost 12 hours to cover the 10 voters they had been assigned to visit. “The walking part was difficult, exhausting, too, but the experience was touching. These elders blessed us because many had stopped voting because of advanced age,” the officer said. On polling day, the team trekked a total of around 16km. Many elders told the team that they wanted to vote in earlier elections too but could not because they had become too fragile to even be carried to the booth. “The twinkle in their eyes after having cast their vote, their blessings, however, made our day. When I reached home, I felt happy, having really done some good service to the community,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Now, Khardah without Asim Dasgupta and Amit Mitra||⚫ Has the debt-to-GDP ratio improved in Bengal since the change of guard in 2011? ⚫ Were the zero-deficit budgets of the Left regime the result of statistical jugglery? ⚫ Has Bengal done better in terms of human development indices after 2011? ⚫ Has the rate of implementation of investment proposals improved since 2011? ⚫ Did tax reforms start in Bengal during Left rule or after that? For the uninitiated, there have always been complaints about lack of transparency in economic data shared by successive governments in Bengal. But the residents of Khardah, a township barely 20km from the heart of Calcutta, cannot share this grouse — after all they have been fed on a healthy diet of economic jargon every election season for over 34 years. “The biggest difference in the 2021 election is that no one is talking economics,” says Subhasish Roy, a bank employee, a wry smile playing on his lips. This North 24-Parganas constituency has had the unique distinction of electing the finance minister of Bengal since 1987. The CPM’s Asim Dasgupta, a PhD in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, represented Khardah from 1987 to 2011. For the next two terms, Trinamul’s Amit Mitra, a PhD in economics from Duke University, took over. Dasgupta and his junior at the erstwhile Presidency College are not in the race this summer, but their duel — and campaign style — are very much part of the gossip in Khardah that votes on April 22. “Asim-babu had interest in a wide array of things…. I still remember his campaign, during which he would suddenly enter a park and play cricket or football with youngsters. But his campaign addresses used to be full of topics related to economics,” recounted a CPM old-timer who used to play an important role in drawing up the Salt Lake resident’s campaign roster. Several residents of Khardah this correspondent spoke to still remember the battles of 2011 and 2016 when debates on economics took centrestage. “Amit-babu’s campaign pitch revolved around Asim-babu’s alleged mishandling of the state’s finances.… Bengal’s indebtedness, per-capita debt, tax-to-GDP ratio — all these numbers were part of the campaign addresses,” recounted Joyshankar Bhattacharya, a resident of Khardah and professor of economics. Dasgupta used to respond to the charges levelled by Mitra, a south Calcutta resident, in his meetings. The debates on economics — and associated discussions on comparisons between MIT and Duke — became so intense that they entered poll pamphlets and wall graffiti in Khardah. Cut to 2021, the pre-poll discourse among the contenders doesn’t look like they are straight out of an economics classroom. BJP nominee Shilbhadra Datta, who is up against Trinamul’s Kajal Sinha and the CPM’s Debojyoti Das, is happy about it. “Two finance ministers represented this constituency for so many years…. The people of Khardah only got lectures in economics, but no actual development took pace here. There is scarcity of drinking water in Khardah. This is a tragedy and I promise to bring real change,” Datta said. While Datta, who had earlier represented Barrackpore as a Trinamul MLA, didn’t find any merit in the discussions on the state of the economy in election season, some residents of Khardah said they had every right to know about Bengal’s macroeconomic situation as the state’s finance ministers had represented them. “As the constituency of successive finance ministers, the profile of Khardah was different…. Besides, the discourse on economics also added a different identity to Khardah,” said Bhaskar Roy, a private sector employee. “The only problem was, some experts in state finances used to claim that they were not as lucky as the residents of Khardah because their questions on the state’s economy were often not answered,” he added. Trinamul nominee Sinha, whom Mamata Banerjee has fielded due to Mitra’s indisposition amid the pandemic, didn’t want to get drawn into the debate on economics. “I was born here, I grew up here and my political life was shaped by the people of Khardah…. I am Mamata Banerjee’s candidate and almost everyone knows me in Khardah. These two are my main campaign pitches,” said Sinha, who won many a heart by running community kitchens and setting up safe homes and quarantine centres during last year’s Covid surge. Unlike Mitra, who had been billed as the next finance minister even before the 2011 polls, Sinha has maintained a low profile, rising from the grassroots and commanding a strong following among youths. The CPM’s Das, a product of student politics, has already made a mark among the electorate with his matured addresses and door-to-door campaigns and is expected to increase the party’s vote share from 11.84 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, the contest in Khardah, which has over 2.32 lakh voters, is between Sinha and Datta. As Trinamul had got a slender 1,000-plus lead over the BJP from Khardah in the last general election, the saffron party is confident of winning the seat, riding a perceived wave despite poor organisational base. Sinha, on the other hand, is confident that his local connect will be enough to see him through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Citizenship dream elusive, Matuas a divided house ||Krishna Kirtania, a resident of North 24-Parganas’ Gaighata, is unsure about whom to vote. A member of the Matua community, Krishna had voted the BJP — like most others in his community — in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Early on Sunday, Krishna visited Thakurbari, the headquarters of the Matua sect in North 24-Parganas’ Thakurnagar, in search of clarity. He spoke through the day with both factions of the Thakur family — one owing allegiance to Trinamul and the other to the BJP. The members of the family are direct descendants of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect. The area votes on April 22. In 2019, Krishna and nearly the entire Matua community had been sure that the BJP would solve their problems over Indian citizenship. The community had helped the BJP to win two crucial seats in the Matua-dominated constituencies of Bongaon and Ranaghat. When the Narendra Modi government introduced the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act, the Matuas had thought their problems would finally be solved. Things, however, have changed in the last 21 months as these lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh await the implementation of the CAA, but there is no clarity on when it would be done. The uncertainty over the CAA’s future, combined with the continuous efforts of the Trinamul Congress and other political parties as well as apolitical outfits to call the BJP’s apparent bluff has worked to a certain extent. The Matuas seem to be a divided house. A source claimed that multiple factors, especially the confusion over the BJP’s true intentions regarding the implementation of the CAA, had alienated a section of the Matuas from the party. “In 2019, almost 100 per cent of the 50 lakh-odd Matuas had voted the BJP. This time the number will be lower,” said the source in the All India Matua Mahasangha, an apolitical platform of the community that’s headed by Bongaon BJP MP Shantanu Thakur. For people like Krishna, a major concern is the exclusion of the 15 lakh Bengali-speaking people in Assam from the National Register of Citizens. The NRC drive in Assam and its outcome — an issue Trinamul has highlighted in its poll campaign — has caused a degree of scepticism among the Matuas about document-based citizenship. “Yes, it is true that some of our people feared that they would be delisted if they failed to show documents because most of them don’t have papers dating back to the time of their immigration. It is practically impossible,” said Mohitosh Baidya, the general secretary of the Mahasangha. However, Baidya added: “We’ve held several meetings with our people at the ground level. We explained to them that the NRC and the CAA are different. The clause for the NRC in Assam was specific to the Assam tripartite agreement. In Bengal, the issue is different and all of us will be given citizenship.” He said the Matuas would vote for the BJP again. The Matua movement began when the CAA of 2003 put forth “illegal migrant” as a category within the legal framework of Indian citizenship. Under the provisions of this Act, lower caste Hindus like Namasudras, who had migrated from Bangladesh after 1971 or were born in India to migrant Bangladeshi parents, became vulnerable to possible disenfranchisement. The Act eventually became an ostensible trap to detain or arrest Bangladeshi refugees as “illegal migrants”. The deletion of the names of about 15 lakh Bengali-speaking people in Assam was also a result of the Act. Left-leaning economist Prasenjit Bose, who has been trying to convince the Matuas about the fallacy of the citizenship tripod, said the main problems began with the 2003 amendment. “This is the notorious Act which neither the BJP has withdrawn so far, nor Trinamul has ever raised its voice against in their endeavour to win the hearts of the Matuas. Both parties are basically cheating the Matuas,” he said. Bose and his team have organised several meetings in Matua-dominated areas in Nadia and North 24-Paragans to convince people that they are citizens of India and the BJP has been trying to use them by dangling the citizenship carrot only for political gains. According to him, the response of the people is an indication that the Matuas are finally realising that the BJP has taken them for a ride. Bose may blame both the BJP and Trinamul for the confusion, but for the Matuas the choice is between these two. Biman Biswas, 46, who claims to be a member of the All India Matua Mahasangha, said: “I am yet to decide who to vote for. The BJP has assured us citizenship. But so far it has delivered nothing. They have not even said that the provisions of the 2003 citizenship Act will be removed. If the categorisation of illegal migrants remains in the Act, many people will be trapped and detained since they will not be able to submit documents either in support of religious persecution or about their stay here.” What has added to the woes of the Matuas is the delay in the framing of CAA rules. The Act came into being in December 2019. In March 2021, the government was allowed an extension till July 9, 2021, for the framing of the rules. Trinamul is trying to use the loopholes in the BJP narrative to regain ground among the Matuas. Leaders like Jyotipriya Mallick, Saugata Roy and Bratya Basu have in the past few months invested considerable time trying to regain the faith of the Matuas. Mamata Banerjee herself has addressed the community and has tried to convince them that since they are already residing in the state, they wouldn’t need new proof of citizenship. “We believe we have been able to win back a substantial portion of the Matua people. I have myself explained to them that the BJP is basically a Manuvaadi party and in their scheme of things there is no place for Dalits like the Matuas…. We’ve exposed the BJP’s lies,” said Basu, adding that his party was confident of winning several seats in Matua-dominated areas. There are at least 30 seats in North 24-Parganas and adjacent Nadia where the Matuas wield influence. In 17 of these seats, the Matuas make up around 45 per cent of the electorate. Ten of the seats are in North 24-Parganas while the remaining seven are in Nadia, which are part of the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituencies. All these seats were a strong support base of Trinamul until the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But in most Matua-dominated segments such as Bongaon North, Bongaon South, Gaighata, Bagda, Habra, Haringhata, Kalyani, Ranaghat South, Ranaghat Northeast, Ranaghat Northwest, Krishnaganj and Chakdaha, Trinamul miserably lost to the BJP. Minister Mullick said: “Our defeat margins don’t present the real picture. It was a sudden obsession that a large section of the Matuas had shown for the BJP for a wrong cause. Such obsession never lasts long. There will be a different story on April 22 when these Assembly segments will go to the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||'The hopes of the entire nation are in the hands of the voters of Bengal'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
22-04-2021||North East||Assam ONGC trio abducted||Suspected Ulfa (Independent) cadres allegedly abducted three employees of energy major Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) from one of its rig sites in Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district in the early hours of Wednesday. This is the second kidnapping case to hit the oil sector in the Northeast since December last year when the rebel outfit abducted two employees of a private oil drilling company — Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited — from Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. They were released in early April. Though Ulfa (I) is yet to claim responsibility for the abduction, Sivasagar superintendent of police Amitava Sinha told The Telegraph that the proscribed outfit was involved in the abduction and could have taken the kidnapped trio to bordering Nagaland. The abducted employees — MM Gogoi (Sivasagar district), Ritil Saikia (Golaghat district) and Alokesh Saikia (Jorhat district) — are from Assam. An ONGC statement early in the morning said two junior technicians (production) and a junior engineering assistant were abducted by “unknown armed miscreants” in the early hours of April 21. The abduction took place from a rig site in Lakwa and the abducted employees were “taken” away by the miscreants in an operational vehicle belonging to the ONGC. Later, the vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle “close” to the Assam-Nagaland border. A complaint has been lodged with local police, the ONGC statement said, adding they were in constant touch with the police and higher authorities. ONGC is the country’s biggest oil and gas exploration and production company, working in Assam since the 1960s. Nimonagarh is around 15km from the rig site, very close to Nagaland’s Mon district. One of the two Quippo employees was released on April 5 in the jungles of Mon district, which shares border with Myanmar, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. “The operational vehicle is a medical emergency response vehicle always stationed at the site. Eight of our people were working in the night shift when armed miscreants came to the site. The rig site became operational in October 2020. We have received no contact or calls from either our employees or their abductors,” an ONGC official told this newspaper. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal expressed “deep concern” over the development and held an urgent meeting with chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and director-general of police Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta over the abduction by “unidentified” miscreants. Additional director-general of police (law and order) G.P. Singh has already reached Lakwa on the chief minister’s direction and launched an investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
22-04-2021||Opinion||Time travelling||We exist in time and occupy space and, for the most part, are usually fairly certain of the where and the when of our existence. There may be occasions when we are disorientated and unable to determine with certainty our where- and when-abouts, but these are relatively uncommon events in most lives, and our sense of self is typically quite solidly grounded in both space and time. Of course, neither time nor space is wholly objective, even if science tells us that they are, for how we perceive time and how we relate to space determine how we see ourselves in relation to the world around us. It was Aristotle (384-322 BCE) who, perhaps for the first time, noted how our perception of time was dependent on change and movement. In Book Four, Chapter 11 of his Physics, he writes of how “we apprehend time only when we have marked motion, marking it by ‘before’ and ‘after’; and it is only when we have perceived ‘before’ and ‘after’ in motion that we say that time has elapsed”. Such motion or change may be external — the movement of a body through space — or internal — the perception of change and movement within our minds. “But neither does time exist without change; for when the state of our own minds does not change at all, or we have not noticed its changing, we do not realize that time has elapsed, any more than those who are fabled to sleep among the heroes in Sardinia do when they are awakened; for they connect the earlier ‘now’ with the later and make them one, cutting out the interval because of their failure to notice it. So, just as, if the ‘now’ were not different but one and the same, there would not have been time, so too when its difference escapes our notice the interval does not seem to be time... the non-realization of the existence of time happens to us when we do not distinguish any change... when we perceive and distinguish [such change] we say time has elapsed... It is evident, then, that time is neither movement nor independent of movement.” Virtually everyone I have spoken to during the last year has reported mild to severe distortions in their sense of space and time. For some, this has taken the form of being unable to reconstruct a sequence of events, mixing up the ‘before’ and the ‘after’ of a particular incident or series of incidents; others have spoken of how they confused the ‘here and now’ with the ‘there and then’; and yet others have recounted how their body clocks have been thrown out of kilter by the strangely hallucinatory nature of life during the ongoing pandemic. For some of them, time seems to have speeded up, and months have collapsed into mere days (“...it seems only yesterday that the first lockdown was imposed”), while, for others, time has slowed down so much that each day seems to last forever. This apparently paradoxical response to the passage of time is the subject of a research project conducted by the experimental psychologist, Ruth S. Ogden, of Liverpool John Moores University on The passage of time during the UK Covid-19 lockdown, whose findings are interesting, to say the least. According to Ogden, her “results showed that there was widespread distortion of time during lockdown, with more than 80% of people reporting that time felt like it was passing differently. But lockdown did not distort time in the same way for everyone. Instead, time sped up during lockdown for 40% of people and slowed down for the remaining 40%”. Why this should be so doesn’t seem to be very clear. Ogden suggests that age and “the negative emotions associated with isolation, boredom, sadness and stress may have contributed to a slowing of time” although she warns that “the effect of emotion on [our perception of] time is complex”. One can only surmise how radically different the perception of time must be for a laid-off migrant worker having to somehow return to her or his home hundreds, maybe even thousands, of kilometres away from the place where she or he worked, and that of the house-bound white-collar worker whose job may not be in jeopardy but whose daily rhythms have been rudely disrupted as a result of the pandemic. About six months ago, when I called up a friend in a Birbhum village, he had told me of how several migrant workers of his acquaintance, who had returned home with great difficulty had become “lifeless” and “unwilling to look for work”, or even go out to collect the free rations being distributed to families by the state government. “They no longer believe there is a future,” my friend told me — a comment one has heard repeatedly from a varied assortment of individuals, ranging from students, to neighbours, to well-established friends holding down steady jobs. Hundreds of thousands of young people, whose final school board examinations have been put on hold, with not even tentative rescheduled dates announced, have now joined this chorus. Our perception of time is shaped not only by past events, but also by the reasonable assumptions we make about what is likely to happen in the (more-or-less near) future. About two months back, most of us (myself included) were looking forward to a return to some semblance of pre-pandemic normalcy; now, with the second wave in full flow, that possibility seems to have been snatched away from us. On the one hand, the exponential increase of coronavirus cases is like a speeded-up film where time is ever-accelerating and, on the other, the way in which things remain the same (lockdowns, travel restrictions, closed schools and colleges, the list goes on) seems to have brought time to a standstill. Our vaunted ability to predict and/or control the future seems to have disappeared completely, and all we can do is helplessly observe a time that is both breathtakingly fast and heartbreakingly slow at one and the same moment. The paradox that is Covid-time offers neither hope nor consolation, only a bleak, terrifying future. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Lashed again: Covid-19||India is currently witnessing a severe replay of the Covid-19 pandemic of 2020; India’s second wave is, arguably, the worst surge around the world. Its whiplash on the country’s economy and society is going to have a telling effect. Studies show that the very rich and the very poor in India remain relatively unaffected by the economic shock induced by the pandemic. The former can absorb such shocks, while the latter are numbed by persistent, chronic poverty: their condition could not be worse than what it already is. The worst hit by the pandemic has been the large middle class accounting for a wide range of incomes, starting from people earning about $10 to $20 per day. Since the pandemic began, India has lost 32 million people in this income range, and the size of the very poor — those earning less than $2 per day per person — has swelled by 75 million. The most important sources of middle class income are wages and salaries, especially in the sprawling informal and rural sectors. The income loss is mostly a result of rising unemployment. According to a CMIE report published in August 2020, unemployment was estimated at 1.8 crore by July 2020 from the time the pandemic broke out. This meant that about 22 per cent of salaried jobs had been lost. Unemployment creates a number of social problems apart from the associated economic distress. Anxiety and stress levels are much higher for an unemployed person. This sense of alienation can create problems, such as enhanced substance abuse, greater domestic violence and more widespread incidents of psychiatric disorders. It can break up families, increase suicide rates, and have an adverse long-term effect on one’s self-esteem and confidence. These complications gnaw away at the roots of social order and stability. India never got over the mammoth economic problems carried over from last year. There was a weak stimulus given to the economy that did not have a discernible effect. The ruling regime seems to be more worried about the country’s geographical neighbours and in controlling India’s farmers and workers. The same script is now being re-enacted with a greater ferocity. It is likely that the blows from the second and third waves would be far more lethal than that of the first one. The economic recovery will be more difficult this time around. Can the middle class — the engine of aspirations and growth in New India — hold its ground? Or would it crumble into the heap of the poor? The answer to these questions would become clearer not too long into the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Great minds think differently||“If culture, civilisation, administration, and economic prosperity were possible before British rule, they will also be possible after British rule,” declared Subhas Chandra Bose in his two-part book, The Indian Struggle: 1920-1942. There is no doubt that Bose’s contributions were significant to emancipating India from British imperialism. Could this fierce nationalist, who is being appropriated for political mileage nowadays, have been even more instrumental to Indian history had he served as India’s first prime minister? On October 21, 1943, Bose announced the formation of the provisional government of Azad Hind in Japanese-occupied Singapore, anointing himself as head of state, minister for war and foreign affairs, and prime minister. The adoption of the third title by Bose has led many of his admirers to argue that Bose, and not Jawaharlal Nehru, was the first prime minister India ever had. It was Nehru who undertook the first prime ministership of an independent India. But what if he hadn’t? In The Indian Struggle, Bose writes of how independent India would have “a strong Central Government... [how] [t]he state will... unify the whole nation and all methods of propaganda... will have to be utilised...” In a speech delivered in Singapore in 1943, Bose had made his administrative aspirations even clearer by asserting that India would require an “iron dictator” who could rule for at least two decades. Unlike the democratic idealism of Nehru, who had an unflinching faith in constitutional process, Bose, as a benevolent dictator, may have concentrated most of the power in his hands through a mixture of “Fascism and Communism”, with the aim of making India economically self-sufficient, before bedding in the democratic foundations that had been the opening gambit of the Nehruvian quasi-federal model. In The Indian Struggle, Bose imagines a new party for independent India — the Samyavadi-Sangha — which would dominate the political landscape like a colossus, functioning as a “well-organised, disciplined all-India party... the chief instrument for maintaining national unity.” Bose’s Sangha would provide “perfect equality” in terms of political and economic rights, endorse no State religion, thereby allowing “complete religious and cultural freedom”, and strive to eradicate poverty and unemployment by means of “industrialisation and scientific agriculture through state aid”. The Sangha’s tentative manifesto reflects many of the primary features of what is now understood to be Nehruvian socialism and secularism. This raises the obvious question — with similar ideals but different tools, would the Congress have survived in the India of the Sangha? Would Bose have pivoted to free and fair elections by dissolving or disempowering the Sangha, or would he have let the Sangha retain its political leverage while simultaneously allowing other political actors to rise to prominence? India under Bose may not have seen the kind of social suppression that dictatorships are usually associated with. The Indian Struggle confirms Bose’s faith in a secular State where minorities do not become second-class citizens. Bose’s India may also have industrialized faster than it did under Nehru, achieving Bose’s target of a rapid rise in the standard of living and an ‘increase in consumption by leaps and bounds’. However, Bose’s obsession with socialism and concentration of power may have set the wrong precedents for independent India. The image of Bose as omnipotent and omnipresent would have legitimized more authoritarian personalities with less noble intentions to succeed him. When the democratic mechanisms installed by Nehru could not prevent an Emergency proclamation by his daughter, Indira Gandhi, or foresee the rise of political strongmen like Narendra Modi, it is likely that Bose’s benevolent dictatorship would have spawned powerful leaders governing an increasingly weak country. History tells us that a single individual does not usually preside over both revolution and reconstruction with the same success. While Bose certainly had the competence and the conviction to prove an exception to this humbling rule, given the precarious circumstances at the time of Indian independence and his own modus operandi, few would have bet in his favour. Nehru, for all his shortcomings, offered a utopian yet enduring idea of India, one that in its syncretic and democratic roots remains imperfect yet imperative to what India is today. Bose, for all his qualities, would have offered a compelling but chaotic idea of India, one which in its conflict between short-term necessities and long-term ideals would have fundamentally altered what India is today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Change of guard: Cuba||Cuba’s revolution is history; the revolutionaries, too, are now becoming part of the past. Cuba without a Castro at its helm may have been inconceivable even a few years ago. Yet, the country has now put behind, in an orderly manner, its over six-decade-long tryst with the iconic Castro clan and other members of the ‘historic generation’ who ushered in the revolution in 1959. Fidel Castro had handed over the reins of power to his brother, Raúl; the latter has now been succeeded by Miguel Díaz-Canel as the new chief of Cuba’s communist party. Raúl Castro had anointed Mr Díaz-Canel as president in 2018. Fidel Castro’s larger-than-life image remains imprinted on the Cuban consciousness. Cuba’s progress in education and healthcare — the same cannot be said about its economy though — on Fidel’s watch was commendable. This is not to suggest that Raúl Castro’s legacy is in any way less significant. In fact, the pragmatic younger brother played a crucial role in smoothening Cuba’s relationship with its ideological foe, the United States of America. But he chose not to rock the boat any further. In fact, this cautious approach, coupled with ideological blinkers shared by both siblings, is attributed by some as the chief cause behind the time that Cuba took to wake up to the advantages of an open market. China read the tea leaves right much before the Castros did. Having risen within the hierarchy of the party, Mr Díaz-Canel is not expected to veer Cuba away from its socialist, one-party political system. This is because the principle of a carefully orchestrated continuity lies at the core of the survival of Cuba’s communist regime. But Mr Díaz-Canel would also be leading Cuba through uncharted waters since the external realities in Latin America and, indeed, the world have undergone a sea change. The red tide in the continent that saw the flowering of leftist regimes in a number of countries is on the wane. Cuba’s traditional allies — Venezuela is one example — are in a shambles. The warmth with the US proved to be short-lived, with Donald Trump neutralizing the concessions announced by the Barack Obama administration. The raging pandemic has made Cuba’s economic challenges a lot sharper, with tourism — Cuba’s lifeline — suffering blows. These challenges would test Mr Díaz-Canel’s leadership. Finding a balance between continuity and change — in other words, public reforms — could be one way to steady the ship for the new boss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
22-04-2021||Opinion||Be cautious||Sir — A former children’s commissioner of the United Kingdom, Annie Longfield, has filed a case against TikTok, alleging that the app illegally collects its underage users’ data. TikTok’s handling of personal data has long been a matter of concern. Longfield is of the opinion that the app is breaching the data protection law in the UK and in the European Union. It has been alleged that phone numbers, location and biometric data are being taken without sufficient warning. This is worrying and, if true, threatens the safety of millions of children worldwide. This must be investigated urgently. Surya Sengupta, Calcutta Sir — It is a relief to know that amid a virulent second wave of Covid-19 infections, the Centre has taken the decision to allow the vaccination of all citizens above the age of 18 from May 1 (“All-adult vaccine ploy on day of ingratitude”, April 20). This is a welcome move. However, it is worrying that as of Monday, only 8 per cent of the population had received the first dose of the vaccine while a mere 1 per cent were fully inoculated. Many front-line workers are yet to be vaccinated. At this time, when the pandemic is at its peak, the current vaccination programme to halt the spread of the disease is simply too slow. A strategic programme to vaccinate 60 per cent of the population should be drawn and executed before the end of June. The states and the Centre must work towards creating greater awareness among the people and urge them to get vaccinated as soon as possible. The next step would be to allow the vaccination of people below the age of 18, bringing all citizens within the ambit of the inoculation programme. They, too, are vulnerable to the coronavirus. The government must also ensure that there is no hoarding or black-marketeering of the vaccines. Sravana Ramachandran, Chennai Sir — The decision of the Central government to allow the vaccination of all citizens above the age of 18 comes at a time when the second wave of the coronavirus has led to an unprecedented surge in cases across the country. The Centre was woefully ill-prepared to handle the uptick and now there is an acute shortage of not only oxygen cylinders and hospital beds but also Covid-19 vaccines. The fact of the matter is that it is the inefficiency and indifference of the Centre that has led to this situation. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party thought that it was wise to hold numerous election rallies in poll-bound states in the midst of a pandemic. They also gave permission to organize the Kumbh Mela where thousands gathered flouting Covid-19 norms. The Centre made weak calls for caution only when the surge of infections at the Kumbh garnered outrage. Now, with the situation well and truly out of hand, the government must speed up the inoculation programme and vaccinate all citizens on a war footing. The people of India are now living in fear for their lives and those of their loved ones. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai Sir — At a time when Covid-19 infections in India are skyrocketing, it is good to know that all adults will be eligible to get vaccinated from next month. The decision was taken by the Centre in a bid to ensure that a maximum number of citizens can be inoculated in a short period of time. The liberalization of the drive will allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure directly from manufacturers. The private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of the vaccine from the 50 per cent earmarked for entities other than those coming through the Central government channel. It is hoped that India’s vaccination drive will finally pick up. Kanupriya Chouhan, Khachrod, Madhya Pradesh Sir — It was wise of Rahul Gandhi to call off all his election rallies ahead of the sixth, seventh and final phases of voting in the West Bengal assembly elections. Bengal is witnessing a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases. Amid this grave and deteriorating situation, parties across the political spectrum have held jam-packed rallies and road shows, where neither leaders nor supporters wore masks or followed social distancing norms. It is heartening that following Gandhi, the Trinamul Congress has decided to shun mega rallies in West Bengal. On the other hand, instead of cautioning people, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, reportedly said that it is “not right” to link elections with the surge in cases. It is worrying that the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are yet to grasp the gravity of the situation. The Election Commission, too, has done little to control crowding during campaigning. It is high time that the EC bans all political rallies for the remaining phases of elections in Bengal. With the current advancements in technology, it is possible to remotely campaign for polls. Politicians should put the well-being of people ahead of electoral gains. Shovanlal Chakraborty, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Marriage applicants crowd Dhanbad on Day One of lockdown||A huge rush of over 500 people seeking marriage permission applications was witnessed on Thursday at the office of the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad on the first day of the weeklong state lockdown. The applicants were crowding the office of Surendra Prasad since early morning, violating Covid protocols . Santosh Kumar, a resident of Putki who arrived at the SDO office seeking an NOC for the marriage of her niece, said, “I had applied for the permission on April 16 itself and today arrived for getting permission and I never imagined that there would be such a huge rush at the office.” Nirajan Kumar, former councilor of Ward Number of 35 of Jharia who also arrived at the SDO office along with a few residents of the locality said, “Being connected to common people we can’t deny the request for help and came here along with a milkman of our locality and one of my cousin brothers.” “Owing to the huge rush of permission seekers, the counter at SDO office has been closed and a notice was stuck asking all permission seekers to rush to their respective circle offices to obtain permission,” said Kumar and added that as the post of Jharia circle officer is lying vacant, he is not sure whether he will be able to obtain permission at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers occasional showers across state ||A cyclonic circulation prevailing over Jharkhand triggered light to moderate rain at several places in the last 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall of 40.4 mm was recorded at Deoghar while Godda recorded 29 mm. According to Met statistics, the IMD observatory at Pakur recorded 9.2 mm of rain while Dumka recorded 8.4 mm. Hazaribagh recorded 5 mm rain, while Latehar recorded 2.4 mm. Garhwa, Ramgarh and several other places in Santhal Pargana region experienced over 2 mm of rain. Several places including Jamshedpur, Ranchi and its adjoining places on Thursday woke up to overcast conditions coupled with intermittent showers due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. The IMD 's Ranchi Met Centre said the impact of the cyclonic circulation is gradually becoming weak. "The cyclonic circulation will further become weak in another 24 hours, " said a duty officer at Ranchi Meteorological Centre adding that maximum temperature is expected to witness a rise by two to three degree Celsius from tomorrow. IMD's Patna Met Centre also hinted at a gradual rise in day's reading from Friday. "The cyclonic circulation is gradually becoming weak. Satellite pictures indicated light showers in various districts of Jharkhand on Thursday. But, from tomorrow onwards the maximum reading would witness a rise resulting in dry weather conditions, " said a climate analyst at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad hospitals face antiviral drugs crisis ||Over 20 Dhanbad hospitals are facing an acute shortage of antiviral drugs like Remdesivir and Fluguard required for treatment of Covid patients. Black marketing and hoarding of these drugs are some of the reasons for the crisis. Rajiv Sharma, secretary of Jivan Rekha Trust, which operates at the Asian Dwarkardas Jalan Hospital, said, “We have been facing short supply of these medicines creating difficulties in treatment of patients.” “These medicines should be supplied in sufficient quantity in all 20 private hospitals of Dhanbad engaged in Covid treatment,” said Sharma who is also the general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association. “As Dhanbad hospitals also cater to the medical requirements of large of number of people in the adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebaganj, Pakur, Dumka and even Deoghar, so sufficient quantity of medicines should be provided to hospitals here also and all medicines should not concentrated in Ranchi only,” said Sharma. Sharma appealed to the state government and local administration to increase the number of hospitals for Covid treatment to reduce the pressure on the 20 centres that are already overcrowded. Chief executive officer of Pragati Nursing Home, Jai Prakash Khaitan said, “Not only Remdesivir and Fluguard (Flavipir) but we are facing shortage of almost all antiviral drugs.” Secretary of district unit of Indian Medical Association, Dr Sushil Kumar, said, “Sufficient medicine supply is the primary requirement for treatment of Covid patients and the government must ensure all steps to provide the required medicines to health hubs of Dhanbad also.” He at the same time said that the unnecessary hype for Remesivir is also leading to its black marketing and illegal hoarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Faced with public anger, Congress, BJP set up Covid helplines ||The ruling Congress and the Opposition BJP have set up separate helplines and control rooms to help Covid patients, the parties adopting damage control measures after facing severe criticism for inaction during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the party had rolled out two numbers —9798563777 & 7667357882_ to function as Covid helplines. “Depending on the cases and requests, we shall connect patients with our panel of doctors for assistance. On Day One, we received over a dozen cases,” he said, adding that they were also working out modalities to extend services like helping the needy get hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines etc. “In this hour of crisis, the party will do all that is possible to reduce problems faced by the public. Our volunteers will work in coordination with the district administrations to help as much as possible,” he said. BJP set up a 24X7 helpline (8102925807) in Ranchi and issued numbers of four doctors—Dr Tushar Arya (9334152192), Dr Mahesh (9431628295), Dr Ramji Prasad (9576127347) and Dr Sunil Agarwal (9937460669) for free consultations. State party president Deepak Prakash said, “Through the helpline, we will try to provide details of availability of beds, oxygen and medicines. If anyone is in need of medicines or and other essentials, our volunteers will send them.” Accusing the state government of failing to effectively manage the Covid pandemic, Prakash alleged the entire system had collapsed. “People are dying because the entire government machinery and system has collapsed in Jharkhand. Forget timely hospitalisation, people aren’t even getting emergency medicines due to black marketing. The dead are being denied respectable last rites due to mismanagement at cremation sites,” he claimed. Both the Congress and BJP said they would set up similar helplines and control rooms in districts. The recent surge of cases coupled with high mortality rate has led to public uproar in Ranchi and other hotspot districts like East Singbhum,Hazaribagh and Dhanbad. The state government as well as political parties have been facing a severe backlash on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former archer and mentor D.K Sarkar passes away||Former archery coach D.K Sarkar (Habul Da) passed away  at his residence in Aam Bagan, Sakchi on Thursday. The 70-year-old Sarkar, affectionately called 'Habul da' in steel city's archery fraternity, was sick for some months and was undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital. He returned home around 10 days ago and breathed his last this morning. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. A former secretary of Bihar Archery Association (BAA), Sarkar played a pivatol role in producing several national level archers. He was instrumental in setting up an archery training centre at Burmanines locality of the city. Most of the archers from the steel city learnt the nuances of archery under the tutelage of Sarkar who was a hard working and soft-spoken person. The likes of archery coaches and Dronacharya awardees Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary also learnt the initial lessons of archery under Sarkar A pall of gloom descended on the city’s archery circle as soon as news of Sarkar’s death poured in. “He (Sarkar) was our guru. We  took baby steps in archery under his guidance. I will really miss him. May the almighty give peace to the departed soul,” said Harendra Singh, coach and a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee of East Zone for the Khelo India identification programme. Former footballer no more In another sad news for the sports fraternity, former state level footballer and referee Nirmal Sahu passed away on Wednesday evening. He was sick for some days and died at Tata Motors Hospital. Sahu (45), who worked for the Railways in Jamshedpur , played the local Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) football league for Mohammedan Sporting, South Eastern Railways Sports Association (SERSA) and also officiated as a referee. He was a dedicated footballer. JSA secretary Avinash Kumar, former FIFA referee Binod Kumar Singh and ex-secretary of SERSA PS Chatterjee condoled the sudden demise of Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand industries come to the rescue of states fighting oxygen crisis ||Industries in Jharkhand have come to the rescue of several thousand Covid patients in states across the country amid an acute crisis of medical oxygen by sending much-needed supplies and ensuring foolproof logistics to meet future demand on time. Jamshedpur-based Tata Steel and the Bokaro Steel Limited in Bokaro – two steel giants of Jharkhand – have supplied close to 5,500 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to combat the crisis, officials from the two companies said on Thursday. A statement issued by Tata Steel in response to a query said that around 4,000 tonne of LMG was supplied from the oxygen plant in Jamshedpur to different states from April 1 to April 21. “Apart from supplying oxygen to hospitals in Jamshedpur and other Jharkhand cities, we are supplying oxygen to states like Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, MP and AP through our manufacturing units in Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul,” the statement read. Public sector unit Bokaro Steel has supplied more than 1,200 metric tonne of oxygen to different states in April. BSL chief of communication Mani Kant Dhan said they have been supplying oxygen every day to hospitals and independent oxygen supplying agencies in different states since the beginning of April. Besides, BSL is also providing oxygen to a 900-bed hospital in Bokaro itself, added Dhan. As per details shared by Dhan, from April 1 to April 21, BSL supplied 232 metric tonne of LMO to Jharkhand, 324 metric tonne to Uttar Pradesh, 282 metric tonne to Bihar, 20 metric tonne to West Bengal and 19 metric tonne to Maharashtra. Besides, the steel plant has also supplied liquid oxygen directly to government and private hospitals to various states. It has supplied 137 metric tonne oxygen directly to hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, 72 metric tonne to Bihar, nine metric tonne to West Bengal and 154 metric tonne to Madhya Pradesh. These developments come at a time when the country is faced with a major crisis of medical oxygen that has led to the death of several Covid patients acorss the country. Social media is abuzz with requests for medical oxygen for patients in different parts of the country as many hospitals have ran out of supply. The Tata Group was also lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union railways, commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal for the company’s efforts during the ongoing Covid crisis. “Compassionate gesture by Tata Group. Together, the people of India will fight Covid-19,” the Prime Minister tweeted from his official Twitter account on Wednesday. Some media reports have highlighted that India could not provide oxygen to needy patients despite producing enough liquid oxygen owing to lapses in logistics. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought the support of other states in fighting the oxygen crisis in the country and said that states should help each other in meeting the demand for oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Subway ready at Dhanbad station south complex||The Dhanbad division of the East Central Railways has completed the construction of a low height subway for the South Side extension complex of the Dhanbad Railway Station. The two-lane subway, having an internal height of five meter and 4.65 meter width was developed at a cost of around Rs 11 crore. It will be operational once lighting and drainage amenities are completed. Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad division of East Central Railways, P.K. Mishra said, “The commissioning of the Low height Subway on Tuesday marks a historic day in the history as it will pave way for closing of level crossing gate number 19/B/T/.” “After completion of LHS, the passengers will conveniently reach the south side of Dhanbad Railway station using the new approach road decongesting the north side campus of Dhanbad Railway station,” said Mishra and added it will also ease the traffic congestion at Bank More over bridge . The south side extension complex with a waiting hall, UTS counter, food outlets and a large parking zone was developed in 2014 at the cost of Rs 4.5 crore with the aim to decongest the main station complex of the station situated North side which receives a daily footfall of around 20,000 persons. The complex remained non-functional since 2014 due to the lack of an approach road. An old approach road for the south side is present in the Purana Bazaar locality but being too narrow, it is inaccessible for four-wheelers. Hence, a new approach for the station was constructed last year.  However, a level-crossing prevented passengers from navigating the station. The subway will resolve these difficulties faced by passengers on a daily basis. Former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Md Sohrab said, “We, as part of the local community went to see the newly constructed LHS and we are very thankful to the railway administration for solving one of the biggest traffic issues of Dhanbad besides making the access to Dhanbad railway station easy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand goes into lockdown for a week||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
22-04-2021||Jharkhand||Highest single-day spike of fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Jharkhand reported its highest single-day-spike of 2021 in Covid cases on Wednesday as over 5000 state residents, including over 1300 from Ranchi alone, tested positive for the viral infection on the day, government data highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounted for 1361 of the 5041 fresh cases of infection on the day, while East Singhbhum accounted for 718 cases. As many as 62 Covid patients, including 22 from Ranchi and 11 from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1609 and that in Ranchi alone to 418, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum jumped to 459 on the day. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government also arranged for over 1800 additional beds with oxygen support amid an acute crisis of beds for Covid-19 patients across the country, a press communique from the Information and Public Relation Department of the Government stated on Wednesday. The 1824 additional beds, as per the communique, will be used for treatment of Covid patients in districts other than Ranchi. Chairing a meeting with the concerned officials on April 15, the Chief Minister had directed the deputy commissioners of all the districts in Jharkhand to arrange for at least 50 oxygen-supported beds for Covid patients in their respective districts. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 43,239 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. Wednesday’s findings took the Covid tally in the state to 177356 and the active caseload to 35,826, highlighted government data. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in the state jumped to 2.30 per cent against the national average of 1.27 per cent on the day. The doubling rate of infection further dropped to 30.50 days in the state against the national doubling rate of 54.85 days. The figures indicate that it would take hardly 30 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace of growth in infection. Only 2331 Covid patients recovered against the over 5000 fresh cases on the day, which brought the recovery rate below 80 per cent in Jharkhand. As per government data, the Covid recovery rate in the state was 78.89 per cent against the national average of 85.60 per cent. Meanwhile, the vaccination campaign also could not achieve the desired target on Wednesday. As many as 16,393 beneficiaries, hardly 18 per cent of those registered, got the first jab on the day. The second jab was administered to 8263 beneficiaries, around 3 per cent of the total number of people registered for the dose on Wednesday. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 25 lakh Jharkhand residents, while the second dose has been administered to around 3.84 lakh beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
