23-04-2021||Calcutta||Govt spaces offered on rent to corporate hospitals for setting up Covid units ||The state government on Thursday offered it’s facilities like stadiums, auditoriums and conference halls to big private hospitals to set up extended treatment units and satellite facilities for Covid patients. “We are offering government spaces against rent to corporate hospitals who have a minimum 250 beds, for setting up treatment facilities and satellite centres for Covid. These spaces would be available for rent for three months which can be extended upto one year,” a senior state government official said on Thursday. He said several hospitals had shown interest in requisitioning such facilities. The official said although private and government hospitals are increasing beds but unlike last year, this time Covid is spreading much faster affecting more people. So, there is a need to have as many facilities as possible to accommodate patients. “The facilities will be given out on nominal rents. The facilities should be in proximity to the hospitals,” said the official. Some of the hospitals said they are interested in setting up treatment units at such government facilities. Medica Superspeciality Hospital wants to take the Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur on rent. “We want to set up a 200-bed unit for treating mild to moderate Covid patients. The unit will have oxygen support,” said Alok Roy, chairman of Medica. Hospitals across Calcutta have started creating more Covid beds by opening new wings taking over entire floor in a building where earlier only non-Covid patients were treated. AMRI Hospital, Mukun-dapur is opening its new twin buildings for Covid treatment. The construction was complete last year but the hospital was waiting for the clinical establishment licence for the buildings which it received on Wednesday evening, said officials. “We will start with 30 Covid beds, including 10 in the critical care unit from Friday and eventually there will be 110 beds,” said an AMRI official. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences took over an intensive care unit in its non-Covid building to set up 50 critical care beds for Covid patients. “Last year we didn’t have to set up Covid beds in this building which has non-Covid wards. But with the increasing number of cases we decided to create more facilities,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east of Narayana Health of which RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. He said one of the five elevators has been cordoned off and dedicated for the Covid ward on the second floor. The hospital now has 161 Covid beds. Peerless Hospital now has 63 beds and will start vacating non-Covid patients from other wards from next week. “These patients are recovering and are set to be released. Once these are vacated, we’ll add more beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has requested the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission to help get clearance from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for extension of wards which would help them have more beds. The government hospital too are increasing beds. All medical colleges in the state must have at least 100 beds each reserved for Covid patients, the state health department has decided. As per an order issued by the state health department on Thursday, 944 beds will be added in hospitals in Calcutta immediately, while 5,673 beds will be added in 49 hospitals across the state. Thursday’s order mentioned that RG Kar Medical College and Hospital will add 150 beds, with 50 of them being high-dependency unit (HDU) beds. Four hundred Covid beds will be added in Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, 20 of which will be critical care unit (CCU) beds and 25 would be HDU beds. The government would also set up general Covid beds at JB Roy State Ayurvedic Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Homeopathic Medical College, DN De Homeopathic Medical College and Mahesh Bhattacharya Homoeopathic Medical College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Circulars during elections mean nothing unless they are implemented: HC to EC||Circulars on Covid-19 protocols during elections mean nothing unless they are implemented, a Calcutta High Court bench, headed by the Chief Justice, told the Election Commission of India on Thursday. The remark came after the commission submitted an affidavit on the implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines during the Assembly election campaigning and at poll booths. Not being satisfied with its contents, the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the counsel of the poll panel to submit “a very short affidavit” again on Friday. “In view of the urgency of the situation, we cannot but post these matters as the first item tomorrow,” the bench said. The court was hearing petitions expressing concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols, risking a serious spike in cases. “We are unable to reconcile the fact that the Election Commission of India is not able to update us as to what action by way of enforcement of the circulars has been obtained,” the bench said. “Issuance of circulars and holding of meetings by themselves do not discharge the onerous responsibility of the Election Commission of India and officers under its command in due performance of not only the statutory power and authority under the Representation of People Act, 1950, and the Representation of People Act, 1951, but the confidence that the Indian polity would have on it to carry forward the mechanism of upholding the democracy by use of requisite facilities even in pandemic times like heightened challenge by Covid-19 virus and its variants,” it added. At an earlier hearing on April 13, the bench had said the district magistrates and the chief electoral officer of Bengal “shall be personally responsible” for ensuring that the Covid guidelines are scrupulously followed by everybody. While taking note of the Covid-19 guidelines laid down by the Election Commission, the bench had also made it clear that the guidelines need to be implemented by the administration in the strictest possible manner. But even after that, election campaigns have shown scant regard for the Covid protocols. In the fifth phase of polling on April 17, polling officials were found seated inside the booth without wearing masks properly. People were standing within an arm’s distance of each other, many did not have masks or wore them on the chin. Gloves provided at the poll booths were disposed of on the road, on the floor or on the ground of the polling station. On Thursday, the bench did not hide its displeasure. “We are not satisfied with the materials on record to state that the Election Commission of India and its officers on ground in West Bengal have enforced their circulars. We are sure that circulars are not merely advisories to be wrapped up by the political parties or those involved in the political propaganda or even the public at large,” the bench said. Srijib Chakraborty, a counsel for the petitioners, said: “Today, the court made some observations. We expect a concrete order tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Delivery staff grapple with last-mile fear ||The scare of infection has prompted many online delivery men to enquire about the Covid-19 cases in the housing societies before stepping in so that they don’t turn up outside an apartment with a Covid patient. To address cases where online delivery men had refused to leave items at the doorstep of a Covid-19 affected family, several RWAs have gone back to the mode of home delivery through their in-house staff, which they followed last year to stop entry of outsiders inside the housing. Many Calcuttans The Telegraph spoke to said these days the first question delivery men ask, when they call to inform about their arrival is: “Bari te kono Covid patient nei toh (Hope there is no Covid patient at home)?” Although managing an in-house delivery system requires manpower and coordination among staff, several RWA officials said this was the only way to help both — the quarantined patients and the vendors who are scared. Urbana — a housing complex along EM Bypass — has set up a “Covid assistance team”, made up of members of the security and housekeeping staff who have been trained. “We have made an SOP that involves keeping a sanitiser outside the apartment where a (Covid-19 positive) case is reported. If something needs to be delivered a member of the Covid assistance team keeps the delivery at the door step and sanitise their hands. The family is informed over the phone about the delivery,” said a member of the RWA. South City Residency, too, has devised a similar method. A table has been placed at the ground floor of each of the towers where delivery men are leaving behind deliveries meant for the affected families, a resident said. The housekeeping staff delivers the items at the apartment. Raju Das, a delivery person who works for an online pharmacy, said: “We are asking everywhere (if there’s a Covid patient at home). If yes, then we are leaving the medicines at the main gate with the security guards.” However, many housing societies are trying to counsel the delivery men so that they go till the doorsteps of the flats. “Delivery men enquire at the main gate and refuse to deliver if there is a patient at home. We have briefed our security guards to explain to them that leaving the medicines at the doorsteps of a flat should not be a reason for concern...” said a member of an RWA at a housing society in Narendrapur. A public health expert said chances of transmission were very less if the delivery person did not interact with the patient. “...How can a person be affected just by keeping something at the doorsteps of a flat or a house? Problems may arise if the affected family comes in contact and tries to pay in cash at the time of the delivery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Once ostracised, 74-year-old now distributes masks ||A 74-year-old-man who was infected by the coronavirus last year stepped out of his home despite his age and vulnerability and distributed masks, sanitisers and chocolates among strangers in market areas near his home on Wednesday. Parimal Dey, who lives with his wife in their home in Ganguly Bagan in south Calcutta, said he was ostracised and his supplies were cut off for a week by some of his neighbours when he had contracted the virus last year — an experience that bolstered his determination to help people and create awareness against the stigma associated with the infection, he said. “We were boycotted despite following all quarantine rules in July last year. The grocery shop and the fruit vendor in our neighbourhood were threatened by some of my neighbours to not deliver anything at our home while we were in quarantine. I realised, I needed to do something about creating awareness once I get cured,” Dey shared his experience. Dey, who runs a business, had started distributing masks last year. “There were very few takers in the beginning. Then I started distributing chips packets to lure the people who came at least for the chips if not the masks,” he said. After a pause of a few months, Dey resumed distribution of masks and sanitisers and chocolates on Wednesday despite objections from his wife who feels “uneasy” every time the elderly man steps out of the house when most of the Calcuttans his age have been advised to stay indoors in the security of their homes. “I understand that my wife feels extremely uneasy and anxious about me going out in market places. But someone has to do the work. Even yesterday I found so many people either without masks or not wearing them properly. Although people were collecting the masks like freebies, the biggest challenge is to make them wear that,” he said. Several people Dey found without masks  only had a “sheepish smile” in response to the question why he/she was not wearing a mask. “Some even said: ‘o-amar kichu hobe na (nothing will happen to me)’,” said a youth who was helping Dey in the distribution. On Wednesday, Dey walked around Ramgarh market between Ganguly Bagan and Ramgarh to distribute around 3,000 masks. He aims to carry out similar drives to cover all the marketplaces around his neighbourhood. “I wash my hands, feet and face once I am back home. I inhale vapour with menthol and take vitamins as prescribed by my doctors. I am trying my best to be safe as well as help others at this hour of crisis,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation decides to open 40 more Covid vaccination centres||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has decided to open more Covid vaccination centres across the city though the uncertainty over a steady supply of vaccine doses is making the civic officials sceptic about the implementation. As the CMC is already running Covid vaccination centres from 140 of its 144 ward health clinics, the new ones would be set up in community halls or in the civic body run schools. “We have decided to open about 40 more vaccination centres across the city,” said a CMC official. Vaccination for anyone above 18 years will begin in the state from May 5, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. The new centres would help the CMC to distribute the pressure in a more equitable manner. The officials, however, were sceptical whether they would receive adequate number of doses of the vaccines even after opening the new centres. “There is a supply issue already. Increasing the number of Covid vaccination centres will become a futile affair if the supply does not increase,” said an official. A similar worry also dogged officials of private hospitals. They were also worried about other resources. “We have space in our hospital to increase the number of vaccinate sites, but we need more vaccine supply. Also with a pressure to increase Covid beds, increasing more vaccination sites could also prove to be challenging as a new site would require nurses, a doctor and other vaccination staff. From where do we get so many trained personnel,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. Metro reported on Thursday how people had queued up outside a CMC run health clinic in Kasba since 4am or even earlier for the jab. A CMC official had said the officials in the civic body’s clinic in Kasba were not sure about how many vaccines they would get in a day, a reason why they were unable to give exact date and time to the recipients. In the absence of a confirmation about the supply, the officials asked people to stand in the queue and if vaccine doses did not get consumed till their turn came, they would get the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Poll trumps pandemic||Voters left home on April 17 with two masks on face, surgical cap on head, gloves on hands, sanitiser in pocket and shield over face. Oh yes! And voter card in pocket. Polling in the times of a pandemic meant additional safety measures for voters and officials, provisions for Covid-positive voters and courage in the hearts of those who braved the pandemic to exercise their franchise. The Telegraph Salt Lake toured the twin townships on V-Day to see how Covid influenced elections. Late start to safety “I went and cast my vote but no one checked my temperature or offered sanitiser. Some people in the queue had read in the papers that we would be offered these facilities and complained to the authorities but the latter were clueless,” said Dally Chatterjee at Salt Lake School in CA Block at about 8.20am. Early voters at other booths had the same grouse. The anganwadi workers who were entrusted with the job of checking temperature, offering gloves and sanitisers at the entrance, were late for work at some places. “We were put up at the stadium and are being dropped off at different booths by bus now,” said Bobita Kundu Hansda from inside a bus that was going booth to booth. At 8.30am, their bus was between Salt Lake School and Hariyana Vidya Mandir. Once they reached their booths, they continued till the end of the day. “We are coming in contact of so many people and are scared of exposure but this is our job,” said Kabita Mondal later in the day at Begum Rokeya Smriti Balika Vidyalaya in CJ Block. Voters were handed a glove, wearing which they were to press the button on the EVM and then dispose it in bright yellow bins outside. “When I went to vote at 2.30pm they were out of gloves,” shrugged Anup Sen, outside Labony School. “Some voters complained but were too exhausted to walk out and get their own gloves so it was business as usual. The authorities should have ensured better supply of essentials.” Gloves were missing also at BE Block community hall, where the anganwadi workers reached at 10.30am.  At the two booths there, presiding officer Nilotpal Roychoudhury claimed he was not handed any at the distribution centre, while Manik Midda, the presiding officer at the other booth, said he had handed a packet of 50 gloves to Mehera Khatun. The booth had 993 voters and the presiding officer is supposed to have received an equal number of gloves. On being asked, Khatun produced five crumpled plastic gloves from her handbag which she said were too inadequate to offer to anyone. Lack of distancing Around 8.45am, voters had formed two queues at the gate of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town where residents of Action Area 1 were voting. Two women security guards were manning the gate and letting in voters in batches. The women’s queue was long but the men’s was serpentine. It flanked the buildings to the left of the college campus and turned along the pavement into the adjacent lane. This meant in many families, the women were done faster and were waiting for the husband or son to come out or leaving on their own. In case of a lady from AE Block, her husband had not even managed to enter the building complex while her vote was already cast. For senior citizens, the wait was proving to be trying. Debajyoti Bardhan, 70, has a knee replacement surgery coming up. “I am standing for an hour in the queue. Why can’t they form separate queues for each of the booths?” the DB Block resident said irritably. Younger residents were upset that entry was restricted right at the gate, a side of which was pushed slightly ajar from time to time to let voters in or out. “Entry and exit should have been separate. There is no social distancing in the queue,” said Ranjani Lahiri of East Enclave. It could not be known what her reaction was on reaching the college building where the corridor looked like a canal of heads from a distance. There were three adjacent rooms along the corridor and voters of each had formed parallel queues. There was no distance either between people in the same queue or between parallel queues. Some took pictures, possibly to post their anguish on social media. Those who were to vote in an auxiliary booth at another side of the floor were luckier as voters there were few in number and there were no other booths close by. Inspector in charge of New Town police station Sanat Das, who arrived with his team for supervision, pointed out that this was the only voting premise in New Town proper while the rest were in the outskirts. “There are as many as 10 booths here, which means about 10,000 voters. Wish they could be decentralised to prevent the gathering. But this rush will reduce after 12noon,” he said. Indeed, by 10.30am, the queue outside the main gate had vanished. It was extremely crowded outside Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan too, mostly comprising residents from the slums of Duttabad. Their queues snaked across the entire flank of road, a few of their masks were pulled down, their kids played on the street and voters themselves chatted gaily among themselves at a distance certainly too close for comfort. Facing the heat Some residents tried to vote later in the day when the sun was blazing but crowds thin. “I only got two passengers in the morning but 10 in the afternoon. The elderly refused to come out early morning when most people got to vote,” said rickshaw driver Gopal Krishna Jana, after dropping a BH Block couple at Apeejay School at 2pm. S.K. Ghosh of HB Block braved the heat a little before noon. “It’s extremely uncomfortable but at least the crowd is thin so I can reduce chance of infection,” said the 76-year-old who came wearing mask, cap and face shield, and with sanitiser in pocket. Bharati Banerjee, a 77-year-old of BE Block, voted at 2.15pm. She got Kartik Mondol, a neighbourhood rickshaw-puller, to take her and her son to Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya. “My cook has bunked. They always do that on polling day. So I prepared a dish for lunch and went to vote on finishing the meal.” The Pals of BE Block deftly avoid both crowd and the heat by coming at 4pm. “We always vote around this time,” said Ipsita Pal. Courage against Covid “I haven’t even been going to the market this last year and had initially thought of skipping the polls too. But I’m 75 and there’s no knowing if I’ll be around to see cast a vote five years later so I came after all,” smiled Babul Chandra Debnath, outside his booth at BK Block’s Acharya Prafulla Chandra High School for Boys. Then again, Tapas Sen Chowdhury of AL Block reasoned that if was going to the market why could he not go to vote. A feisty 75-year-old, who had gone to vote at Hariyana Vidya Mandir, recalled horror stories of past elections when her son — a polling agent — had a gun placed to his temple by goons of the opposition party. “I’m the daughter of a policeman. If violence cannot keep me away from voting, what is Covid?” she challenged. Inside the booth It’s not the voters alone who were at risk. It was also polling officials. “Those of us on polling duty were administered the first vaccine but it’s not time yet for the second jab! So many of us are still vulnerable,” said Rakhi Ghosh, presiding officer at Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya in AE Block. Anindita Sil, a resident of Sourav Abasan in ED Block, who was also on duty, got her second jab in the nick of time. “But my colleagues ran from pillar to post as there was a shortage of vaccines everywhere. They performed election duty unprotected,” she said.  “All four officers at our booth, including me, were pulled out of reserves in the last minute. We suspect it is because the earlier assigned officers got Covid,” said Aparajita Koner, presiding officer at the New Town college.  Some officers were weary of Covid-positive patients coming to vote but Meena Dey, presiding officer at Labony School, felt that was the least of their concerns. “If we get Covid it will be from exposure at Bidhannagar College, that served as our distribution centre,” she said.  Every officer spoken to described the centre as a chaotic congregation of thousands of officers, screaming, sweating, pushing and shoving their way about. The officers had to report there to collect voting machines, documents etc before polling and to submit the same afterwards.  There was talk of someone turning up there on election-eve and declaring she was Covid positive. Asked why she had come out of isolation, she had reportedly shot back: “Amar chakri-ta ki apni bnachaben?” The officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency Arnab Saha also recalled with horror how an official had attended a full day’s training and then come up requesting for a substitute as he was Covid positive. “The polling room we got was tiny and it was impossible to maintain distancing among officers and agents there. Elderly voters were fumbling with Covid protocol too. They were taking off their right glove to sign the register but putting in on their left hand after getting inked. The ink was wiping away and we were having to repeat the process,” said Dey. Positive voters The rule book allowed Covid patients to go vote in the last hour with help from one booth official clad in PPE kit but many lacked clarity about the procedure. “My booth was given one PPE suit. What would the three other officials and agents wear? Shouldn’t Covid protocol require us to dispose of the ink, pen and register used by the voter? These questions were not answered,” said Dey. No patient turned up at her booth. But there was panic in HA Community Hall when Covid patient Mukund Maheshwari landed up in the final hour. The authorities advised him to leave without voting but he protested. “It is my right to vote,” the young businessman made it clear from behind two masks. The heads went back into the booth and someone came out with a PPE suit. But instead of one of the polling officials wearing the PPE, as was stipulated by the ECI, they asked Mukund to don it. He complied but the officers were still nervous. They asked him to wait till other voters had voted but Mukund objected. “You can’t ask a sick person to wait indefinitely,” he said. By then the sector officer had arrived and the man was allowed to go and cast his vote. But he didn’t get inked as he was in PPE. “We have more PPEs in reserve and will hand them out at any booth that calls in saying they have Covid patients,” said sector officer Deb Kumar Samanta. Safety over franchise Despite the precautions, some people were too scared to go and vote. Others were unwell after their jabs and were unable to go. Yet some others were down with the big C itself. “My husband and I got our addresses changed on our voter cards just this year and I am upset that we couldn’t vote,” said Annu Bengani, a resident of Uniworld City whose husband was down with fever. As a precaution they stayed away. “I feel even worse since we had to pay a bribe to get the voter cards.” Polling day business was far from robust for the totowallahs who had queued up in front of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town. “It seems people are preferring to travel in their own car in fear of infection. We would have done much better if the college was open,” said Soumen Mondal. The totos ply on several routes starting at the New Town bus stand. Indeed, the polling percentage showed a dip in both constituencies. Off to court, almost Are votes more important than voters, some plead. “What was the burning need to hold elections amid the pandemic?” asked 78-year-old Kamlesh Guha outside Labony School. “The world is witness to how dangerous coronavirus is so aren’t we risking voters’ lives by asking them to go vote now?” If it was really unavoidable, Anup Sen of Labony argues that the authorities should have gone door-to-door to collect votes. This option was provided to those above the age of 80 years this year.  Sanchar Banerjee fielded another poser. “If Board exams can be called off, why not elections? But then if the Kumbh Mela can be allowed, why not elections? They must have a universal approach,” said the IT sector employee who voted at Labony School. So pertinent is the issue that an organisation — Rama Ghosh and Sunil Chandra Ghosh Memorial Trust in AB Block had contemplated filing a public interest litigation against the Election Commission (EC). “We had to back out due to lack of funds and time but we think that by holding elections during a pandemic the EC is, in fact, depriving many from coming to vote in fear of the disease,” said Arijit Karmakar, a voter from AB Block and managing trustee of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: First-time voters||Amrita Dasgupta Seen at: BF Block community centre “I was so excited about voting that I announced to my parents I was going the first thing in the morning. They could come later when they had time,” said the student of masters in applied mathematics. “Voting gives power in our hands and it’s not just who we want to bring into power but about who we do not want to bring into power.” Seen at: BC Block community centre “I had done my homework and knew who I wanted to voted for,” said the 22-year-old, who is waiting for her MBA classes to begin. After voting she excitedly clicked selfies of herself with her inked finger. Seen at: BC Block community centre “I’m feeling slightly nervous as I’ll be voting for the first time but I want the new government to work on development projects and to improve overall infrastructure,” said the 19-year-old psychology student. Her parents had ensured she wore gloves to the booth, as a Covid protocol. Seen at: BC Block community centre “I’m a political science student and have always been interested in the voting procedure. As a child I would ask my parents about it once they returned home from voting,” said the 19-year-old who was most excited about getting inked. Seen at: Salt Lake School, CA Block “Previously when my parents would go to the booth, I would follow election news on TV. This year I get to vote myself but I’m not sure who to vote for. Options are aplenty but is anyone worthy of my vote?” wondered the law student.  “I’m also concerned about the poor representation of youth and women in politics.” Seen at: Hariyana Vidya Mandir “This is my first vote so I’m not giving it much thought. I’ll just vote for whoever I like,” said the girl who wanted to upload a picture of her inked finger on social media. Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block “I study B.Tech in Durgapur and so if it wasn’t for the pandemic, I would probably be in college now and would miss my chance to vote,” said the 20-year-old who had come with his elder brother. “I want the government in power to provide jobs.” Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block “I do not appreciate parties using religion for politics. I want peace and harmony in our state,” said the 18-year-old economics student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Senior citizen voters||Kanti Mukherjee Seen at: BB Block community hall Age: 93 “I am fairly active and wasn’t going to miss my chance to vote,” said the BB Block resident who had come with wife Archana Mukherjee, 76. “I have come to vote early in the morning and will stand in the super-senior queue.” Seen at: Bidhannagar Government High School, BD Block Age: 92 In the past one year of pandemic, Archana Dutta had only been to the temple, for her vaccine and to vote. While she walked into the school herself, daughter Debjani Ghosh arranged for their car to be driven through the gate to pick her up on their way out. Seen at: Labony School Age: 92 Not just a nonagenarian voter, Shanti Chakraborty is a Covid survivor too! “My mother and I had both got Covid around the Pujas last year but while I was hospitalised she was in much better shape,” said son Swapan Chakraborty, himself a doctor. Although not very vocal now, the lady was once very interested in politics and cricket, with Sourav Ganguly being the apple of her eye. Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block Age: 90 As Roy was wheeled into the booth, she drew nods of admiration from neighbours and even a selfie-seeker! “I have never missed a vote,” said Roy. Neighbour Subrata Dutta Choudhury, while clicking the selfie, spoke of how proud he was to see a 90-year-old exercise her franchise. Seen at: SBI staff training centre, HC Block Age: 88 The octogenarian had reached the booth all masked up but then realised she had left her voter card at home. So she sat waiting outside under a garden umbrellas as her grandson fetched the card. Though she did not speak much, neighbours came and greeted her. “She must be the senior-most voter of IC Block,” said neighbour Bikash Kumar Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Peaceful polls, sporadic unrest||Shantinagar, behind Sukantanagar, was witness to the biggest incident of unrest last Saturday when polling for the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency was largely peaceful. The Trinamul Congress (TMC) and BJP supporters got into a scuffle in front of Naobhanga Primary School polling station, that prompted both BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta and TMC’s Sujit Bose to reach the spot. The day after the polls, too, trouble erupted in Duttabad as clashes broke out among supporters of rival parties at Duttabad, on the fringes of Salt Lake, that left five persons injured, police said. Ballot blues At around 10am, trouble started brewing at the polling station in Shantinagar when some women voters who were waiting in the school’s field alleged that that a group of unknown men had pelted stones at them. According to one of the women, Shyamali Mondal, the stones pelted by the men landed on the heads of at least three women inside the polling station that left them injured. “We immediately took them to a local pharmacy that was shut but we asked the owner to open it and put antiseptic solution on their heads alongwith water,” said Mondal. Soon after this, a large police contingent led by the deputy commissioner headquarters of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate Surya Pratap Yadav reached the spot, along with a RAF team, to bring things under control. “A large group of people who are not from this locality had gathered here outside the booth. Once the supporters clashed, some men were pushed to the ground before a large police force rushed in,” said Lakkhi Pal, who owns a pan shop in the area. After the police reached, so did Dutta and blamed the Bidhannagar South police station of inaction. “I heard that many outsiders had gathered in front of the school and were intimidating voters. This was happening in front of officers of the Bidhannagar South police station and one of their officers too was aiding the outsiders to jam the booth and cast false votes,” Dutta claimed. According to him, at least two women supporters of BJP had been injured and he then called up officials of the Election Commission of India to report the issue. Several minutes after Dutta reached, Bose also reached the area and alleged that Dutta was trying to incite violence. “Dutta is moving around with 15 outsiders. He cannot do this. He knows he has lost the elections. This is why he is up to such shenanigans. I have reported it to the observer,” said Bose. The observer too reached the spot and was heard telling police officers that he would not tolerate such trouble mongering. “I won’t stand this. If need be, put both the candidates in a single car and give a police escort team in front of the vehicle and one more behind it and tell them to move through the constituency together,” the observer told a senior police officer at the spot. A similar incident was reported from Nayapatti when an argument broke out between Dutta and former Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation councillor Joydeb Naskar. BJP supporters alleged that Naskar had come to the area with some outsiders to create trouble. Dutta was the target of slogans from a section of men and women who were standing outside Naskar’s house. Police as well as the central forces then moved in and asked the residents to disperse from the area if their votes had been cast. In Rajarhat The situation was similar in the Rajarhat New Town constituency. At Hatiara and Ghuni, two BJP polling agents alleged they were stopped from entering the booth by TMC workers and claimed they were assaulted with blunt objects. “Trinamul supporters assaulted me and even tried to run over me with a scooter,” said Swapan Malakar, the BJP polling agent. At Machibhanga, a scuffle broke out between the BJP and Trinamool supporters where TMC alleged BJP workers were trying to influence voters within 100 metres of a booth. Meanwhile, CPM candidate Saptarshi Deb alleged that polling agents affiliated to his party were not allowed to sit inside several booths in Rajarhat and Narayanpur. Later, Deb and his supporters sat on a demonstration on Rajarhat Road, alleging booth capturing and rigging by TMC poll agents. TMC candidate Tapash Chatterjee denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine centre starts in Action Area 1B||Vaccination started on Tuesday in a newly constructed NKDA banquet hall in the Pride Hotel campus. The new centre replaces the one in Action Area II near Tank 12 that was originally a safe house from August to December last year. In view of the rise in Covid-19 patients across New Town, it will resume operation as a safe house. It was closed down as a vaccination centre after inoculation on Monday. On the first day, 297 took the jab at the new centre while the figure was 301 on the second. “Many had turned up at the old centre on Tuesday morning. We had anticipated that since they had booked earlier and an electric bus was kept there to ferry them to the new centre. Many came up to praise the arrangement when I visited the centre around noon,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. There was a crisis one day last week when there was no supply of vaccine in the morning. Those who had booked appointments had to return without the jab. “Since then, supply has been adequate,” an official said. People who register over the CoWin portal or call up on the NKDA helpline 18001037652 are being issued tokens when they reach and are being called inside in twos as there are two vaccination booths. “People are liking it as the centre, including the waiting area, is air-conditioned,” said Sen. The old centre did not have AC and was on the first floor, accessible only by stairs, which caused problems for some elderly residents. The other NKDA vaccination centre on the second floor of CB Block community market is also operating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Booth trek of a Covid positive voter||Sourav Chakraborty of DL Block learnt of the Election Commission of India’s provision to let Covid positive voters cast their ballot in the final hour of polling and turned up at his polling booth, Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education, all by himself, causing a mini consternation. He shares his voting experience with The Telegraph Salt Lake. I was ill since April 3. There had been no breathing distress, no fever. But when I started experiencing body ache — it was as if someone was beating me with an iron rod; I could not even lie down at night — I decided to go for a test. The result came positive. Since then, I was wondering whether I could vote. I got affirmative news on talking to politically active friends and then checked the Election Commission of India guidelines. Though it was not mandated, I placed an order for a PPE kit with a CK Block chemist. On Saturday afternoon, I put on the kit, that cost me Rs 450, and a faceshield that cost another Rs 200, and set off. Though my house is less than 300m away from the booth, I decided not to create a spectacle of myself by walking the distance and be a target of barking streetdogs. I parked my car and beckoned at a CISF jawan. He heard me out, went inside and asked me to come back at 6.15pm. The final hurdle Half an hour later, when I stepped out of the car, the jawan called the presiding officer out of the building.  She was quite alarmed to see me. “Apnar ki vote na dilei noy?” she asked. When I pointed out it was my democratic right, she argued that I would infect the balloting unit. I assured her that I had brought a pen along and would press the button with it. I also mentioned that I had a voter slip carrying my serial number and no one needed to be in the room when I voted. Finally she relented. The polling agents had already left as, being local residents, they knew I was coming. I asked the three polling personnel to move to the farthest corner of the room. But the machine needed to be activated, which one of them did. My identity was not checked, nor was my finger inked. But I had finally cast my vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Polling booths manned by women||Fifty four polling stations across Salt Lake and 35 across Rajarhat-New Town were manned by, well, women. The presiding officer along with the three polling officers at these centres were exclusively ladies. A notice issued by the electoral registration officer specified that these booths were chosen only after being certified by the police as being safe and where separate rooms were available after accommodating central armed police forces at the polling premises. The women performed their duties and went home feeling empowered, although not without suggestions for the next time. Jostling in queues A common issue with all the women spoken to was the mad rush at Bidhannagar College, the distribution centre (DC), where they had to report to pick up and then drop EVM machines and the like. “They had a special queue for women only for attendance. Otherwise it was common queues to tag our phone numbers, guards, micro observers… My second polling agent was down with fever so it was yet another line to get a substitute,” said Rakhi Ghosh, presiding officer at Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya in AE Block. “Everyone wanted to get their work done fast at the DC so there was pushing, jostling, shouting and chaos. Women could not battle it out with the men in those queues. Women need separate queues,” added Chaitali Mondal, presiding officer at Bidhannagar Municipal School in FE Block. Heavy lifting The next issue was the sheer weight of machines like the VVPAT and control unit. “They were too heavy to carry, especially for officials nearing retirement age. And this was besides all the documents and our own luggage that we had to ferry,” said Sucharita Chatterjee, on duty at BD Block’s Bidhannagar Government High School. The officers had to stay at the booth overnight before polling but Chatterjee’s team preferred not to sleep as the room was under CCTV surveillance and they felt uncomfortable being watched. Meena Dey, presiding officer at Labony School, said it was impossible for women to wrest open the VVPAT machines at the end of day and remove batteries. Ditto for Anindita Sil, who is still rubbing balm on her sore arms and shoulders after all the heavy lifting. Training trouble The women appointed for poll duty hold government jobs like those of school teachers and once selected, they were trained a few times for the new role. “All four officers in my booth, including myself, were pulled out of reserves,” said Aparajita Koner, assigned at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town. “I suppose the original officers are down with Covid. I still received two training sessions but a team mate had to make do with a single rushed class. Obviously it wasn’t enough and we had to study by ourselves on YouTube.” Some women were assigned in their own constituency and used election duty certificates (EDC) to vote in their own booths. “I was promised a booth in my constituency but got posted at Dum Dum. I couldn’t vote,” says Sil, who lives in ED Block’s Sourav Abasan. Many booths were in schools and colleges and so toilets were decent. The ladies had brought biscuits or bought meals but most said they had no time to eat on the big day. Home calling Some women were weary of leaving behind their families and young children for overnight duty. “But that was before I spoke to the CAPF guards who stayed on our premises,” said Chatterjee. “After the Sitalkuchi incident, we think these forces are brutes but my heart broke to hear that one of them had not managed to take leave in years. When he was home last, his wife was expecting and now he bought a dress for his six-year-old child and was asking if I think it would fit her! I too have a six-year-old son and realised I had no business feeling sad after hearing of these forces’ sacrifice,” she said. Anima Das broke into laughter when her four-year-old called her up in the midst of a tiring day at the booth. “She had been hearing us talk about how dangerous election duty can be and she wanted to know if I was safe!” said Das, who was posted at the FE Block school. Transport was available for the women to be dropped home at the end of the day but since most of them live within the constituency, many chose to return home on their own as and when their paper work was completed. Strict but gentle “I noticed my booth was manned solely by women and found them helpful, polite and efficient,” said Babul Chandra Debnath, a voter at Acharya Prafulla Chandra High School for Boys in BK Block. When an altercation broke out at Chatterjee’s booth about a voter having forgotten to get his I-card, she intervened with utmost kindness. “I was strict about the rule but explained the problem patiently,” she said. At the end of it, the voter said I had been so polite, he couldn’t be mad at me if he tried!” Mondal created a separate queue for the elderly at her booth when someone requested her and Dey did her best to solve the “EVM in the dark” problem. Voters across the board complained that the EVMs were placed at rather dark corners that made it difficult to read the candidate’s names. “The EVM malfunctions if placed under bright light. We also couldn’t keep it near a door or window to protect voter privacy. The best I could do was offer my mobile phone’s torch for elderly citizens,” Dey said. Empowered on the way Das found some voters wondering out loud if an all-woman team would be up for such a crucial job. “But they were happy seeing us pulling it off,” she smiled. Chatterjee agrees. “Now that I’ve proved to myself I can undertake a job of such great responsibility, I know I can take on any job. It’s been empowering.” Das’s was the first all-woman team to complete their paper work and submit their machines at BNC, within two hours after voting stopped. “The authorities were surprised! They didn’t expect women to complete the work to perfection and that too on time. In fact they broke into applause for my team and even clicked our pictures,” smiled Das. Encore or not While those like Koner said they had gained from their maiden experience and would put up an even better show next time, some others were reluctant. “It’s not a choice for us, it’s mandatory duty,” said an officer assigned at Salt Lake Point School in CD Block. Sil suggested that the Election Commission of India recruit employees dedicated to conducting polls around the country. “That would be better than dragging teachers out of their comfort zone and forcing them to perform duties they are neither suited nor prepared for,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Battle royale for Bangur Avenue||Bangur Avenue is a crucial turf that is expected to play a significant role in deciding who has the last laugh on May 2 — sitting MLA Sujit Bose or turncoat challenger Sabyasachi Dutta. “If we can lead with a minimum of 15,000 votes from the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality (that are under Bidhannagar constituency), I will make up the rest from Salt Lake,” Dutta told The Telegraph Salt Lake on poll-eve. Seated at the BJP party office in Block B, he is a picture of confidence. His current party BJP had taken a lead of 18,916 in the Bidhannagar Assembly segment in 2019 even when Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar had been elected from the Barasat Lok Sabha seat, which has six other Assembly constituencies under it. Bangur Avenue (Ward 29) alone had given BJP a lead of about 4,600 votes out of a cumulative lead of about 6,152 votes from the 10 South Dum Dum wards. Trinamul Congress had managed a majority in only three wards then. This includes a lead of 13 votes in Kalindi, where Mriganka Bhattacharya was a councillor of Ward 19. If Dutta is so confident, it is because Bhattacharya has shifted loyalty from TMC to BJP, like he has. “It is because of Mriganka that I could gain an easy foothold here,” Dutta says. “He is very popular here. His name is synonymous with development. He has really worked hard on issues like water logging, plastic ban, underground drainage etc. Residents know what he is capable of,” the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said, with the councillor by his side. Till a decade ago, Bangur Avenue was infamous for waist-high water-logging during monsoon. After the state government’s 2007 ban on the use of plastic started getting strictly adhered to during the Trinamul regime, things significantly improved in monsoon. A beautification drive took place in 2013-14, in course of which the 2km stretch along VIP Road, from Golaghata to Bangur Avenue, became a sight for sore eyes.  The waterbody was dredged and renovated, with a hanging bridge in the middle. The adjoining pavements were tiled and fitted with streetlights and statuettes. Both Bose, the vice-chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, and Bhattacharya, the then chairman-in-council, public works department and local councillor of Bangur Avenue, claimed credit for it. Bhattacharya has accused Bose of replacing the original foundation stone which carried the names of chairperson Anjana Rakshit and other councillors with one bearing only his own. With the two politicians in rival camps now in the election, the battle for Bangur Avenue has got interesting. Of the 18,000-odd residents, about 40 per cent are of north Indian origin. Dutta spent a lot of time here on his campaign trail, even playing Holi with residents here. Bose, on the other hand, got members of several social and cultural forums of north Indian communities from this area and his own backyard Sreebhumi to endorse him as a candidate at a pre-Holi meet in BF-CF Park, a stone’s throw from Dutta’s election office in Salt Lake. Riot of party colours The political tussle is apparent in the area, which is bedecked with poll publicity material. There is either a flag hanging from a shop or a banner stuck to a veranda or a festoon attached to the grille of an iron gate. For every Sujit Bose banner, there is a Sabyasachi Dutta festoon right next to it or on the opposite wall. The residents have simply been carpet-bombed with campaign as well as campaign material. The weeks leading up to the polls had the evening air rent with rap music, which were customised compositions commissioned by both parties. Dutta campaigned twice a week in Bangur Avenue, brought in TMC-turned-BJP political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari for a public rally on April 10 and a touch of Bollywood in Mahima Chaudhry for a roadshow along Jessore Road on April 12. He also played Holi with residents here. Bose made sure he was amply visible in all kinds of pujas and other religious gatherings held in March-April, right from Neel Sashthi to Makar Sankranti. He also held a Football Festival on April 18, the day after election. The tournament was held chiefly for party workers in Bangur Avenue, as possibly a reward for their hard work. Bose is confident that TMC will win and form government for third time. “Banners don’t decide elections. That is just publicity material. Our work here proves we have a strong base. Also, Mriganka always went against party instructions. He never obeyed his seniors which is why we are not bothered that he changed sides. In fact, it is good that he left; we now have a more organised party system,” he said. Polling may be over but there is politics on everyone’s lips. Right from social occasions to vegetable markets, the only discussion that seems to be happening is on who will win from Bangur. It is no different at the tea stalls, be it the one owned by two Bengali siblings or Sharma Tea, known for tandoori chai and kesar chai, served with a sprinkle of saffron. As one walks five minutes off VIP Road, to one’s left, opposite the supermarket, is the BJP office that once belonged to Trinamul. Bhattacharya continues to hold fort here. Only the plastic chairs that are strewn all over the place have turned from green to bright saffron. Will Bangur Avenue flaunt saffron on May 2 or will green make a comeback? The debate rages over cha-singara in Bengali as well as over chai-samosa in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||A day to celebrate democracy||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Iconic’ birds killed during hunting festival||A hunting festival in West Midnapore has killed birds of two species described as “iconic” by birdwatchers among a wide range of other wildlife. At least one Indian pitta was killed in the Gopegarh forest in Chandra beat, around 5km from Midnapore town, alleged animal activists. Around six black francolins were killed in Tamakbari forest in the same beat, around 15km from Midnapore town, they alleged. April 21 was one of the several dates of ritual hunting in the southwestern districts of Bengal — West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. The calendar started from April 3. The Indian pitta’s dazzling appearance makes it a hot favourite in magazine covers, stamps and cellphone wallpapers. A picture of an Indian pitta adorns the 13th edition of The Book on Indian Birds by Salim Ali, the renowned ornithologist and naturalist. The many names the bird has inspired — in Bengali, it is called Barnali and Navrang (because of its nine colours) in north India — are a testament to its popularity. The black francolin is jet black in colour with streaks of gold and white cheek patches and a touch of copper near the collar. “Both are endemic birds. The pitta is still found very rarely in urban areas, the black francolins found in arid grasslands, forests and agricultural tracts. An Indian pitta has recently landed in Rabindra Sarobar. Till the renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, scores of birdwatchers flocked the lake and waited for hours to get a picture of the bird. Both the Indian pitta and the black francolin are prized clicks for birders,” said birdwatcher Sujan Chatterjee. Arka Sarkar of HEAL (Human and Environment Alliance League), an NGO, was in West Midnapore on Wednesday to track the alleged hunters. “Till a year or two ago, every hunting session was followed by a congregation of hunters. They assembled the kill, drank and feasted on the cooked meat. A drive undertaken by the forest department has forced the hunters to curb the number of congregations. We could only see two such assemblies with scores of birds and animals — wild boars and hares. But it was only a fraction of the total animals killed,” he said. Animal activists also said that thousands of people gathered for the hunting rituals with scant regard for social distancing. The pointed out that bushmeat consumption is dangerous at the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. A Calcutta High Court order in 2019 put a complete embargo on ritual hunting in various districts of south-western Bengal. The court directed the civil administration as well as the police authorities to provide all possible cooperation to the chief wildlife warden to stop the hunts. Recently, in an order dated March 21 this year, the court reiterated its earlier stand, saying that all such illegal activities have to be completely stopped by the state by exercising police power, if needed. Sources in the forest department said any “stern action” against the alleged tribal hunters was unlikely in the election season. “We are trying our best despite staff shortage because of the election. The police are also busy with the polls. We have set up nakas (check points) at roads leading to the forests. We have also done a lot of awareness camps with local tribal leaders and residents. The incidents of hunting have come down. But the forests are fragmented and some stray incidents are being reported. We are looking into them,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University keeps only emergency services open with 50 per cent attendance||Calcutta University has decided to keep only departments providing emergency services, like audit and accounts and controller of examinations, open with 50 per cent attendance till further orders because of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The departments will function following Covid protocols. In a notice signed by the university’s registrar, the faculty have been requested to “carry on the academic activities via online mode only”. Members of staff and officers have been advised to take care of their own health and look out for symptoms like fever, respiratory problems etc. “If feeling unwell, they are advised not to come to the university,” the notice said. The decision was taken after Covid cases were reported on campuses like College Street, Ballygunge Science College and Rajabazar Science College, a university official said. “Those infected include teachers, research scholars and administrative staff. Some are admitted in hospitals,” he said. Audit and accounts, the controller of examinations, PhD, migration, transcript and registration are the departments that will be open with half of the staff strength, the notice issued by registrar Debasish Das said. The campuses have been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year. “Some teachers were coming to the campuses to attend their labs following all the safety protocols. But under the circumstances, we won’t allow that,” said vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. In the previous (odd) semester that had ended in March, CU was the only university in Bengal that reopened its campuses for practical classes, allowing teachers and postgraduate students to access the labs. In the even semester, which started in April, practical classes have been stopped because of the spike in Covid cases. “Now, access to the lab for some teachers has been stopped as well. This will continue till the situation stabilises,” said a CU official. Parthiba Basu, the president of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association, said there was a genuine need to restrict the access to the labs, following a spurt of cases. “I have stopped visiting the labs over the past ten days. Research scholars have been told not to come. I have written to the VC on behalf of the university community to hold vaccination camps for the teaching and non-teaching employees,” said Basu, who heads the zoology department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Kids suffer learning loss a second time||Children from financially deprived homes are being pushed into suffering a loss of learning once again with centres shutting down because of a rise in Covid cases, those who work with the children said. The surge in infections and instances of more children getting the infection has led to several NGOs in and around the city closing down their centres. In the past several months, students had started going to the centres. Many of them were being provided with remedial classes to compensate for the loss suffered during schooling at home to help them reach the level of the class they study in. At least one NGO had started a project of taking a bus to neighbourhoods to hold classes for children aged four to six years. The NGO had drawn up a plan to extend the project to children in the age group of six to nine, where teachers would travel to their localities and take classes in the bus. But the plan had to be suspended even before it could take off. “For the pre-primary and primary children, this intervention is important because it is the time when they start learning to write. With a teacher in front of them they can be guided and monitored to see how they are writing. This is getting impacted,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at NGO Calcutta Rescue. Most of the students are first generation learners and their parents cannot help them write. Teachers cannot be sure how much of their work is being done by elder siblings without the student actually learning to write, said Chatterjee. “For older children, they have moved to a new class and new concepts and topics are being introduced in class. Teaching the same portion online and in a classroom is not the same. It is much more challenging online,” she said. Unlike last year, with parents still going out to work, the children’s access to mobile phones for online classes is far more limited now. “For mainstream schools, they have been able to move back to online classes but for our children the access to devices is severely restrained this time. Some of them might get a phone only at 11 at night,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director at NGO Ek Tara, which primarily works in Topsia and Tiljala. Ek Tara had been conducting tele-classes last year when teachers would call the students over the phone twice a day and monitor their progress. There were instances when the staff of the NGO distributed the worksheets at home, which is a challenge now amid rising Covid cases. “This time, the fear of infection among people is much more and mobilising people is becoming difficult,” said Bagchi. Asking students to come to the centres in small batches is also not an option now. “If even one student gets infected under the circumstances it will be difficult to provide medical care,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. The heads of several NGOs fear dropouts would be much higher this time. “Last time, there was a dropout of 10 per cent and we went back to their houses to convince parents to send them back to school. But with another gap, we fear many of the children will lose the urge to study. In many of their homes there is no atmosphere of studies,” said Tanmoy Patra, the founder of Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra. It is not only their academic progress but also their overall grooming and social interaction that is getting impacted. “At our centre, we develop their sense of hygiene and overall personality, too,” said Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Business||Sensex declines 202 points after choppy trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 202 points on Friday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Infosys and HUL amid persistent concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 202.22 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 47,878.45. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 64.80 points or 0.45 per cent to 14,341.35. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, HUL, ICICI Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC and Asian Paints were among the gainers. "It was a choppy trading day and benchmark indices fell sharply towards the final session of the market mainly led be selling pressure in across the sectors barring PSU Banks. Concerns of rising COVID-19 cases continued to weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to Rusmik Oza, Executive Vice President, Head of Fundamental Research at Kotak Securities, Indian markets succumbed to FPI selling this week on account of the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. FPIs have remained net sellers this week with the rupee sustaining at 75 levels against the USD. "As India has become the epicentre of the virus resurgence, there is fear of potential earnings downgrades which could turn out to be higher in case of mid and small caps vis- -vis the large caps. "Fresh lockdowns and restrictions being imposed by various state governments will impact demand and also business activity. The persistent rise in hard commodity prices is a threat which could weigh on margins of many manufacturing companies. Too many potential negatives have come together which could impact markets in the very near future," he said. India added a record over 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases in a single day, taking the country's tally to 1,62,63,695, while active cases crossed the 24-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.06 per cent lower at USD 65.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 300 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid concerns that the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic may derail the economic recovery of the country. The 30-share BSE index was trading 316.81 points or 0.66 per cent lower at 47,763.86. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 75.45 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,330.70. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance, HUL, SBI, M&M and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Titan, HCL Tech, Dr Reddy's and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48,080.67, and Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,406.15. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 909.56 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Sharp rise in COVID-19 cases across the country and enhanced mobility restriction imposed by a number of states are expected to remain as key overhangs for the market," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. This has started posing a threat to corporate earnings recovery, he said, adding that the possibility of supply disruption and increased COVID-19 cases in the hinterland area can further hurt economic momentum. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 24,28,616, up from 22,91,428 cases registered on Thursday, according to Union Health Ministry data. On the global front, US equities finished sharply lower on Thursday following news reports that President Joe Biden is likely to double capital gain tax for wealthier individuals. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 65.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Jawahar Lal Goel offers Dish TV shares to save Essel group’s Subhash Chandra||There is a twist in the tale: the little brother is stepping in to bail out his debt-laden elder sibling. Jawahar Lal Goel, the promoter and managing director of Dish TV India Ltd, has offered a sizeable part of his shares in the direct-to-home (DTH) firm as security for credit facilities availed by elder brother Subhash Chandra. The office of Subhash Chandra, chairman of the Essel group, put out a statement on Thursday disclosing the development even as it sought to scotch rumours that the pledged shares being released from the lenders at a lower price were being sold “to third party investors at higher price points”. “These speculations are baseless and incorrect, and the group has no such intentions whatsoever,” the statement said, adding that Jawahar Goel had stepped forward to offer support and faced “no financial stress whatsoever in his personal capacity”. The statement said Jawahar Goel was the rightful owner of the Dish TV shares and elder brother Subhash was not the promoter of the DTH entity and did not exercise any management control over the entity. Shares of Dish TV India on Thursday closed 6.34 per cent higher at Rs 9.39 on the BSE. The promoters’ stake in Dish TV stood at 7.30 per cent, comprising 13,44,84,207 shares as on March 31. Of this, 6,87,88,845 shares, or 51.15 per cent of their holding, were pledged. The press statement did not disclose how much of the promoter’s stake now stands pledged or the amount of credit facilities availed by the Subhash Chandra group. The statement added that the Subhash Chandra group was fully committed to returning the security cover to Jawahar Goel and his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Indiabulls Housing and HDFC ink pact for co-lending||Indiabulls Housing Finance (IBH) has entered into a strategic co-lending partnership with HDFC to offer housing loans at competitive rates. The partnership will see IBH offering retail home loans according to a jointly drawn up credit policy and retain 20 per cent of the loan on its books, while the remaining 80 per cent will be on HDFC’s books. IBH will also service the loan account throughout its life cycle. Sources said the arrangement will be pan-India and it will focus on retail borrowers keen on a home loan. The announcement led to shares of IBH soaring on the stock exchanges. On the BSE, the stock rose 7.33 per cent, or Rs 12.10, to end at Rs 177.20. Investors also gave a thumbs-up to HDFC and its scrip ended nearly 3 per cent higher at Rs 279.30. The second wave of coronavirus infections has adversely affected the future sentiment of stakeholders in the real estate sector for the next six months but it still remains in an optimistic zone, according to Knight Frank-Ficci-Naredco Real Estate Sentiment Index Q1 2021. The ‘Future Sentiment score’ saw a decline from 65 in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 57 in the first quarter of 2021. The ‘Current Sentiment score’ recorded a marginal improvement, inching up from 54 in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 57 in the first quarter of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Rupee drops by 6 paise to 74.94 as Covid caseload rises||Divergent trends were seen in the forex and stock markets on Thursday as the rupee sank below the 75-mark to a dollar while the benchmark Sensex ended 375 points higher. At the inter-bank forex markets, the rupee weakened by 6 paise to close at 74.94 against the greenback as the rise in Covid-19 cases and enhanced restrictions imposed by states lead to fears that this would have an adverse impact on the economic recovery and also lead to outflows from foreign portfolio investors. Provisional data from the bourses showed that the FPIs sold stocks worth Rs 909 crore in Thursday’s trade. So far in April, they have sold stocks of Rs 7,770 crore after being net buyers in the first three months of the calendar year. Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst at Reliance Securities, said the rupee depreciated against the dollar as an alarming surge in coronavirus infections raised the risks to the country’s near-term growth outlook and increased concerns about foreign fund outflows. However, likely intervention from the RBI checked losses in the unit. However, benchmark stock indices ended higher after two days of losses. The Sensex initially fell 501 points and then recovered to end 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48080.67. The Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to finish at 14406.15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||RBI to conduct auction of government securities worth Rs 32,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India’s strategy to drive bond yields down will face another stern test on Friday when it auctions government securities worth Rs 32,000 crore. The central bank will be auctioning bonds with maturity tenures ranging from 5 years to 45 years. The RBI has been fighting a losing battle against so-called bond vigilantes who have a vested interest in keeping bond yields high. Last Friday, the RBI refused to accept any bid at the auction of the benchmark 10-year paper as market participants demanded higher yields. With the government set to borrow over Rs 12 lakh crore in the current fiscal, the central bank has been looking to cool runaway yields to ensure that the Centre can continue to borrow at very cheap rates. In his April 7 monetary policy statement, governor Shaktikanta Das had said that in the fiscal ended March 31, the RBI had completed a Rs 22-lakh-crore borrowing programme for the Centre and the states at record low rates. Bond yields have risen sharply since the middle of February and threaten to scupper the plan to help the government to continue to borrow at low rates like last year. The RBI also released minutes of its monetary policy committee (MPC) where the developments in bonds markets also came up for discussion. Here, MPC member Ashima Goyal said the spread of the 10-year government security over short rates was 60 basis points during 2011-17 before rising sharply in 2018 and this has increased to over 200 basis points. This has come despite large open market operations. “The markets are caught in an irrational trap,” she said. “They did not respond to positives such as better tax revenues. Bond markets are subject to disruption where they expect rates to rise and do not buy; so, when the rates rise, debt becomes unsustainable and fears are self-fulfilling.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Covid spike a major hurdle to the ongoing recovery in Indian economy: RBI governor||Members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) have expressed concern that the surge in Covid-19 cases could trip the nascent economic recovery, according to the minutes of the meeting held earlier this month. The panel also called for speeding up the vaccination drive even as it reiterated that the accommodative policy should continue till economic recovery is assured. The six-member MPC had met from April 5-7 where they kept the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent, while the growth forecast was retained at 10.5 per cent for this fiscal. Minutes of the meeting released on Thursday by the RBI showed governor Shaktikanta Das pointing out that the rapidly rising cases is the single biggest challenge to the ongoing recovery in the Indian economy. He said that global growth is gradually recovering, even though it remains uneven across countries, reflecting the substantial differences in the infection trajectory, the speed of vaccination drives and the size of fiscal stimulus. “The renewed jump in Covid-19 infections and the associated localised lockdowns add uncertainty to the growth outlook. In such an environment, monetary policy should remain accommodative to support the recovery,” he added. S&P Global Ratings on Thursday said the Indian economy is projected to grow at 11 per cent in the current fiscal, but flagged the “substantial” impact of broader lockdowns on the economy. Meanwhile, Fitch Ratings on Thursday affirmed ‘BBB-’ sovereign rating for India, saying a recent surge in coronavirus cases may delay GDP recovery, but it won’t derail the economy. It maintained a negative outlook for the rating reflecting “lingering uncertainty around the debt trajectory”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-04-2021||Business||Calcutta high court dismisses contempt petitions against Harsh Vardhan Lodha||The Calcutta high court on Thursday dismissed a clutch of contempt petitions filed by the Birla family which effectively allowed Harsh Vardhan Lodha to remain on the boards of the listed companies of the MP Birla Group, including flagship Birla Corporation Ltd. The Birlas had filed five cases against Lodha and four companies contending that the chairman of Birla Corporation had violated a judgment handed down by Justice Sahidhullah Munshi (now retired) by continuing on the boards of these companies and directing their affairs. Justice Munshi had restrained Lodha from occupying any position in the MP Birla Group. On Thursday, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar ruled that Lodha had not committed any act of contempt. “For the purpose of this proceeding, it is sufficient to say that Harsh Vardhan Lodha’s participation in the board meetings cannot be termed as contumacious violation of the order of this court as the wilful disobedience has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt… The contempt application against HVL is dismissed,” the judgment read. The bench also ruled that the directors on the board of the companies had not violated the order either because it was held that Lodha had not committed any contempt by attending the board meetings. The latest round in this dispute signals the end of another chapter in the legal battle between the Birla and Lodha families over the control of the MP Birla empire which includes manufacturing companies, trusts and societies that run several educational and medical institutions in Calcutta and elsewhere. Sources said the Birlas may consider an appeal before the Supreme Court. The two sides have been sparring ever since Late Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed her estate to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh Vardhan, in 2004. Two years ago, a fresh battle erupted between the two sides after a committee of administrators was appointed to oversee the affairs of the estate. Since then, two of the three administrators started taking decisions on the strength of a majority vote and many of these went against the interests of Lodha. The committee had instructed promoter group companies to vote against the appointment of Lodha in the manufacturing companies during their respective AGMs. A Birla family member approached the high court seeking to enforce the decisions of the committee. On September 18 last year, Justice Munshi restrained Lodha from holding any position in the Group till the probate of Priyamvada Birla’s will was decided. The issue is still being heard before the high court. On October 1, the division bench of CJ Radhakrishnan and Justice Sarkar modified the single bench order even though the bench did not stay it. The bench said Lodha would be restrained “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla).” The order was interpreted by the two sides differently. The Lodhas said it paved the way for Harsh Vardhan to continue on the boards of BCL and three other cable companies: Vindhya Telelinks, Birla Cable and Universal Cables. The judgment noted: “We are not deciding in this contempt case whether the interpretation of the “estate of PDB” as given by the respondents or the one given by the petitioners is correct. That question has to be decided in the pending appeals.” The Lodha camp contended that Harsh was not appointed on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB. The bench appeared to agree: “There is a possibility that HVL could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL Committee and the Promoter and Promoter Groups and PACs.” A raft of appeals and petitions had followed after the October 1 order was delivered. The bench decided to hear the batch of contempt petitions before it addressed any other issue including the main appeal against the September 18 order. There is little possibility that this bench will hear the main matter as CJ Radhakrishnan is due to retire by the end of this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-04-2021||Business||Delhi HC dismisses Facebook, WhatsApp pleas against CCI order to probe privacy policy||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed pleas by social media platforms, Facebook and WhatsApp, challenging India’s competition regulator CCI’s order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. Justice Navin Chawla said though it would have been “prudent” for the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi HC against WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, but not doing so would not make the regulator’s order “perverse” or “wanting of jurisdiction”. The court said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had argued that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals’ privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had said before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and “stalking” of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is, therefore, an alleged abuse of dominant position. “There is no question of jurisdictional error,” it had contended and added that WhatsApp and Facebook’s pleas challenging its decision were “incompetent and misconceived”. WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI’s March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position. It had also argued that the data collected, which would include an individual’s location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to “stalking”. The two social media platforms had said that when the top court and the Delhi high court were looking into the privacy policy, then CCI ought not to have “jumped the gun” and intervened in the issue. They had also said that the CCI’s decision was an abuse of the commission’s suo motu jurisdiction. They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case has “drifted far away” from the competition aspect and was looking into the privacy issue which was already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi high court. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-04-2021||India||Covid surge in Delhi can be linked to prevalence of UK variant: NCDC||The current wave of the coronavirus pandemic in Delhi could have been fuelled by the UK variant as its prevalence in genomes sequenced nearly doubled from the second to the last week of March, Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said on Friday. Speaking at a webinar, 'Genome Sequencing of SARS-CoV-19', Singh said the UK variant of coronavirus is also dominant in Punjab. In Delhi, there are primarily two types of variants -- B.1.617 and the UK strain -- found in the genome sequenced samples, the NCDC director said. The B.1.617 variant of coronavirus is also known as the double mutant strain. The UK variant was found in 28 per cent of samples in the second week of March. In the last week of the month, 50 per cent of samples had this variant, Singh said. "If we try to co-relate, the surge we are observing in Delhi, it directly co-relates to the type of variant which we are observing," he said. So far, Singh said, 15,133 samples have been sequenced by INSACOG, a consortium formed in December last year to increase viral genomic surveillance in order to understand the spread of the coronavirus in a rapid and robust manner. This was also after the UK, South African and Brazilian strains, which have a higher rate of transmission, emerged. Singh said in Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant was found in proportions of over 50 per cent in many cities. The NCDC is one of the 10 laboratories involved in the genome sequencing of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Bengal yearns for peace, Modi says at virtual rally as he winds up campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday accused Bengal's TMC government of partonising illegal immigration from Bangladesh and extortion syndicates but uncharacteristically avoided personally targeting Chief Minister Mamata Banarjee. Addressing a virtual rally at Shaheed Minar ground from New Delhi, he said Bengal needed peace for development. "Illegal immigration, syndicates and extortion are big hurdles in the path of West Bengal's development," he said without naming Mamata, whom the BJP has often accused of patronising such activities. The prime minister's virtual meeting came a day after the Election Commission banned road shows, motorcycle rallies and padyatras for the remaining two phases of the state assembly election campaign and capped attendance at public rallies to just 500. Modi, who was to address four rallies on Friday, cancelled his visit to the state and chose to address just one public meeting online at the Shaheed Minar ground. Modi did not breathe fire against Mamata Banerjee during his speech where he underscored the importance of "dignity of labour, ease of living and ease of doing business", all of which, he claimed, were missing in Bengal. "Bengal yearns for peace, security and development," he said. Exuding confidence about the BJP coming to power in the state, the prime minister said the new government will use technology to transform Calcutta, the city of joy, to the city of future. Referring to alleged crimes against women, Modi said the BJP government will set up fast track courts across Bengal for providing speedy justice to women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Defence ministry to airlift 23 mobile oxygen generating plants from Germany||The defence ministry has decided to airlift 23 mobile oxygen generating plants from Germany as several states reeled under an acute shortage of medical oxygen due to a massive surge in coronavirus cases, officials said Friday. They said each plant will have a capacity to produce 40 litres of oxygen per minute and 2,400 litres every hour. Principal Spokesperson in the Defence Ministry A Bharat Bhushan Babu said the plants will be deployed in the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The decision by the ministry came four days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced granting emergency financial powers to the three services and other defence agencies to make necessary procurement to enhance medical infrastructure in view of the pandemic. "Twenty-three mobile oxygen generation plants are being airlifted from Germany. These will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to the Covid patients," Babu said. He said the oxygen generating plants are expected to be airlifted within a week. Another official said the Indian Air Force has been told to remain ready to keep its transport aircraft ready to bring the plants from Germany once required paper works are completed. The official said more oxygen generation plants may be procured from abroad. "The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable," said Babu. India is struggling with a second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. India recorded a one-day tally of 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases and 2,263 new fatalities, according to official data released on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||DCGI gives emergency approval to Zydus Cadila drug to treat Covid-19 ||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Friday said it has received restricted emergency use approval from the Indian drug regulator for the use of Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegIFN) in treating moderate Covid-19 infection in adults. Earlier in the month, the company had sought approval from the DCGI for the additional indication of hepatitis drug Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b for treating Covid-19. The company has received restricted emergency use approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for the use of 'Virafin', PegIFN in treating moderate Covid-19 infection in adults, Zydus Cadila said in a regulatory filing. “PegIFN has had very well-established safety with multiple doses in chronic Hepatitis B and C patients for many years. A single dose subcutaneous regimen of the antiviral Virafin will make the treatment more convenient for the patients,” the filing said. “When administered early on during Covid, Virafin will help patients recover faster and avoid much of the complications. It will be available on the prescription of a medical specialist for use in a hospital/institutional setup,” Zydus Cadila said. "The fact that we are able to offer a therapy which significantly reduces the viral load when given early on can help in better disease management. It comes at a much-needed time for patients and we will continue to provide them access to critical therapies in this battle against Covid-19," Cadila Healthcare MD Sharvil Patel said. Shares of Cadila Healthcare, the listed entity of the Zydus Group, closed at Rs 571.20 per scrip on BSE, up 3.43 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||SC raps lawyers who criticised case related to Covid-19 after Harish Salve's pullout||The Supreme Court Friday expressed deep anguish over its criticism by some lawyers for something which was not part of its order in the suo motu case related to framing of national policy on the Covid-19 pandemic and said this is how the institution is being destroyed . A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who is demitting office as the 47th CJI, lamented imputation of motive by some senior bar members while allowing senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as an amicus curiae from the case after he said that he did not want it to be decided under the shadow that he was friends with Justice Bobde from school and college days . The bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, took note on Thursday of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. “You (SCBA President) have read the order. Is there any intention to transfer the case... Even before reading the order there was criticism about something which was not there in order. This is how institution is being destroyed,” the bench told senior advocate and SCBA President Vikas Singh. At the outset of the proceedings conducted via video conferencing, the bench observed it did not stop high courts from hearing cases related to Covid-19 management in the country. “We never said a word and did not stop the high courts. We asked the Centre to go to the high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about? Talk about these proceedings,” the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave. “You have imputed motives to us without reading the order,” a visibly irked bench told Dave. “Entire country thought that you would transfer,” Dave replied. Did the order say so, the bench asked and fixed the case for hearing on April 27 as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time for filing the Centre's response to the notice issued on Thursday. At the outset, Salve, appointed as the amicus to assist the bench in the case, urged the bench to allow him to withdraw from the case in view of unfair statements of some senior lawyers. We are also pained at reading what some senior lawyers have to say on Salve's appointment as amicus in the matter, the bench said, adding that it was a "collective decision" of all the judges at the bench. Terming the case to be very sensitive and important , Salve said, “I do not want that the case be decided in this shadow on the ground that I knew the CJI from school and college. These kinds of allegations have been made.” Salve referred to bitter language used by some lawyers on his appointment as the amicus and said, “I do not want any side show. The language of the narrative now is very different.” CJI Bobde, on his last day at the bench, said, “We will honour your sentiments. The only thing is that now, we will have to start looking for some amicus curiae who we do not know in future. Unfortunately, I do not have any future in the judiciary now.” "We were also pained at reading what some senior advocates have to say. But everyone is entitled to their own opinion.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested Salve not to withdraw from the case as the amicus on the ground that no one should succumb to such pressure tactics. “We are not in a position to malign each other. I saw on digital media literally abusing...a counsel should not succumb to such tactics. Salve should reconsider,” the law officer said. “My lord (the CJI) is retiring today. He deserves a loving farewell,” Mehta said. Earlier on Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an essential part of treatment, it had said it seemed that a certain amount of panic has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking relief related to the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||State govts need to work together to meet Covid crisis, says Modi in review meeting||Amid several states flagging scarcity of medical oxygen in the Covid-19 fight, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Railways and Air Force are being deployed to reduce the transportation time for oxygen tankers and all state governments need to work together to meet requirements of life-saving gas and medicines. Chairing a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories which have reported the maximum number of cases recently, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. He said the biggest basis of India's success during the first wave of the pandemic was the united efforts and united strategy and reiterated that we will have to address this challenge in the same way. He assured the Centre's full support to all the states and in this fight. On oxygen supply, PM Modi took note of the points raised by the states and said there is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply, according to a statement issued by his office. He urged all states to work together and coordinate with one another to fulfil requirements relating to medicines and oxygen. He also asked the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. Modi said every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded. He urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This Coordination Committee should ensure that as soon as there is an allotment of oxygen from the centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately, he added. Modi said the central government is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. For this, Railways has started Oxygen Express. Empty Oxygen tankers are also being transported by the Air Force to reduce one way travel time. He said along with all measures for the treatment of the patients, hospital safety is also very important. Expressing grief on recent incidents of oxygen leakage and fire at hospitals, Modi said the administrative staff of the hospital needs to be made more aware of the safety protocols. He also urged the administration to continuously make people aware so that they do not indulge in panic buying. He said that with united efforts, we will be able to stop this second wave of pandemic across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Leaving with my head high, says outgoing CJI Bobde||Outgoing Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde Friday said he was leaving the Supreme Court with happiness, goodwill and very fond memories and the satisfaction of having done his best. Justice Bobde, who decided several key cases during his tenure including the historic Ayodhya verdict, was administered oath as the 47th CJI in November 2019 and is retiring today. He headed the Indian judiciary during the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic ensuring that the apex court kept functioning albeit via video conferencing. "I must say that last day has evoked mixed feelings which is difficult to describe. I have been a part of the ceremonial bench before but did not feel such mixed feelings which could enable me to say things clearly. "I leave this court with happiness, goodwill with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour, commitment to the cause of justice from not only Bar but all connected with it," Bobde, who was speaking on his last in the apex court, said. Bobde said he was demitting office after 21 years as judge and it has been his richest experience in the top court and the camaraderie with brother judges has been wonderful. Contending that transition to the virtual mode during coronavirus pandemic would not have been possible without the registry, Bobde said that there are many unsatisfactory things about virtual hearings which can be ironed out. "Advantage was that hearings were homely as I could see hills behind lawyers, sculptures and paintings behind lawyers including guns and pistols. The painting behind SG Mehta has been removed now," he said. "I leave with the satisfaction that I did my best. I hand over the baton to Justice N V Ramana (48th CJI) who will I am sure will very ably lead the court," Bobde said. Attorney General K K Venugopal said the tenure of a CJI must be a minimum of three years. In March 2020 the world was suffering from COVID-19. Supreme Court also had to take a call and bar thought court will close down. But then CJI Bobde rose to the occasion and started virtual hearing and almost 50,000 cases have been disposed of. It's a great achievement, Venugopal said, adding that bar should unanimously applaud the CJI for the work he has done. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said CJI Bobde will not only be known as a erudite and brilliant judge but also a loving and caring human being with amazing sense of humour. Supreme Court Bar Association president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said this is no age (65) to retire and a Constitutional amendment should be brought to increase the retirement age of judges. You had taken up such a contentious matter (pertaining to COVID-19) on the last day too. This shows the involvement of the judges and to ensure oxygen supply can be maintained. Till the last day you were concerned about what is happening," Singh said. Supreme Court Advocate on Record Association president Shivaji Jadhav said, We acknowledge the smoothness with which the CJI created a transmission from physical to virtual courts. CJI Bobde will be remembered for his handling of the criminal justice system. He also urged that after the summer vacation the apex court should consider opening the courts for physical hearing with due precautions. Born on April 24, 1956 in Nagpur, Maharashtra, Justice Bobde completed Bachelor of Arts and LLB degrees from Nagpur University. He was enrolled as an advocate of the Bar Council of Maharashtra in 1978. Justice Bobde practised law at the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court with appearances at Bombay before the Principal Seat and before the Supreme Court for over 21 years. He was designated as senior advocate in 1998. Justice Bobde was elevated to the Bombay High Court on March 29, 2000, as Additional Judge and sworn in as Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court on October 16, 2012. He was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on April 12, 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Kejriwal’s oxygen request to Modi ‘with folded hands’ sparks reaction from Centre||Raising alarm that a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army. In a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation, Kejriwal requested him to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," he said during the meeting. "We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The Central government should take over all oxygen plants through the Army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an Army escort vehicle," he said. "The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said. The chief minister also objected to different rates being charged from state governments and the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine, and said "one nation, one rate" policy should be followed. Prime Minister Modi held a meeting on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The meeting via video conferencing comes amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases, which have now clocked a daily total of over 3 lakh in the country. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi are among those who attended the meeting. Modi will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conference amid concerns expressed by some states that their supply of the life-saving gas is running short with a number of hospitals sending out SOS. Meanwhile, sources in the Centre government alleged that "Kejriwal used the entire PM-CM meet platform for playing politics". "He raised the point of airlifting oxygen, but did not know that it was already being done. He spoke about Oxygen express by Railways but Railway sources say he has not communicated anything about it to Railways. He chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that the Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only. All CMs spoke about what they are doing to improve the situation. However, Kejriwal had nothing to speak on what he is doing," a source said. Responding to the sharp reaction of the Union government officials, the chief minister's office (CMO) issued a brief statement, saying "Today, the CM address was shared live because there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from central govt that the said interaction could not be shared live. "There have been multiple occasions of similar interactions where matters of public importance which had no confidential information were shared live. However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Harish Salve backs off as amicus curiae in SC suo motu case on Covid-19||The Supreme Court Friday allowed senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as amicus curiae for the suo motu case related to distribution of essential supplies and services, including oxygen and drugs, during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who is demitting office as the CJI Friday itself, rapped some senior advocates for making statements without reading its order passed on Thursday and observed that it did not stop high courts from hearing cases related to Covid-19 management in the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat, granted time to the Centre to file response in the case and posted it for hearing on April 27. You have imputed motives to us without reading our order, the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was appearing in the matter. We are also pained at reading what some senior lawyers have to say on Salve's appointment as amicus in the matter, the bench said, adding that it was a "collective decision" of all the judges at the bench. Salve said it is a very sensitive matter and he did not want the case to be decided under the shadow that he knew the CJI from school and college days. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested Salve not to withdraw from the case as the amicus on the ground that no one should succumb to such pressure tactics. Taking note of the grim situation created by the massive surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Supreme Court had on Thursday said it expects the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with proper distribution of oxygen and essential drugs for the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||Global press turns guns on India, blames Modi for failure to tackle second wave ||For image-conscious Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the foreign press’s reviews of his handling of the coronavirus pandemic must make devastating reading. Modi has gone from hero to minnow in fighting Covid-19 in the eyes of the world press as daily infections have soared to successive new records. After appearing to have skilfully ridden the first Covid wave with one of the world’s strictest national lockdowns, Modi has been engulfed by the second, according to the verdict of the foreign media. Headlines like: “Modi flounders in India’s gigantic second wave,” in The Times, London, have been typical of the coverage that the Prime Minister has been receiving as the daily count of new Covid cases has barrelled past 300,000. The Times has blasted the government’s response to the latest coronavirus wave, saying it has “underscored the air of complacency and denial that have dogged his government’s response to the crisis.” “The system has collapsed: India’s descent into Covid hell,” said an equally blistering headline in The Guardian, which led its main story with a photo of flames soaring high in a crematorium. The newspaper added: “Many falsely believed that the country had defeated Covid. Now, hospitals are running out of oxygen and bodies are stacking up in morgues.” The world’s gaze has turned on India because of the extraordinary surge in cases and because a huge chunk of the new cases reported globally in the last 24 hours have emerged here. India reported 314,644 of the new cases that were reported Thursday morning, nearly half of the total worldwide tally. International coverage which had focused on Brazil as the global Covid disaster zone has now zeroed in on India as the place where the pandemic is raging out of control. The global press has turned its guns especially on the Central government for having been complacent and not being prepared for the second wave. Also, the government has been castigated for holding mass election rallies in West Bengal that may have worsened the situation. The decision to allow the mega Kumbh Mela to go ahead has also been roundly denounced as reckless. International newspapers have splashed their front pages with pictures of huge crowds of mask-less devotees pressed against each other and accused the Indian government of lacking the courage to call the gathering off for fear of alienating their Hindu supporters. The Times which makes a ferocious attack on the Central government says: “The speed and ferocity of the second wave have exposed a string of missteps at the start of the year, repeating the mistakes of 2020 and making new ones, to leave Indians facing a tsunami of infection that has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.” It also talks about Modi, mask-less, at a West Bengal election rally attended by hundreds of thousands of voters, also not wearing masks, declaring that, “In all directions, I see huge crowds of people….I have never seen such crowds at a rally.” The Financial Times departed from its usual sober style to describe devastating sights of people dying while waiting for hospital beds, the disastrous oxygen shortage and apocalyptic scenes of funeral pyres on the banks of the Ganges. It said the latest wave was “sparking a health crisis and human tragedy in India that is far surpassing anything seen last year.” FT also carried detailed charts about the wave of infections, including ones from each state showing rising positivity rates, which indicate the infections are likely to get worse. FT, too, blamed the government for the devastating second wave, saying: “The devastation has sparked outrage at the lack of preparation among officials who believed the worst of the pandemic was over.” The Washington Post led one of its stories with an aerial shot of a Muslim graveyard in Uttar Pradesh showing a large number of freshly filled graves. It said: “In India, this surge is not a wave but a wall.” It added: “In some cities, crematoriums are running their furnaces round the clock.” The Washington Post divided the blame between, “more contagious variants of the virus, as well as an early relaxation of restrictions and a slow-moving vaccination campaign.” In another story, it also described damaging vaccine shortages in various states. The Wall Street Journal noted that, worryingly, Covid-19 has become trickier and tougher to handle because India is lagging behind on genome sequencing to identify different, fast-spreading mutations that have emerged in recent weeks. It describes India as “ground zero for the pandemic.” The Journal also quotes researchers who point out that India’s vast population numbers could give the pandemic new legs globally. “With its population of more than 1.3 billion people and skyrocketing infections, India has a higher chance of developing variants, which may take root and spread beyond its borders,” it quoted one researcher as saying. The WSJ said that India ranked 85 out of 134 countries for genome sequencing. By the WSJ’s calculations, India has a sequencing rate of 0.18 per cent at best. By contrast, the UK, which is far ahead on genome sequencing, is at 7.7 per cent. The US is at 0.75 per cent. Genome sequencing allows the rapid development of diagnostic tests and development of tools such as tweaks to vaccines to respond to Covid variants. The WSJ also blames the early hubris that the virus had been defeated for the rate of low genome sequencing, saying: “Many testing facilities, which would provide positive Covid-19 samples to the labs, were dismantled after Delhi prematurely declared victory over the pandemic.” In the last two days, the international press has turned special attention to the countrywide oxygen shortages and the Nashik hospital disaster where 24 patients died after an oxygen tank leak. The New York Times said: “As supplies of hospital beds, oxygen and vaccines run low, criticism of the government is building.” The media paints Modi as having been lulled into complacency over having apparently kept infections to a minimum in the first wave. It will take a giant PR operation to turn around the global perception that Modi has failed badly in failing to subdue the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
23-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.32 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,263 casualties in a day||India added a record over 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases in a single day taking the country's tally to 1,62,63,695, while active cases crossed the 24-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,86,920 with a record 2,263 new fatalities. The country recorded a single day rise of 3,32,730 new cases, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases increased to 24,28,616 comprising 14.93 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.92 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,36, 48,159, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.15 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,44,45,653 samples have been tested up to April 22 with 17,40,550 samples being tested on Thursday. The 2,263 new fatalities include 568 from Maharashtra, 306 from Delhi, 207 from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from Gujarat, 123 from Karnataka and 106 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,86,920 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 62,479 from Maharashtra, 13,885 from Karnataka, 13,317 from Tamil Nadu, 13,193 from Delhi, 10,766 from West Bengal, 10,541 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,189 from Punjab and 7,541 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Thirteen Covid patients dead in Maharashtra hospital fire||Thirteen COVID-19 patients, including five women, died in a blaze at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Friday, police said.There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official said. TV visuals showed the smoke-filled ICU in a disarray after the blaze, with the ceiling falling off in some places, beds and other furniture strewn around and kin of the deceased wailing outside the hospital. The fire broke out in the ICU on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar shortly after 3 am, an official said. Firefighters extinguished the blaze at 5.20 am, he added. There were 18 patients in the ICU when the fire broke out, the official said. Five patients were rescued and shifted to other hospitals in the area, he added. The other patients in the hospital were not affected as the damage was confined to the ICU, he added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the tragedy, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said authorities should check if there was a fire safety audit of the hospital, which is over 50 km from Mumbai. The tragedy comes two days after 22 COVID-19 patients who were either on ventilator or oxygen support, suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly due to a malfunction in the main storage at a civic hospital in Nashik. District Disaster Control Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam told PTI that the Virar hospital fire was preceded by an explosion in the AC unit of the intensive care unit. Relatives of the deceased reached the hospital soon after hearing of the incident and demanded that stringent action be taken against those responsible for the tragedy. Earlier this year, ten infants were killed in a fire that broke out at a special newborn care unit of the Bhandara district hospital in Maharashtra on January 9. Seventeen infants, aged one to three months, were admitted to the ward at the time of the tragedy. A fire also broke out in Mumbai's Dreams Mall, which housed a Covid-designated hospital on its third floor, in the intervening night of March 25-26. The fire, which raged for over 40 hours, claimed nine lives, including those of patients on ventilator support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Sonia Gandhi requests PM to reverse new vaccination policy||Sonia Gandhi on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reverse the new vaccination policy under which the Centre has washed its hands of the inoculation of adults between the age of 18 and 45 years. Announcing that vaccination would be open to all adults from May 1, the Centre had said on Monday that those between 18 and 45 years could be immunised by the state governments or could pay and get themselves inoculated at private hospitals. The prices of the vaccines for the states and the private hospitals would be announced by the vaccine makers, it said. “The policy implies that the government of India has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age group of 18 to 45 years. This is complete abandonment of the government’s responsibility towards our youth,” the Congress president wrote in a letter to Modi. “As a consequence of this policy, the vaccine manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India, announced a differential pricing mechanism, Rs 150 per dose for the central government, Rs 400 per dose for state government and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals,” she added. “This means citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments. This begs the question, how can the same vaccine manufactured by the same company have three different prices?” The goal of the nation should be to ensure vaccination for all Indians above the age of 18, irrespective of their economic condition, Sonia said. The price of vaccination should be uniform, she added. “How can the government of India permit such brazen profiteering from people’s misery?” she asked. Sonia said the arbitrary and discriminatory policy would exacerbate existing challenges.“At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Bar association to Supreme Court: Let high courts continue dealing with Covid crisis ||The Supreme Court’s hint on Thursday that it might transfer to itself the pandemic-related matters pending with six high courts has prompted the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to appeal to the apex court to let the high courts continue dealing with the crisis as they are better equipped to deal with local issues. Some of the high courts, including Delhi High Court, have been scathing about the state governments concerned and the Centre on the subject of Covid management. There is a feeling that the best way to ensure that the pressure on the governments is not diluted is to let the high courts keep a gimlet eye on the local situation. The top court has taken suo motu cognisance of the rapid rise in Covid cases, saying the crisis amounts almost to a “national emergency” and asking the Centre to formulate a “national plan”. The apex court also said it was not permissible for the high courts to declare lockdowns and that it was for the state governments to deal with such administrative issues. However, towards the evening, the SCBA, through its president Vikas Singh, sought to intervene in the matter when it comes up for hearing on Friday, pleading that the high courts concerned be allowed to take a call on the Covid crisis management. It was argued that the top court had itself earlier disposed of a batch of public interest litigation petitions on Covid management and the matters were subsequently being dealt with by the respective high courts. “…It is most humbly submitted that the present crisis is an unprecedented one and varying effects are being experienced in various parts of the country. That in view of the present emergent situation, Hon’ble high courts situated almost invariably in the state capitals are in a better position to seek immediate reports from the local administration and pass directions and orders for immediate removal of difficulties arising in treatment of the infected patients depending upon local emergent situation,” Singh said in his petition. “The state machineries are lacking on various aspects and Hon’ble high courts are suitably dealing with the issues prevailing at local level within their territorial jurisdictions.” The SCBA suggested that certain larger issues such as the free and fast inter-state movement of essential supplies related to the treatment of Covid patients and to the public’s basic needs and livelihood can be taken up by the Supreme Court at the national level. “However, since there is absence of preparedness in advance for the present situation by the central and state machinery, some difficulties are arising at the local level and (they) are being resolved by various Hon’ble high courts in view of the local situation,” it said. “…The Hon’ble high courts appear to be best suited to deal with the situation, hence it would be proper to allow the Hon’ble high courts to continue dealing with the present issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Centre failed to anticipate second Covid-19 wave despite warning signals: Researcher||The Centre failed to anticipate the second Covid-19 wave despite warning signals and omitted to take steps that could have mitigated the devastation, a top government researcher has said, agreeing with other experts that India is paying the price for complacency. The health researcher, a member of the Centre’s national task force on Covid-19, said the surge and the nationwide bed and oxygen shortages had resulted from a complacency that ignored data from India and elsewhere suggesting “a big wave” was possible. “It is frustrating and it is sad — what’s going on cannot be just abruptly stopped,” the researcher, who requested not to be named, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “There were indications a big wave could hit us, but that knowledge was not translated into more preparedness or strong public warnings.” The wave surged higher on Thursday as India’s health ministry added 314,835 new Covid-19 cases overnight. The number of active patients nationwide ballooned above 2.29 million, more than double the peak count during the first wave last September. “We can now ask among ourselves: who’s responsible? Is it the health ministry, is it the Indian Council of Medical Research, is it the government? All I’d say is: collectively we have failed,” said the researcher, accepting the blame that some health experts have hurled. In contrast, the health ministry has been reluctant to discuss the subject. “Today is not the time to go into why did we miss, or did we miss, did we prepare? Today is the time to jointly face the pandemic,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday, when asked at a media briefing whether India had missed anticipating the second wave. “Once we have faced it and emerged out of it successfully, then probably with the advantage of hindsight we would be able to deliberate on this. Today all the energies of the Union government and the state governments are focused in a collaborative manner to tackle this, to save precious lives, and to ensure that our health system is strengthened.” Several senior health officials have attributed the second wave to people’s laxity in wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, but the health researcher said it would be unfair to point fingers at the public. “You cannot blame people. People will do what they like to do and what they are encouraged to do. People need appropriate guidance, appropriate messaging,” the researcher said. “We were not able to translate the available data into strong enough cautionary messages for the public.” The researcher said an ICMR survey in January had found that only 25 per cent people had already been infected, implying that 75 per cent of the population was still susceptible to a future wave. “We also knew from Europe and the US that second waves could be bigger than the first.” The researcher, echoing concerns aired by other health experts, said that after the epidemic shrank between October and December and the daily counts of new cases fell steadily, the government did little to curb the crowding that occurred at election rallies and at the Kumbh Mela. As tens of thousands gathered at the Kumbh and at election rallies every day, health officials remained largely silent except for issuing cursory advisories about mask-wearing and maintaining physical distance. Amid the bed and oxygen shortages, at least two hospitals in Delhi on Thursday appeared so close to running out of oxygen that their administrators were considering asking critically ill patients to leave and look for beds in other hospitals. “What we’re seeing happen was not inevitable or unavoidable,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, an economist and epidemiologist and founder director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy, a research think tank in the US and India. “Organising more oxygen should have been part of the preparedness process, and preparing with thousands of beds in stadiums was also possible.” Some health experts say it makes little sense to split hairs over who deserves more blame, the political leaders or the experts tasked with guiding them. “This is not a government that tolerates dissent. If the experts don’t tolerate (the official) line, they’d be out. The buck stops with whoever is elected,” a health expert said, also requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court to move Siddique Kappan to hospital in Delhi||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists on Thursday sought the Supreme Court’s intervention to shift journalist Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi after he tested positive for Covid-19 in Mathura jail where he has been incarcerated since October. KUWJ has been providing legal support to Kappan, the secretary of the union’s Delhi unit, who was arrested on October 5 on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to report the gang rape of a Dalit girl. His lawyer Wills Mathew told The Telegraph that the Supreme Court was informed of the latest development in a letter filed on Thursday. “We have requested an order for Kappan to be shifted to either All India Institute of Medical Sciences or Safdarjang Hospital in Delhi,” Mathew said. Jail authorities had on Wednesday informed Mathew about Kappan’s health condition and the fact that he was first taken to the prison hospital and then moved to KM Medical College Hospital. “I got a call from the prison yesterday (Wednesday) about Kappan collapsing the previous night and that he was hospitalised. But since then, I have had no updates on his health,” Mathew said. The petitioner informed the apex court that Kappan, who is a diabetic with hypertension and high cholesterol, used to vomit after consuming the prison food of lentils and chapatis because of the oil used in cooking. The court was also informed that about 50 inmates in Mathura jail had tested positive for Covid-19. Kappan was arrested along with three member of Popular Front of India, a Muslim rights organisation. While the UP police had accused Kappan and the others of travelling to Hathras to foment tension, the journalist had maintained that he was innocent. They were all named in a 5,000-page charge sheet filed in a Mathura court recently. Kappan’s wife Raihanath told this newspaper that he had fever when she last spoke to him. “When he called me on Tuesday, he had fever and sounded very exhausted. I have no idea about his current medical condition since we are not getting any information from there,” Raihanath told The Telegraph on Thursday. She said Kappan used to fast on account of Ramzan, but only had access to jail food comprising lentils and chapati. “He was already highly stressed out with the case. His sugar levels were quite high since he was jailed. I don’t have any other information,” said the mother of three children who lives in Vengara in Malappuram. Earlier in the day, Raihanath spoke to CPM politburo member M.A. Baby and sought his help to get proper medical help for Kappan. “He asked me to immediately contact the chief minister’s office, which I did. I expect the government to do something to save my husband who is innocent and yet in jail,” she said. She is scheduled to address a press conference in Kozhikode on Friday to present a set of demands to the state government to free Kappan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Delhi High Court directs Centre to ensure oxygen supply to national capital||Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Centre to ensure oxygen is supplied to the national capital as per the allocation order and is transported without any hindrance. The high court said there has to be strict compliance of oxygen allocation order issued by the Centre and non-compliance would attract criminal action. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre’s allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states such as Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needs to be resolved immediately. It directed the central government to provide adequate security to lorries transporting oxygen and to form dedicated corridors for the same. The directions came after the Delhi government told the court that oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The Delhi government also told the court that oxygen, which was to be picked up from some units in Uttar Pradesh, could also be not lifted from there. With regard to Delhi government’s suggestion to transport oxygen by air, the bench said research by its legal researchers has shown that airlifting of oxygen was very dangerous and it has to be transported either by road or rail. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the bench: “If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with.” “We must respond with a sense of urgency and sense of responsibility which the situation demands,” the solicitor-general said. The high court on Wednesday issued strong strictures against the central government and private industries and had ordered the Centre to “forthwith” provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”. “You are not exploring all avenues to augment oxygen supply. Beg, borrow or steal,” the court had told the Centre, and asked why it was not waking up to the gravity of the emergency situation. It also warned that certainly all hell will break loose with the stoppage of medical oxygen to the hospitals. The observations and directions by the court came on Wednesday during hearing of a plea filed by Balaji Medical and Research Centre, which owns and runs various hospitals in the name of Max, contending that if supply of oxygen is not replenished on an immediate basis, the lives of the patients who are critical and on oxygen support will be endangered. Hospitals struggle Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish oxygen supply for coronavirus patients on Thursday morning, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight. The administration at Shanti Mukund Hospital, a 200-bed facility in East Delhi, put up a notice at the entry gate, reading: “We regret we are stopping admission in hospital because oxygen supply isn’t coming.” While the Centre represented by solicitor-general Mehta had assured the court that it would facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions, several private hospitals complained their supplier has not been responding to calls. Officials at Saroj Hospital in Rohini said they have run out of oxygen supply. “The backup, too, won’t last long. Of the 120 patients in the hospital at present, 70 are in a critical condition,” an official said, adding that many lives will be lost if oxygen supply did not reach the hospital in time. An official from Shanti Mukund Hospital told PTI they have not been able to get in touch with their oxygen supplier. “There are 110 coronavirus patients in the hospital right now. We have no option but to send patients to other hospitals,” he said. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, chief operating officer at Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, said their oxygen stock will last till 4pm. “Supplier provided the last refill in the morning; we are on our own. A total of 71 patients are on oxygen support,” he said. Officials at the 210-bed Mata Chanan Devi Hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government as their “oxygen supplier didn’t fulfil commitments”. “Around 40 patients are in ICU. We got 500kg oxygen last night. The supplier was supposed to give more at 4am, but they have not been picking up calls since then,” ICU head Dr A.C. Shukla said. “With the Delhi government’s intervention, we have got 21 D-type cylinders, but a continuous supply is needed. The situation is very serious,” he added. Dr Pankaj Solanki, who runs the 50-bed Dharamveer Solanki Hospital, said the hospital is using the “backup”, which will last till Thursday afternoon. Dr Solanki said he had informed officials concerned to transfer out 30 patients. “The oxygen crisis is at its worst. It is adding more pressure on the functioning. No one is able to help,” his tweet read. Meanwhile, some hospitals received fresh stock overnight and more is likely to come in soon. Dr Suresh Kumar, the medical director at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said three tankers carrying oxygen reached the facility last night. “At 8.30am, we have around eight hours of oxygen left. More is coming,” he told PTI. An official at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said supply was replenished around 6am. “The stock will last till 10am on Friday. Supply from a private vendor is awaited,” he said. Officials at the Burari Hospital said they have “sufficient stock” till afternoon. A spokesperson for St Stephen’s Hospital said they received fresh supply on Wednesday evening and the stock can last till 4pm. “More to come around noon,” he added. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police were blocking oxygen transport to Delhi, and urged the Centre to ensure normal supply even if that meant taking the help of paramilitary forces. This “jungle raj” has been going on for three days, he said referring to the alleged blocking of oxygen supply. “Some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely. They don’t have any option available. I have been receiving calls, messages, emails. We have been making internal, makeshift arrangements, but this cannot continue for long,” he said. Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in Delhi, said it will become tough to save lives of coronavirus patients after sometime if hospitals did not get the oxygen supply they need. “The Centre should take the help of paramilitary forces, if needed, and ensure supply of oxygen to Delhi,” he said, adding that else the situation may become “very dangerous” in days to come. Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent — meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive — amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 16 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 3pm, according to government data. On Tuesday, the city had recorded 28,395 cases and 277 fatalities, both highest since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The positivity rate was 32.82 per cent, highest so far. The national capital has reported over 1,350 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Five Covid patients die in Aligarh after private hospital runs out of oxygen||Five Covid patients died in Aligarh town on Wednesday night after the private hospital treating them ran out of oxygen and the Uttar Pradesh government failed to supply more in time, their families have alleged. Dr Sanjiv Sharma, medical superintendent of the SJD Hospital, and a government official denied that lack of oxygen had caused the deaths. “Hospital authorities told us in the evening they had no oxygen left and the patients had to be shifted,” Shyam Kumar, relative of Mukesh Kumar who died at the SJD Hospital, said. He said the families could not find beds in hospitals that had oxygen and requested SJD authorities “to make some arrangement”. “But the government hadn’t supplied oxygen by the time the fifth patient died at 2am,” he said. Earlier this week, Delhi High Court had rapped the Centre for failing to divert oxygen from industry to hospitals, and Allahabad High Court had observed that the Covid resurgence was about to overwhelm the health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh. Dr Sharma said: “The deaths didn’t occur from an oxygen shortage. The patients were senior citizens and had severe chest infection from the coronavirus. We had suggested the families take them to higher referral centres but they didn’t listen.” Shyam, however, said: “The dead were young or middle-aged and not senior citizens. Sarita Rani was 54, Mukesh Kumar was 30, Anil Kashyap was 50, Jaiveer Singh was 50 and Lalit Prasad was 52 – you can cross-check with the hospital records.” Aligarh city magistrate Vinit Kumar Singh, a civil servant, said: “The SJD Hospital had demanded oxygen at 9.15pm and we supplied 40 cylinders within the hour. There was no oxygen shortage at the hospital.” Dr B.P. Kalyani, chief medical officer (CMO) for Aligarh district, said assistant CMO Anupam Bhaskar was probing the families’ allegation. Government sources said that work had stopped at three of Aligarh’s four oxygen-manufacturing plants because of a shortage of certain liquid chemicals. “About 10 tonnes of the liquid was sent from Roorkee to Aligarh on Thursday morning,” an official said, requesting he not be named. “The only operational plant in the district is producing 250 cylinders of oxygen a day whereas the demand is 400 cylinders, and is increasing every day with the rising number of patients.” Hospital crisis Hospital after hospital in Uttar Pradesh complained of an oxygen shortage on Thursday and accused the state government of letting them down. Some put up notices asking families to shift Covid patients. “We have been trying to get oxygen since 6am but there’s no response from those (government officials) supposed to ensure it,” Dr Ritu, director of Kailash Hospital in Noida, told reporters at 5pm. “We want the patients to shift elsewhere: we can’t see them dying here.” An aide said almost half the hospital’s 450 patients had Covid infections. Prakash Hospital in Noida was supposed to receive a consignment of oxygen cylinders on Thursday morning but it never came, nor was any reason cited. Frustration led one of its employees to allege favouritism. “Some hospitals are getting oxygen in time but many are being ignored,” the employee said on the condition of anonymity. “We had told the government right at the beginning to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply if it wanted us to function as a dedicated Covid hospital.” Sources said the oxygen crisis was resolved at some of Lucknow’s hospitals on Wednesday night after an outcry earlier in the day. But an executive at Chandan Hospital in Lucknow said: “We are unable to treat our Covid patients because the state government is sending only half the promised oxygen cylinders. Covid patients consume huge quantities of oxygen in a very short time. So we have stopped admissions and are requesting the families of the already admitted patients to shift them elsewhere.” At Charak Hospital, Lucknow, the management has put up a notice asking families to take their Covid patients elsewhere. “The state government is behaving like a criminal. The hospitals want to save the patients but the government wants them to die,” said Seema Singh, 50, wife of a Covid patient at Charak. “Why else should there be shortages of everything, from Covid beds and Covid hospitals to medicines and oxygen? My husband will soon die because the state government is not providing oxygen.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was quoted as saying at a virtual meeting with officials that there was no shortage of oxygen in the state but some black marketeers were hoarding it. He ordered a crackdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: High courts rap state govts, Supreme Court steps in||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the Covid crisis amounted almost to a “national emergency” and asked the Centre to formulate a “national plan”, while indicating that high courts should leave the decision on announcing lockdowns to the state governments. “We are almost in a state of national emergency,” the special bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said, deciding to conduct a detailed hearing on Friday after the Centre submits its action plan. Several legal experts said on the condition of anonymity that they wished the apex court had intervened earlier, with six high courts having already pulled up state authorities for failing to check the pandemic’s resurgence. The apex court bench, which took suo motu cognisance of the rising Covid cases, said it might transfer to itself the pandemic-related matters pending with the six high courts. “We as a court wish to take suo motu cognisance of certain issues. We find that there are six high courts --- Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, MP (Madhya Pradesh), Calcutta and Allahabad --- (that) are exercising jurisdiction in best interest, but it is creating confusion and diversion of resources,” Justice Bobde remarked. “One high court thinks there is a priority for one group and some for another. We have four issues in mind: supply of oxygen, supply of essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and power to declare lockdown.” He added: “We want to keep the power to declare lockdown with states... (it) should not be a judicial decision. We issue notice on these issues. Senior adv(ocate) Harish Salve will act as the amicus curiae (friend of the court). We want to see a national plan on this issue….” On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh government had secured a stay from the apex court on the previous day’s Allahabad High Court order imposing lockdowns in the cities of Varanasi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. Calcutta High Court has pulled up the Election Commission for failing to ensure the observance of pandemic protocols during the Bengal poll campaign, which has coincided with a Covid surge in the state. The high courts of Delhi, Allahabad and Bombay have lambasted the Centre and the state governments led by Arvind Kejriwal, Yogi Adityanath and Uddhav Thackeray for their poor handling of the Covid crisis. On Thursday, the apex court took cognisance of the matter after the Centre and Vedanta Limited jointly sought reopening of the company’s controversial Sterlite copper smelting plant in Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu, for the purpose of producing 1,000 tonnes of oxygen per day. The Tamil Nadu government had shut the Sterlite plant down in May 2018 after 14 people died in police firing while demonstrating in support of a demand to close the factory on environmental grounds. On Thursday, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, argued: “The country is in dire need of oxygen.... Vedanta wants to make its plant operational, but let Vedanta only make it operational to manufacture oxygen… for health purposes.” Salve, appearing for Vedanta, said: “We can start in five to six days if you Lordships give us the go-ahead today.” Senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government, opposed any immediate orders, saying: “There is a trust deficit in the state of Tamil Nadu. Please hear this case next week.” In December 2018, the apex court had refused to stay a Madras High Court order directing a CBI probe into the police firing. In February 2019, the top court dismissed Vedanta’s interim application for an inspection of the plant. Earlier in 2019, the apex court had set aside a National Green Tribunal order that had directed reopening of the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Group of men hijack ambulance in Lucknow, two patients die ||A group of men in Lucknow allegedly hijacked a government ambulance for use by a Covid patient while it was on its way to pick up a non-Covid patient. Eventually, both patients died. The ambulance driver said he was travelling to Unique Hospital, which had no oxygen left, on Wednesday afternoon to shift Vinay Kumar, who had fever and breathing difficulties but had tested Covid-negative, to another hospital. “A group of men on two motorcycles stopped me on Campbell Road. They looked agitated and ready to beat me. They asked me to follow them,” the driver said, requesting not to be named. “They took me to a place where a woman, who looked in her mid-50s, lay on a roadside bench. They said she was a Covid patient. We carried her into the ambulance and started giving her oxygen. Two of the men sat inside the ambulance while the rest led the way on their motorcycles. “We first went to Era Hospital, where she didn’t get a bed. We then went to another hospital. By then there was no oxygen left in the cylinder and she had died. The men took the body home in another vehicle.” Santosh Kumar, a relative of Vinay, 50, said the patient had been admitted to Unique on Tuesday. “On Wednesday, the doctors said the hospital had just an hour’s oxygen left and suggested Vinay be shifted to another hospital,” he said. “It took 45 minutes to get in touch with 108 (the ambulance emergency number), but no ambulance arrived even after 90 minutes. Then the ambulance driver called to say the vehicle had been hijacked. We called another ambulance but Vinay had died by the time it arrived.” Rajendra Singh, chief medical officer for Lucknow district, said he had not heard of the incident and would look into it if a formal complaint was lodged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
23-04-2021||India||Delhi riots: JNU student leader Umar Khalid's handcuff call binned||A court here on Thursday dismissed applications seeking to produce former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi, arrested in connection with last year’s Delhi riots, before it in “handcuffs” and sought an explanation from the DCP concerned for moving such a plea. The court noted that the applications had been filed by the in-charge, lock-up, Karkardooma District Courts, reportedly after “a decision was taken in the matter by so-called senior police officers of Delhi police to move such applications before the court”. The pleas, which came up for hearing before judge Vinod Yadav, sought to produce both the accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they were “high-risk prisoners”. During the hearing, special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary was asked about the meaning of “high-risk prisoner” and where such a classification had been defined —in the jail manual or the Punjab Police Rules or the circulars issued by Delhi police. Chaudhary submitted that he was not aware of the applications and could not take instructions in the matter. The court noted that both the accused have already been granted bail in the case pending before it. “It is presumed that the bail order(s) of applicants are in the knowledge of senior police officer(s) of Delhi police. The instant applications are completely bereft of the reason(s), prompting the senior police officer(s) to take a decision to move such application(s),” the judge said. He said that “for want of material/reason(s) in respect of the applications in question, this court is at a loss to consider the grant of prayer(s) in these applications”. “In this view of the matter, let report(s) be called from DCP (special cell)… to communicate the reasons for moving such application(s) before this court. “The report be also called from superintendent (of the) jail concerned on these applications. Now, renotify the matter for further consideration on May 6,” the judge said. While Saifi was granted bail in the case in November last year, Umar was given the relief earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||India||No bed in Delhi, brigadier dies of Covid-related complications||A retired brigadier of the Indian Army died of Covid-related complications while on his way to Chandigarh from Delhi on Wednesday night after being allegedly denied admission in the capital’s hospitals, including the army facility. Family members of Brigadier (retd) Rashpal Singh Parmar said they had arranged for an oxygen cylinder for him and were taking him to Chandigarh in an ambulance when he passed away. They said the veteran had been refused a bed in Delhi’s hospitals, including the army’s Base Hospital and the DRDO’s facility. “We have got reports that after being denied admission at Base Hospital, the family members had taken him to the DRDO hospital near Delhi airport. But he could not get a bed there too. The family later took him to several private hospitals in Delhi but to no avail. Finally, they decided to rush him to a private hospital in Chandigarh but he died on the way,” said an army officer. The army did not comment officially on the issue. Brig. Parmar had been commissioned on March 14, 1971, in the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Delhi is the worst affected city in the country, reporting 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday. Hospitals are overflowing and there has been an acute shortage of oxygen, prompting relatives to make desperate appeals for help on social media. The army’s facilities are also said to be full with Covid patients among serving officers and soldiers. The defence ministry had on Monday directed the cantonment general hospitals maintained by the cantonment boards across the country to extend all necessary medical assistance and services to all patients, even if they were not cantonment residents. A ministry official said medical services would be provided to all cantonment residents and non-residents in the 67 Cantonments Board hospitals across the country. “The ministry has directed that suitable liaison with district authorities and nodal officers (Covid) as required may be undertaken by the cantonment general hospitals to facilitate timely treatment to patients and immediate medical intervention,” the official said. The army has announced that the Base Hospital at the Delhi cantonment has been converted into an exclusive Covid facility for the armed forces and veterans with effect from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||India||Gujarat government has not built a hospital in 25 years, says Congress||The Gujarat government has not built a single hospital in the past 25 years that the BJP has been in power in the state, the Congress said on Thursday. Rajeev Satav, the Congress central leadership’s minder for Gujarat, lambasted the state government’s healthcare policy at a news conference. “In the last 25 years (during which) the BJP has been in power (in the state), not a single hospital has been made in Gujarat. Of these 25 years, Narendra Modi was chief minister for 13 years,” he said. “Modi said in 2014 that he would develop India on the ‘Gujarat Model’. He has actually done it. The ‘Gujarat Model’ is just PR and publicity.” Former Gujarat health minister and senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil echoed Satav’s allegation. “Yes, no new hospital has been built in the state. You can’t call primary health centres in the blocks and villages hospitals. All the big hospitals were built during Congress rule,” Gohil told The Telegraph. “During the last (Gujarat) Assembly elections, the BJP promised to build an AIIMS in Rajkot. (Prime Minister) Modi laid the foundation in December 2020 but it is still under construction.” Gohil claimed the situation was better under Congress rule. “Gujarat had a strong health infrastructure and the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital had the biggest medical facility in Asia. We used to give 149 life-saving drugs absolutely free to patients. But Modi as chief minister (2001-14) destroyed public health as a policy to encourage private hospitals,” he said. “Today the Covid situation in the state is unimaginably bad. Gujarat had the capacity to produce enough oxygen. We produce oxygen at the ship-breaking yard in our state. We called for production of medical oxygen there, a project which could have been readied in weeks. But people are now dying for want of oxygen. The death rate among the big cities is the highest in Gujarat.” In a recent reply in the Assembly, the Gujarat government admitted that only 16 district hospitals in the state had CT scan machines, an instrument critical to the fight against Covid and many other serious conditions. Only one district hospital — in a state with 33 districts —has an MRI machine, the state government added. Last week, the Gujarat government had admitted in an affidavit before the high court that there were no beds in hospitals in seven districts amid the surge in Covid cases. The high court questioned the state’s preparedness and handling of the crisis, as it had done last year after the initial outbreak. Paresh Dhanani, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly who has petitioned the high court accusing state BJP leaders of illegally stocking and distributing the life-saving drug remdesivir, said Gujarat’s “healthcare system is in tatters”. “While the state government faced a shortage of remdesivir and oxygen, state BJP chief C.R. Patil and other leaders were selectively distributing these among the people,” he said. “I have filed a PIL, notices have been issued and the next hearing is on May 5. The state government used to invite people with the tagline “Kuchh din toh gujaro Gujarat mein (Do spend at least a few days in Gujarat)”. Now Modi and (Union home minister) Amit Shah have no time to visit Gujarat when people are dying.” State Congress chief Amit Chavda said Gujarat’s healthcare infrastructure had collapsed. “There’s a five to six hours’ wait before cremations; there are no beds for admission, no oxygen. The government is hiding the figures. Private hospitals are robbing patients,” he said. Satav wondered how any sensitive Prime Minister could spend thousands of crores on vanity projects like the Centra Vista (for the redevelopment of Lutyens Delhi) and bullet trains and demanded the resources be used to save lives. “When Modi became Prime Minister selling the Gujarat model, the people of Gujarat knew we were sending a prachar mantri (publicity minister) who will do nothing apart from false propaganda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Naveen Patnaik promises oxygen supply||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and assured them that Odisha will supply medical oxygen to meet their needs. Both the Centre and Delhi government are finding it tough to arrange oxygen at a time when the number of corona patients dying owing to shortage of oxygen is rising. “It is a war like situation and Odisha will extend all co-operation in the fight against Covid at the national level including ramping up oxygen production to assist other states in this emergency situation,” Naveen told Modi. Naveen also spoke to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and assured him all support from him. “Received a call from Sh Naveen Patnaik Ji. He has assured complete support to Delhi in facilitating lifting of Delhi’s quota of oxygen from Odisha. He has put a special officer on the job. Thank u  sooo much sir. Delhi is indeed grateful,” Kejriwal tweeted. Minister, steel and mines, Prafulla Mallick told The Telegraph, “Odisha is in a position to meet the requirement of oxygen of many states. We will soon ask all the steel production houses to ramp up the facilities to increase the production of oxygen in their plants. We will put a priority on the development of its supply system.” Officials maintained that the Odisha government’s consistent effort to promote steel industries in the state has turned out to be a major boon and the state is now in a position to supply liquefied medical oxygen to the states which are grappling with its shortage at the time of corona pandemic. Oxygen is a must for the treatment of the corona positive patients. Liquefied medical oxygen can be produced in large quantities where there are steel plants. “The oxygen is needed to convert the iron into steel by segregating other ingredients from the hot iron ores like nitrogen, hydrogen and carbon. All the big steel industries set up the oxygen plants to produce oxygen for industrial use. At the time of producing oxygen for industrial use, they also produce liquefied oxygen to a certain amount which can be used for medical purposes” advisor to the steel department, Iswar Chandra Sahu told this newspaper. Officials in the steel and mines department said, “At present Rourkela Steel Plant, Tata’s KalingaNagar Steel Plant, Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL), Angul and some other steel industries are producing steel. The small steel industries are getting industrial oxygen from the big units for their purpose. Henceforth, we will ask them to set up their own oxygen units.” Principal secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra said, “We don’t have a shortage of oxygen. We have asked our steel plants to supply more oxygen. They have assured to do so.” “JSPL has more than 500 tons of liquid oxygen stock readily available at our Angul plant. We are waiting for the users to send their tankers. We can fill up on a first come first serve basis or as per the priority decided by the ministry of steel,” tweeted JSPL. One of the senior officials of the Odisha government said, “Odisha’s designed capacity to produce oxygen stands at 7500 tonnes per day. Out of this Odisha can produce 750 tonnes of medical liquefied oxygen per day. ” But if we produce as per the designed capacity, it needs to be evacuated immediately through tankers. Getting such a large number of tankers and the required man power is a major problem at this point.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Over 2,250 railway employees test positive||Operations at the East Central Railway (ECR) may suffer as over 2,250 of its 80,000 employees have tested positive to Covid-19. A majority of them are drivers, guards, stationmasters and other frontline staff directly connected with the running of trains. Parts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand come under the railway zone. The infected persons are spread across all the five divisions that comprise the ECR headquartered at Hajipur in Bihar, and their numbers are increasing every passing day. The Deendayal Upadhyay division, mostly catering to eastern Uttar Pradesh, is the worst affected with 951 of its officers and employees turning positive, while the Dhanbad division is at the second place with around 450 staff catching the coronavirus. Sonepur, Samastipur and Hajipur divisions have lesser number of infected officials. Going by the break-up of the infected officials and their positions connected directly with the running of trains the situation is worrisome because around 300 loco-pilots or train drivers, 140 stationmasters and 75 train guards have fallen ill due to the coronavirus. “These loco-pilots, stationmasters and guards are necessary for our operations. Trains cannot run without them. Around 65 of our senior officials are admitted in the railway hospital at Danapur. Several are in other hospitals. Many of our people are in isolation at their residences or homes. “We are taking all precautions to ensure that more of our staff do not get infected,” ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told The Telegraph. Rajesh has also been infected by the coronavirus and is currently undergoing treatment under home isolation. “We are more exposed to the virus and our field staff are also in high numbers so it is natural that the cases of Covid infections will be more. We have been keeping low about this information so that people do not panic about the running of trains in future,” he added. However, the CPRO assured that the ECR was gearing up to ensure that train operations are not hampered. “We are not going to step back from running the trains and intend to meet the demand. We are suffering from a scarcity of railway guards so we are deploying assistant loco-pilots to take their place. Ours is an essential service and we cannot stop it. We are well prepared and taking all precautions to ensure that train operations do not get hampered,” Rajesh said. Senior ECR officials pointed out that this time the scenario is different in comparison to last year when the trains were at first stopped completely and then allowed to run in limited numbers. That saved many railway officials from falling prey to the pandemic. “It is one reason that isolation coaches are not prepared this time in large numbers because the majority of our trains are running,” an ECR official said. The ECR has installed steam inhalers for its staff at their working stations so that they could use them. They have been asked to maintain social distancing and instructed not to allow outside people in their offices, including the offices of the stationmasters. Meanwhile, the ECR has appealed to its employees to contribute Rs 100 to Rs 1500 from their April salary to help their colleagues who have contracted Covid, and also in taking preventive measures to tackle the raging second wave of the pandemic. The amount will depend on the seniority of the employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt makes 14-day quarantine mandatory for people entering from Bengal||The Odisha government on Thursday made 14-day quarantine mandatory for people entering the state from Bengal and asked district collector of Balasore, Mayurbhanj, to put up border checkposts on all inter-state roads  along the Bengal border with immediate effect. In a notification, the Odisha special relief commissioner asked district administrations to ensure border tracking for all entry points for people coming from Bengal. “...Police arrangements may be made for tracking. Anyone coming to Odisha from Bengal by personal or hired vehicles or entering the state in any other mode will have to undergo mandatory institutional or paid quarantine for 14 days,” it said. People travelling from Bengal to other States through Odisha will be allowed without disembarking from the vehicle en route inside Odisha. “Sarpanch(s)/ Ward Member (s) of Panchayat Raj Institution members and volunteers will be mobilised to create awareness in their areas and further report to BDO/Police Station/ Local Authorities about any person coming from West Bengal not quarantined in institutional facilities” the order said. “Any person who has been successfully vaccinated (two doses) and produces certificate to the effect or tested Negative (-ve) in RTPCR test (report to be produced) within 48 hours of entering Odisha, may be allowed home quarantine for 14 days. However, in case of non-compliance of the Covid protocols and home quarantine guidelines, such persons shall be quarantined in institutional facility for fourteen (14) days,” said the notification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bankers committee urges Bengal government to curtail office hours||State Level Bankers' Committee has appealed to the West Bengal government to restrict business hours from 10 am to 2 pm for at least two weeks, amid a raging second wave of the Covid19 pandemic, an official said on Friday. Currently, banks provide services from 10 am to 4 pm daily, except holidays and the second and fourth Saturday of a month. Many of the member banks have already been advised by their corporate offices to take stock of the Covid situation in their respective working zones and consider restricting attendance up to 50 per cent in their branches and offices, Nabin Kumar Dash chief general manager of Punjab National Bank and convenor of the SLBC said in a letter to the government. "Many banks have approached us for imposition of restricted banking hours, as was implemented last year to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infection. Ensuring 50 per cent workforce availability itself is a challenging task in the present situation given a large number of infected staff and their family members," he said in the letter sent to the government on April 20. Full-fledged banking services for six hours will be a "daunting task" in the present Covid situation, he said. "We would urge you to take a considered view to restrict banking business hours from 10 am to 2 pm at least for next two weeks, which may be reviewed for continuation or otherwise," Dash said. He said the overall Covid situation at the ground level is alarming compared to the first wave of the pandemic. "We have also sent another letter to the West Bengal government today. What we have gathered is that the state administration is actively considering our request," the SLBC convenor told PTI. Meanwhile, All India Bank Officers' Confederations West Bengal unit has also written a letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, requesting him to ask the appropriate authority to reduce the banking up to 2 pm, and implement closure of bank branches on all Saturdays in view of the current pandemic situation. "Several states have already implemented all Saturdays off and reduced banking operations up to 2 pm to combat the second wave of the coronavirus infections. We have requested the West Bengal governor to ask the appropriate authority to consider our request," AIBOC state unit secretary Sanjay Das said. Bengal on Thursday registered the highest single-day spike of 11,948 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally beyond the 7-lakh mark, the health department said in its bulletin. The fresh infections pushed the state's coronavirus caseload to 7,00,904. The death toll also went up to 10,766 as 56 more patients succumbed to the disease, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Would've attended PM's Covid review meet if I was invited, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she would have participated in the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers of states with the highest burden of COVID-19 cases, had she been invited. Addressing a press conference here, Banerjee said she heard that Friday's meeting on the COVID situation was meant for the worst-hit states, and hence she was not told about it. Chairing a meeting on the COVID-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories with the maximum COVID-19 cases, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. The Trinamool Congress supremo alleged that the Centre's "inept handling has led to the present situation". "On March 7, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said COVID is on its way out. It means that the central government had no inkling about the impending crisis. It did not act on the recommendations of the World Health Organization to ramp up the stock of oxygen," she asserted. Alleging that Gujarat got 60 per cent of free vaccines, while other states received a little, she said, "We have nothing to say against one of the worst-hit states, but there should be a uniform policy." She said the Centre could have arranged for free vaccination for every citizen of the country by spending around Rs 20,000 crore but it did not. "When you (BJP leaders) have spent lakhs of rupees to book hotels, guest houses, charter flights and choppers and offered cash to voters to capture Bengal and hatch a conspiracy to win the elections here, could you not spend Rs 20,000 crore for the health of every Indian?" she asked. Banerjee said the state will now procure additional 5,000 oxygen cylinders for hospital use. The CM said the Centre has adopted a "step-motherly attitude" towards West Bengal in allocating oxygen cylinders. Banerjee alleged that the BJP was disrupting the polling by involving central forces. "Seven of my polling agents were kidnapped yesterday at Jagaddal to disrupt free and fair voting. Nothing was done. Security forces were influenced to open fire in another area," she claimed. Asserting that her party was ready to extend all cooperation to the Election Commission, Banerjee said, "I have cancelled today's public meetings after the EC issued fresh directives on Thursday." Noting that the COVID safety norms were being flouted in West Bengal during campaigning, the Election Commission banned roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state with immediate effect and said no public meeting having more than 500 people would be allowed. "The EC always issues orders late in the evening, perhaps keeping in mind the itinerary of the PM. But, we are quick to abide by the norms as we work for the interest of people," she claimed. Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in West Bengal have already taken place, and the remaining two will be held on April 26 and 29. The CM reaffirmed that the Election Commission should have conducted the assembly polls in five phases by clubbing the last three phases into one and said that "the poll panel acted at the behest of the BJP."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission bans canvassing events that involve public gatherings||High-profile campaigning will move to the virtual platform and air waves in the remaining two phases of the Assembly elections in Bengal with the Election Commission of India on Thursday night banning practically all canvassing events that involve public gatherings. The only events permitted are public meetings of not more than 500 people, provided physical distancing norms are observed. The poll panel announcement was preceded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling off his on-site events in Bengal on Friday. The commission’s order was followed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelling her election meetings. Two curious events preceded the Election Commission’s order, which comes after weeks of huge election rallies that are being partly blamed for the intensity of the second wave of Covid-19. The commission had rejected Trinamul requests to club the last three phases of polling in Bengal to check the spread of Covid. ⚫ Around 5.30pm, Prime Minister Modi had tweeted that he was cancelling his Friday trip to Bengal, where he was scheduled to address four election rallies. Modi said he would be chairing high-level meetings to review the Covid-19 situation. ⚫ Around 6pm, a BJP leader posted a tweet asking whether “the conscience keepers of democracy who are in abundance” would question why Mamata Banerjee was continuing her rallies in Bengal. ⚫ A little after 8pm, the Election Commission issued the fresh restrictions on poll gatherings. Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah, whose acumen at explaining the importance of chronology to his followers was well-established during the CAA protests, had held three rallies in Bengal. Like the last time, he was spotted on stage with his mask pulled below his chin in at least one venue on Thursday. Soon after the commission’s order, Mamata tweeted: “In the wake of upsurge in #COVID19 cases across the country and the ECI order dated 22nd April, 2021, I am cancelling all my prescheduled meetings and we will reach out to the people virtually.” Mamata will also address media conferences. Before the Election Commission had issued its order, BJP sources had said the Prime Minister was cancelling his Friday trip to Bengal as there was concern about a perception that the “government and the party are obsessed with elections” when people were dying in large numbers from Covid-19. According to the commission, the fresh curbs have been imposed because many political parties and candidates are still not adhering to the prescribed safety norms at public gatherings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Fatal fall for jumbo, two trampled to death in Alipurduar ||Carcass of a female jumbo was found at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) and two persons were reported dead in elephant attacks in Alipurduar district on Thursday. According to local sources, around 10 elephants entered Panbari village — adjacent to Panbari forest under Gadadhar range of the BTR (west) division — on Wednesday night. The residents tried to contact foresters but failed. On Thursday morning, an adult female elephant was found lying dead in a paddy field. It is suspected that the jumbo was pregnant. The foresters said the elephant herd had returned to the Panbari forest and preliminary probe suggests that the animal died as it slipped because of heavy rainfall. “We are, however, waiting for the autopsy reports to ascertain the actual cause of death,” said Budhraj Sewa, field director of the BTR. Meanwhile, Dhumra Minj, 45, a resident of Panbari village, was trampled to death by an elephant in the Panbari forest on Thursday morning. His body was later recovered by police. In another incident, a wild elephant attacked the hutment of Bimal Roy, 49, at Uttar Shidhabari village near Jaldapara National Park on Wednesday night. Sources said the tusker first attacked the hutment and then trampled to death Roy. Three persons died while five others, including a child, suffered serious injuries when a dump-truck collided with a jeep on Thursday afternoon in Alipurduar. The incident took place near Dalmore tea estate on Birpara-Lankapara Road in the district. The deceased have been identified as Gulasan Suri, 48, Asha Oraon, 45, and Salu Oraon, 44, all residents of Garganda tea estate. The injured have been admitted to NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah plays polarisation card, claims majority||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday played the polarisation card in his poll campaign in South Dinajpur, a district that shares borders with Bangladesh, and has a substantial minority population. “Mamata Banerjee keeps on labelling me and the Prime Minister’s ‘outsiders’. We want to know from common people whether we are outsiders or Indians. She has tried to build this narrative to retain her vote bank…the same reason why she is against the CAA,” the home minister said at a public meeting in Buniadpur (under Harirampur Assembly seat) of the district. Shah also claimed that after the sixth phase of polls — held in 43 seats on Thursday — the BJP touched the majority mark in Bengal Assembly. Ever since elections started in Bengal, Shah has remarked on the probable number of seats his party has won in each phase, which other parties have called a mindgame. “After the fifth phase, we said the BJP will win 122 seats (out of 180). Now that the sixth phase of polling is being held today, we will touch the majority mark (148 seats). However, the remaining two phases (71 seats) are equally important to us as we want to secure 200 seats or more,” he said. Covid spike kept turnout low, but Shah’s speech was beamed virtually in many Assembly seats, BJP sources said. The home minister also spoke certain regional issues and old demands, such as opening of the Tentulia corridor through Bangladesh to cut the distance among north Bengal districts and between the Indian mainland by around 85km. According to the proposal, the route would move through a 4km stretch through Tentulia of Bangladesh. “We will work on the demand to open the Tentulia corridor. It will connect Chopra (in North Dinajpur) with Jalpaiguri district,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Outsiders’ take boat rides to booth ||At age 85, Narayan Halder looked weary as he got off his second consecutive boat ride across the river Ichhamati onto mainland India near Petrapole on Thursday morning. Halder, despite his age and the raging second wave of the pandemic, chose to take two boat rides from his home in Teroghawr village to the Indian mainland to cast his vote. Even though he is someone used to being an underwhelmed participant of a repetitive process and has lived a life without witnessing much political action around him. But Halder, one of less than 70 eligible voters in his village — officially a part of Bongaon’s Trinamul-run Chhawghoria panchayat — certainly realises the irony of his fate. “Our lives are beholden to the Border Security Force outpost, really,” he said pointing to his right just as a BSF jawan got off his outpost to adjust the octogenarian’s mask for a tighter fit. “You are going into the city now, you have to be careful,” the BSF officer sternly told the silent but bemused Halder. With its present still moored firmly in its past of having had only “13 homes”, which is what Teroghawr literally means, the village is still home to those 13 families who have less than 80 members between them today. During partition in 1947, they were designated to Indian territory, even though the Hindu-majority village, lying on a narrow strip of land crisscrossed by the river, is surrounded by Bangladesh on three sides. Residents here, one year into the pandemic, are not deeply invested in the political discourse gripping the country. Their only acquaintance with the virus has been through the cell phone on which Teroghawr happens to enjoy cellular data coverage and the occasional sensitisation drives undertaken by the BSF and local panchayat. “We are aware of the citizenship legislation, but we don’t have very strong views on it. Our ancestors have been here for over a century and we have paperwork going back decades,” said Uday Sarkar, another resident, admitting that they did enjoy the “solitude” the village enjoyed “by virtue of insignificance”. Sarkar added that people like him did not believe that there would be much change even if they get a certificate of citizenship. “We shall still remain outsiders in our own land,” he said. Ironically, at a time when both Trinamul and BJP — the saffron camp has parachuted almost all its central leaders to Bengal for campaigning — are desperately wooing the electorate, not a single candidate has stepped foot here in Teroghawr. “We are voters of Bongaon North but there has not been any campaign in our locality, because we don’t have many votes to offer,” said Sarkar. Echoing his octogenarian neighbour, Sarkar admitted that the BSF was the “only force of authority” in the lives of this village, neighboured by an even smaller village called Doghawria to the south. “The downside is that we live like outsiders. Every time we come to the mainland, we have to leave our IDs with the BSF when we enter, and so do our guests when they come to our village,” said Doghawria resident Biswajit Halder pensively. However, he acknowledges paperwork was a small price to pay in comparison to being delisted in the NRC like in Assam. “I’ve heard that about 14 lakh Bengalis have been declared non-Indians in Assam,” Biswajit said. The BJP’s 2019 citizenship thrust plays an outsized role in the psyche of the people in Assam and the Matuas, a community that dominates the electorate in Bongaon, as the fallout of the BJP’s Lok Sabha victory in 2019. In 2021 Bengal, the issue continues to polarise certain communities amid the ongoing state polls. A few days ago a panchayat member had come into these two villages to distribute booth slips, residents recall. “Other than that, we really have nothing to do with political parties or with the government. We really only interact with the BSF. I voted as a civic duty though, because I don't have much to complain about,” said octogenarian Halder, about to board a fishing boat to make the 20-minute journey back home from the mainland. The relationship between the BSF and the villagers is respectful but distant at best. “I think they realise we don’t encounter too much red tape on a daily basis, so they make up for it at times by harassing us when we come home with too many groceries,” joked Biswajit. “But they always let us go,” he added as an afterthought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant by polling official||The sixth phase of the Bengal Assembly polls involving 43 seats spread across four districts passed off relatively peacefully on Thursday, barring a few incidents. The Election Commission of India said it had received 1,992 complaints from various political parties during the day and addressed all of them. Some of the major incidents of the day: Police firing At least two persons were injured when state police allegedly opened fire to control violent BJP supporters outside the polling station No 35 at Ranaghat in the Bagdah constituency of North 24-Parganas district on Thursday afternoon. Sources said the police had to resort to a lathi-charge to disperse a mob gathered to protest the vandalism of their tent. However, the police later opened fire when the villagers allegedly became violent. Two persons — Budho Santra (65) and his nephew Mrityunjoy Santra (25) — who were returning from the field suffered bullet injuries. They were rushed to Bagdah hospital. BJP’s Bagdah candidate Biswajit Das alleged the police had unleashed panic among voters in a planned manner so that they didn’t turn up at the polling station to help the ruling party win the seat. Firing by miscreants Two Trinamul supporters were injured when a group of armed miscreants with suspected Trinamul link hurled bombs and fired indiscriminately outside Tangra Buniyadi Vidyalaya polling premises (polling station No. 79, 79A, 80 and 80A) of Ashok Nagar constituency in North-24 Parganas on Thursday afternoon. The injured — Manirul Mondal and Kabirul — suffered bullet injuries to the legs and were admitted to Barasat state general hospital. Sources said tension flared up when BJP candidate Tanuja Chakraborty arrived near the booth. The miscreants ransacked a number of police vehicles and hurled a dozen of crude bombs close to the polling station, unleashing panic in the area. A quick response team comprising state and central forces later brought the situation under control. Trinamul candidate Narayan Goswami, alleged that it was the central force personnel who had opened fire and injured the two party supporters. The EC ruled out the allegation of firing by the central force. ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant Trinamul workers launched agitation after a polling official chanted “Jai Shri Ram” inside the booth set up at Gobindapur GSP Primary school in the Purbasthali South Assembly segment in Burdwan East district. Sources said the official had chanted “Jai Shri Ram” after the mock poll had been completed successfully around 6.30am. Trinamul lodged a complaint with the EC against the official. EC officials said the polling personal had been removed from his duty immediately and an explanation sought from him. Voter cards snatched Trinamul supporters allegedly snatched away electoral photo identity cards of some Indian Secular Front activists at Amadanga in North 24-Parganas. The ISF alleged that when its supporters were on their way to cast their votes, the “Trinamul goons” snatched their cards to prevent them from exercising their franchise. Officials said proper steps were initiated soon after the complaints were lodged. Steps were initiated to ensure that the voters can cast their votes. Firing after polls A group of miscreants allegedly backed by Trinamul fired pellets at the house of an election agent of the BJP at Nangtagach in the Chopra Assembly constituency of North Dinajpur on Thursday evening after the polling got over. Two women and a man of the agent’s family have suffered injuries and have been rushed to the block health centre in Dalua. Assault by jawans At least three incidents of excesses by central force jawans were reported in North Dinajpur. While a booth level officer  was beaten up on the polling station premises by the jawans though he was carrying a government identity card, the CAPF personnel rained batons on villagers at two other places. The baton-charges have led to protests at those places. For the assault of the BLO, a complaint has been filed with police as political parties, barring the BJP, have again accused the CAPF of resorting to highhandedness. Fingers chopped Kanak Biswas, a polling agent of Trinamul, lost two fingers of the left arm when armed men with suspected BJP links attacked him while he was returning home after the voting. The incident occurred at Asan Nagar in Nadia’s Bhimpur. The victim’s wife Chaina is a member of the local gram panchayat. Police said Biswas had been attacked at a deserted place with a sharp weapon. “He tried to resist the attack with left hand when two of his fingers were chopped of,” Trinamul block president Biswajit Das said. Biswas was rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar. The BJP has denied the charges. Police threatened A Trinamul leader at Ausgram in East Burdwan, Arup Mirdhya, allegedly threatened a police officer that action would be taken against him when his party comes to power after May 2. He asked the officer whether they were trying to create another incident like Sitalkuchi at Pratappur village in the Ausgram Assembly segment. Polling agent hit A Trinamul polling agent, Jagannath Mondal, was beaten inside a booth in Barogram (booth no 9) in Mangolkot Assembly segment in East Burdwan around 11.30am. Trinamul alleged the BJP had attacked the agent without any provocation and the saffron party was trying to take complete control of the booth. Officials said a complaint had been lodged and the probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine policy is anti-people: Didi||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday fired off a stern letter to Narendra Modi, terming his government’s Covid-19 vaccination strategy as “highly discriminatory” and “anti-people”. The chief minister accused the Centre of bias in favour of the market, against the interests of the masses, and stressed the need for every Indian to get free vaccination. Hours after the Bengal chief minister reiterated her promise of universal — for those above the age of 18 — free vaccination for all Bengal residents from May 5, three days after the Assembly election results, she has sent the letter to the Prime Minister. “I am afraid, this policy is highly discriminatory and anti-people. Moreover, it appears that there is a bias in favour of market against the interest of common people,” wrote Mamata. The chief minister called out the Centre over its unprecedented decision to make states buy vaccines for the mass-immunisation drive. “In fact, never ever has any state in this country been asked to buy vaccines in any mass immunisation drive, let alone at such hugely high rates,” she added, in condemnation of the varied pricing of the vaccine, which has triggered a controversy. Earlier in the day, at several election rallies, Mamata had said the Centre had enough money in its coffers, but was unwilling to make vaccination free for the nation. She called out Modi and his cabinet repeatedly over not having done enough in the war against the pandemic when there was time before the second wave. In the morning, she had tweeted a statement against pricing differentiation for the vaccines. “One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can’t have one price for vaccine,” she had posted. “Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays— Centre or the States,” she had added on the microblogging site. Even in the letter, the Trinamul Congress chief brought up the differences in pricing, calling it “anti-federal”, “anti-poor” and “anti-youth”. “First, why should the prices of vaccines be different in cases of state government? GoI gets the vaccines from manufacturers @ Rs 150 per dose, while you have fixed for us, the states, a price of Rs 400 per dose. States will have to pay 167 per cent extra over and above the rates that GoI has fixed for itself,” she wrote to Modi. “Such peculiar differentiation of rates is also unheard of in Indian history.” The chief minister said fixing a rate of Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals was not only discriminatory but also “unhealthy”, as it could trigger unscrupulous mechanisms in the market. Mamata underscored the grave crisis for the nation, refusing to accommodate vaccine manufacturers being allowed to prioritise business now. “Every effort in this situation should be directed towards common good of people without any difference or discrimination,” she wrote. “I strongly feel that every Indian should get free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location, at one price, irrespective of who pays — the Centre or the states,” she added, seeking the Centre’s urgent intervention. The BJP, predictably, responded with yet another lavish praise of Modi, besides derision for Mamata, as she promised the universal free vaccination for Bengal from May 5. “She seems to forget that she would be thrown out of power on May 2 (the day of counting for the Assembly election). Whatever needs to be done after that, will be done by the BJP here,” said BJP state chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Bhattacharya yet again accused Mamata of trying to mislead the people — going to the extent of suggesting there was no great cause for worry even at this stage and intensity of the pandemic — and of fear-mongering to ensure less people vote in the phases that remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Finally, PM puts Covid fight above rallies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening announced cancellation of his four Bengal election events scheduled for Friday, citing the need to attend high-powered meetings on Covid-19. Modi announced the last-minute cancellation of the election rallies on Twitter. The Bengal BJP, which was in a quandary over what would happen to the party’s chances in the remaining 71 seats for the final two phases, later said Modi would address the people of the state virtually. “Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” posted Modi on the microblogging site at 5.24pm. The announcement reflected a belated desperation to salvage the intensifying perception of the government abdicating it’s responsibility to battle the pandemic and focusing only on wresting power in Bengal. On Friday, Modi would also hold a meeting with chief ministers of states badly affected by Covid-19, apart from other sessions including one with oxygen manufacturers. Lack of life saving oxygen amid a deluge of seriously infected patients has emerged as a big challenge and put the central government on the back foot. The Centre is fully responsible for the allocation and supply of medical oxygen to states. The central government has been widely blamed for not preparing for the second surge of Covid despite being aware of it. BJP managers indicated that there was thinking among the leaders that all big rallies by top honchos should be called off in view of the worsening Covid situation. Top honchos meant Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda. There was, however, no official announcement to clarify the situation. Sections in the BJP said the perception of the “government and the party obsessed with elections was harmful” when people were dying in large numbers from Covid-19. Around an hour after Modi’s tweet, the state unit of the BJP announced that instead of the four rallies — in Malda, Behrampore, Suri and Calcutta — the Prime Minister would address the people virtually, with state and district level-leaders present at the four venues. After Modi’s post, the BJP’s national general-secretary (organisation), B.L. Santosh, took a swipe at Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee for continuing with her “non-compliant rallies” in the state. Trinamul, however, was unwilling to relent. “India is being panned globally for the way the pandemic was allowed to get out of hand in the second wave. The buck stops with the Prime Minister who prioritises election victories over the health of Indian citizens,” said Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu. “Modi did what he did under pressure from the examples set by the likes of Mamata Banerjee,” he added. Basu pointed out that Amit Shah continued with his Bengal programmes, as usual, on Thursday as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Covid shadow on urban voters||Voter turnout on Thursday — in the sixth phase of the protracted eight-phase Bengal Assembly elections — was over 79 per cent till 5pm. But a closer look at the district-level voter turnout figures indicated a reluctance among many to go out and vote in the urban areas of North 24-Parganas, which has seen an alarming spike in the number of Covid infections in the last few days. Next to Calcutta, North 24-Parganas has become the Covid hotspot in the state. On Thursday, when Bengal had 11,948 lab-reported new infections in 24 hours, North 24-Parganas alone reported 2,372 positive cases, the second highest among districts. Calcutta reported 2,646 cases on Thursday. The overall polling percentage in the 17 Assembly segments in North 24-Parganas that voted on Thursday had been 75.94 per cent till 5pm. “It appears that the polling percentage is on the lower side, it is unlikely to reach the district’s average polling percentage of 82, a trend recorded in the past few elections,” said a poll panel source. Assembly segment-wise polling percentage revealed that the areas with a spurt in Covid-19 cases had lower voter turnout on Thursday than usual. For example, till 5pm, the turnout percentage in some of the constituencies like Bhatpara, Barrackpore, Noapara, Jagatdal, Khardah and Dum Dum North were 65, 67 70, 74, 77.06 and 76.3 per cent, respectively. “The voter turnout in these Assembly segments is unlikely to improve at the end of the day as reports suggest that there were no long queues in front of the booths even after 5pm. It is clear that people in these areas, which are close to Calcutta, were afraid of going out to cast their votes in the backdrop of the raging pandemic,” said a source. The fear factor, however, was less visible in rural areas as Assembly segments like Gaighata recorded 82 per cent polling till 5pm. Similarly, Baduria and Habra Assembly segments recorded 81 per cent and 82.58 per cent voter turnout till 5pm. “All these Assembly segments fall in the rural areas of the district and it appears that the turnout would surpass the average polling percentage of 82 per cent by the end of the day. This gives a clear hint that people in urban areas of the district were more fearful of going to the polling stations amid the spurt in Covid cases,” said a source. Another factor has drawn attention of the sources in the Election Commission of India is that turnout at the minority -dominated Assembly segments was higher than average this time. “For example, Amdanga, a minority-dominated Assembly segment, located near Barrackpore, has recorded 83.78 per cent voter turnout till 5pm, which was the highest in the district,” said a source. The trend was also noticed in the previous phase of polls where 16 Assembly segments of the district had gone for polls on April 16. Assembly segment Minakhan, another minority dominated seat, recorded 89.54 per cent voter turnout in the previous phase. In constituencies such as Degnanga, Haroa and Basirhat North — all minority-dominated — turnout was more than 88 per cent. Though there was a clear rural-urban divide in the voter turnout in North 24-Parganas on Thursday, the picture was different in the other districts that voted — Nadia, East Burdwan and North Dinajpur. All these recorded high voter turnout, irrespective of whether they were urban and rural parts of the districts. While East Burdwan reported 82.15 per cent voter turnout till 5pm, in the case of Nadia and North Dinajpur, the percentages were 82.67 and 77.76, respectively. Sources in the Election Commission said that the trend witnessed in urban North 24-Parganas posed a challenge before them ahead of the next two phases where the polls would be held in Calcutta’s Assembly seats. “Calcutta is the place where the maximum number of positive cases are reported every day. If the polling percentage falls here, it would also indicate a failure of the Election Commission as it would mean that the poll panel failed to make enough arrangements to assure the common people to come out and vote safely,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Storm in foothills, snow in Sandakphu||A sudden storm, coupled with thundershowers, razed various parts of Siliguri subdivision and adjoining Jalpaiguri district on Thursday morning, damaging hutments, cars and houses, while untimely snowfall caught Bengal’s highest point Sandakphu by surprise. While the storm inconvenienced people in the foothills, Sandakphu, in Darjeeling hills at an altitude of over 11,900 feet, saw “around six inches” of snowfall on Thursday, rare in April third week. Around 10.15am, the storm broke out in Siliguri and Jalpaiguri, prompting people to rush indoors. Traffic halted on roads in towns and villages and on national and state highways. No casualty was reported. A woman was injured in the storm in Jalpaiguri town. Chandan Pradhan, the secretary of Singalila Land Rover Owners’ Association, said it snowed “almost six inches” in Sandakphu and Phalut on Thursday morning. “Vehicles haven’t been able to move beyond Chauri Chowk about 3km below Sandakphu,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata slams Modi for Asansol riot speech||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday pulled up Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a “provocative speech” in his poll campaign in Asansol and appealed to people to maintain harmony and reject the BJP’s alleged divisive agenda. “I have learnt from the media about what the Prime Minister said in his election speech. He shamelessly reminded (people about) the unfortunate riot of 2018 with an aim to instigate and divide people. This does not suit a Prime Minister,” Mamata said in Asansol, speaking in Hindi. She was campaigning for Trinamul nominees from Asansol (North), the largest Muslim populated constituency in West Burdwan, and Barabani Assembly segments. The Asansol North Assembly segment was among the worst-hit in the 2018 riot in which at least three people were killed. Unofficial sources put the toll at four. Mamata reminded people about the “nobility” of Maulana Imdadullah Rasheedi, imam of a local mosque who lost his son in that riot but appealed for peace. “Do you remember the imam here who appealed for peace even after losing his son in the riot? He appealed to everyone to stop the riot despite losing his son. His appeal helped us resume normality here. Do you remember him?” she asked. Mamata said people lived and worked here in harmony since long. “But the Prime Minister on that day tried to disturb peace here. I am feeling ashamed,” she said. Rasheedi’s younger son, Sibtullah, who had appeared for his Class X board exams, had been picked up by a mob. His wounded body was found the next day. He was suspected to have been beaten to death. Rasheedi appealed to people at the Idgah Maidan, where his son was buried, to maintain peace. “My son has died, but I don’t want anyone else to lose his child. If you strike back, I shall leave the mosque as well as this town,” he said. The incident had caught media attention and helped the administration calm the situation. Mamata also called Asansol MP Babul Supriyo’s nomination as BJP candidate from Tollygunge Assembly seat an insult to Asansol’s people. “You elected Babul Supriyo as an MP from here twice. But he escaped to Tollygunge to contest in the Assembly election. Was it not an insult to you?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP nominee livid over central force ‘inaction’||Anadi Ghosh, the BJP candidate from East Burdwan’s Ketugram, on Thursday accused the central force jawans of inaction when he was allegedly confined and heckled inside a polling station in his constituency. In a first on the sixth phase of elections, the BJP apparently joined Trinamul in blaming the central forces. Ghosh not only accused the central forces of being mute spectators to his plight, but also praised the state police — which the BJP in Bengal normally vilifies — for rescuing him from alleged Trinamul goons. “It was a very sad experience for me, as the central force jawans did not come to my rescue even after my appeals. I called up the inspector-in-charge of Ketugram, Suman Chatterjee, who rescued me,” said BJP’s Ghosh. Prior to the sixth phase, Trinamul lodged over 800 complaints against central forces, to the Election Commission as the BJP heaped praise on both the forces and the commission. Trinamul’s attacks intensified after the firing by central forces at Sitalkuchi on April 10 that killed four men. Ghosh, a Trinamul turncoat, joined the BJP a few months ago and was nominated against his former party colleague and Trinamul MLA from Ketugram, Sheikh Shahanawaz. The BJP candidate went to Khaspur village, where he involved in an argument with a group of Trinamul workers, who were allegedly within 100 metres of a booth. “Our candidate entered the polling station in fear of an attack, after he was hurled abuses and threatened with physical harm. But when he again faced agitation by Trinamul workers inside the polling premises, the central forces did not come forward to help,” said a BJP worker with Ghosh. Suman Chatterjee, the inspector-in-charge of Ketugram, said: “The situation became heated as the candidate started talking to voters. We rescued him.” Many Trinamul leaders in East Burdwan expressed surprise to hear of Ghosh’s complaint. “I am happy at least one BJP candidate faced the problems with central forces,” said Shahanawaz, Trinamul nominee from Ketugram and MLA. BJP workers in at least half a dozen places on Thursday accused central forces of inaction. Three BJP workers who set up a camp in Ketugram’s Santinagar were allegedly beaten up by Trinamul workers in front of the central forces. “Central forces were standing idle when Trinamul men beat us up with sticks and rods. The goons of Trinamul hurled brickbats at state police, who managed to flee but the central forces did not react,” alleged  Mondal who got cuts in his ears and back. In Rujur village of the same seat, six crude bombs were hurled allegedly by Trinamul workers to drive away voters. A woman, Mandira Majhi, with her six-month-old, who was allegedly pushed into a drain for voting for the BJP, said the central forces did not help her. Allegations against central forces for lathi-charge came from Swarupnagar and Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||North East||Assam Elections 2021: Congress shifts its candidates to resort  ||The Opposition Congress on Thursday started shifting its candidates to a resort near Guwahati to “instil a sense of belonging” to the party. The move is fuelled largely by the perceived threat of poaching by the ruling BJP if the recently concluded keenly contested three-phase Assembly polls throws up a less than a decisive verdict on May 2. Till evening, 70 of the party’s candidates have checked in at the resort where it has booked 97 rooms. Assam has 126 Assembly seats. “The remaining 25 will check in tomorrow (Friday). Candidates of our ally All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) will also start checking in from tomorrow (Friday). Candidates of our other ally —  the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) — will be staying separately,” a Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) leader said. Several senior leaders The Telegraph spoke to said they have checked in to “relax” after months of campaigning, “know each other” and prepare for May 2 counting day and beyond. They said it was important to instil a sense of belonging in our candidates as well as candidates fielded by our allies as the senior partner. The Congress had earlier flown AIUDF candidates to Rajasthan but they returned last Friday following a surge in Covid-19 cases. BPF candidates had gone to Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh. The Congress-led grand alliance or mahajot has 10 parties. The move comes in less than a week of the Congress holding a meeting of senior leaders and candidates at a hotel near Guwahati. “Though from the same party (Congress) most of us don’t know each other. This stay will help us to know each other, know what the party expects from us and also share our expectations. The focus will be on what the party will do and can do unitedly… which was seen during the campaign. Despite differences, all senior leaders spoke in one language," a PCC leader said. An All India Congress Committee (AICC) leader told The Telegraph that it was also a preventive step against the ruling BJP after what it had done in Manipur, Goa and Madhya Pradesh to “manipulate” the people’s mandate. “The party leadership is proactively reaching out to candidates. The party leadership believes more such inclusive interactions will instil confidence and a sense of belonging to the party. We want to send the message that we are prepared for any eventuality, something which we are accused of not doing in Manipur and Goa despite finishing as the single largest party," he said. The Congress had earlier this month moved the Election Commission requesting a slew of directives to “maintain transparency, impartiality for fair and smooth counting of votes", including seeking access/link of the CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because they fear that the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
23-04-2021||Opinion||Thought experiments||The idea of India was once evoked quite often. People felt India as a nation, a civilization, and a democracy had a message for the world. The Nehruvian idea of democracy seemed effervescent and alive. Today, a few decades later, we have to confess that the idea of India is nostalgia, reduced to a lifeless flicker by the Bharatiya Janata Party regime. One cannot even say, ‘India is dead. Long live India’, with confidence in traditional norms because the idea of India has run dry. The literal combination of autocracy, mediocrity and incompetence that the BJP brought to the table has devastated us. Narendra Modi behaves like a Vladimir Putin or a Donald Trump without realizing that they too have destroyed the institutions that sustained their societies. The globalization of autocratic mediocrity is a style that India, Turkey, the United States of America, Brazil and Russia share. Years ago, Winston Churchill defined Soviet Russia as an enigma wrapped in a mystery. Looking at India today, we have to admit we are a cliché wrapped in the repetition of endless promises. Behind post-normal, post-truth, it is clear that India as a modern imagination has run out. Nothing that Amit Shah or Modi will do is going to help. We need new concepts, new forms of thinking, and an exorcism of old ideas. The expert in blinders must be exiled till we review the basic models of our existence. The first sign of crisis, the need for a paradigm change, is the desiccation of language. Our key concepts are deadwood. Words like development, democracy, security make little sense as they turn more ironic or paradoxical and eat into the very institutions that we valued. Our regime uses language to beat up people, forcing many dissenters to confront the fact that the only way to be genuinely Indian is to be anti-national. The idea of India as a civilization and as a vibrant civil society eludes the current regime. Worse, our Opposition and the regime enact a Punch and Judy charade where there is no real debate or options. Freebies have replaced ideas and ideologies have lost any semblance of intelligence. The senility of concepts and their genocidal cost are obvious. Today, it is not a cost-benefit analysis of policy that we need, but an understanding of suffering as imposed by each of these concepts. Development, instead of being inclusive, has marginalized, eliminated and displaced millions of people. The dividing line between refugee and citizen has been blurred. One needs a mourning wall for the languages, species, crafts and human beings that the regime has driven to extinction. Yet it is indifferent to the situation. Its illiteracy or indifference to the suffering of migrants in the informal economy or the travails of protesting farmers is scandalous. Nation-building has become a vacuous exercise as we increasingly rely on political fixers and corporate brokers propped up by the media. The death of keywords is accompanied by the end of trust in institutions. The policy documents we produce, the political games we play, show that this regime is committed to the death of institutions. It has desiccated civil society, emptied the university, emasculated the courts, made party and trade union look banal. The elite seems to play along with this charade. Nobody is publicly articulating this loss. We are playing rhetorical games when institutions have to be seen as acts of trusteeship. We salute a Gandhi on a postcard, welcome him with a tourist’s delight, but Gandhi in a post-truth society has no place in what we call the post-normal. The Covid era emptied out what majoritarianism neglected to destroy. The sad thing is that we have no great narratives or narrators to capture this period. We substitute policy for storytelling with devastating consequences. There is an absence of ethics in every act of assessment. A few decades ago, Ian Hacking, the Canadian historian of science, said that the real task facing contemporary governance was the maintenance and management of memory. The information revolution as an act of abstraction wiped out memory as an embodied narrative. You can store information in a machine, but memory in a human being has to be performatively alive. This regime specializes in the erasure of memory through its truncated, vindictive sense of history, its linear sense of development and community. It has erased memory and caring as imaginations. Otherwise India would not have been autistic about the Covid migration or the farmers’ protest. This is a regime that fetishizes the cow but is presiding over the death of agriculture. Our nation watches indifferently as it sees the living myth of democracy, from Bollywood to agriculture, dying out. The standard institutions like the trade union or the current university, the hypocrisy of a separation of powers, or the emptiness of ideas following sustainability and wellness will not do; they will not survive the Covid crisis and its vectors of indifference. One has to ask which institutions will survive the complexity of the time. A friend pointed out that the satsang and the langar survive crises gloriously. So do the guru-shishya idea of excellence. Modern institutions have been tattered. For example, the university as a giant tutorial college makes little sense. The university had to be two-generational, for students of 18-25 and the adults returning to the university after 45-50. We need a blend of values. We cannot allow corporations to appropriate ecology. Land, sea, livelihood are too sacrosanct for their rapacity. We need to create new experiments to sustain nature. Civil society should create a sense of the seed, of the river, as a mythic imagination. We need new myths because modernity has not been productive with myths. Myths capture a political and empirical truth. India must relearn to be a civilization, abandoning the idiot uniform of the nation. John Maynard Keynes, like a modern Moses, once declared that in the long run we are all dead. A quotable quote, which was elusively obvious. One does not know how to respond. Does one think of the short run? Does one seek closure or wait for the millennium? How does one respond to the violence of our system, which is so pervasive that it has become a creative force? Today, violence is so fratricidal that the marginal, the nomad, the displaced, the migrant, the minority are all refugees. We have become genocidal in our impulses against our own people. We see violence as conspicuous consumption, replay it like a primordial ritual. We have ritualized violence. Before election time, the regime carries out a spate of violence against the minorities. The violence we face is not merely physical. It is abstract. It seeks the rational elimination of populations where riots became a form of exterminism. We idealize violence as an expression and banalize its consequences. India has to find an answer to endemic violence, which cannot be answered by a mere change of regime. The rules of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act represent the logic of the system. Neither theology nor social science even wants to answer the question. We have a regime that looks for a form of sustainable violence to prolong itself. One has no answer to that. Few even want to raise the question. India may not be as crass as the Chinese imprisoning a million Uighur people. But we are not far behind. Our China envy is making us as brutal. We seem to be dying or being brutalized in the short run also. It is not the poverty line and its descriptions we need to be obsessed with. Rather, one needs to be concerned with what was once felicitously described as the Plimsoll line of citizenship. Citizenship is an empty, almost liminally precarious, term. Most Indians have not been regularized into citizens. Most marginals, migrants, workers in the informal economy and people in subsistence economies live below the wellness and welfare of citizenship. The violence that the State subjects them to is virtually left unexplored. It is clear that standard tropes will not work as institutions have decayed and categories are inept. We need a ritual of rethinking, which encompasses civilization and civil society, a ritual where the current states of India also become a metaphor for a global problem. One needs a sense of thought experiments, an exploration of alternatives, a Hari Katha of dissenting imaginations where democracy reinvents itself as a plurality of life worlds and lifestyles. The university has to be home to some of them only to recognize it is no longer the origin of many ideas. Yet one needs its pedagogic power of gossip and diffusion. The ensuing debate has to be brought alive as gossip, dream, drama, myth and debate. Democracy has to discover its hearing aids, its sense of a political sensorium, and its idea of vernacular. India might have to show the world that rethinking civilization and democracy has to be an inclusive and experimental exercise. Otherwise, there will be no relief from the mediocrity of politics as cliché. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Schools with different aims||March brought a surprise for some 650 Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country. A proposal has been floated to convert some JNVs into Sainik Schools in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Considering this proposal, ‘establishing a new school’ can now also mean restructuring a pre-existing one. There is a high possibility that more JNVs may be converted into Sainik Schools as the Union budget of 2021 mentioned that the government aims to establish 100 new Sainik Schools. This proposal has been met with opposition on grounds such as a fee hike and the exclusion of students from rural areas. However, apart from these well-placed concerns, there is a bigger reason that warrants our attention in this matter. The ignorance of the government in appreciating the fundamental difference in the objectives and purposes behind establishing these two different types of schools can lead to a major setback for students from rural India. The idea of Sainik Schools was conceptualized in the 1960s. The vision statement of the Sainik Schools Society unambiguously says that they shall act as feeder institutions to the National Defence Academy and other military academies. Individual aspirations of students are thus expected to be in line with this vision. Unsurprisingly, the Sainik Schools Society, responsible for the management of Sainik Schools, works under the supervision of the ministry of defence. JNVs are managed by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. It functions through an executive committee chaired by the minister for education. JNVs came into existence almost three decades after the first Sainik School started. These residential schools were conceptualized with different objectives in mind. While Sainik Schools were meant to create a pool of eligible candidates to join the armed forces, JNVs were supposed to provide quality education to students from rural areas irrespective of the career they aspired to. Accordingly, the fee in JNVs has been kept low to make them affordable for the targeted group. Over the years, an impressive number of students from JNVs have joined IITs and other prestigious educational institutions. They are now proudly serving in the private as well as the public sector. They are entrepreneurs and professionals who are aiding the growth of the nation. They are bureaucrats and armed forces officers contributing to the governance and defence of the country. JNVs continue to provide many students an opportunity to dream big. The difference in the conceptualization of these schools is not limited to the difference in the expected career outcomes. Sainik Schools have traditionally admitted only boys since female candidates are not considered for recruitment at the NDA or other military academies recruiting cadets after Class XII (except for Armed Forces Medical College and Army College of Nursing). JNVs on the other hand are co-educational institutions by design since their inception. JNVs have been instrumental in promoting co-education and educational parity. While Sainik Schools were created specifically to meet a functional requirement of the nation, JNVs were designed to meet the aspirations of the nation. It is important that the government keeps this diversity of purpose in mind before going ahead with the proposed conversion of JNVs into Sainik Schools. A Sainik School cannot serve the objectives of a JNV. Even if a Sainik School is better funded than a JNV, it cannot provide a similar environment to the students. At present there is only one JNV in every district with a few exceptions. In my opinion, we need many more JNVs than we presently have. After all, a strong nation requires a large, talented and well-educated workforce. We must continue to enable our students from rural India to become engineers, doctors, lawyers, accountants, entrepreneurs or whatever they wish to become, and be a part of this workforce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Open secret: electoral bonds||Transparency is not one of the better-known virtues of political parties. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, however, unsettled this notion recently by disclosing the source of the donation to its party through electoral bonds in its 2019-20 contribution report to the Election Commission. Although the Bharatiya Janata Party introduced electoral bonds for the purpose of contributions to political parties in the name of transparency in 2017, the system protects the identity of the donors and receivers. That electoral bonds were brought in through the Finance Act, 2017 was in itself controversial; besides, the earlier limit on a single company’s donation to a political party was also removed. The government’s argument — overriding the Opposition’s objections — was that electoral bonds would ensure that payment was made through banks and would thus eliminate the evil of unaccounted for money. But activists point out that the anonymity prevents voters from knowing who is contributing to which party and how much, thus violating their right to know. Although the Supreme Court dismissed a plea by the Association for Democratic Reforms seeking to stop the sale of electoral bonds before the ongoing assembly elections, it reportedly asked earlier whether there were controls on the end use of the money. It can be misused — to foment violence for example. The Bharatiya Janata Party has been the greatest beneficiary of contributions through electoral bonds, but that is neither here nor there. The central issue is the problematic use to which the opacity of electoral bonds can be put. The JMM has broken through this by declaring the source of the contribution it has received; it is a simple enough matter if political parties wish to do it. To follow the BJP-led government’s initial argument further: since this money is accounted for, its source and amount are the easiest to declare. Why be opaque while paying lip-service to transparency? A comment by the secretary of the JMM is pertinent in this context. According to him, parties such as the BJP may not be disclosing details of donors, but the JMM has nothing to hide. Perhaps other parties would feel compelled to demonstrate to voters that they have nothing to hide either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Muted truth: Press freedom||India’s consistency in performing dismally on a number of key indices pertaining to freedom and democracy is remarkable. It has ranked at an appalling 142nd spot out of 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index 2021 compiled by Reporters Without Borders. This is the second year in a row that India has ranked 142nd, the implications of which are troubling. For one, the lack of improvement on an index widely seen as a dependable record of how the fourth estate is faring globally indicates that there has been no change in the conditions under which journalists in India have to operate. The muscular attempts by the Bharatiya Janata Party government to compel the media to be compliant or derail robust investigative reporting are no secret; the index makes the picture clearer. Four journalists in India were killed in 2020 for their work; an increasing number of journalists are being imprisoned and charged with sedition —punishable by life imprisonment — for questioning the Narendra Modi government. The traditional methods of intimidation — reducing advertisements to a trickle — are changing too. For instance, there is concern with the new media being corralled through seemingly necessary legislations: the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 has been criticized for being an attempt to regulate news further. Significantly, the coronavirus pandemic has been readily used as a pretext for not just stopping public protests but also preventing journalists — especially in Asian countries, the Middle East and Europe — from accessing sensitive information and reporting in the field. Malaysia, China and Pakistan have been reported as having used the pandemic as an excuse to block press freedoms. A major fallout of the consequent gap created by the absence of fair, investigative reporting during a global health crisis has been the spread of disinformation, which has deepened the distrust towards journalists; 59 per cent of respondents in 28 countries said that scribes deliberately propagate false information. This is unfortunate, but is closely tied to the culture of political intimidation that often leads to media institutions being complicit with the powers that be. Ideally, journalism should function as “the best vaccine against disinformation”. When the presidents of Brazil and Venezuela — the countries ranked 111 and 148 on the index — promoted medically unproven Covid-19 remedies, investigative journalists debunked their false claims. At a time when honest reportage is more important than ever, there is a case for devising an alternative economic model for funding a truly independent media, the sovereignty of which would be hard for powerful men to compromise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Turn the page||Sir — This year, World Book Day — it is celebrated today — is especially significant, given the long stretches of social isolation forced upon people across the world by the pandemic. It was found that 35 per cent of the global population has been reading more during this period. This is not surprising. In these difficult times, reading can prove to be the only means of respite. However, visiting bookstores or libraries at this hour is hardly an option for most. Readers should thus come together to create an online community where free e-books and audiobooks are made accessible to at least those with access to digital media. Rupa Das, Calcutta Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has appealed to the states to focus on micro-containment zones and to resort to lockdowns as the very last measure so as to minimize loss of lives and livelihoods (“PM’s goal: Rescue country from lockdown”, April 21). He has also requested the states to assure migrant workers that they will be vaccinated and not lose their jobs. But he has omitted in his address what his government intends to do to ease their situation. Lowering the eligibility for vaccination to the age of 18 from May 1 is a welcome move. However, much hinges on the availability of vaccines and the willingness of people to get vaccinated. The decision to allow manufacturers to set the price of the vaccines for the states and making them available in the open market will introduce the element of profit-making into the production and supply of vaccines. Even as vaccination is ongoing, other measures need to be taken to bring the pandemic under control. Wearing masks and physical distancing would help contain the disease. Existing healthcare facilities are proving to be inadequate at coping with the surge in the number of hospitalized patients. During the trough of infections, the government was busy being triumphalist and did not show the foresight to scale up healthcare facilities in anticipation of a possible resurgence of the disease, even though this was the trend across the world. Hospitals are now stretched thin; the loss of life for want of hospital beds, oxygen and drugs is tragic. Visuals of cremations and burials abound. In Nashik, 22 patients on ventilator support recently lost their lives on account of interruptions in oxygen supply. The coronavirus is not leaving anytime soon. It is spreading faster in India than anywhere else in the world. We are left to combat it by following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, ramping up testing and tracing, quickening the pace of vaccination and improving health facilities. Meanwhile, the government must provide succour to all the impoverished households. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — On Tuesday evening, in his address to the nation, the prime minister appealed to state governments to use lockdowns only as a last resort so that economic activities can continue unabated. This is in sharp contrast to his own decision to impose a sudden and strict nationwide lockdown last year, with a notice of just four hours. This brought immense hardship upon the people of the country. Tuesday’s appeal by Narendra Modi is a tacit admission of the grave mistake he made a year back. This year, massive election rallies were allowed to be held, many of which were addressed by the prime minister himself. Moreover, an avoidable event like the Kumbh Mela was also permitted. The Union government continues to make mistakes that help the pandemic spread rapidly. The country and its people deserve much better. D. Bhutia, Guwahati Sir — Narendra Modi is right in saying that a lockdown should be the last resort and the focus should be on micro-containment. Last year’s unexpected lockdown had ruined the nation’s economy and caused inexplicable misery to lakhs of migrant labourers across the country. This time, the prime minister has appealed to the states to safeguard the health of the labourers. He has also urged them to assure workers to remain where they are and get vaccinated. This will go a long way in controlling mass migration and  help reduce the rapid transmission of the disease. It would also enable the workers to remain employed and earn a living. M. Pradyu, Kannur Sir — The recent episode surrounding the cricketer, Heath Streak, is a stark reminder that the scourge of illegal betting and match-fixing continues to poison and taint the gentleman’s game. Now that the International Cricket Council has banned the former Zimbabwe captain for eight years for his misdemeanours in several games in 2017 and 2018 — he was the bowling coach for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the Indian Premier League in 2018 — one must wait for the move by the Board of Control for Cricket in India. It also remains to be seen if the incident will have any impact on the KKR in the current edition of the tournament. Both the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals were banned from the IPL for two years for alleged betting and fixing activities. Such activities take away the game’s true competitive spirit. Streak has smeared the reputation of the game. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad primary school backyard caves in, no injuries ||A 40 feet deep and 10 feet wide crater developed on Friday morning in the backyard of a government primary school around 40 km from Dhanbad district headquarters, allegedly due to illegal mining. There were no injury reports as the school, Naya Prathmik Vidyalaya, is closed because of the statewide lockdown. Local residents, who rushed to the site, nabbed one person for his alleged involvement in illegal mining and handed him over to the Nirsa Police. Police barricaded the area and informed the Eastern Coal field Limited  management about the incident. Former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee, said, “The incident took place due to the illegal mining and had the school been open a major tragedy could have taken place.” “A nexus of illegal miners, some local leaders and local police are operating illegal mines leading to several people dying due to incidents like land subsidence or roof collapse,” said Chatterjee to The Telegraph Online. Chatterjee suggested filling the illegal mining sites with the fly ash abundantly found in Nirsa area to seal the site and said that at present the administration carries out the filling of the illegal mining sites with the soil and mud which is again dug up by illegal miners. Officer in Charge of Nirsa Police station, Umesh Singh confirmed the incident of  land subsidence in Kuhuka Basti but denied any illegal mining as the result of the incident. “We predict the blasting carried in the adjoining mines of ECL as the cause of the accident and have informed the ECL management which will carry out the filling up of the crater” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant scouts for space to set up Covid care facilities ||Chief minister Hemant Soren visited the TB Sanatorium at Itki on city outskirts on Friday to look into the possibility of setting up a oxygen-supported facility at the government centre in the wake of a crisis of beds amid a staggering increase in the mumber of Covid-19 cases daily. Accompanied by district officials, Hemant reached the facility in the afternoon and spent over an hour talking to the authorities there to fast track the process. Later Hemant told the media that in the last few days, the government had increased beds (oxygen supported) to 9,098 from about 2,500 across the state. “The government is constantly exploring options to increase beds, mainly oxygen support ones. Following hectic efforts over the last one week, we have now touched 9,098 oxygen beds in the state, which is way higher than what we had before. We are working out ways to install as many beds with oxygen support," he said. The chief minister said that so far, the trend in the state is that the city hospitals are overwhelmed with cases, while smaller districts like Pakur are barely stressed. “In Pakur, we have about 100 oxygen beds. But, I have learnt that barely four to five are currently occupied. In contrast, places like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad are stressed. This is the area which needs to be addressed on priority. We are now planning to create a circuit of districts where we can divert or channelise patients so that rush at the hospitals in bigger cities is minimized. We are brainstorming ways to put underutilised resources in districts to good use,” he said. According to district officials, the plan is to set up a 300-bed oxygen supported centre at Itki within a fortnight. Itki hospital currently has a 100-bed general ward.  Another 50-bed cottage is under construction. Simultaneously, the state government is also working on plans to convert a portion of the Mega Sports Complex at Hotwar into a Covid care centre with oxygen support. "About 700 beds were laid out at the mega sports complex over two weeks for asymptomatic patients. But these haven't been usebeacuse of a lack of human resources. Deliberations are on to at least convert 200 beds to oxygen and ventilator supported ones at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Govt teachers on Covid duty demand protective gear, Rs 50 lakh insurance ||Government school teachers have accused the state government of playing with their lives by assigning them Covid-19 duty at critical areas without providing them enough protective gear at a time when the second wave of the pandemic is taking a heavy toll and demanded they be provided with special insurance cover. Airing their concerns, two teachers’ outfits wrote letters to chief minister Hemant Soren and chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday demanding their immediate intervention at a time when at least a dozen government staffers had died in the last 10 days. The Akhil Bharatiya Prathamik Sikshak Sangh (ABPSB), a state level outfit of primary school teachers, told the chief secretary that several teachers had been assigned duty at ICUs, CCUs, and other departments in Covid care centres across the the state but without the necessary safeguards. Naseem Ahmed, spokesperson of the sangh said, “Like others, teachers too are equally vulnerable and are doing Covid duty assigned by the government at different hospitals, testing centres without any safety measures. We have not been given any PPE kits, masks or gloves. Who will take the onus if anyone dies?” Ahmed demanded that the government declare them as frontline workers and provide Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for them. Ekakrit Para Shikshak Sangharsh Morcha (EPSSM), a statewide outfit for para-teachers, issued a simialr demand. In its letter to the chief minister on Friday, the morcha said that lives of over 60,000 para-teachers were at stake as they were working without any safety net. “Para-teachers aren’t permanent staff of the state government, but still they are used for Covid duty. Many are working day and night to assist the government without any basic protective gear. In recent times, many para-teachers who are 50 years old have contacted the virus and even died but the government hasn’t provided them any assistance. We demand Rs 50 lakh insurance for every para-teacher engaged in Covid duty,” the letter said. Among government officials who have died due to Covid is Ramgarh district labour superintendent Digamber Mahto who breathed his last on Thursday morning. Mahto was one of the key officials who played a crucial role to bring back stranded residents after an avalanche struck Chamoli in Uttrakhand last year. State school education secretary Rajesh Kumar Sharma did not respond when this website called him for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||14 passengers test positive for Covid at Tatanagar station||Tatanagar railway station director on Friday said 14 of the 205 passengers tested positive for Covid-19 after a thermal scan and a Rapid Antigen Test at the railway premises. This was the highest number of positive cases found at the A-1 category railway station so far. H.K. Balmuchu, station director, said the Covid positive passengers were found in three trains - Mumbai- Howrah Gitanjali Express, Ahmedabad - Howrah Express and Howrah-Barbil Janshatabdi Express. At present, all express trains are being run as special trains. "The maximum number of Covid positive passengers were found in Howrah bound Gitanjali Express. The health department team noted down all relevant information (name, address and contact numbers) of the affected passengers  and they were asked to stay in home quarantine, " said Balmuchu. According to the station director, a help desk was set-up on the station premises and passengers arriving at the station in trains from other states are continuously undergoing thermal screening for more than two weeks. A health department staff deployed at the station said, "This was the first time Covid positive passengers were found in double digits. On Monday, six passengers were found positive out of 235 passengers who underwent thermal screening while last week four passengers were found positive on a single day out of a total of 260 passengers." Soon after the detection, the railway authorities at Tatanagar sanitised the platforms and all the surrounding areas of the station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Country's second 'Oxygen Express' leaves for UP from Bokaro||The second 'Oxygen Express' carrying about 50 tonnes of medical oxygen from Bokaro Steel Plant departed for Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh on Friday. The Ro-Ro (roll-on-roll-off) train with three tankers left from Bokaro at about 1 pm, and will reach Lucknow on Saturday morning. The first Oxygen Express train had left for Maharashtra from Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The transportation of liquid medical oxygen is being done with road tankers placed on flat railway wagons. An initiative by the Railways, Oxygen Express will transport oxygen across the country over the next few days. Empty tankers will be loaded with liquid medical oxygen from Bokaro and Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. “SAIL and Rail once again continue to serve the nation in difficult times by making life-saving fluid reach the state battling a crisis of medical oxygen amid Covid-19 surge,” said Amarendu Prakash, director in-charge of BSL, who was present at the spot. An Oxygen Express train with three empty oxygen tankers came from  Lucknow and arrived at Bokaro Steel City railway station early on Friday morning. The train was then moved to Diesel Loco Shed, Bokaro where the empty road tankers were unloaded and taken to Bokaro Steel Plant for filling up of liquid medical oxygen. After loading of a total of 46.34 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen at Bokaro Steel Plant, the three tankers were re-loaded in wagons of Oxygen Express train which later left Bokaro railway station in the afternoon on its way to Lucknow. Area Railway Manager, Bokaro Railway, Prabhat Prasad said that the wagons after being reloaded with oxygen filled tankers departed at about 12.45 pm. Railway Minister, Piyush Goyal, railway board, South Eastern Railway and Adra Railway Division are monitoring the activities. BSL curtailed the use of liquid oxygen in their steel plants to divert the supply to hospitals in Jharkhand and other states in this Covid crisis, said Prakash. In this month of April, BSL alone supplied 764 tonnes of liquid oxygen to Ranchi, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharastra and Madaya Pradesh by road transport. In the last 24 days, 230 tonnes of liquid oxygen was sent to Uttar Pradesh through the road route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Underground fire erupts for second time in a month in BCCL area||A fire at the underground seams, first seen on April 7, at North Tisra Colliery of Lodna Area of BCCL about 15 km from Dhanbad district headquarters aggravated on Friday leading to huge amounts of smoke and gas billowing out and hampering the production work. Residents of several surrounding localities like Golden Pahari, MOCP, Jag Dhaura, Bandh Dhaura, Tisra, Bangali Kothi and Gokuldham Park were panic stricken and informed the BCCL management about the development. A team of senior officials of the company led by Assistant General Manager of Lodna Area P.K. Mishra and others including, the project officer, Pankaj Kumar and Colliery Manager D.K. Maji inspected the site. An operation was launched to tackle the fire by dumping earth, soil and boulders on it. Enraged over the incident, the colliery workers gheraoed the BCCL officers team demanding fool proof measures to douse the fire. The team assured the local residents and workers that gas coming out at the site was not methane and rather Carbon Monoxide and Carbon Dioxide. Uma Shankar Singh, a worker at the colliery and the secretary of Jharkhand Colliery Mazdoor Union said, “The fire situation aggravated during the early morning today leading to huge amounts of smoke and gas creating difficulties in production work.” “Similar situation was witnessed in colliery on April 7 after which fire fighting measures were initiated by dumping mixture of soil, earth and boulders over the fire but the operation was discontinued after only three days and consequently the fire again erupted in the colliery affecting production and endangering the life of common people,” said Singh. Fagu Napit, a trade union leader and local resident said, “If effective steps are not taken to completely douse the fire the entire coal seam of around 52 feet will be burnt to ashes” AGM, P.K. Mishra said,“We are also concerned about the fire and will carry out borehole in the area to douse fire and simultaneously also excavate out the burning coal from the colliery as a long term solution of the fire problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BCCL director personnel reviews Covid treatment centre||Dhanbad: The director personnel of Dhanbad based coal major Bharat Coking Coal Limited, P.V.K.R.M. Rao, on Thursday inspected the Covid designated ICU of Central Hospital to take stock of treatment of patients. Rao, accompanied by other senior officials of BCCL also reviewed the medicine availability and oxygen supply at the hospital. He instructed the Central Hospital authorities, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital to ensure best treatment to the patients. The 60 bed ICU of Central Hospital is the first Covid designated ICU in the district with state of the art facilities. BCCL has been following all the Covid protocols including wearing masks at its headquarters at Koyla Bhavan and all other offices. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: An oxygen plant was given clearance and made operational in Demotand industrial area close to Hazaribagh town following the increased demand with rapid rise in Covid cases. Mahirisi air solution plant was constructed last year but did not get an NOC from the state government. Chief secretary, Sukhdev Singh, coordinated with different departments to get the clearance in 24 hours. Officials said the district needed 200 cylinders daily and the new plant has the capacity to supply 250 per day. The plant will supply to government and private hospitals. HZB Arogyam, a private hospital in the district, is installing a mini plant at its campus to produce oxygen. It will produce 50 cylinders of oxygen daily, meeting the requirement of the hospital, said director Harsh Ajmera. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: A partially burnt naked body of a nine-year-old girl was found on Thursday afternoon near Sayal 10 number mines in the Bhurkunda police station area of ​​the district. The girl was identified as Pratigya Kumari. Her father, Mohan Mahalani, is a resident of Chhattisgarh and works in a brick kiln here. The family had rented a house near the Patratu railway colony. On April 20, Pratigya had gone missing from the railway colony. Two days later, when her father was about to lodge a complaint at the Bhurkunda police station, he received information about a dead body in a forest. On reaching the forest, he confirmed it was his daughter. SP Ramgarh Prabhat Kumar said,”We are investigating the case from all possible angles. We have sent the body for post mortem." (Our correspondent) Daltonganj: A police personnel posted at the Lesliganj Police Station in Palamau died on the spot on Thursday as his patrol car hit a truck from behind and fell into a ditch on Panki Road at around 12:30 am, said sub-divisional police officer Anup Kumarr Baraik. Sub-inspector Yadav and four other cops were on patrol duty on Thursday night when the incident took place, damaging the car completely. One of the personnel was shifted to RIMS in Ranchi after sustaining critical injuries while three others remained admitted at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj. In another incident, 45-year-old home guard personnel Suwans Kumar Singh died on the same day at Medinirai hospital after a heavy iron sliding entrance gate fell on him. Palamau Assistant Superintendent of Police K Vijay Shankar said the jawan was rushed to the hospital but he succumbed to his injuries enroute. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||State reports over 7,500 new Covid cases, record 106 casualties in a day ||More than 100 Jharkhand residents, including 53 from Ranchi alone, died of Covid-19 infection on Thursday, while the state reported a record spike of 7595 Covid cases on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Of the 106 Covid patients who died on Thursday, 14 were from East Singhbhum and 10 from Ramgarh, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. The 53 casualties in Ranchi took the Covid toll in the district to 471 and that in Jharkhand to 1715, the bulletin further stated. As per NHM data, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 473 on Thursday. Ranchi also accounted for 1467 of the over 7500 Covid cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported a spike of 729 cases. As per government data, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 13,518 on Thursday, while the number of patients in East Singhbhum reached 5546. These two districts account for nearly 50 per cent of the 40,942 active cases in the state. The bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday highlighted that the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand reached 2.55 per cent against the national average of 1.32 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 27.58 days against the national average of 52.79 days. The state reported only 2373 recoveries on the day, which brought the Covid recovery rate further down to 76.93 per cent. Among other districts, Bokaro reported spike of 432 cases against 172 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 459 cases against 115 recoveries. As many as 451 people were found infected in Koderma and 407 in Palamu. Ramgarh reported a spike of 542 cases against only 71 recoveries on the day. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday announced that the state government will provide vaccines free of cost to people above the age of 18 years once the vaccination is made open for them from May 1. Soren took to Twitter to make this announcement and stated that the government was working day and night to overcome the Covid crisis. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 73,903 people and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 1.84 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and around 1.42 lakh of them have recovered. The state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to 12,439 residents, around 23 per cent of those registered for the jab. As many as 8783 residents, around 3 per cent of those registered, were administered the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises free vaccine for all above 18 from May 1  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has announced that his government will provide free vaccines to all above 18 years of age from May 1 assuring the people of Jharkhand battling a ruthless second wave of Covid-19 that the government was taking all necessary steps to combat the virus and save lives. Hemant's announcement came on Thursday night when Jharkhand reported its highest ever single-day spike as well as fatalities. As many as 7,595 new cases of Covid-19 were detected across the state and 106 mortalities were registered, the maximum from Ranchi (53) making it as the grimmest day for the entire state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Coincidentally, Jharkhand also moved to a seven-day lockdown, which the authorities have termed as "health safety week" to break the transmission chain. Hemant made the announcement about free vaccines through his official twitter handle. “State government will provide free vaccination to all its people aged above 18. In these tiring times, state government is working day and night to fight the pandemic. We are hopeful that with people’s support, Jharkhand will effectively fight and defeat the deadly pandemic," he wrote. Earlier in the day, Hemant also held meetings with representatives of private and public hospitals to take stock of the situation and collect feedback on efforts and shortcomings in dealing with the surging cases. Along with skyrocketing Covid cases in Jharkhand in the last few weeks, the health infrastructure, cutting across government and private hospitals, has come under immense pressure,  so much so that patients are struggling to get timely admission for treatment. Reports suggested that at many hospitals, admitted patients were  struggling to get proper treatment, battling shortage of oxygen and  crucial life-saving drugs. The situation turned so grim, mainly in the capital, that it forced Jharkhand High Court to comment recently that the state was reeling under a "medical emergency".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: National Service Scheme members fund oxygen in Jharkhand||Amid continuous surge in Covid cases and crisis for medical oxygen, a critical component in the treatment of Covid-affected patients, students of Sidhu Kanhu Murmu University (SKMU) in Dumka district of Jharkhand have shown a way forward. Nearly 20 students, all members of National Service Scheme (NSS is an Indian government sponsored flagship program for public service conducted by Union youth affairs ministry) unit of SKMU, have decided to contribute their pocket expenses to provide free of cost oxygen cylinders to the needy in Santhal Pargana region of Jharkhand. “We saw horrifying pictures of persons dying waiting for oxygen cylinders in Uttar Pradesh and also saw pictures of Covid patients waiting for oxygen cylinders. We cannot sit idle when the country is confronted by such a crisis and decided among ourselves to make a start with whatever we can contribute from our pocket expense for the needy. We will be providing oxygen cylinder along with valve regulator and masks free of cost without taking any security deposit. Only they would have to produce doctor’s prescription and a photocopy of the Aadhaar card of patient,” said Jatin Kumar, a recipient of the National NSS Award 2018-19 in September 2020 from President Ram Nath Kovind, who is leading in arranging logistics of the oxygen cylinders. They would be, however, charging refill charge of Rs 400 from those who can afford. “Oxygen cylinders are very scarce and is available in excess of Rs 1000 but we are providing it free for poor and needy. However, those who can afford and can express their desire to pay they can pay Rs 400 for refill of the cylinder,” said Jatin Kumar, 25, a PG student of the university who has been creating awareness on social issues in the past too which has fetched him the NSS award. As of now they have managed to arrange 10 oxygen cylinders. “The stockists did not have any oxygen cylinders and has brought two cylinders on Wednesday evening and will be bringing eight more. We will be bringing the cylinders from the stockist along with other medical accessories and handing it to the patients after collecting their identity details. They will have to return the cylinder, valve and regulator. Mask will be disposed by us,” added Jatin Kumar. Anybody willing to contribute to their cause or needing cylinders can contact on 8210132626. Meanwhile, Marwari Yuva Manch, Prerna wing has also arranged 18 oxygen cylinders free of cost to the needy along with immunity booster. “We will not be charging anything, if anybody is willing to pay on own they are welcome. We will also be giving immunity booster ayurvedic medicine free of cost,” said Rinku Modi, of the Marwari Yuva Manch. On Tuesday, Jharkhand registered 4969 positive cases and 45 deaths. The total number of active positive cases in the state is at 33178. Jharkhand will go for a weeklong lockdown from April 22 till April 29. However, vaccination drive will continue during lockdown and there will be a massive Rapid Antigen Test drive all over the state on April 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
23-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand gets 15,150 vials of Remdesivir, seeks army help||Jharkhand on Thursday got 15,150 vials of Remdesivir, a vital medicine in the treatment of Covid-19, from the Centre. According to sources in the state health department, the allocation from the Centre has been made to 19 states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases. “Jharkhand has got 10,000 vials from Zydus Cadilla, 1,650 vials from Hetero Pharmaceuticals, 500 vials from Mylan, 2,000 vials from Cipla and 1,000 vials from Jubilant. The allotment is for a period between April 21 and 30. The vials have been distributed to 71 hospitals of the state, which were having the maximum load of Covid cases,” said a senior health department official. Sources said Ranchi got the maximum allocation of Remdesivir with 43 hospitals being given the vials. Four hospitals each in Deoghar, Dhanbad and Ramgarh have also received the vials. This apart, three hospitals each in East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) and Seraikela-Kharsawan, two each in Bokaro and Hazaribagh, one each in Giridih, Gumla, Godda, Koderma, Lohardaga and Palamau have also got Remdesivir. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had on April 18 written to Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers D. V. Sadananda Gowda for permission to import and use Remdesivir from a pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh after the Centre failed to supply adequate quantity of the antiviral drug to the state. “The precariousness of the situation will be evident from the fact that against the total order of 76,640 vials to the Union government, Jharkhand has received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir, leading to the medicine not being administered to many needy patients,” Soren had written to the Union minister. After a high level meeting with health officials and other senior bureaucrats on Wednesday evening, the chief minister had issued a directive to ramp up oxygen-attached bed facilities in all the 24 districts for proper treatment of Covid cases. “After the ramping up of oxygen- supported bed facilities, the state has now an additional 1824 oxygen supported beds. This apart, in capital Ranchi which is witnessing maximum load of Covid cases in the district, with people from even rural areas flocking to capital, we have made arrangement of additional 300 oxygen supported bed and planning is underway to enhance facility to add 300 more oxygen supported bed in Ranchi,” the chief minister had tweeted on Wednesday night. On Wednesday evening, Hemant had held a meeting with senior army officials deputed in Jharkhand to seek their help in the state’s fight against Covid. “I made an appeal to the army officials to help us cope with the situation emerging out of Covid-19 so that patients can be treated in the two army hospitals at Namkum (in Ranchi) and Ramgarh. The government will be providing all infrastructure to the army hospitals, including oxygen-supported beds, ventilators and other accessories if the doctors start treating Covid patients. We will benefit from the treatment of experienced doctors at the army hospital,” Soren said. The chief minister also sought the army’s help in monitoring and taking care of Covid patients in the new 1,000-bed isolation centre being set up in Ranchi. The army officials said the Union defence ministry was considering the chief minister’s letter seeking help of army hospital doctors and paramedics in the treatment of Covid cases. On April 17, Hemant had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to allow the use of doctors and paramedics associated with the Central Para Military Forces stationed in Jharkhand and military hospitals to help the state fight the pandemic. On Thursday evening, Hemant held a videoconference with the principals of six medical colleges and medical superintendents and representatives of private hospitals and advised them to coordinate with the government in developing a circuit so that patients did not flock to Ranchi and other big cities for the treatment of Covid. “We are seeing that RIMS in Ranchi is witnessing an unprecedented rush in Covid cases. We would like to seek help from the other medical colleges and private hospitals so that patients from nearby places are treated at their facility and do not have to come all the way to Ranchi. We need to develop a circuit so that patients go to the nearest hospitals,” Hemant said. On Wednesday, the state had registered 5,041 positive cases and 62 deaths, taking the total number of active cases to 35,826. Meanwhile, the state on Thursday saw the first day of the weeklong lockdown with district administration in all 24 districts ensuring that the public only came out on road for emergencies and purchasing essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
