24-04-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to remain closed till May 3||Jadavpur University authorities on Saturday announced that the institution will remain closed till May 3 due to sudden spike of COVID-19 cases in West Bengal. JU Registrar Snehamanju Basu told PTI only basic emergency services, required for giving logistical support to online classes and running administrative work on the virtual mode for the time being, will be run from the campus with the presence of very few staff who will be given all necessary protection to avert contamination.The institution will remain closed from April 24 to May 3, officials said. The move followed several members of the university faculty and other staff being infected with the virus in past couple of days as the varsity had opened its administrative building which is the hub of academic activities and many faculty members and top official's attended the office as COVID-19 cases had dipped in the state in past months. "With the sudden rise, we need to break the chain. Hence the decision. We are also sanitising all the buildings and blocks in an extensive manner," Basu said. All the senior functionaries including Vice-Chancellor Prof Suranjan Das, Basu herself, faculty members are working from home. A senior functionary of Jadavpur University Teachers Association said to their knowledge university authority will review the situation on May 3 and take decision about whether the campus can be opened for academic and administrative works with 50 per cent attendance, based on the emerging situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to vaccinate all employees above 45 years||In view of the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal, Calcutta University has decided to vaccinate all employees aged 45 years or above, a top varsity official said. Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee told PTI on Saturday that this was necessary to prevent contamination from the highly infectious virus and ensure the employees above 45 years are not exposed to its threat. The VC said the vaccination drive will be funded by the state-run university and will be carried out in two campuses. While one centre will be at the Rajabazar Science College where vaccination will take place on April 27 and 30, the other centre will be at Ballygange Science College Campus on April 28 and 29. The university authorities said one has to give consent to be vaccinated. A university spokesman said CU is the first state university in West Bengal to have opted for this full vaccination drive for its employees. "While classes are being held online, for administrative and other job, a section of employees have to come. We had restricted the presence of employees to half of present numbers after coronavirus spread again, but to keep administrative work functioning we cannot take the risk of closing down the office," the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||As in life, so in elections: Mahmood banks on Bengali Hindus to halt BJP||Unable to manage the Ramazan rush, a small eatery on Zakaria Street started noting down the names of customers waiting for kebabs, fries and desserts a few years ago. “The process confirmed what we always felt — that over 70 per cent of our customers were Bengali Hindus,” said Muhammad Mahmood, son of the owner of Dilli 6, one of the many joints selling Ramazan delicacies on Zakaria Street. In election season, Mahmood -- and many others in the neighbourhood -- are banking on that very segment, Bengali Hindus, to halt the BJP’s marauding Hindutva juggernaut in Bengal. “I have grown up here. Trust in the Hindu brethren of Bengal has been a part of our upbringing. The Hindutva politics will not work here,” Mahmood said with an air of confidence. A 10-minute walk from Lalbazar through Rabindra Sarani leads to Zakaria Street, where the imposing Nakhoda Mosque overlooks scores of shops on both sides of the road. While the road might seem an extension of the Canning Street and Rabindra Sarani markets for the rest of the year, the run-up to Id is different. From Ramazan till Id, Zakaria Street is the place to go for tens of thousands of Calcuttans. Stalls dotting the road sell everything — haleem, kebabs, sewai, bakarkhani (a type of bun), sheermal (a type of sweet bread), dry fruits, attar, kurta-pyjamas, abayas and skullcaps. The stretch used also to serve as the venue for many heritage walks until the arrival of the virus. This year, in the middle of the elections, a sense of insecurity, agony and rage is palpable in the same air that smells of fritters, fried meat and falooda. The insecurity stems from the prospect of a Right-wing regime in Bengal. The agony is rooted in a feeling of being “second-class citizens”. “I don’t feel scared in Zakaria Street. But I feel scared when I watch TV news channels. The anchors call us names every day. Political leaders keep calling us termites and traitors,” said Muhammad Mustaq, 63, who sells mats and gamchhas in a small makeshift stall on the pavement. The rage is directed against “political leaders who come from Delhi on chartered flights and speak of hatred and polarisation every day” and hyper-nationalist TV anchors. However, a walk through Zakaria Street suggests an overarching belief in the secular fabric of Bengal, overshadowing all other emotions. Muhammed Samir and Muhammed Tahsin, brothers who trade in stones, own a small shop on the road. Bengali astrologers form the bulk of their clientele. “If a Hindu customer drops in during iftar, he joins us in sharing the meal. This is not new. Our father did the same thing during his time. We have been raised in this tradition of inclusiveness. During my youth, I used to go pandal-hopping every Durga Puja,” said Samir, 47. The younger brother, Tahsin, 37, said that “Jai Sri Ram” sounded more like a war cry than a slogan. “People are being beaten up for refusing to chant the slogan. This is madness,” he said. Food blogger Indrajit Lahiri has been visiting Zakaria Street during Ramazan for years now. “Bengali Hindus have been visiting Zakaria Street and its neighbourhood for ages for Ramzan-specific street food. But with the emergence of social media, Zakaria Street has become a status symbol. In a way, it’s a natural progression and an extension of the inclusive character of our land,” he said. Zakaria Street falls under the Jorasanko Assembly constituency, which votes in the last phase on April 29. Hindi-speaking traders, a segment the BJP likes to believe is its “vote bank”, form a sizeable bloc in the constituency. The street is a 10-minute walk from the BJP’s state headquarters in Murlidhar Sen Lane. In 2016, Smita Bakshi of the Trinamul Congress won Jorasanko, bagging around 45,000 votes, or approximately 43 per cent of the pie. The BJP’s Rahul Sinha came second, winning a little over 38,000 votes, which translated into a 37 per cent vote share. Jorasanko is part of the Kolkata North constituency, which Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamul won in 2019. But the BJP candidate, Sinha, led from the Jorasanko Assembly segment. He bagged over 51,000 votes compared with Bandyopadhyay’s 47,000. This time the contest is between the BJP’s Mina Devi Purohit, Trinamul’s Vivek Gupta and the Congress’s Ajmal Khan, the Sanjukta Morcha candidate. Muslims form the majority in only a few of the dozen-odd wards that make up the Jorasanko Assembly seat. Before 2011, they swore allegiance to the CPM. But since the change of guard in 2011, they have been firmly behind Mamata Banerjee. “We will finish sehri (an early morning meal before the Ramazan fast begins) and head towards the polling booths. We must vote and vote wisely, even at the cost of being shot at. This is not Sitalkuchi but we are ready to go to any extent to exercise our franchise,” said Ahmed Hasan, a resident who owns Bashir Hotel at neighbouring Colootola Street, famous for its haleem. Some people this newspaper interacted with slammed Indian Secular Front chief and Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “The ISF is a front to split minority votes to help the BJP,” said Irfan Ali, a local Trinamul leader. The anti-BJP sentiment in Zakaria Street and neighbouring areas has been fuelled by the Narendra Modi regime’s citizenship matrix. From January to March 2020, the street was the centre of a demonstration against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Women — homemakers, political activists and students — were at the forefront of the sit-in in front of the Nakhoda Mosque. Many participants and speakers were Hindus. “The graves of our forefathers in this land are proof of our citizenship. But if anything, our faith in Hindus was strengthened during the protests against the new citizenship laws. We know they have our back,” said Abdul Hameed, a 54-year-old resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid second wave: Why we didn’t wear masks||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcutta HC pins Covid hopes on EC||The high court on Friday said it was “sure that the Election Commission of India is steering its way forward in the proper direction” after going through an affidavit filed by the poll panel on what it was doing to implement Covid guidelines. The certificate came a day after the high court seemed to have come down heavily on the commission by saying merely issuing circulars and holding meetings on Covid guidelines would not be enough. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee said the affidavit showed the “Election Commission will further push forward requisite action to obtain obedience to its direction”. “We are sure that the Election Commission of India is steering its way forward in the proper direction and the action taken so far, as reported in the latest affidavit, which we have taken on record today,” the order says. It adds: “The Election Commission will further push forward requisite action to obtain obedience to its direction. Any restrictive governance imposed by the Election Commission of India as regards public behaviour as regards the protective protocol in relation to Covid management shall be strictly followed and abided by the people.” Rapped by the high court on Thursday, the commission had issued another circular restraining political parties from holding large campaign rallies. In its affidavit on Friday, the commission informed the court about its latest circular and lawyers said the “court seemed pleased with this circular”. The advocate for the petitioner, Srijib Chakravarty, said many people were still not wearing masks in campaign meetings. "The EC should force them to wear masks,” he said. The bench said: “It will be within the jurisdiction of the competent authorities to enforce that masking, social distancing, etc. as required by the Covid protocol, are strictly adhered to and enforced in... Bengal.” The bench will hear the case again on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader Arjun Singh’s guards open fire in Calcutta||BJP leader Arjun Singh’s guards allegedly fired in the air several times after some residents of Belgachhia in north Calcutta protested against a roadside rally of the party on Friday evening, police said. No one was injured, the police said. Allegations have surfaced that multiple bullets were fired in the air by Singh’s guards, apparently to pacify a crowd of protesters who had gathered around the dais. “An investigation is on to ascertain the sequence of events and the identity of the persons who fired,” an officer said. Singh, who was on the dais, said he and other BJP leaders at the meeting were attacked, which prompted his guards to fire in the air. “Some people attacked us. My guards had no other option,” Singh, an MP, told a news channel. The place where the incident happened is in the Cossipore-Belgachhia Assembly constituency, which will go to the polls on April 29. Shibaji Singh Roy, the BJP candidate from the constituency, said he suffered injuries during a scuffle between BJP and Trinamul supporters. The election commission has sought a report from the police on the firing. A case has been lodged with Ultadanga police station. A large force was deployed in the area. Several people in the neighbourhood said they were scared hearing the gunshots. “We are habituated to rallies and roadshows. But people opening fire at a public rally in the heart of Calcutta is new,” said a homemaker, who lives in the locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University defers law entry test in view of second Covid wave||St Xavier’s University has postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) that was to be held on April 25 till further notice “considering the current pandemic situation”. The computer-based tests were to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta. Considering the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases that are being reported across the country, exposure at the test venues could be unsafe for the candidates and so, the tests have been postponed, said an official of the university. Apart from Calcutta, the tests were to be held in Mumbai, Delhi, Siliguri, Durgapur, Guwahati, Ranchi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. The entrance tests are conducted for admission to BA-LLB (Honours) and BCom-LLB (Honours), both five-year degree programmes, run by St Xavier’s Law School. On April 25, two slots had been fixed for the multiple-choice admission tests of 100 marks each for the two programmes. “It would not be advisable to ask the candidates to step out of their homes and reach the venues to appear for the tests. The situation is grim in cities like Delhi and Mumbai. There the citizens are not stepping out of their homes until and unless it is a health emergency. The condition is bad in other cities as well,” said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university. For the computer-based tests, the law aspirants go to a centre where they are given terminals to write the tests under the watch of invigilators, an official of the university said. The test proceedings are also recorded on camera. “Issues like whether the centres have been sanitised properly, the risk of using public transport or any means of transport on the way to the centre are bound to trigger worries…. There is a crisis of beds in hospitals and oxygen support to treat Covid patients,” the official said. Asked if the tests can be held online so that candidates can write them from home, Father Felix Raj said the Bar Council of India had specified that the tests had to be conducted in the computer-based or physical pen-and-paper mode. “We will announce the next course of action depending on how the situation evolves. Candidates will be kept posted,” he said. Classes for the two courses are supposed to begin in July. Students who have passed Plus-II exams and who are not older than 20 years are eligible to apply for the admission test. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said all offices will function with 30 per cent staff strength till further notice because of the surge in Covid cases. A notice signed by him said: “Support staff members, availing public vehicles, need not come to the college on a regular basis. They will be asked to come to the college as and when required. Students are allowed to visit college offices for urgent works only on Tuesday and Thursday. Online classes will be continued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid jabs-for-all: Calcutta units in the dark||One private hospital is receiving around 1,200 calls every day from people between 18 and 44, who are seeking bookings for Covid-19 vaccine shots. Another private hospital is having 10 to 12 young persons standing in the vaccination queue, carrying their Aadhaar cards. They want to book slots for Covid jabs as soon as vaccination for all adults opens across the country on May 1, fearful that doses might run out soon. In Bengal, people between 18 and 44 will be vaccinated from May 5. Private hospitals are flooded with queries about how the vaccination for all above the age of 18 would roll out, but they have no answers. Till Friday evening, there was no clarity from the central government about who would procure the vaccine doses and from whom. In the absence of such details, private hospitals are telling people that they are in no position to book appointments. Now, private hospitals are procuring vaccines from the state government and are charging recipients Rs 250 for each dose. The Centre has stated that from May 1, the state governments can procure doses directly from the manufacturers. The vaccine manufacturers have been empowered to release up to 50 per cent of their supply to the states and on the open market at a pre-declared price. However, in the absence of written guidelines from the Centre, the Bengal government is yet to tell the private hospitals how to proceed with the vaccination of those above 18. “We are awaiting a clear guideline from the Centre, without which we can't tell private hospitals how to procure vaccines for the next phase. A meeting is scheduled with the Centre on Saturday and we are expecting some clarity,” a health department official said on Friday. Amid the confusion, private hospitals are unable to plan the next phase of inoculation. Officials of several hospitals said they immediately needed clarity because the number of vaccine recipients would be huge post-May 5. “We had contacted the Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (manufacturers of Covaxin) on how to get the supply. They are unable to give us any clarity about how the doses would be supplied to hospitals,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and president, the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The call centre of AMRI Hospitals receives around 5,500 calls every day. Now about 1,200 calls are from people between 18 and 44, who are keen to book jab slots. “We are telling the callers that they would be able to register in the CoWin portal from April 28, as announced by the Centre, but they should call us before coming because of uncertainty over the supply of vaccines,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is receiving around 300 vaccine enquiry calls daily from people above 18. “They are seeking appointments at the earliest. The most common questions include the date of commencement and price of vaccines. We don't have answers to both,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. “Because of the surge in Covid cases, it would be difficult to arrange for the additional manpower once all adults become eligible for the shot,” he said. At Peerless Hospital, 60 to 70 people are calling up to find out about the new phase of vaccination. “But there are 10 to 12 people who are queueing up with their Aadhaar cards. These people want to book appointments for vaccination when the drive opens for everyone above 18. There is a desperation among people to get vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Teachers test Covid positive, Calcutta schools struggle||Several schools are struggling to hold classes and having to make adjustments after a number of teachers have been infected with the coronavirus, principals said. At a few schools, some classes have been suspended or temporarily cancelled. The classes will be rescheduled once the teachers recover. Several schools are assigning substitute teachers and combining sections. At some, teachers are sharing the correction load for those who are unwell. In most cases, teachers themselves are infected, while some are busy taking care of Covid patients at home. “We are suspending classes if teachers are unable to take class. Even when teachers are recovering, they are weak... We don’t want to pressurise them,” said Basanti Biswas, principal, Calcutta Girls’ High School. “They also have to run the household and take care of members (if a family member is infected). We do not like classes to be missed but we have to understand that it is not physically possible for teachers (to take classes in such a situation),” Biswas said. Several heads said they could manage the situation because classes were being held online. However, at some institutions as many as 10 to 15 teachers have been infected, making it difficult for the heads to manage. “I do not recall an instance when about 10 per cent of our teachers had to take leave simultaneously. We are having to make adjustments,” said Sharmila Bose, director, Sushila Birla Girls’ School. At some schools like Indus Valley World School and Sri Sri Academy, classes are being rescheduled. “For a few of the senior sections, we are having to suspend classes and will reschedule them when the teachers are back,” said Amita Prasad, director, Indus Valley. At South Point, Delhi Public School New Town, Sri Sri Academy, St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta, Indus Valley and North Point Senior Secondary schools, teachers are substituting for their colleagues or classes are being combined. “We have shadow teachers taking class in the absence of subject teachers. But the subject teachers will have to redo the portions when they are back,” said Rita Chatterjee, director, North Point Senior Secondary Schools. At Modern High and Loreto Convent Entally, students are being given offline work. “A percentage of our children are from families who are struggling with the data pack. So, in case a teacher is unable to take classes, worksheets are assigned to students, which they have to submit within a period. We do not want to assign a substitute teacher because in that case the flow of studies won't be the same,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Shortage of kits delays Covid tests in Calcutta||A shortage of Covid testing kits has resulted in many suspected patients being turned away from testing centres, while several centres are taking more than two days to deliver the results. A number of Calcuttans with Covid symptoms have complained that their test results arrived 48 hours after their samples were collected. In Salt Lake and New Town, many residents are unable to get tested as some testing centres lack the required kits. Covid-19 testing centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake and Narayanpur are not being able to collect more than 40 samples a day because of a shortfall in the supply of RT-PCR test kits, an official of the civic body said. A couple, residents of Mahisbathan, on the fringes of Salt Lake, had queued up in front of a testing centre opposite Mayukh Bhavan on Friday. Around 12.30pm they were told that no more samples would be collected. Another couple, residents of Salt Lake, wanted to get an RT-PCR test done at a drive-in centre in New Town as a colleague of the wife had tested positive. “We had called the centre and they said they were open only for an hour in the morning. They said they could extend the hours because of shortage of test kits,” said the woman. A 52-year-old resident of Kasba and his wife gave their swab samples on April 16 morning and the result arrived around 11.30pm on April 18. The couple’s daughter had given her swab samples on the morning of April 14 and the result arrived close to midnight on April 16. All three tested positive. “There is a crisis of testing kits. Since the situation is worse in several other states, the demand for testing kits is even greater in those states. As a result the supply of kits is getting affected in our state,” said a health department official. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, told Metro that there was an acute shortage of VTM (the viral transport medium). “Swab samples are kept in VTMs and transported to the laboratory. But there is an acute shortage of the VTMs,” he said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which has opened a sample collection centre in each of the 16 boroughs, is unable to deliver the results on time, too. An official of the civic body said they were collecting about 1,000 samples every day and the results were at times arriving 72 hours after sample collection. “Last year, we could deliver results within 24 hours. But now the results are taking 48 to 72 hours to arrive,” said a CMC official. “We have been sending all our samples to SSKM Hospital, which receive samples from other centres, too. So, the analysis is taking time,” said an official. Senior CMC officials on Friday discussed the delay in arrival of results. “It was decided at the meeting that the CMC will send samples to the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) and the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, along with SSKM, to distribute the load,” an official said. Doctors said the delay in arrival of test reports could affect the treatment of a patient. “Suppose someone has breathing trouble, but he will not take it as seriously unless the report says he is positive,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Online fun keeps children happy||Shri Shikshayatan School Music, dance and poetry — the staff members of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated Holi with the flavours of the season at their school auditorium. The focus was to spread the message of harmony, peace, unity and love, while following all Covid protocols. Members of the management as well as the academic and non-academic staff members performed before an audience that included secretary-general of Shikshayatan Foundation and Shri Shikshayatan School Bratati Bhattacharyya, principal Sangeeta Tandon, headmistress Poushali Mukherjee and the faculty of Calcutta Business School. The emcee of the event was junior school teacher Ambreen Kayal. The programme commenced with music teacher Pallavi Gathak from the senior section singing a thumri, Rangi sari gulabi chunariya re. The admin department presented a medley of songs and self-composed poetry. The junior section presented yet another medley of song and dance that brought alive the joys of spring. “The festival of colours always cheers everyone up. We conducted two programmes, an online one for the students and a live one for the staff members, maintaining all Covid protocols. We wanted to tell everyone that despite the pandemic, nothing is lost. Life goes on. Usually, we have a party post the performances, but this time only food packets were distributed. But the celebration lifted everyone’s spirit,” said Bhattacharyya. Tandon said: “The teachers and staff members felt happy and rejuvenated post the celebrations. That was what we wanted.” Asian International School The junior teachers of Asian International School recently conducted a virtual puppet show for lower and upper kindergarten students to keep them entertained and active amid the pandemic. The half-an-hour show had music and storytelling that aimed to teach children new words and improving their vocabulary in a fun way. “Amid the gloom all around and in a situation when the children are not able to reach their school, we, as educators, try and reach out to them in various ways,”  said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Headmistress Simran Sanghera said: “The virtual puppet show organised by the school stimulated the imagination and creativity of the young minds and unlocked the monotony of the virtual world.” Birla High School Birla High School recently conducted an online orientation programme for classes IX and X. The event commenced with a sloka. Then principal Loveleen Saigal addressed the audience and virtually introduced the class teachers, IT co-ordinator, counsellors and special educators. She also shared the board results of classes X and XII with parents and mentioned how the school had been one of the pioneers in starting online classes in the city. She raised the issue of discipline, which was to be maintained even during online classes. The second half of the programme was conducted by co-ordinator of classes IX and X Sreemati Sen, who focused on academics-related issues. “Each year we plan an introductory session for the parents to orient them about the school, general rules, a few parenting tips and of course the assessment pattern for each class. This year, it was done virtually. We take a few queries and questions from the parents at the end of each session. The co-ordinators of different classes co-host the programme along with me. Our basic intent is to start the new academic calendar on a positive note, given the tough times, and to appraise the students and parents about the school,” said Saigal. Ruby Park Public School Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Holi virtually with a special programme named Colouroma. The pandemic could not hinder the students from celebrating the festival of colours with art and craft class activities and rehearsal sessions for cultural performances conducted online by the teachers. A compilation of the recorded dance performances and photographs of the art and craft work done by the students was put together in a video. The video was uploaded on the school’s social media page. It commenced with an opening song by students, followed by a dance performance by the pre-primary kids. Classes VI to IX presented classical solo dance as well as group dance performances along with pictures of the art and craft class activities. “We were compelled to celebrate Holi online amid the pandemic. Holi symbolises the spirit of joy and merriment which we experienced through the online celebration. There is a virtual platform where we all come together and connect with the children and parents and through this large platform, we are reaching out to everyone, including all the parents and students. It is definitely different celebrating Holi online but it made us feel good celebrating something together,” said principal Joyita Majumder. Krishnagar Public School Krishnagar Public School recently celebrated Pi Day, an annual celebration of the mathematical constant Pi, with a variety of fun activities for the students. The day was celebrated to enhance the interest of students in mathematics and to look at the subject in a fun manner. Students of classes V-X participated in a number of class activities where they made 3D models of Pi, designed memes and creative content on it, wrote slogans and worked out the approximate value of the mathematical constant. A few students also baked a pie with resemblance to the occasion. “The day was observed with zeal and zest by our math enthusiasts through various fun activities that revolve around the mathematical constant Pi. As a school we always aim to turn abstract concepts into tangible reality,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine shortage hits Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, New Town Kolkata Development Authority ||Hundreds of residents in Salt Lake, New Town, Lake Town, Bangur, Dum Dum and parts of Rajarhat waited for hours on Friday for a dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Many went back without a jab because the two vaccination centres, run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake and Narayanpur in Rajarhat, ran out of vaccines. Metro had reported earlier how the civic body had shut down 10 of its vaccination centres because of erratic supply of Covid-19 vaccines. Only two centres — at the Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block and at Narayanpur — are operational. But they are also struggling because of the rush of people, who are queuing up from as early as 4am. Anita Banerjee,83, a resident of Dum Dum, had come to the Matri Sadan Hospital with her son Sanjib, 49, a trader, but had to return home after 4pm without a jab. The Banerjees had registered themselves on the CoWin portal on Thursday and had selected the 3pm to 4pm time slot. “One of my neighbours, who had got the jab from this centre, advised us to go early because of the rush. However, after waiting for more than 10 hours, they informed us that they had run out of stock,” said Sanjib. Kuheli Banerjee, 56, a resident of EE Block in Salt Lake, said she had registered her name on the hospital’s register at 4am. She came back to the hospital around 6am.“They started calling out the names from 10am. I finally got the jab at 3pm.” On Friday, some recipients at the Matri Sadan Hospital got into an argument with the superintendent of the hospital asking him why they did not get the jab even after waiting for hours. “People get irritated after waiting for so long. But we are running short of vaccines,” a hospital official said. Kusum Adhikary, the chief medical officer of the civic body’s health department, said when the first phase of vaccination was announced they were getting around 200 vials per day for each centre. “The number is down to 35 vials. We are barely managing to administer shots to around 200 people per day at each centre.” In New Town, too, several people had to be turned away from the two vaccination centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). An NKDA official said there were instances where more people had turned up than the list of recipients on the CoWin portal. “We had to turn them back.” Debashis Sen the NKDA chairman said they had an emergency meeting about the situation on Friday. “We decided to vaccinate only those people who have registered themselves on the CoWin portal,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Plea for cop deployment at Calcutta vaccination centres||Health officers of several boroughs in Calcutta have sought police deployment at vaccination centres fearing unrest because shortage of doses is resulting in many people leaving without getting the jab despite queuing up for hours. In letters addressed to the officers-in-charge of several police stations, the officials have expressed the fear that trouble might break out at vaccination centres any day. Vaccination is under way at 140 of the 144 ward health units across Calcutta. Health officers in the city’s 16 civic boroughs oversee the supply of doses and the subsequent inoculation at units under their control. Over the past few days, potential recipients have been queuing up outside these health units since early morning — at places as early as 3 or 4am — for the jab. Many of them return home without being inoculated as stocks run out. Tempers ran high at a vaccination centre in Bagbazar recently when officials declared in the afternoon to a long queue of potential recipients that the day’s quota was over. Many people in the queue were senior citizens who had turned up at dawn. While most people left for homes, some demanded that they be shown how many vials had reached the centre that day and how many doses had been administered. Each vial contains around 10 doses. At a vaccination centre in Kidderpore, people are using items like boxes and buckets to reserve their place in the queue. At a centre near Tallah police station, many senior citizens decided against joining the queue on consecutive days realising it was too long for them. “Tempers have been running high at centres because of shortage of doses,” said Tarun Saha, the chairman of borough I, which includes Tallah, Cossipore and Bagbazar. “It would have been easier if we could say in writing how many doses were available on a particular day. But that is not possible because the supply is not uniform.” “The health officers expressed the fear that there could be unrest resulting from shortage of doses. Some of them have attached a copy of an earlier letter from the state health secretary to the state’s director-general of police and the police commissioners requesting police protection for vaccine transportation and vaccine centres,” an officer at Lalbazar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: RKM closes Mayer Bari for visitors from Monday||The authorities of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission have decided to close Mother’s House, popularly known as Sri Sri Mayer Bari, in Bagbazar for visitors from Monday as a precaution against Covid-19. Holy Mother Sri Sarada Devi, wife of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa, had stayed in the house for 11 years from 1909 to 1920. “Considering the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the authorities at Belur Math have decided to close Mayer Bari for an indefinite period starting Monday,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Mayer Bari. Around 300 visitors turn up every day at Mother’s House, in Gopal Neogy Lane. The Udbodhan building, which brings out the Udbodhan magazine, the Bengali mouthpiece of Ramakrishna Math and MIssion, and is located near Mother’s House will remain open. However, entry of visitors will be restricted, senior monks said. Belur Math has been closed for visitors since April 22. It had reopened on February 10 after remaining closed for around six months because of Covid. A number of monks and employees who stay on the Belur Math premises had tested positive for Covid. In January, when a major fire broke out in Bagbazar in a row of huts and spread to a part of the Udbodhan House, senior monks had rushed out to ensure that the flames didn’t reach Mayer Bari. The building was saved even though the parts of Udbodhan House were damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
24-04-2021||Business||Ambani's Reliance buys Britain's country club Stoke Park for 57 million pounds||Mukesh Ambani’s flagship firm Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has bought Britain’s iconic country club and luxury golf resort, Stoke Park, for £57 million (Rs 592 crore). The acquisition adds to Ambani’s current stake in EIH, which is one of the largest luxury hotel chains in India. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, a Reliance arm — Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Ltd — held 18.83 per cent in EIH. Incidentally, this is the second major acquisition of an iconic British company by Ambani. He bought Hamleys in 2019 to strengthen its retail footprint. The UK-based firm, which owns a hotel and golf course in Buckinghamshire, UK, will add to Reliance’s consumer and hospitality assets, the firm said in a filing late on Thursday. “Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Ltd (RIIHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL, has on April 22, 2021, acquired the entire issued share capital of Stoke Park Ltd, a company incorporated in the UK, for £57 million,” it said. Stoke Park owns and manages sporting and leisure facilities in Stoke Poges, Buckinghamshire, UK. The facilities include a hotel, conference facilities, sports facilities and one of the highest rated golf courses in Europe. “RIIHL will look to enhance the sports and leisure facilities at this heritage site, while fully complying with the planning guidelines and local regulations,” Reliance added. This acquisition is expected to add to the consumer and hospitality footprint of the oil-to-telecom major. Reliance is also developing a state-of-the-art convention centre, hotel and managed residences at BKC in Mumbai. Stoke Park has always had a close relationship with Pinewood Studios and the British film industry. Two James Bond movies -— Goldfinger (1964) and Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) — were filmed at Stoke Park. The epic duel between James Bond (Sean Connery) and Goldfinger (Gert Frobe) is still considered to be the most famous game of golf in cinematic history, the Park stated on its website. Scenes such as mini-break and rowing scenes from Bridget Jones’s Diary (2001) starring Hugh Grant, Renée Zellweger and Colin Firth were also filmed at the estate with the Georgian-era mansion set in the midst of 300 acres of parkland. Stoke Park hosts 49 luxury bedrooms and suits, a 27-hole golf course, 13 tennis courts and 14 acres of private gardens. Though the Stoke Park estate has a recorded history of over 900 years, it was used as a private residence until 1908, according to its official website. Mayer Brown International LLP and Khaitan & Co acted as legal counsels for the transaction and Ernst & Young UK advised on financial and tax matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||India Ratings and Research revises down India’s FY22 GDP growth forecast to 10.1 pc||India Ratings and Research on Friday revised down India’s real GDP growth forecast for 2021-22 to 10.1 per cent, from the earlier projection of 10.4 per cent, citing the second wave of Covid-19 infections and a slower pace of vaccination. The agency said it expects the second wave to start subsiding by mid-May. Earlier this month, the RBI maintained its 10.5 per cent GDP growth estimate, but governor Shaktikanta Das has flagged the rising cases as the biggest impediment to recovery. Other brokerages and analysts have also been revising down their forecasts in the light of the second wave. The economy is estimated to have contracted by 7.6 per cent in 2020-21. India Ratings said the impact of the second wave will not be as disruptive as the first one, despite the daily case load touching three times the first wave’s peak, as lockdowns are set to be localised ones. “Unlike the first wave, the administrative response is not abrupt, and is unfolding gradually in a graded manner. Also, households and businesses are better prepared and there is a significant amount of learning, which can help them navigate through the crisis,” the rating agency added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||Rupee falls by 7 paise to close below 75-mark against dollar||The rupee on Friday closed below the 75-mark against the US dollar, weighed down by the record number of Covid-19 cases in the country and fears of FPI outflows. The domestic unit ended at 75.01 against the US currency, registering a fall of 7 paise over its previous close. Foreign portfolio investors have been in a sell mode during this month as the surge in coronavirus cases has led to concerns over its impact on India’s fledgling economic recovery. However, US President Joe Biden’s plan to raise the top marginal income tax and the tax on capital gains — the proceeds of selling an asset like a stock — for people earning more than $1 million has thrown up some new questions for the Indian markets. The plan would effectively increase the rate Americans pay on that income to 39.6 per cent from 20 per cent. Wall Street’s main indexes had slid nearly 1 per cent on Thursday in response. Some experts feel the move could make FPIs return to the Indian markets where the valuations are already low. Others are of the view that the move could exacerbate outflows from India. However, some believe the outflows will be temporary given the fundamentals of the domestic economy and that it could recover strongly once the fresh Covid cases subside and the vaccination gathers pace. At the inter-bank forex market, the rupee opened lower at 75.02 against the previous close of 74.94 and traded in the range of 74.75 to 75.07 during the day. It finally ended at 75.01 against the US currency. Weakness in the equity markets also weighed in on the rupee. “We expect a broader USD-INR range to be 74.50-75.50,” said Rahul Gupta, head of research-currency, Emkay Global Financial Services. In the equity markets, after the relief rally on Thursday, shares were again under pressure as the pandemic’s  impact on corporate earnings took centre stage. The 30-share Sensex ended 202.22 points, or 0.42 per cent, lower after rising to a high of 48265.39. Barring eight shares which closed in the green, the rest ended with losses of up to 2.63 per cent. The Nifty ended 64.80 points lower at 14341.35. Provisional data showed that in Friday’s trade, the FPIs sold stocks worth Rs 1,361 crore which will take the total outflows to nearly Rs 8,700 crore in April. “Going ahead, Indian markets are likely to continue with its volatility. Once the pace of vaccination picks up and daily cases start subsiding, we expect the narrative to gradually shift from Covid-19 and restrictions back to fundamentals,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||RBI restricts American Express, Diners Club from on-boarding new customers from May 1||The Reserve Bank of India has barred American Express Banking Corp (American Express) and Diners Club International Ltd (Diners Club) from taking on new credit card customers after they failed to comply with the banking regulator's directive to store payments data only in the country. “The RBI has, by order dated April 23, imposed restrictions on American Express and Diners Club from on-boarding new domestic customers onto their card networks from May 1. These entities have been found non-compliant with the directions on Storage of Payment System Data. This order will not impact existing customers,” the central bank said in a statement today. American Express and Diners Club are payment system operators authorised to operate card networks in the country under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (PSS Act). The RBI said the supervisory action had been taken in exercise of powers vested under Section 17 of the PSS Act. According to RBI data, as of February this year, American Express had more than 15.59 lakh credit cards outstanding. Back in April 2018, the central bank had directed payment system providers to store all the data pertaining to payment systems only in India within a period of six months. They were required to report compliance to RBI and submit a board-approved system audit report (SAR). The directive was issued after the banking regulator observed that not all system providers were storing the payments data in India. The data storage directive is designed to ensure better monitoring of payment system operators. It will also provide unfettered supervisory access to data stored with these system providers, their service providers or intermediaries and other entities in the payments ecosystem. The payment system operators are required to store end-to-end transaction details in the country. If there is a foreign leg in the transaction, then only that portion of the data can be stored overseas. However, some of the overseas firms were worried that the RBI directives would raise costs and compliance requirements. Some of the overseas firms had reportedly suggested data mirroring options instead of a rigid storage requirement in India. The RBI, however, did not budge from its stand. In an FAQ issued in 2019, it said if the payment processing is done abroad, the data should be deleted from the systems there and brought back to India within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||Real GDP to shrink by Rs 1.5 trillion: research report||The cost of a deadly second Covid wave has been estimated at Rs 1.5 lakh crore for the economy by a research report prepared by the economic team within the SBI. “The total loss is estimated at Rs 1.5 trillion, of which Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan account for 80 per cent. Maharashtra alone accounts for 54 per cent,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at SBI, said in a research note. With Maharashtra in a lockdown till the month-end, its Rs 29.8 lakh crore economy will see an erosion of Rs 81,672 crore. In this backdrop, SBI has also lowered the real GDP growth forecast for FY22 to 10.4 per cent from 11 per cent earlier (RBI: 10.5 per cent); the nominal GDP forecast trimmed to 14.3 per cent from 15 per cent (budget: 14.4 per cent). Six of the top 15 worst affected districts in the country account for 25 per cent of GDP. “For these 13 states the cost of vaccines is 15-20 per cent of states’ health expenditure budget, still it will be only 0.1 per cent of GDP. This is much lower than the loss in GDP due to lockdown,” the report said. Economists expect the impact to be short-lived unless the mobility curbs are widened. Nomura expects the impact to be felt for the next three months. They have pegged GDP growth at 11.5 per cent in 2021, up from -6.9 per cent in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||RBI spikes bids of Rs 11,000 crore government securities maturing in 2026||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday did not accept any bids at an auction of Rs 11,000 crore government securities maturing in 2026. These were part of the Rs 32,000-crore that were on offer on Friday in a highly watched auction amid the market’s demand for higher yields. At the auction, for a notified amount of Rs 11,000 crore for the 5.63 per cent 2026 bond, though the central bank received bids for over Rs 38,747 crore, it did not accept any of the bids. However, for over Rs 4,800 crore in floating rate bonds due in 2033, the cut-off was fixed at 4.93 per cent. On the other hand, Rs 13,255 crore bonds (maturing in 2035) were sold at 6.72 per cent while a 2050 bond saw a cut-off yield of 6.8 per cent. The RBI managed to sell Rs 3,948 crore of these bonds. The cancellation of auction of bonds worth Rs 11,000 crore indicates that the markets have continued to demand higher yields amid factors such as a slowdown in the economy, high Covid-19 cases and elevated inflation. However, yields on the benchmark 10 year security settled at 6.03 per cent against the previous close of 6.05 per cent. While yields on the 10 year bond had inched up to 6.12 per cent despite the RBI announcing a government security acquisition programme, it has softened recently. Experts are of the view that it could trade in a range of 6-6.10 per cent. As part of its monetary policy earlier this month, the RBI had announced G-SAP 1.0 programme, under which it will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve amidst comfortable liquidity conditions. For the current quarter, it is looking to purchase Rs 1 lakh crore worth of bonds. On April 15, the central bank completed its first tranche of bond purchases under this programme of Rs 25,000 crore. However, the markets are looking for more support from the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||RBI allows commercial banks to pay up to 50 pc of pre-Covid dividends||In a relief to shareholders, including the government, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has allowed commercial banks to pay dividends of up to 50 per cent of what they could do in pre-Covid years. In December last year, in view of the pandemic, the central bank had said that lenders should continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses. It had then said that banks should not make any dividend payment on equity shares from the profits pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2020. Last week, HDFC Bank did not pay any dividend to its shareholders. The country’s largest private sector bank said this was due to the second wave of the pandemic. However,  the bank said its board will re-assess the position based on any further guidelines from the RBI in this regard. In a late evening circular issued on Thursday, the RBI allowed commercial banks to pay dividends for 2020-21, subject to certain conditions. The revised circular from the RBI provides that commercial banks can pay up to 50 per cent of what they could in pre-Covid years. For co-operative banks, all restrictions on dividends have been removed. However, the banking regulator clarified that all the lenders have been advised to be cautious, taking into account the adequacy of provisions and economic environment while considering dividend on equity shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-04-2021||Business||Oil refiners plan to cut down production by 10 per cent||State-owned oil refiners are planning to cut down production by about 10 per cent in the coming weeks if the lockdowns get extended and movements are restricted further, sources said. Industry sources said the consumption of petrol and diesel in April is likely to fall by as much as 20 per cent compared with the previous month due to the lockdown in Delhi, Maharashtra and other states. They said state-owned refiners may need to start cutting production by at least 10 per cent if the lockdowns in Delhi and Mumbai continue in May. The two cities are the biggest transport fuel markets. Petrol sales returned to pre-Covid levels in September and the festival season helped pull diesel demand up in the following months. In March, fuel demand soared 18 per cent to 18.77 million tonnes with diesel consumption rising 27 per cent and petrol climbing 25.7 per cent. This was because of the low base effect of March 2020 when restrictions came into effect. Energy research firm FGE has estimated that daily petrol demand is declining by 100,000 barrels this month and 170,000 barrels a day in May, while diesel consumption is expected to decrease by 220,000 barrels and 400,000 barrels a day over the same period. Before the virus flare-up, motor fuel and diesel sales in March were at about 750,000 barrels and 1.75 million barrels a day, respectively. Officials said IOC refineries are operating at about 95 per cent of their capacity, down from 100 per cent at the same time last month. Though the reductions in production were marginal, industry officials said there could be deeper reductions in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
24-04-2021||Business||HCL Q4 net profit dips 6.1 per cent to Rs 2,962 crore||IT services major HCL Technologies (HCLT) on Friday posted a 6.1 per cent decline in consolidated net profit for the March quarter at Rs 2,962 crore, but said it is confident of logging double-digit growth in 2021-22 revenue on the back of a strong deal pipeline. The Noida-based firm also announced a special interim dividend of Rs 10 per share to mark its $10 billion annual revenue milestone. The IT major had registered a net profit of Rs 3,154 crore in the January-March 2020 quarter, HCL said in a regulatory filing. Including the impact of the one-time milestone bonus, HCLT’s net profit for the March 2021 quarter was at Rs 2,387 crore. The decline in net profit was on account of higher tax outgo during the quarter under review. Its revenue grew 5.7 per cent to Rs 19,642 crore from Rs 18,590 crore in the corresponding quarter last year, according to US GAAP. For the 2020-21 fiscal, HCLT’s consolidated net profit increased 17.6 per cent to Rs 13,011 crore, while the revenue grew 6.7 per cent to Rs 75,379 crore from the previous financial year. The company expects its 2021-22 topline to grow in double-digits in constant currency terms. For financial year 2020-21, the company signed $7.3 billion worth of net new deals, which is higher by 18 per cent over the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
24-04-2021||Business||Coal India signs solar power purchase pact with GUVNL ||Coal India has signed a power purchase agreement for the sale of 100 megawatt (MW) of solar power to Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited. The tenure of the agreement is 25 years. The public sector miner has charted an aggressive expansion plan in solar power generation, aiming to set up a solar power capacity of 3,000 MW by 2024. The company has earmarked an estimated Rs 13,500-crore capital expenditure on solar power projects which will be funded through a combination of internal resources, special purpose vehicles and debt. The generating capacity would need buyers and as a result Coal India would have to ink agreements with power distribution companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
24-04-2021||Business||French firm to build six EPR nuclear reactors in India||French state-controlled power group EDF has made a binding offer to build six third-generation EPR nuclear reactors at the Jaitapur site in Maharashtra, EDF said on Friday. EDF said the project would have an installed capacity of 9.6 gigawatts, and would generate up to 75 terawatt hours per year and cover the annual consumption of 70 million Indian households, while avoiding the emission of 80 million tonnes of CO2 per year. “The submission of EDF’s binding technocommercial offer for the Jaitapur project is a major step forward for the group and the French nuclear industry,” said EDF chairman and CEO Jean-Bernard Levy. The binding offer was submitted on Thursday and includes the technical configuration of the reactors, taking into account the information provided by Nuclear Power Corporation of India on the Jaitapur site conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
24-04-2021||India||Oxygen crisis: Delhi High Court asks AAP and Centre to work in tandem||Delhi High Court asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate efforts to ensure medical oxygen was made available to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients on Saturday, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to seek the help of his counterparts in other states. The high court observed that citizens cannot be left to die, making it clear that efforts which the Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government. "The Delhi government should, therefore, make all out efforts for procurement of cryogenic tankers from whatever source they can be made available, and look for all possible avenues. As aforesaid, the sub-Group in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) shall also help in this regard, and we expect the officers of both the governments to interact and coordinate in this regard," a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The bench was conducting a special hearing, that lasted over three hours, on the escalating oxygen crisis. Chief Minister Kejriwal urged his counterparts in other states to provide oxygen to the national capital, saying all available resources are proving to be inadequate owing to the severity of COVID-19. "I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate," Kejriwal tweeted in the evening. Kejriwal's request for supply of oxygen came following the death of 20 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital here as Delhi's desperate hunt for the life-saving gas continued amid rising Covid-19 cases. The deaths at Jaipur Golden took place when the hospital was waiting for oxygen to be replenished, officials said on Saturday morning. The high court also directed all suppliers and re-fillers of oxygen to give complete details to the AAP government about the oxygen supplied by them to various hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that there has to be "transparency" on this aspect. It said the information to be furnished by the suppliers to the nodal officer of Delhi shall include how much oxygen was supplied to each of the hospitals and when. "We direct all suppliers, who supply oxygen to Delhi, to provide complete details to the nodal officer about the quantity of oxygen supplied to each hospital and the timing," the bench said. The high court also directed the Delhi government to communicate to all the hospitals and nursing homes here the details of its new team -- comprising 10 IAS and 28 DANIPS officers -- constituted for monitoring the oxygen distribution in the national capital. Delhi, one of the worst-hit cities in the country right now, has been reporting over 20,000 cases for the past four days. On Friday, the national capital touched a grim milestone of recording 348 deaths, while 24,331 new Covid-19 infections were registered. The Indian Air Force on Saturday picked up from Singapore four cryogenic containers for storage of liquid oxygen, officials said.  The containers were airlifted from Singapore by C17 heavy-lift aircraft of the IAF.  The aircraft with four cryogenic oxygen containers landed at Panagarh airbase in West Bengal at around 4:30 pm, the officials said.  India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of COVID-19 cases.  Since Friday, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating COVID-19 patients.  The IAF was also transporting essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated COVID-19 hospitals in various parts of the country.  "The Indian Air Force is taking sorties to reduce the transportation time of Oxygen and other critical supplies. One C-17 has reached Changi airport in Singapore today. These containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks will help boosting the oxygen supply in the country," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office tweeted earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Set up more vaccination hubs before May 1, Centre tells states||Ahead of the roll-out of vaccination of people aged between 18 and 45 from May 1, the Centre on Saturday asked states to register additional private vaccination centres and ensure effective crowd management at sites and stressed on inoculation through "only online registration" for beneficiaries in the age bracket. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to Combat Covid-19 chairman R S Sharma held a high-level meeting on Saturday to guide states and union territories on effective implementation of the new vaccination strategy (Phase-3) and to review their augmentation plans so as to strengthen the existing hospital and clinical treatment infrastructure for Covid-19 patients. “With regards to the Phase-3 vaccination strategy from May 1, the states were advised to register additional private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on mission mode by engaging with private hospitals, hospitals of industrial establishments, industry associations, etc.,” the health ministry said in a statement. “They have also been asked to monitor the number of hospitals that have procured vaccines and have declared stocks and prices on COWIN portal and schedule vaccination for eligible population for providing adequate visibility of vaccination slots on COWIN,” the ministry said. The states and UTs were asked to prioritise decision on direct procurement of vaccines by State/UT Government and publicising the facility of 'only online registration' for the 18-45 age group. They were also asked to train vaccination centre staff about vaccination, adverse events following immunisation reporting and management, use of COWIN and to coordinate with law-and-order authorities for effective crowd management at sites. On infrastructure augmentation for effective clinical treatment of the hospitalised Covid-19 patients, the states and UTs were advised to review their existing hospital and other treatment infrastructure in light of the daily new case, daily fatality and those that would require hospitalisation. "To prepare and implement a Comprehensive Plan for Augmentation, the States were advised to identify additional Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and prepare field hospital facilities either through DRDO, CSIR or similar agencies in the public and private sector," it said. The Centre asked states to ensure adequacy in terms of oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds and oxygen supplies, set up centralized call centre-based services for allocation of beds, deploy of requisite human resources with proper training and mentoring of doctors and nurses for management of patients and to strengthen ambulance services. The states were also advised to maintain a real-time record for available beds and make it easily accessible to the general public and create guidelines and enable states to take over private health facilities to provide Covid-19 care. They were also asked to expand designated Covid-19 care facilities for isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients so that all those who either cannot isolate at home and/or are willing for institutional isolation, have access to the requisite space and care. The states were also asked to provide tele-medicine facilities for patients who are isolated at home and ensure adequate availability of oxygen, ventilators and intensive care under trained doctors, as well as access to steroids and other drugs as appropriate step up creation of in-hospital oxygen plants in large hospitals. "Pay fair and regular remuneration to ASHAs and other frontline workers who are being engaged for Covid-19," the health ministry said in the statement. The ministry cited various steps taken by the central government to augment hospital infrastructure in the states and UTs. "The plan to set up temporary Covid Care facilities and makeshift hospitals, including ICU beds, in coordination with the DRDO and CSIR-CBRI was re-iterated. The State/UTs were guided to coordinate with corporate entities/PSUs/ government departments for their CSR funds to facilitate setting up makeshift hospitals and temporary Covid care facilities," the ministry said. "Cooperation with National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) for repurposing healthcare facilities (spread across 18 regional offices) for creation of Covid facilities was also advised. They were also advised to use Railway Coaches for management of mild cases; details of availability of 3,816 such coaches, across 16 Zones of Railways have been shared with the States," the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Serum Institute defends Covid vaccine pricing||Serum Institute of India, which makes the most used Covid-19 vaccine in the country, on Saturday defended pricing Covishield vaccine at 1.5 times the initial rate, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it has to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots. Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures AstraZeneca's vaccine Covishield at its Pune facility, earlier this week announced a price of Rs 600 per dose and at Rs 400 for state governments and any new contract by the central government. This compared to Rs 150 per dose it charges the central government for the existing supplies. "There was an inaccurate comparison done between the global prices of the vaccine with India," SII said. "Covisheld is the most affordable Covid-19 vaccine available in the market today." The initial price, it said, was "kept low globally as it was based on advance funding given by those countries for at risk vaccine manufacturing." "The initial supply price of Covishield for all government immunization programme, including India, has been the lowest," it said. "The current situation is extremely dire, the virus is constantly mutating while the public remains at risk. Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives." SII went on to add that only a limited portion of SII's volume will be sold to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. "The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat COVID-19 and other life threatening diseases," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Amid shortage, Centre waives customs duty on import of oxygen, related equipment||Taking a slew of measures to boost medical oxygen availability in the country amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the central government on Saturday decided to waive basic customs duty and health cess on the import of oxygen and connected equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect. It was also decided at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt basic customs duty on the import of Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect for a period of three months, a government statement said. This will boost availability of these items as well as make them cheaper, it said, adding that Modi also directed the revenue department to ensure seamless and quick custom clearance of such equipment. Modi emphasized that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals and asked all ministries and departments to work in synergy to this effect. He was told that basic customs duty was exempted on Remdesivir and its API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) recently, and a suggestion was made that the import of equipment related to providing oxygen to patients needs to be expedited, the statement said, announcing the measures. The items to benefit from the decision include medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator along with flow meter, regulator, connectors and tubing vacuum pressure swing Alabsorption (VPSA) and pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, cryogenic oxygen air separation units (ASUs) producing liquid/ gaseous oxygen. Oxygen canister, oxygen filling systems, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen cylinders, including cryogenic cylinders and tanks besides any other device from which oxygen can be generated are among several other items under this category. The statement noted that the government has taken a lot of measures in the last few days to improve supply of oxygen and medical supplies. "IAF planes are bringing in cryogenic oxygen tanks from Singapore. IAF is also transporting oxygen tanks in the country to reduce travel times. Similarly, in a major decision yesterday, free food grains will be given 80 crore Indians for the month of May & June," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Eight Border Roads Organisation workers die in Uttarakhand avalanche||Eight Border Roads Organisation (BRO) workers were killed, seven injured and 31 went missing in an avalanche near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, officials said on Saturday. A total of 430 BRO workers were at the road-construction site when the avalanche occurred on Friday, Uttarakhand Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said. Two bodies were recovered from the site in the Sumna area of Niti Valley on Friday night, while six more were recovered on Saturday, he added. Of the 430 workers, 384 have returned to the ITBP and Army camps in the area so far, eight are dead, seven injured have been rescued while 31 are missing, the DGP said, adding that a joint search-and-rescue operation by Army, ITBP, SDRF and NDRF personnel continues in the affected area. The injured were rescued in helicopters and flown to the Army hospital in Joshimath. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Indian Army posts at Sumna are safe, the DGP said. Sumna, where the avalanche occurred, is approximately 25 km from Malari village and located near the confluence of the Girthigad and the Kiogad, two streams that originate from the Dhauli Ganga river, which witnessed a calamitous avalanche in February, killing 80 people and leaving 126 missing. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat undertook an aerial survey of the area to take stock of the situation. The Army and the district administration have been constantly engaged in the search-and-rescue operation since Friday night and have also been joined now by ITBP, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured the state of all help in the rescue operation, Rawat said. A similar avalanche at Sumna had killed 11 ITBP personnel in 1991.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Amritsar hospital blames district authorities after 6 die due to oxygen shortage||Six patients died at a private hospital in Amritsar on Saturday due to the shortage of oxygen, hospital authorities said. Five of the six patients were infected with Covid-19, they said. "Despite the district administration being repeatedly asked to extend help, no one turned up to do the needful," Sunil Devgan, the chairman and managing director of Neelkant hospital, alleged. "Six patients, including two women, died due to the shortage of oxygen," he said. After the death of patients, merely five oxygen cylinders were supplied to the hospital, Devgan said. Despite repeated attempts, no district official could be reached for comment. The hospital chairman claimed that three main oxygen suppliers have said that government hospitals are being prioritised in terms of oxygen supply. Heavy police force has been deployed outside the oxygen units to prevent oxygen supply to private hospitals, Devgan alleged. Of the six patients who died at the hospital on Saturday, two were from Gurdaspur, one from Tarn Taran district and the remaining three were from Amritsar. On the day, 20 critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Justice N V Ramana sworn in as 48th Chief Justice of India||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana was sworn in as the 48th Chief Justice of India by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. He took the oath at a brief ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were among those present at the ceremony. Justice Ramana took the oath in English in the name of God. After the swearing in, President Kovind congratulated Justice Ramana and extended him best wishes for a successful tenure. Justice Ramana was appointed as the chief justice of India on April 6. Born on August 27, 1957, in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000, and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He will demit office on August 26, 2022. Justice Ramana succeeds Justice S A Bobde who demitted office on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
24-04-2021||India||Will ‘hang’ anyone who hampers supply of oxygen, warns Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected COVID-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a 'Tsunami', and also warned it will "hang" any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals here.  Talking tough, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour long hearing on a holiday on the issue of escalating oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi.  The court said the viral disease has a low mortality and those who have a low immunity will eventually die but the problem comes when people who could be saved are also dying. "The mortality rate needs to be reduced."  Referring to a study by a team of scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, the court noted its assessment that the peak of this COVID wave will come in mid-May.  We are calling it a wave, it is actually a Tsunami, the court said, and asked the Centre about the preparedness in terms of infrastructure, hospitals, medical staff, medicines, vaccines and oxygen as on date for the peak.  It asked the Centre and the Delhi government to submit a report by April 26, the next date of hearing, with regard to the national capital on the augmentation of the medical infrastructure -- like beds, oxygen, ventilators, medical staff and medicines -- to deal with the expected peak of the COVID pandemic.  Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said there might be a rapid rise in the number of cases in May and June and the country needs to be ready for the worst.  He said the Prime Minister and others are working on it and have decided to import oxygen and are also exploring the remotest possibility of generating oxygen from wherever it is possible.  The court was hearing submissions by the counsel for Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Batra Hospital and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital here over shortage of oxygen for treating seriously-ill COVID patients.  "You rest assured that we will hang that man. We will not spare anyone," the court said while telling the Delhi government to give one instance of any official at the central, state or local administration obstructing the pickup of oxygen supplies.  The court told the Delhi government to inform the Centre also about such officials of the local administration so that it could take action against them.  It noted the problem that Delhi continues to face arises primarily on account of the fact that supply of oxygen even at the allocated rate is not taking place.  With regard to the "dire need" for oxygen by these hospitals, which claimed they will run out of the same in less than an hour, the court asked the Delhi government to take into account the petitioner hospitals requirements also while distributing the oxygen received by Delhi.  The court also directed the suppliers and re-fillers of oxygen to give to the Delhi government nodal officer the details of the oxygen supplied by them to the various hospitals in the national capital, saying "there has to be transparency" on this aspect.  It said the information shall include how much oxygen was supplied to each hospital and when.  A direction was also issued to the Delhi government to communicate to all the hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital the details of its new team -- comprising 10 IAS and 28 DANIPS officers -- constituted for monitoring the oxygen distribution in the national capital.  The court also asked the Centre when the 480 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day allocated for Delhi would see the light of the day.  "You (Centre) had assured us (on April 21) that 480 MT per day will reach Delhi. Tell us when will it come? We want a definitive date. The 480 MT per day is still to see the light of the day, the bench said, adding that citizens of Delhi cannot be left to die like this.  The query came after the Delhi government said it was getting only 380 MT oxygen per day over the past few days and it received only around 300 MT on Friday.  The central government said one of the reasons for the shortage in supply was due to the Delhi government not providing cryogenic tankers for picking up liquid oxygen.  Delhi government, represented by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, told the court that it was not an industrial state and therefore, did not have access to such tankers.  The SG said various states are making arrangements for converting existing tankers for storage of oxygen or are procuring the same from other sources and the Delhi government too should make endeavours in that direction.  The court questioned the Delhi government officers as to what endeavours they have made to secure tankers to get the supply of oxygen allocated to it by the Centre.  The court directed the Delhi government to take steps to procure the tankers, saying it should not leave it entirely on the central government. The Centre and Delhi government should work together on this issue, it said.  The court also asked the Delhi government to go over the national allocation plan for oxygen and give suggestions on re-working it, so that the national capital can get oxygen from nearby sources and the suppliers allocated to it can supply to other states.  The suggestion by the court came in view of the fact that three of the sources of oxygen supply for Delhi are located in Bengal and Odisha and transportation from there via Railways would take time.  The SG said the allocation plan was a "floating plan" and can be looked into again as "nothing is cast in stone". "Whatever permutation and combination is possible, is being done," he told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Another Delhi hospital reports twenty deaths due to scarcity of oxygen ||Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said on Saturday. "The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, told PTI. The incident comes after Friday's tragedy at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital where twenty-five Covid-19 patients died over 24 hours. Sources said “low pressure oxygen” was the likely cause of the deaths in Ganga Ram, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile hospitals, where healthcare staff were reduced to manually ventilating patients in the intensive-care unit and emergency department. The deaths in two of the top most infirmiries of the city lays bare the crisis that is engulfing the national capital at the moment. Dr. DK Baluja, while talking to NDTV.com said, "We had been allotted 3.5 metric tons of oxygen from the government. The supply was to reach us by 5 in the evening, but it reached around midnight. By then, 20 patients had died." He said the hospital has over 200 patients and they had only half-an-hour of oxygen was left at 10:45 am. It received the last refill of oxygen around midnight, after hours of delay. At least 215 Covid patients admitted at the hospital are critical and in dire need of oxygen, including 35 who are in the ICU, he added. "Nobody has promised anything. Everybody is saying we will do our best," the medical director said when asked if the hospital received any help from the government. Jaipur Golden Hospital is the second hospital in the city to send an SOS over shortage of oxygen on Saturday morning. Earlier Moolchand hospital, in a tweet, appealed for urgent help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lt Governor Anil Baijal. More than 130 Covid patients are on life support, it stressed. "Urgent sos help. We have less than 2 hours of oxygen supply @Moolchand_Hos. We are desperate have tried all the nodal officer numbers but unable to connect. Have over 135 COVID pts with many on life support #. @ArvindKejriwal @CMODelh i@LtGovDelhi @satinderjain26 @PMOIndia (sic)," read the tweet put out by Moolchand Healthcare Saturday morning. The hospital has stopped admitting new patients till it resolves the issue, sources told NDTV.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||India logs record 3.46 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,624 casualties in a day||A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a steady increase, active cases in the country reached 25,52,940 and comprise 15.37 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.49 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 1,38,67,997, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 last year, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of a total of 1.50 crore COVID-19 on April 19 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 27,61,99,222 samples have been tested for COVID-19 till April 23 with 17,53,569 of them being examined on Friday. The 2,624 new fatalities include 773 from Maharashtra, 348 from Delhi, 219 from Chhattisgarh, 196 from Uttar Pradesh, 142 from Gujarat, 190 from Karnataka, 78 from Tamil Nadu and 75 from Punjab. A total of 1,89,544 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 63,252 from Maharashtra, 14,075 from Karnataka, 13,395 from Tamil Nadu, 13,541 from Delhi, 10,825 from West Bengal, 10,737 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,264 from Punjab and 7,579 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid cases: Supreme Court’s intervention wrong, wrong, wrong, says Congress||The Congress on Friday said the Supreme Court’s intervention in Covid cases on Thursday was “wrong, wrong and wrong” and demoralising for the high courts, which were doing an excellent job of monitoring the authorities’ anti-pandemic actions and providing relief to aggrieved petitioners. “It is wrong because the Supreme Court should not at the 11th hour, with one day’s notice, and on the very last day of the incumbent Chief Justice of India’s term of office, have virtually paralysed ongoing action in the country giving a healing touch to local problems at the local level,” Congress spokesperson and senior lawyer Abhishek Singhvi said on Friday. “It is wrong because it may have the unintended effect of legit(imising) the utter failure of the central government on all fronts in its anti-Covid policies and actions.” Certain oral observations by the apex court on Thursday had been construed as reflecting an intention to transfer to itself all the Covid-related cases pending with the high courts, which have censured the central and state governments’ failures. On Friday, the bench — headed by outgoing Chief Justice S.A. Bobde — clarified it did not intend to restrain the high courts and chided senior lawyers heading associations that had moved intervention applications opposing any such move. Singhvi, however, suggested that even without an actual directive, the court’s observations of Thursday would be enough to send high court judges a strong signal and cause them to “hesitate in passing orders”. Singhvi said: “Amid this crisis, the Supreme Court’s intervention on April 22, 2021, is totally uncalled for. Unfortunately, it is wrong, wrong and wrong.” “It is wrong because such orders have a demoralising, chilling, paralysing and negative effect on the excellent work being done by other non-governmental institutions of governance, including high courts,” Singhvi said. “It is wrong because the Supreme Court, having been unable or unwilling to take hard, concrete steps for solution and significant mitigation of Covid-related hardships over the last 15 months, has in fact intervened at the peak of the crisis in a manner which may well retard and impede effective ongoing solution-oriented measures.” Singhvi continued: “It is wrong because decentralisation (and) not overcentralisation —judicial, administrative or societal — is the need of the hour.” Asked if the Congress was attacking Chief Justice Bobde, Singhvi said: “We are not criticising a person but an approach, an institutional fallacy. Can you find fault with even a single issue that I have raised? It is not about any individual, we are willing to point out any wrong intervention… on any issue in a constructive spirit.” Singhvi also appeared to allude to the appointment of senior advocate Harish Salve, who doesn’t live in India and is known for his intimacy with the Narendra Modi government, as amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the case. “It is wrong because it in fact enhances the closed and incestuous circle of the central government or connected/ affiliated persons and seeks to find a solution from among those responsible for the crisis in the first place,” he said. Salve recused himself from the case on Friday, taking umbrage at comments about his perceived closeness to Justice Bobde. Singhvi went on: “It is wrong because the order is narrow-based in terms of persons. It does not involve any other of the diverse stakeholders — NGOs, genuine bona fide public-spirited individuals, members of the Bar with a proven track record in such matters, experts, unbiased, objective and non-affiliated persons of eminence — and not even the attorney-general.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta has been representing the Centre in the case. The Congress has often in the recent past aired disappointment at the top court’s decisions. It had moved an impeachment motion against then Chief Justice Dipak Misra and criticised his successor Ranjan Gogoi, who later accepted the government’s offer of a Rajya Sabha seat shortly after retirement. When Rahul Gandhi talks about the Modi government capturing institutions, the ambit of his criticism is understood to include the Supreme Court as well. Told that the apex court had not stopped the high courts from taking up Covid-related matters, Singhvi said: “There is no formal ban but what is the messaging? They say, ‘We are worried’. They said the hearings in different high courts will be a hurdle in evolving uniformity of policy. Why did they issue notice? “The high court judges will now hesitate in passing orders. If lawyers and activists all around didn’t create a noise, they (the Supreme Court) would have passed an order. Why did they appoint a non-resident Indian as amicus curiae? He has recused now but why was he appointed in the first place?” Singhvi argued that the high courts, with their local focus, were better placed to deal with specific issues and provide relief to petitioners. “The high courts were efficiently upholding the citizens’ right to life and holding the government accountable in a more nuanced way — on a case-to-case basis. Then where is the need to prevent them from discharging their duties? Why was the office of the attorney-general undermined?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Oxygen runs low, 25 ‘sickest’ patients die at Ganga Ram  ||Twenty-five Covid-19 patients at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital died over 24 hours and the lives of 60 more hang in balance, officials said on Friday as the scramble for oxygen got more frantic in hospitals across Delhi. Sources said “low pressure oxygen” was the likely cause of the deaths in Ganga Ram, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile hospitals, where healthcare staff were reduced to manually ventilating patients in the intensive-care unit and emergency department. The hospital announced the deaths shortly after 8am on Friday. An oxygen tanker reached Ganga Ram at 9.20am with supply enough to last about five hours depending on consumption, a hospital official said. “It is wrong to say the deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage. We provided oxygen to patients manually when the pressure dipped in the ICU,” Ganga Ram chairman Dr Devinder S. Rana said. “All we need is uninterrupted and timely supply of oxygen,” he said. (Rana told The Telegraph that the 25 patients who had died were all severely ill. “On the previous day, we lost 22 Covid-19 patients,” Rana said. “Many of the patients we receive are very, very ill. Some have died in the emergency department.”) More than 500 coronavirus patients, including around 150 on high-flow oxygen support, are admitted in the hospital. “Ventilators and BiPAP machines are not working effectively. Lives of another 60 ‘sickest’ patients at risk. Major crisis likely,” a senior hospital official said. (Two critical care specialists who do not work at Ganga Ram told this newspaper it was unclear why the hospital was using manual ventilation on Covid-19 patients in intensive care or the emergency department.) (“We use devices called ambubags for manual resuscitation for any emergency — it could be any respiratory emergency with or without low pressure oxygen lines,” one of the specialists told The Telegraph. (The other specialist in a leading government hospital said only the hospital could explain why they were using manual ventilation, or ambubags, on Covid-19 patients. “It appears to have been a desperate measure to save lives, but I’m speculating,” said Dhruv Chaudhry, senior professor of critical care medicine at the Institute of Postgraduate Medical Sciences, Rohtak Haryana. (Chaudhry and other doctors managing Covid-19 patients said unusually large proportions of deaths could be expected from hospitals that receive some of the sickest patients. “We lost 17 patients over the past one day,” said Chaudhry.) On Thursday night, Ganga Ram officials had sent an SOS to the government saying they had only five hours of oxygen left. “At 8pm, oxygen in store is for five hours for peripheral use till 1am and less for high-flow use. Need urgent oxygen supplies,” an official had said. The hospital had received some oxygen around 12.30am, but the stock had to be supplemented later, the sources said. Fresh supply On Friday night, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said it had managed to get an oxygen tanker in the nick of the time to save lives of a large number of patients admitted to its wards. Rana, the hospital chairman, told PTI that the hospital would make every possible effort to save every single patient who went to it and it was thankful for the efforts made by the central and the state governments for getting the much-required oxygen tanker to the hospital to meet the requirements needed to save the lives of patients admitted to its wards. “We have received a fresh supply of oxygen and that will help our patients in a big way,” Rana told PTI. “We had a severe scarcity of oxygen, but the state and central governments worked hard to ensure the supply and our patients are grateful to them,” he said. Max SOS The oxygen emergency was mirrored at the Max Hospitals. Max Healthcare sent out an SOS on Twitter at 7.43am to say that Max Smart and Max Hospital Saket had less than an hour of oxygen left for the about 700 patients admitted. “Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1am… over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance,” it said, tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, the Union health minister and Delhi chief minister, among others. About two hours later, at 9.35am, it put out an update that it had received emergency supplies that would last two hours and was waiting for more. Outside the hospitals, too, despair escalated. Ambulances could be seen lined up, patients waited on stretchers, some visibly gasping for breath, and family members and friends desperately tried to get their loved ones a bed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS postpones entrance exam for admission to postgraduate courses ||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Friday postponed its entrance exam for admission to postgraduate courses in view of the pandemic’s debilitating second wave. In a notification, AIIMS stated that its Institutions of National Importance-Combined Entrance Test (INI-CET) scheduled to be held on May 8 had been pushed back and that the new exam date would be announced later. Students expressed relief. “It is a good decision to postpone the entrance test. It would have posed a great health risk considering the staggering rise in Covid infections,” a candidate said. Last Sunday, the National Testing Agency (NTA) had postponed the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, held to select students for BTech courses in NITs and several other engineering colleges. The third round of the JEE Main was scheduled to be held on April 27, 28 and 30. The earlier two rounds had been held in February and March. The NTA has decided to conduct the exam in four rounds this year, once a month from February to May. Students have the option to appear in as many rounds as they want to improve their score. Those seeking admission into IITs will have to clear the JEE Main with a good rank to be able to appear in the JEE Advanced. The IITs have scheduled their JEE-Advanced exam on July 3. However, all the rounds of JEE Main would have to be held so that the top 2.5 lakh scorers can then proceed to the JEE Advanced. Last year, the JEE Main had been postponed twice and was held in September, after which the JEE Advanced was conducted. “Going by the ongoing trend of (Covid) cases, the JEE Advanced may not be held in July. This may push back the academic session by a few months,” said a senior faculty member of IIT Delhi. He said that last year, the first-year IIT students had been admitted in October and classes had started online in November. Usually, the admission is completed by July 15. “Even though the classes started late, the first semester courses could be covered by February. The next semester will be covered by May. The only difference is that the first-year students did not visit the institute (for in-person classes) this year,” he said. Except some school boards, all boards, including CBSE and CISCE, have postponed their Class XII exams. Universities admit students to undergraduate courses mainly on the basis of Class XII marks. The admission process will now be deferred. Rajesh Jha, former executive council member of Delhi University, said that most likely the online mode of education will continue in 2021-22 too. “The students will miss the campus environment, opportunities to clarify and take help of teachers directly and also peer group learning,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Chinese govt and Pakistan-based ambulance network offer to help India||The Chinese government and the Pakistan-based world’s largest ambulance network, the Edhi Foundation, have offered to help India in its efforts to battle the second wave of Covid-19 that has left the country gasping for oxygen. The external affairs ministry had not responded to either offer for hours after they were made early on Friday. The two proposals, strategic experts pointed out, are in stark contrast to the silence of the US to the crisis in India and also its refusal to ease restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for the production of vaccines. Asked if the Chinese government was in communication with India on providing help and the nature of assistance that Beijing could offer, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said: “The Chinese government and people firmly support the Indian government and people in fighting the coronavirus. China is ready to provide support and help according to India’s need, and is in communication with the Indian side on this. We believe that the Indian people will defeat the virus at an early date.” The chairman of the Edhi Foundation, Faisal Edhi, wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing concern about the “exceptionally heavy impact” that the pandemic has had on India and offering 50 staffed ambulances. He has personally offered to lead the humanitarian effort. “Our organisation understands the gravity of the situation, and we wish to lend you our full support, without any inconvenience to you, which is why we will arrange all the necessary supplies that our team needs to assist the people of India. Importantly, we are not requesting any other assistance from you, as we are providing the fuel, food and other necessary amenities that our team will require. Our team consists of emergency medical technicians, office staff, drivers, and supporting staff,” the letter said. All that the Foundation is asking from India is permission to enter the country, besides any necessary guidance from the local administration and police. “We are willing to deploy our team into any critical areas of concern at your direction without hesitation,” Edhi added. Twitterati was quick to point out how the Edhi Foundation’s offer, in particular, stood out in the face of US refusal to come to India’s help in vaccine manufacturing. “Pakistan’s Edhi Foundation, founded by the late great Abdul Sattar Edhi, has done what most of the world’s richest governments have declined to do: Extend an offer of assistance to an Indian nation deeply in need. This is the example that must be set, and that the world must see,” tweeted Michael Kugelman, South Asia senior associate at the Washington-based Wilson Centre. Happymon Jacob, a professor at JNU, tweeted: “The US refuses to help India with vaccine raw materials when the latter faces its worst humanitarian crisis! With friends like this, who needs enemies?!.” He did not refer to the Chinese or the Edhi offer but the swipe appeared to be at India’s foreign policy choice of sidling up to the US on various fronts. Responding to a question on when the Joe Biden administration will reply to Indian requests to ease the restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for making vaccines, a US state department spokesman said on Thursday: “The United States first and foremost is engaged in an ambitious... effort to vaccinate the American people. That campaign is well underway, and we’re doing that for a couple of reasons. “Number one, we have a special responsibility to the American people. Number two, the American people, this country has been hit harder than any other country around the world — more than 550,000 deaths, tens of millions of infections in this country alone.... It’s, of course, not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated; it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated. “The point the secretary has made repeatedly is that as long as the virus is spreading anywhere, it is a threat to people everywhere. So as long as the virus is spreading uncontrolled in this country, it can mutate and it can travel beyond our borders. That, in turn, poses a threat well beyond the United States.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Anti-Covid measures: Supreme Court clarifies after criticism from lawyers’ bodies ||The Supreme Court on Friday said it had neither restrained nor intended to restrain the high courts from monitoring governments’ anti-Covid measures, the clarification following criticism from lawyers’ bodies that said the apex court should not take over the mantle itself. The court asked the Centre to submit a “national plan” to combat the Covid resurgence by Tuesday, the next date of hearing. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the matter, recused himself citing insinuations about his purported closeness to outgoing Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde. The bench of Justices Bobde, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat expressed displeasure at media reportage about the top court’s perceived intention of transferring to itself the Covid-related cases pending before the high courts. Certain oral observations by the apex court on Thursday had been construed as reflecting such an intention and invited opposition from the Supreme Court Bar Association, led by senior advocate Vikas Singh, and the Gujarat High Court Bar Association, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave. Both organisations had filed intervention applications opposing any such move, on the ground that the high courts were better equipped to deal with local issues. When the matter resumed on Friday, Justice Rao asked Singh: “You have read the order. Is there any intention to transfer the case? Mr Singh, listen to us, even before reading the order there was criticism about something which was not there in the order. This is how the institution is being destroyed by senior members of the bar.” Justice Rao told Dave: “Mr Dave, you have imputed motive to us without reading the order.” Dave responded: “It was not about imputing motives. It was a question of genuine perception. The whole country thought that this would happen. We love you, but we have every right to voice our concern as citizens of this country.” He then remarked that in the past too “certain orders” had been passed. Justice Bhat intervened to say: “We never said a word and did not stop the high court. We asked the Centre to go to high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about? Talk about these proceedings -- what past are you referring to?” Dave said: “Your Lordships always indicate in the order that the high courts are free to continue the proceedings. Your Lordships did not do it here (in Thursday’s order).” On Thursday, the bench was hearing a plea for reopening a controversial Sterlite plant in Tamil Nadu when it seemed to suggest it might take over the Covid cases from the high courts to avoid “confusion and diversion of resources”. It further indicated that only state governments, and not the high courts, had the power to declare lockdowns. Earlier, the high courts of Calcutta, Allahabad, Bombay and Delhi had rapped central and state authorities, including the Election Commission, for their failure to contain the Covid second wave. On Friday, when Justice Rao said senior lawyers like Dave were expected to protect the institution’s image, the senior counsel remarked: “We have always protected the institution.... An objective criticism only strengthens the institution rather than undermining it.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, intervened to say that senior advocates cannot go by perceptions but only by legal orders. Dave retorted: “You (Mehta) are the last person to be making this argument. You have been defending the government based on perception….” Singh and Mehta then argued over the solicitor-general’s statement in the court last year that there were no stranded migrants on the roads – a claim the court had straightaway accepted. Apparently exasperated at the argument between senior lawyers, Justice Bobde threatened to close the proceedings. “We may have to shut off the mikes and the screens if it continues like this. Don’t bring it to that,” the Chief Justice said while adjourning the matter till Tuesday. Salve recusal Earlier during the hearing, Salve had sought recusal as amicus curiae saying he didn’t want people to talk about how he had been friends with the Chief Justice “from my school-college days” or allege a conflict of interest. Justice Bobde tried to dissuade him, saying his appointment was a “collective decision of the bench” but Salve persisted with his plea. Justice Bobde said: “We will honour your sentiments. The only thing is that we’ll have to start looking for some amicus curiae who we don’t know in future.” He went on to say “Unfortunately, I don’t have any future in the judiciary now” – a reminder that Friday marked his last day in office before retirement. The court adjourned the matter till Tuesday to enable the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to file their replies. The Centre and Vedanta Limited have jointly sought reopening of the company’s controversial copper smelting plant in Tuticorin so that it can manufacture 1,000 tonnes of oxygen a day to help meet a national shortage. The Tamil Nadu government had shut the factory down in May 2018 after police firing killed 14 protesters who were demanding its closure on environmental grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Arvind Kejriwal goes live with oxygen request to Narendra Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday live-streamed on television images of him pleading before Prime Minister Narendra Modi with folded hands to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals in the capital and accusing neighbouring states of holding up oxygen trucks, leaving the Centre embarrassed and angry. With some television channels beaming live images of Kejriwal and Modi from the meeting of the Prime Minister with the chief ministers of the 11 worst affected states, the timing could not have been worse for the government that has appeared completely unprepared for the pandemic surge and faced unprecedented criticism for the shortage of life-saving oxygen that has worsened treatment outcomes. “Will the people of Delhi not get oxygen since there is no oxygen-producing plant here?” Kejriwal was seen telling Modi in the live telecast of the videoconference. “Please suggest whom should I speak to in the central government when an oxygen tanker meant for Delhi is stopped in another state,” the Delhi chief minister added. “We fear a big tragedy may take place in Delhi and then we will not be able to forgive ourselves. I appeal to you with folded hands to direct chief ministers to ensure unhindered movement of oxygen trucks meant for Delhi,” Kejriwal told Modi. When the government realised that a good part of Kejriwal’s intervention during the meeting had gone live on TV, they fumed and fretted and accused the Delhi chief minister of making what transpired at the meeting public. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra released a video showing Modi chiding Kejriwal for live-streaming an “in-house” meeting. “What is happening is strictly against our tradition and protocol that a chief minister is showing live telecast of an in-house meeting,” Modi tells Kejriwal. “This is not appropriate. We should maintain restraint.” Kejriwal replies: “Ok, Sir, we will be careful in future.” Patra tweeted along with the video: “If his politics was telecast live, his apology too should be for the public to see….” Kejriwal later expressed “regret” in a statement, saying that “there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from the central government that the said interaction cannot be shared live”. “However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that,” the statement from Kejriwal’s office added. Delhi’s hospitals, including the top ones, have been facing an acute shortage of oxygen. Hospitals and doctors have taken to social media to highlight depleting stocks and make desperate appeals for help. People have also used social media to arrange for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines for their Covid-afflicted relatives, strengthening the impression that the Centre has abdicated its responsibilities and left the citizens to fend for themselves in this hour of grave crisis. Twenty-five “sickest” Covid patients died at the prestigious Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on Thursday due to oxygen shortage. The central government is solely responsible for the supply of oxygen. As people have been left grasping for breath, several states have complained about lack of oxygen. In the video that was streamed live, Kejriwal first thanked the Prime Minister for enhancing Delhi’s quota of oxygen and then went on to accuse neighbouring states of blocking supply, without naming any. There have been complaints that tankers ferrying oxygen have been blocked in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, both ruled by the BJP. The Delhi chief minister sought Modi’s intervention, saying if the Prime Minister made one call to the chief ministers of the neighbouring states, oxygen tankers would not be held up. Kejriwal also flagged the issue of dual vaccine pricing announced by the Serum Institute of India without naming the company. “One company has announced vaccine rates and has said that while it will give at the rate Rs 150 per dose to the Centre, it will be Rs 400 for states,” he said. “How can there be two rates for the same thing in one country?” Kejriwal asked. “It should be one nation, one rate,” he added. The chief ministers of Congress-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh later tweeted to say that they too flagged the dual pricing of vaccines and urged the Prime Minister to ensure that states get the shots at the same price as the Centre. Serum had earlier clarified that according to a previous deal, they are to supply the first 100 million doses of Covishield to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose, after which Rs 400 will be charged from the Union government as well. The chief ministers also asked for a “vaccination plan” to be made available to the states to implement the Centre’s decision of inoculating all adults. The oxygen crisis was also raised by several chief ministers. Ahead of the meeting with the chief ministers, Modi chaired a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers to discuss ways to tide over the crisis. Modi told the chief ministers that “if we work as one nation, there will not be any scarcity of resources” and claimed that the railways and the air force have been deployed to reduce travel time of oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Why these shortages, asks Congress ||The Congress on Friday wondered why a credible national infrastructure to manage Covid wasn’t set up in the last 15 months and why India was grappling with shortages of everything — from oxygen to hospital beds and medicine. “This government is defined by shortages, shortcomings, and short-sightedness,” said Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, lamenting that the lack of preparedness brought India to such a situation that the second wave is now being described as the “worst in the world”. Rahul Gandhi also blamed the Narendra Modi government for the crisis, arguing that deficient medical assistance, not Covid, was pushing the number of casualties. “Corona can cause fall in oxygen level. But it is oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths. The Government of India, this is on you,” he tweeted. Rahul also pointed at the government’s wrong priorities such as the Central Vista project at a time there were not even enough testing facilities, medicine and vaccines available to the people. Arguing that advance planning and foresight could have prevented this alarming situation, Singhvi said: “The priorities of the Prime Minister and the home minister reflect that they have entirely become inefficient, incompetent, and indifferent towards the Covid crisis. “Why did they relocate themselves to Bengal, despite the home ministry being the nodal agency for managing Covid? When a single person sitting inside the car is liable for punishment for not wearing mask, Shah was doing road shows in Bengal amid thousands of people without wearing a mask.” Singhvi added: “The devastation has sparked outrage at the lack of preparation among officials who believed that the worst of the pandemic was over. Only two months ago, India was revelling in its success of reining in the spread of the virus…. Now it is reporting almost 3.5 lakh infections and 2,500 deaths a day. India currently stands at the first position in the world and is taking nine days to double the cases.” Among the questions raised by Singhvi was the differential pricing of the vaccine. “A vaccine is certainly a public good at the time of such an emergency. Under a declared disaster of the pandemic, why has been a differential pricing brought in place?” He also asked: “Why is the government under reporting cases of infections and deaths? Why have the number of tests gone down in places like Delhi, which is hardly conducting 1 lakh tests per day? Why is it taking 3-5 days to get the report of a Covid test? Why is it taking as long as 6-8 hours for people to stand in the queue to get tested for Covid? Why has the Prime Minister not yet opened up on the PM CARES fund? When will he hold himself accountable for the money contributed by the citizens? When will he begin to really CARE?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
24-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Five patients die in Madhya Pradesh, oxygen shortage blamed||Five coronavirus patients admitted to the ICU of a private hospital in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, died on Thursday night allegedly after its oxygen supply ran out. The incident at Galaxy Hospital came amid a grave medical oxygen shortage in many parts of the country. “According to the family members, the patients died after the stock of oxygen got over,” said city superintendent of police Dipak Mishra. The hospital management, however, was not available for comment despite several calls. A police team, which was on patrolling duty in the area, reached the spot after receiving information about commotion and loud protests by patients’ relatives outside the hospital. The relatives alleged that their loved ones died because of lack of oxygen as the stock got exhausted, Mishra said. “We have set up a four-member committee to probe the deaths,” said district collector Karamveer Sharma in a video message. The committee comprises a joint collector, a doctor, a senior police official and deputy collector (who has the responsibility of monitoring the medical oxygen supply in district). The panel will probe why despite regular supply of oxygen the incident took place, the collector said. Authorities are regularly monitoring the supply of oxygen to government and private hospitals, he added. According to Mishra, a vehicle which was ferrying 10 oxygen cylinders to the hospital broke down late at night. A police team was then rushed to the supplier to collect the cylinders. “Another vehicle was arranged and the cylinders were brought to the hospital,” he said. Family members of the deceased urged the police to conduct an inquiry. “We are waiting for a written complaint to start a probe,” the city SP said. BJP MLA and former health minister Ajay Vishnoi claimed there was no shortage of oxygen in Jabalpur and blamed the hospital for “poor management”. ”The hospital should have made arrangements for the supply of medical oxygen in advance considering the requirement. There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the district,” he said. Congress MLAs Tarun Bh­anot, Lakhan Ghanghoria, Vi­n­ay Saxena and district unit pr­esident Dinesh Yadav lod­g­ed a protest with the collector. Saxena, MLA from Jabalpur North, said they requested the collector to ensure a proper monitoring of the su­pply.  He said private hospitals should enable family me­mb­ers to watch, through live vi­deo, the treatment given to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Over 1,700 doses stolen vaccines returned in Jind district||Over 1,700 doses of Covid-19 vaccine that were stolen from a government hospital in Haryana’s Jind district on Wednesday night were returned hours later by the unidentified thief who left a note saying he did not know these were coronavirus jabs. A total of 1,270 doses of Covishield and 440 doses of Covaxin were stolen from the hospital, the SHO of Civil Lines police station, Rajender Singh, said on Thursday. The matter came to light after a sanitation worker of the hospital found the locks of the store and deep freezer broken on Thursday morning. “The accused did not touch any other vaccine, medicine, cash in the store,” Singh said. Later, a man came on a motorcycle and left the vaccines at a tea stall outside the Civil Lines police station. He told people at the stall that the package contained food for a police official at the station, the officer said. The thief also left a note in which he expressed regret over stealing the vaccines. He said that he did not know that these were Covid-19 vaccines, he added. “It is possible that he wanted to steal some other vaccine or drug and returned what he had stolen after learning that it wasn’t that,” Singh said. A case has been registered in connection with the incident, he said. “We have got some clues and hope to make an arrest soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Covid: Logistics key to oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has chaired two meetings on medical oxygen over the past two days amid SOS alarms from hospitals and concerns among experts that the key challenge is not production but transport logistics. Modi, in a video conference on Friday with domestic oxygen manufacturers, acknowledged the steps taken to increase oxygen production in recent days. But he underlined the need to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders and upgrade the facilities for oxygen transport. India’s medical oxygen production has increased by 3,300 tonnes per day over the past few days, with contributions from steel plants and oxygen producers and the diversion of industry oxygen, government officials had noted during another oxygen meeting chaired by Modi on Thursday. At a meeting on Friday with the chief ministers of the 11 states hit the hardest by the second wave of Covid-19, Modi said the country’s states should ensure that no oxygen tanker is stopped or stranded, no matter which state it is bound for. He asked the states to establish a “coordination committee” to ensure that as soon as the Centre allotted oxygen, it would be channelled to hospitals with the most immediate need. A public health specialist and health administrator who has worked with the Centre in the past said such meetings “are important” and serve “more than just optics as most people would take PM-chaired meetings very seriously”. “Particularly with Prime Minister Modi, when he says something should be done, everyone down the line is likely to implement it. To that extent, hopefully, we might see more of unhindered inter-state transport of oxygen,” the specialist said. Delhi had earlier this week reported difficulties in accessing oxygen from other states. Two Delhi hospitals said their oxygen tankers were stopped in Haryana. Another hospital in Delhi on Friday morning tweeted that it had “less than an hour’s oxygen supplies” and had been waiting for promised supplies since 1am. But other health experts have cautioned that merely enhancing oxygen production and ensuring seamless transport won’t immediately solve the crisis. “The critical bottleneck is transport logistics, distribution and storage, moving cylinders back and forth, ensuring that oxygen reaches in time those hospitals that need it the most,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of health specialists. “Scaling up production is relatively easy; getting oxygen to exactly where it is needed is difficult. This is why on-site oxygen generation in hospitals is important.” The Centre had last October announced a plan and in January earmarked funds to install oxygen-generating plants in 162 government hospitals across India to support Covid-19 treatment. But only 33 plants had been installed until last week. The government has said the other plants will become operational by May this year. Doctors anticipate the crisis to persist and possibly worsen if the epidemic grows at its current pace. India on Friday recorded over 332,000 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of active patients to more than 2.4 million. “Our daily counts of new cases now exceed three times the peak counts during the previous wave. This has obviously put an intense strain on oxygen supply,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. Oxygen industry executives say people have started buying oxygen concentrators – bed-side devices that can filter nitrogen and concentrate oxygen to medical grade to assist patients. “Stocks are being picked up every day by ordinary people, even those who won’t know how to use them,” said Indrajot Singh, a Bangalore-based executive with a private concentrator manufacturer. Doctors have cautioned that oxygen concentrators are supplemental devices that are ideally used in conjunction with alternative supplies of oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Supreme Court prods Tamil Nadu on Vedanta||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Tamil Nadu government to inform by Monday if it was willing to take over the oxygen plant of Vedanta Ltd’s closed Sterlite Industries copper factory in Tuticorin for producing 1,000 mega tonnes of oxygen to tackle the countrywide crisis. A three-judge bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat passed the directions after senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government, opposed the plea of both the Centre and Vedanta Industries to reopen the plant, citing the possibility of law-and-order problems. Fourteen persons had died in 2018 following police firing and clashes after activists had demanded the plant’s closure over environmental and health concerns. Since then the plant has been closed and subsequent attempts by Vedanta Industries to reopen it has been rejected by the apex court too. But on Thursday, Vedanta, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, and the Centre, represented by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, sought temporary permission to reopen the plant to augment the country’s high demand of oxygen for Covid patients. Vaidyanathan said: “…There was a huge law-and-order problem. About 13 people had died…. They tried their best to persuade. Local media and a huge lot of people have been approached.” CJI Bobde countered, saying: “Yesterday you did not tell us about the law-and-order situation. People are dying due to lack of oxygen. Why can’t you take over the oxygen plant?” Senior advocate Colin Gonzalves, representing some of those opposed to the plant’s reopening, intervened to say that the state should be allowed to take over the plant for producing oxygen. “We have no problem that the state government takes over the plant,” CJI Bobde said. Mehta said the plant had the capacity of producing 1,000MT of oxygen. “The country is in need of oxygen,” he said, prompting the CJI to say: “You don’t have to labour on that point which we ourselves hold….” Tamil Nadu is aware about the same. Let the state produce it.” Vaidyanathan said he needed time to respond. He suggested that under the Disaster Management Act, the Centre had the power to take over the production at the plant. “We are not interested that Vedanata or A, B or C produce it. When people are dying, the state government says that we are not going to produce because of law-and-order problems. People are dying. It’s not a question of Vedanta,” CJI Bobde said. The bench directed the Tamil Nadu government to file its response by Monday through an affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||15 Covid-19 patients die in Virar fire ||Fifteen Covid-19 patients died after a fire broke out at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Friday, police said. While 13 were charred to death in the ICU, one patient died while being taken to another hospital and another died during treatment, an official said. There were 83 patients in the hospital, 17 of them in the ICU when the fire broke out after a blast in the air-conditioning unit, the official said. TV visuals showed the smoke-filled ICU in disarray, with the ceiling falling off in places, beds and other furniture strewn around and kin of the deceased wailing outside the hospital. Five patients were rescued and shifted to other hospitals. The other patients in the hospital were not affected as the damage was confined to the ICU, the official added. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe, health minister Rajesh Tope said. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya said authorities should check if there was a fire safety audit of the hospital, which is over 50km from Mumbai. District disaster control cell chief Vivekanand Kadam told PTI that an explosion in the AC unit of the intensive care unit preceded the Virar hospital fire. Relatives of the deceased have demanded that stringent action be taken against those responsible for the tragedy. The chief minister has announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of deceased. Those who suffered serious injuries would be given Rs 1 lakh compensation each. Maharashtra home minister Dilip  Walse Patil on Friday said he has asked the state DGP to conduct an in-depth probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Defence ministry to airlift 23 oxygen plants from Germany for use in military hospitals||The defence ministry on Friday decided to airlift 23 mobile oxygen-generating plants from Germany for use in military hospitals amid an acute shortage of the gas in several states grappling with a massive surge in Covid cases. The plants are expected to reach within a week. Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have sought immediate help from the Centre while some hospitals have moved the high courts to ensure oxygen supply for critical patients. An acute shortage of oxygen has caused several deaths in Delhi and other states. The Delhi government has also decided to airlift oxygen tanks from Odisha to ensure enough supply of the gas to hospitals in the capital. The decision to airlift 23 oxygen-generating plants came four days after defence minister Rajnath Singh announced the granting of emergency financial powers to the chiefs of the three services to make necessary procurement to enhance medical infrastructure in view of the pandemic. Defence ministry spokesperson A. Bharat Bhushan Babu said the imported plants would be deployed at the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) hospitals treating Covid patients. “Each plant has a capacity to produce 40 litres of oxygen per minute and 2,400 litres an hour. At this rate it can cater to 20-25 patients round the clock,” Babu said. The AFMS hospitals are straining under an increased load of serving personnel and retired veterans. A retired brigadier of the Indian Army died of Covid-related complications while on his way to Chandigarh from Delhi on Wednesday night after being allegedly denied admission in the capital’s hospitals, including the army facility. Sources in the defence ministry said no civilian was currently admitted in the army’s Base Hospital in Delhi as all the beds were occupied by serving personnel, veterans and their dependents. The defence ministry had on Monday directed the cantonment general hospitals maintained by the cantonment boards across the country to extend all necessary medical assistance and services to all patients even if they were not cantonment residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Crowd-funding drive to help Kerala, shame Centre||Keralites have taken up a crowd-funding challenge to help the state government vaccinate people free of charge against Covid, and to register their protest against the Centre’s move not to fund the vaccination of those aged 18 to 45. In just 48 hours after #vaccinechallenge became visible on Twitter and other social media platforms, more than Rs 1.4 crore had been deposited into the chief minister’s disaster relief fund (CMDRF). Whether or not the initiative — in which the authorities have no role— raises the entire Rs 1,300 crore that the Kerala government believes it needs to vaccinate everyone above 18, chief minister Vijayan extolled is as typical of Keralites’ response to crises. “That’s the speciality of our state. We have already experienced Keralites’ power of unity,” Vijayan said at his media briefing on Wednesday. “This kind of popular intervention and support provides us with strength in all crises.” Some of the contributors suggested the initiative was a “slap” in the Centre’s face. Posts by many of the donors made it clear they had already received both vaccine doses and were chipping in only to help others. So far, the Centre has been giving vaccines free to the states so that those aged above 45 — currently the only eligible group — can be vaccinated free at government facilities and for Rs 250 at private ones. But from May 1, when those aged 18 to 45 too become eligible for the jab, it would be up to the states and the private healthcare sector to decide how and at what charges the new group would be vaccinated. Already, some of the vaccine makers have signalled increased prices. The money raised through the crowd-funding initiative is expected to help Vijayan keep his promise of vaccinating those aged 18 to 45, too, free of charge at government facilities. Kerala has 1.65 crore people in this age group, Vijayan said. “It’d be a slap on the Centre if it (total donation) reaches 1 Cr before CM’s press meet,” a man named Sreenath had tweeted on Friday. By 5pm, Friday’s donations alone had reached Rs 1.2 crore, deposited through 5,365 transactions — an average of Rs 2,236 per transaction — the CMDRF website showed. It’s unclear who started the initiative, which began on Wednesday afternoon. Many of the donors amplified the initiative’s message by sharing the QR Code of the payment gateways, making it easy for others to donate to the CMDRF. Several others shared their donation receipts to motivate people. Filmmaker Ashiq Abu and music composer Gopi Sunder were among the celebrity donors. “We’re in this and we’ll get through this — together. Together let’s help Kerala government to provide vaccines to every person in our state,” a Twitter user, Elina, wrote. Jithil Jishad tweeted: “This government stood with (the) people when they needed support badly. Now the people are standing with the government when it requires a hand.” A similar drive had been seen after the 2018 floods when the Centre refused to let the Kerala government accept donations from foreign countries and agencies for reconstruction. It led Keralites and others from across the world to send money to the CMDRF. A similar initiative was seen after the 2019 floods too. A total of Rs 4,912 crore was received during and after the two floods, according to the CMDRF website. Independently of the #vaccinechallenge initiative, more than Rs 524 crore has so far been deposited with the CMDRF since November 3 last year to help the state government fight Covid. These donations came in response to a state government appeal, though, and a lot of the money was contributed by corporate groups and rich NRIs. Kerala has so far vaccinated 67 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Assembly Polls 2021: How politicians are spending time after a gruelling schedule||Some are vacationing, some are tending to their fish and domestic animals while a few others have already begun ring-fencing their colleagues from possible poaching attempts. With electronic voting machines to be unlocked on May 2 to decide the fate of political parties in five states, the wait can be nerve-wracking for most politicians. While some have opted for a short break, others have begun preparing the ground. Leaders of Assam’s Congress-led 10-party Opposition alliance are having to contend with a perceived threat posed by the ruling BJP to poach their candidates or manipulate the results. So much so that the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) had flown their candidates to Jaipur and Raipur in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh soon after the keenly contested three-phase polls ended on April 6. The two parties have not officially revealed the reasons for the outings but Congress insiders said they had been fearing horse-trading by the BJP. The ruling party has dubbed the trips “drama”, claiming it was sure to win the elections fair and square. “Usually, candidates and leaders take a break after the polls. They also need some time to unwind with families and friends, but this time everything has become so election-related, even our vacation. Our candidates visited Ajmer Sharif and other tourist destinations during the trip. Two Congress leaders were also with us,” an AIUDF insider said after their return on Friday. The source said the stay was cut short because of the surge in Covid cases. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi undertook a short trip to Sohra (Cherrapunjee), a popular retreat and tourist destination in neighbouring Meghalaya. But that too turned out to be work-related. “My team accompanied me during my yatra criss-crossing the state from mid-February. (After the polls) we visited Cherrapunjee for two days. This was my way of expressing my gratitude for their support and cooperation. Now we are coordinating with all our candidates, doing the post-mortem, tying up loose ends for counting day — knowing fully well that the BJP can go to any extent. We are fortifying ourselves against any attempt they might make to hijack the democratic mandate..... We are trying to keep the morale high,” Bordoloi told The Telegraph. Some BJP leaders have undertaken trips to Puri, among other places, according to state unit core committee member Vijay Gupta. “Some of them have visited shrines, which is usually the case after every election. But by and large our people are in the state because of Covid-19 and Bihu,” he told this newspaper. Months of pre-poll preparations and a gruelling campaign later, DMK leader M.K. Stalin of Tamil Nadu left with his family for the hill-station of Kodaikanal near Madurai for a brief vacation on April 16. His first break in three months of hectic electioneering, Stalin is expected to return to Chennai on April 19. A day after the April 6 polls, Stalin had met political strategist Prashant Kishor of I-PAC. Kishor and his team briefed Stalin on how the polls were likely to go. The briefing cheered up Stalin, the younger son of DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi, sources close to him told this newspaper. Stalin, who recently got his second Covid-19 vaccine shot, doesn’t leave fitness to chance. He is back to his hour-long early morning yoga routine. Soon after the election, he revived his thrice-weekly cycling trips. According to a source close to him, Stalin cycles 25km every time he ventures out in Chennai. Film actor-turned-politician and founder of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam (MNM), Kamal Haasan, who took on the national president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, Vanathi Srinivasan, in Coimbatore South, is staying put in the city while his fans want him to shoot for his latest film Vikram. After his intensive campaign that took him to all 14 districts in as many days, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his predecessor Oommen Chandy of the Congress tested positive for Covid-19 the same day. While Vijayan has since recovered and moved to home quarantine, Chandy is still in hospital. A workaholic, Vijayan was forced to stay off work while at the hospital. “He has resumed his regular work to some extent after returning home,” an aide of the chief minister told this newspaper. The national general secretary of the Indian Union Muslim League, P.K. Kunhalikutty, 70, continues with his “regular routine” — prayers, exercise, light diet, meeting people and spending time in his garden. Having started fasting during Ramazan, Kunhalikutty who returned to state politics after resigning from the Lok Sabha to contest from Vengara in Malappuram, didn’t have to tweak his activities too much. “There is no major change in his post-poll daily schedule since he continues to wake up at 4.30am, do his namaz, walk in the courtyard, have black tea and read newspapers before breakfast,” said an aide. The time around sunset each day is reserved for tending to the fish in his pond, and his goats and chicken. “Like every Ramazan, he is readying 10,000 dry ration kits to be distributed among the poor,” the aide said. One of the most-discussed new arrivals in the BJP, “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, preferred to keep his post-poll activities private. “I am not interested in revealing these matters,” he told this newspaper. An aide said the technocrat was “not yet a politician” and hence “doesn’t talk like one”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Odisha police create separate corridor for oxygen tankers||Odisha police are creating a separate corridor for the movement of tankers carrying oxygen to ensure speedy delivery to states that are facing an acute shortage. “Two more tankers are on the way from Jajpur to Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. A dedicated corridor has been put in place. Odisha police escorting the same. We are committed to ensure prompt transportation for the service of thousands of needy patients,” Odisha police tweeted on Friday. It also released photos of cops escorting oxygen tankers to Indore and Mumbai. “Now two medical oxygen tankers. One for Indore, MP (21 ton) and second for Mumbai (25 ton) on way from Rourkela. Dedicated corridor established by Odisha Police for prompt and unhindered movement,” Odisha police tweeted. Odisha police have taken this initiative after different states urged Odisha to send liquefied oxygen on an SOS basis. On Thursday, Delhi and Maharashtra chief ministers — Arvind Kejriwal and Uddhav Thackeray — profusely thanked Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik for helping them when both the states grappled with oxygen shortage. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray spoke to CM@Naveen-Odishaji today to thank him for helping in procurement and transportation of oxygen from Odisha to Maharashtra and for standing by each other in these crucial times, as one nation truly!” tweeted the Maharashtra chief minister’s office. Telangana on Friday airlifted oxygen tankers from Odisha using defence aircraft. “As per the direction of CM Sri KCR, State government has airlifted oxygen tankers to the liquid oxygen plants in Odisha state in defence aircrafts. This is the first instance of using aircrafts for bringing oxygen and will reduce procurement time by three days,” tweeted  Telangana chief secretary office. The IAF has deployed two C-17 aircraft for the purpose. “Tata Steel’s Kalinga Nagar Steel Plant, Tata Steel BSL Limited, Dhenkanal, Jindal Stainless Limited Jajpur, Jindal Steel and Power Limited, Angul, Linda India Limited, Rourkela are providing the medical oxygen. The total capacity stands at 375 metric tonnes. We are in a position to dispatch more quantities of oxygen to different states,” said a senior official of the state health department. Odisha is in an advantageous position in oxygen production compared to other states as it has several steel plants. Oxygen is needed for making steel from hot iron ore. “We had never thought that steel industries will come as a big help in this way by sending oxygen and saving precious lives. We will ask all industries to set up oxygen plants in the coming days and become self-reliant,” said minister of steel and mines Prafulla Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||India||Car falls in Ganga near Patna, nine persons die||Nine persons of a family met a watery grave when a pick-up van fell off a dilapidated pontoon bridge across the Ganga near Danapur in Patna district on Friday. The deceased included four women and three children. Three persons, including the driver of the vehicle swam to safety. The incident occurred on Friday morning, but the bodies could be recovered only after several hours when deep divers started looking for them. A crane pulled the vehicle out of the river. The rescue operations are still going on as various accounts of the local people said that 18 to 25 people were travelling on the ill-fated pick-up van. One Sujit Kumar Singh, who was in the vehicle but survived, said that the deceased were the family members of one Madan Singh. They were returning after attending some marriage-related ceremony from their house in Nasriganj in Danapur sub-division to another house in Akilpur diara (riverine area) on the other side of the Ganga. The marriage was scheduled on April 26. “Our vehicle suddenly swerved, dashed against the railing of the pontoon bridge and fell into the river. I was sitting on top of the vehicle and managed to swim back to safety. The water was deep and the vehicle as well as most of the other passengers were not even visible,” Sujit said. Within no time thousands of locals rushed to the spot of the accident. They tried to launch a rescue operation, but water was quite deep. Finally, the district administration officials reached and did the needful. “The mishap happened due to the makeshift bridge caving in. We have taken out nine bodies and are looking for six others who could have been travelling in the vehicle,” Danapur station house officer (SHO) A.K. Sah told reporters. Meanwhile, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the deaths and directed his officials to provide Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Poll panel unfairly detaining Trinamul workers, says Mamata||Ahead of the seventh phase of voting in Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee shared WhatsApp messages, allegedly exchanged between three special observers of the poll panel asking police personnel to detain Trinamul workers, to boltser her claim that the Election Commission of India was in cahoots with the BJP. Addressing the media in Bolpur on Saturday, Mamata even threatened to move the Supreme Court, saying that she had gathered enougg evidence to prove her point that the poll panel was biased. “These observers are describing Trinamul party workers as trouble mongers. I have got copies of the messages exchanged between them and the officers. Some of our DMs and SPs are exceeding limits to keep them happy, following their orders. Are they BJP’s mynah? I won’t say anything now. After the polls I will take this up,” Mamata said. She said the Centre was aware that the Covid situation would worsen in January, but did not take any steps. Instead, the Centre went ahead with eight-phase elections in Bengal to satisfy their "lust for power", she added. “The PM and Union home minister should resign. The EC could have held the polls in three phases. It was stretched to help the BJP win Bengal. One party’s lust for power has landed us in this situation. Why didn’t the EC listen to us? Why elections had to be stretched to eight-phases, when it was clear that Covid is spreading?” she said. Mamata also questioned the Centre's decision to announce multiple pricing for the Covid vaccine. “Why can’t the Centre give free vaccine to every citizen? Why separate prices? What is going on? They have destroyed the country. Total negligence. A monumentally incompetent government,” she said. After the elections were over, Mamata said, she would knock on the doors of the apex court. “I have gathered all the evidence, all the documents. I will move the Supreme Court with these seeking its intervention for free and fair polls,” she said. “Retired people are being sent as observers. These retired people are issuing orders to serving officers,” she added. After the Election Commission’s belated action of banning rallies in the wake of the deteriorating Covid pandemic, Mamata has been holding news conferences instead of large public meetings. The remaining two phases of the eight-phase elections in Bengal will be held on onday, April 26 and Thursday, April 29. “In Naihati, Bijpur, Kanchrapara, Jagatdal what happened (during the polls on April 22) was under BJP’s instruction. In Budbud, Mangalkote, Islampur, Goalpokhor our workers were picked up from their homes early in the morning and detained for the entire day. All of this was done to ensure a victory for the BJP,” she alleged. Yet, Mamata said confidently, such high-handed measures would not be able to  stop the Trinamul Congress from returning to power for a third term. “Even after all of this, BJP won’t cross 70. The CPM-Congress together will get some 20-22 seats. Nobody can stop the Trinamul,” she said. The first five phases of voting in Bengal has seen violence, especially in the second and the fifth phases. Five persons were killed in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi on polling day after central forces opened fire, allegedly to save themselves from an angry mob. For the remining two phases, Mamata has aksed her party workers in the districts going to polls to be extra cautious. “Our workers in Birbhum, Murshidabad, Maldah have to stay alert. Like Covid, we also must take precautions against this EC-BJP conspiracy. If any worker is detained, his family members should go to the police station, gherao the thana and demand why he/she has been detained. If necessary go to the high court, and Supreme Court. Don’t forget to lodge an FIR,” she said. Mamata gave the same advise to her trusted aide, Birbhum district Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal. “They are very angry with him. This time if they try to keep you under observation, go to the court. They cannot do this with anyone,” she told him. Mamata also blamed the BJP for the current Covid crisis in the state. “Party cadres have come from other states, over two lakh centra force personnel have come here. They are moving from one district to another without undergoing Covid tests," she said, before visiting the temple at Tarapeeth and offering prayers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||EC top brass reviews enforcement of Covid guidelines during campaigning in Bengal||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar on Saturday reviewed enforcement of COVID guidelines during campaigning in West Bengal where two remaining phases of assembly elections are to take place next week. A poll panel spokesperson said the EC top brass reviewed the enforcement of COVID guidelines with West Bengal chief secretary, police chief, health secretary and Calcutta police commissioner. The CEC directed them to ensure strict action under state and national disaster management laws for COVID-complaint behaviour. The meet comes a couple of days after the poll panel placed a ban on roadshows and foot marches, and placed a cap on the number of persons attending public meetings to 500. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday had expressed dissatisfaction with the ECI over enforcement of COVID-19 health safety norms during the ongoing West Bengal assembly election process, including campaigning. West Bengal on Friday registered the highest single-day spike of 12,876 COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 7,13,780, the state health department said in a bulletin. The death toll also went up to 10,825 with 59 fresh fatalities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP  offers free vaccine, Narendra Modi silent||The Bengal BJP on Friday morning said on social media that free vaccines would be provided in the state but the promise did not figure in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual address in the afternoon, which he suggested was his last campaign speech for Bengal. “As soon as BJP government comes to power in West Bengal, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost to everyone,” BJP Bengal’s Twitter post read in the morning. “But Modiji did not spell out the vaccine promise himself, probably fearing a backlash from the rest of the country,” a BJP source said. In October 2020, the BJP had made a similar promise in poll-bound Bihar, with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing free vaccination for “every person in Bihar”. Subsequently, a dual policy was offered to Bihar like the rest of the country: free vaccines from government facilities and vaccines for a price at private hospitals. On Thursday, the Nitish Kumar government said the dual policy would continue after May 1, too, when vaccination will be thrown open to those aged 18 and above. In Bengal, the BJP’s free vaccine promise had the ring of an afterthought as it came a day after Trinamul Congress leader Mamata Banerjee had declared that everyone aged above 18 in the state would be given free vaccine from May 5. Derek O’Brien, Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson, released a video taking a jibe at the BJP’s free vaccine promise and said: “BJP’s free vaccine jumla…. Two phases to go in Bengal and remember what BJP did in Bihar…. They announced during elections free vaccines… nothing happened… elections finished they forgot, same thing they have done… free vaccine jumla… don’t believe the BJP, don’t trust the BJP….” State BJP vice-president and spokesperson Jay Prakash Majumdar alleged that Trinamul was trying to confuse people. “At every government hospital in Bihar, the vaccine is being provided free. We will do that here as well,” he said. Asked why the Prime Minister hadn’t spoken a word about the promise during his address, Majumdar said Modi had spoken on the pertinent issues in Bengal as a whole and not on anything specific. “Health is a state subject. Every state government will therefore have to decide on the issue of free vaccination,” Majumdar said. Free vaccination was not the sole topic that Modi omitted. He did not mention Trinamul, Mamata or her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “Infiltration, smuggling, illegal businesses, violence, extortion, syndicates are great enemies of development,” Modi said. “Sonar Bangla will be built with all our efforts and include everyone. On May 2, a BJP government will be formed in Bengal. At the BJP’s oath-taking ceremony, I shall come to meet you face to face.” A state BJP office-bearer said: “This was Modiji’s last poll address for Bengal. We had expected a dhamaka. But his speech was very mellow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Rail link remains elusive to Karimpur||Every Thursday Binay Kumar Dutta, 55, a beauty products retailer in Karimpur town, takes the first bus at 2.40am to catch the Sealdah-bound first train from Krishnagar to Calcutta. In the absence of a train service directly from Karimpur, Dutta has to undertake this 85km arduous bus journey to Krishnagar every week on his way to Burrabazar from where he fetches beauty items. Sometimes Dutta takes a direct bus to Calcutta, notwithstanding the 200km journey through a potholed-riddled state highway and NH12. Nevertheless, the people of Karimpur in particular and those of the Tehatta subdivision in general have become habituated to such journeys, resigning to the possibility that a railway link between Karimpur and Krishnagar could remain a dream. Since 1905, a number of surveys have been conducted by the British and then the Indian government, but the much coveted rail link remains elusive. Repeated appeals by the local people, elected representatives and organisations have not yielded results. Railway officials believe such a project is “unviable”. Before every election, the issue takes centrestage in the area. Political parties vow to fulfil the demand for a rail link, and the ongoing Assembly elections have not been an exception. Krishnagar Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra, who had represented Karimpur as its MLA, said: “I tried my best... held meetings with successive railway ministers and the Rail Board chairman. But it appears that they are not interested at all because of the possibility of negative returns due to the absence of freight.” “Emotionally I feel the need for the rail link, but am helpless. It appears, as I have always said, that unless and until Trinamul is an ally at the Centre and we push this with force irrespective of logic or economics, this rail link is not going to happen,” she said. After the Daulatabad bus accident that claimed 45 lives on January 29, 2018, the people of Karimpur have tweaked their demand to a railway link between Krishnagar and Behrampore via Karimpur. To press for the demand, youths in Karimpur launched a campaign on social media asking every resident to send a petition to the railway ministry. Durbadal Dutta, a petitioner who is a schoolteacher, said: “Over 18 lakh people who live in the Tehatta subdivision of Nadia and the Domkal subdivision of Murshidabad have to depend on buses. Karimpur is on the Nadia-Murshidabad border. A rail link between Behrampore and Krishnagar via Karimpur can save the people and the economy here.” Thousands of people travel from Nadia to Murshidabad daily for medical needs. Railway officials said the demand was not “feasible” due to the existence of a rail link between Krishnagar and Murshidabad. “Since the scope of freight on such a stretch is very poor and it will be an exclusive passenger service, the economic feasibility of the project is negative. While we need to invest Rs 2,500 crore on the project, the returns will be zero,” an official said. Local historian and former member of the Krishnagar station consultative committee, Sanjit Dutta, said: “The Tehatta subdivision is a major producer of jute, banana, betel, flower and horticulture products, which can earn good freight. A rail link can also explore industrial scope. But unfortunately, they are ignoring our demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Burdwan's street vendor who sells candies and peace||Kinkar Malik is not a political activist, nor is he an Election Commission official but what he did this poll season has won him the appreciation of political parties and administrative officials in East Burdwan district. The 40-year-old street vendor goes around Burdwan town with his collection of snacks and lozenges on his two-wheeler, which doubles as a mobile kiosk. Malik purchased the second-hand two-wheeler recently and while selling his products he had an appeal on his lips that stood out — he urged people not to instigate violence during the elections. “Many people die in election-related violence in our state. Five poor villagers were killed in violence during the fourth phase of elections. I am scared how many more lives will be lost in the remaining phases. I urge people not to indulge in violence and rather enjoy our fundamental right to elect our representative,” Malik, who did not study after clearing the Madhyamik exam, told this correspondent last week while handing over a cake to a customer. Malik said that as a law-abiding citizen, he felt it was his moral duty to appeal to the people as well as activists of all political parties to ensure free and peaceful polls. “What is the need for violence during elections? People have the right to choose their own government peacefully and they should do it that way. People are scared of losing their dear ones in poll violence. This doesn’t happen in other states. This should be stopped,” he said. Malik had fitted a public address system to his motorbike and his recorded appeal for peaceful polls — “vote-ta ke utsaber moton palan karun (celebrate voting like a festival)”— reached out to people in the Burdwan South constituency that voted this Saturday. Malik leaves home in Jamalpur, around 38km from Burdwan town, early in the morning on his two-wheeler with biscuits, chocolates, lozenges and cakes stacked in a basket placed behind him. “My business has been hit because schools are closed in view of the pandemic. Most of my customers are schoolchildren and I have been missing them for over a year,” he said. Malik’s plea has not gone unheard. Burdwan town Trinamul spokesperson Prosenjit Das said he had heard Malik’s appeal and thanked him on behalf of his party. “We want peaceful elections and our leader Mamata Banerjee has ensured it after coming to power in the state. Coming from an apolitical person, Malik’s appeal is encouraging. We are thankful to him,” Das said. BJP leader Kallol Nandan said violence had become a tradition in Bengal and Malik’s effort showed that people were worried and wanted an end to it. “People do not want violence or deaths because of elections. He is the voice of the people and the ruling party now must react to the appeal,” Nandan said. CPM leader Apurbo Chatterjee condemned incidents of electoral violence. “I have seen Malik going around town with his appeal. We want an end to poll violence and have met Election Commission special observer Ajay Nayek with the same appeal.” District information and cultural officer of East Burdwan Kushal Chakraborty said there could be nothing more positive than a common man coming forward with an appeal for peaceful polls. “We have launched various campaigns to ensure peaceful elections. Kinkar Malik’s voluntary effort had a positive impact on people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Row over hanging body of BJP worker in West Burdwan ||The body of a man, who the BJP claimed was its worker, was found hanging from a tree in Jamuria of West Burdwan in the early hours of Friday. The BJP claimed Kiranjan Ghosh, 32, was killed three days ahead of the poll in the area. Ghosh was a resident of Alinagar village in Pandabeswar. Family members and local BJP leaders claimed Ghosh was killed and hanged to “stage” his suicide. Terming it a “planned murder”, Jamuria’s BJP candidate Tapas Roy said: “The murder was planned and executed to create panic and discourage voters from going to the polling station. The way the body was hanging indicates he did not commit suicide.” A team from Pandabeswar police, along with central forces, reached the site of the incident and sent the body for an autopsy. Debdulal Ghosh, the uncle of the deceased, said: “Kiranjan (Ghosh) went missing since Thursday evening. It is not clear how he died.” Tension raged on in pockets of Bengal on Friday, with two phases of the elections — and 71 seats between them — yet to be held. In a separate incident, supporters of Furfura Sharif cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui's ISF, which is a constituent of the Sanjukta Morcha, along with the Left Front and Congress blocked Taki Road on Friday, demanding the arrest of Trinamul supporters who allegedly attacked Morcha workers in parts of Basirhat subdivision on Thursday. “We filed many complaints with the district administration and Election Commission, but no action has been taken so far,” said an ISF leader. In Asansol’s Barabani, BJP workers were allegedly attacked ahead of a public meeting by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Friday evening. The BJP leadership claimed armed goons with Trinamul links attacked its party workers and set at least two motorcycles on fire in the Gourandi Hattala area of the town to disrupt the meeting. Trinamul leaders denied the charge. At least seven persons got injured as Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed at a village under Harirampur Assembly seat of South Dinajpur on Thursday night. Leaders of both parties have accused each other of the attack. Among the injured, three persons have been shifted to Malda Medical College and Hospital and are reported to be critical. On Thursday around 9.45pm, some Trinamul supporters from Kesrail village under Harirampur block were returning home after campaigning when some BJP supporters intercepted them, sources said. Both groups attacked each other with bricks, rods and sticks. Crude bombs were hurled too. Police said six persons were detained. In South Dinajpur, polls will be held in six seats in the seventh phase on April 26. In Harirampur, Trinamul’s Biplab Mitra is pitted against the BJP’s Nilanjan Roy. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mask up, political rivals campaign in Darjeeling hills ||Five days after the Darjeeling hills voted, leaders of three rival groups, the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, and the BJP were back on the streets — this time to distribute masks and sanitise neighbourhoods. Leaders and workers of the Tamang camp went around Darjeeling town distributing “around 10,000” masks to those not wearing them. At the same time, Gurung supporters were seen sanitising the town and distributing “around 8,000” masks. In Kalimpong, the BJP’s youth wing was also seen distributing masks. Vikram Rai from the Tamang camp said that they had formed a group called Hamro Pahad Covid Warriors whose members were also actively involved in a “surveillance committee” formed by the GTA during the first wave of the pandemic last week. “We basically have reactivated that group and today (Friday) we went about town distributing masks and encouraging people to maintain physical distance in the town,” said Rai. Back then, the surveillance team had essentially coordinated with patients and their families and kept an eye on outstation travellers. This time, the group volunteered their services at vaccination centres in Darjeeling and other places. “We request the administration to open vaccination centres at places like the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan where there is more open space instead of the district hospital. At the district hospital, apart from a rush for vaccinations, there are other patients, including those who want to undergo a Covid-19 test. Space for people at the hospital could be a problem,” said Rai. A Gurung camp leader and former municipality commissioner, Sailendra Chhetri said while they sanitised various areas in the town on Friday, they were looking such exercises at least once in three days or a week depending on the situation. Apart from these two major hill parties, the BJP Yuwa Morcha also distributed masks and put up awareness posters in various parts of Kalimpong town. “This is not a political exercise but a way to serve the community,” said Raju Rai, leader of the BJP Yuwa Morcha (Darjeeling hills). “Similar initiatives will be undertaken by our activists in Pedong, Sinji, Algarah and Gorubathan among other places in Kalimpong district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: tighter tourist screening in Alipurduar ||The Alipurduar district administration has directed owners of all lodges, hotels, resorts and other private accommodations not to let any visitor from outside the state or abroad check in unless screened by the district health department and the police. At a meeting at the district magistrate’s office here on Friday, the decision was made and the instruction passed on to tourism stakeholders in the region to try and rein in the alarming spread of Covid-19. Bengal has 74,737 active Covid-19 cases at present. On Friday, Bengal logged 6,878 recoveries, but again reset the record for the highest number of new infections in 24 hours, with 12,876. “It has been decided that in all these accommodations, health safety protocols should be maintained in the most stringent manner to prevent the pandemic from spreading. If any visitor from outside Bengal or abroad turns up in any of these places, those running the accommodations will inform the local police and health department employees. Thereafter, the visitor has to be screened and only after health department employees are satisfied would the visitor be allowed to check in,” said Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar. This apart, rooms and other areas must be sanitised twice daily. Also, no visitor can eat in the accommodation’s dining hall or restaurant. “Food will be served in their rooms. The health department and local administration will keep tabs on whether guidelines are being followed in these accommodations. If required, screening will be made mandatory for any visitor (not just from outside the state or country),” said an administrative official. Those associated with the tourism industry have welcomed the guidelines and said they were already on the alert. “Even if a single Covid case is reported from a resort, it is a big problem. Most of the staff at resorts are local residents and there is a risk of the contagion spreading through them. We will obey the latest administrative guidelines too,” said a resort owner. The tourism industry, the economic mainstay in north Bengal, had taken a beating in 2020 because of the pandemic and lockdown. It started reviving from November-end. But during the past three weeks or so, tourist inflow has reduced amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. Meena and his officers also spoke with local trade bodies of Alipurduar, a town that sees hundreds of people daily from adjoining districts and Assam. They were told to ensure Covid safety measures in all shops and MSME units. “All employees must wear masks. Also, no shop in town will sell anything if the buyer does not have a mask on. We are also working on plans to sanitise marketplaces,” said Prasenjit Dey, secretary, Alipurduar Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cop’s firing threat in court||A police sub-inspector, who had reportedly opened fire outside a polling booth, allegedly told lawyers during proceedings in a court on Friday that if needed, he would fire again. Bagdah SI Asadur Rahaman made the threat in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. He had come to the court to produce five BJP workers arrested in connection with poll-related violence at Ranghat in the Bagdah Assembly constituency of North 24-Parganas on Thursday. Rahaman had allegedly opened fire outside the booth at Ranghat. When the proceedings were going on in the court of ACJM Debasis Santra on Friday, Rahaman told some lawyers: “Guli chaliyechhi...besh korechhi, darkar hole aabar chalabo (Fine, I fired, and if needed, I will do it again)”. The lawyers immediately requested the judge to register a case against the SI. Understanding that the court had registered a probe under Section 506 of the IPC (criminal intimidation), the SI applied for bail. The judge granted him bail on a personal bond of Rs 1,000 The ACJM subsequently transferred the case to the district court. Chief public prosecutor Samir Das said: “The second officer of Bagdah police station produced before the judge five persons arrested in connection with an attack on police. While producing the accused, he told lawyers that if needed, he would fire again. So, the court ordered a probe against the officer.” On Thursday, two persons were injured when the police fired indiscriminately to control violent BJP supporters outside the polling station No 35 at Ranghat. Local sources said while trying to disperse the people gathered to protest an alleged vandalism of their tent, the police first resorted to a baton-charge. Later, the police opened fire, grievously injuring Budho Santra, 65, and his nephew Mrityunjoy Santra, 25, both of whom were returning from a paddy field. The police claimed that they had fired in self-defence as the villagers had attacked them with sharp weapons and injured three officers. The officer-in-charge of Bagdah police station, Utpal Saha, who had suffered deep injury to the head in the violence, was shifted to a private hospital along EM Bypass in Calcutta on Friday morning. At a news conference in Durgapur on Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she didn’t support the police firing at Ranghat. Ashis Sarkar, a lawyer, said: “The behaviour of the police officer today leads us to believe that it was an unprovoked firing with political interest. The way he spoke to lawyers inside the court to justify his act shows his mala fide intentions, which need to be investigated.” “We filed a petition in the court for a probe against him and it has been accepted,” Sarkar added. SI Rahaman refused to speak on the allegations against him. Tarun Halder, the chief of Bongaon police district, did not pick up calls made by this correspondent for his reaction to Rahaman’s alleged threat in the court. The Bongaon ACJM court on Friday remanded the five BJP workers in two weeks’ judicial custody. They were charged under several sections of the IPC, which include murderous attack, causing grievous injury and preventing government officers from performing duties. BJP’s Bagdah candidate Biswajit Das said the incident at the Bongaon court proved that the police had deliberately opened fire to unleash panic among voters so that they didn’t turn up at the polling station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Six arrested for attack on BJP nominee of Malda Assembly seat||Six persons, including a youth supposedly close to an elected panchayat head of the BJP, were arrested on Thursday in connection with a recent attack on the BJP candidate of the Malda Assembly seat. On April 18, BJP candidate Gopal Chandra Saha was in his car in Old Malda block when gunshots were fired at him and a bullet hit his neck. Thursday’s arrests reignited the political blame-game of the BJP and Trinamul. The arrested are Bittu Chowdhury, Akash Mandal, Arjun Ghosh, Bikash Haldar, Suman Ghosh and Sayan Saha. Akash is close to Ukil Mandal, head of the BJP-run Sahapur panchayat. “He (Akash) is ill and has no connection with the incident,” said the BJP’s Ukil Mandal. Trinamul alleged the attack bared the BJP’s feud. Though no name was stated in the FIR lodged by Saha’s family, BJP leaders had verbally claimed that Trinamul-backed goons had organised the attack. After these arrests, Jahar Ghosh, the block Trinamul president of Old Malda, slammed the saffron camp. “So far, BJP leaders were blaming us for the attack. Now one of the six persons is close to a BJP leader. The BJP’s internal feud has come to light,” he said. Ajay Ganguly, district BJP spokesperson, said they were waiting for more details. In a separate incident, the police on Friday found four sophisticated firearms and magazines each from Kaliachak, and arrested one person in this connection, Humayun Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Centre reroutes state’s oxygen cylinders, Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday accused the Narendra Modi dispensation of meting out step-motherly treatment to Bengal amid the second wave of Covid-19, alleging the Centre was rerouting oxygen meant for her state to the BJP-ruled ones, before asking why funds for free and universal immunisation could not be spared by the Union government. “The Centre suddenly stopped our supply chain of oxygen cylinders and asked SAIL to send them to Uttar Pradesh… BJP-ruled states… yet another instance of step-motherly treatment, even now. I have strongly objected to this and has written to the Prime Minister in this regard,” the chief minister said at a news conference in Durgapur. Mamata’s fulmination was meant to keep Modi in the crosshairs in her election campaign, which she has apparently been rapidly pivoting around the Centre’s “monumental failure” in the war against the pandemic. The allegation came amid a mega crisis of oxygen cylinders across the nation amid the second wave of the novel coronavirus. The Modi government is widely being held responsible for the second wave sweeping India. The Trinamul Congress chief said her government had barred supply of oxygen cylinders for industrial purposes and instead, had been directing them for use in the healthcare sector. “We have been trying our best to handle the crisis with our own resources. Currently, we have 20,000 cylinders. We are in the process of arranging 5,000 more,” she said. Mamata said she would have participated in the meeting Modi had held with chief ministers on Friday if she had been invited. “I came to know that today the Prime Minister is holding a meeting on the Covid-19 situation, but they did not invite us. We could have raised our issues had we been invited,” she said. Mamata lambasted Modi and others in his cabinet for being in denial of the pandemic’s ground realities ahead of the second wave, thereby allowing it to blow up over the past few weeks. She said the Centre, according to her estimates, could have provided for free Covid-19 vaccination for every citizen by allocating Rs 20,000 crore, but it did not do so. “When you (the BJP) have spent hundreds of crores for booking hotels, guest houses, chartered flights and choppers, spent countless crores offering cash to voters, for winning Bengal… could you not have spent Rs 20,000 crore for the health and well-being of every Indian in the pandemic?” asked the chief minister. “You spend thousands of crores building statues…. Countless billions were deposited in your PM-Cares Fund, opaque and beyond audit…. Could money from that fund not have been utilised for free, universal vaccination of citizens?” she asked. Over the past week or so, the pandemic has taken centre stage at all public programmes of Mamata, who seems to have quickly realised how the election in Bengal now could be won and lost over the pandemic as the core issue. Sections within the BJP state unit admitted apprehensions over how the perception battle was being rapidly lost amid the Bengal elections over the past week or so as the Centre’s failures in the face of the raging second wave kept getting increasingly exposed. “All we do is respond with feeble whataboutery or lavish praise on the Prime Minister,” said a BJP functionary on the condition of anonymity. State BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya faced the media on Friday for the third consecutive evening with attempts at eulogising Modi and lambasting Mamata for criticising the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Elephant found dead in Dooars ||The carcass of a sub-adult wild elephant was found in Apalchand forest in Jalpaiguri on Friday morning. This is the second elephant death that has been reported in north Bengal in the past 24 hours. On Thursday, a female elephant was found dead on the fringes of the Buxa Tiger Reserve in the neighbouring Alipurduar district. Foresters said it appears that the elephant found dead in Apalchand forest — located under Kathambari forest range of Baikunthapur forest division in Malbazar of Jalpaiguri — had died three-four days ago as its carcass had started decomposing. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. As the carcass is decomposing, it is tough to assess whether it has sustained any external injury,” said a forest officer. Such recurring incidents of elephant deaths have led to questions at different quarters. Wildlife conservationists have pointed that the death of this sub-adult elephant has raised questions over the vigilance of the state forest department. “Even if we consider that the elephant was ill, the animal should have come to the notice of the forest guards. It is surprising that they found the carcass at least three-four days after its death even though the spot where the jumbo was found dead is not far from the local forest office,” said Shyamaprasad Pandey, a Dooars-based wildlife conservationist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:Hill politicians plea to not link their village with April 19 clash||Hill politicians of all hues have been advised by residents of Nali Chour in Sonada to stop tagging their place with a clash between supporters of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang camps on April 19 as it is bringing a bad name to the village. Leaders of both the factions had said the clash had taken place at Nali Chour, about 20km from Darjeeling. Posters condemning the “Nali Chour” incident were plastered across the hills and numerous groups made claims and counter-claims, which all put the spotlight on the sleepy hamlet. The residents, however, issued a press statement, requesting politicians and their respective parties to refrain from dragging Nali Chour’s name to the violence. The villagers said the clash had indeed taken place at Ramita and not Nali Chour. Sakuntala Gurung, who spoke on behalf of the Nali Chour residents, said: “Our village is getting a bad name. Politicians are mentioning our village’s name; posters have our village’s name; the same is mentioned in the FIR and this should be immediately corrected.” Mahendra Pradhan, a leader of the Tamang faction and a former Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member from Sonada, had alleged that Bimal Gurung had personally assaulted him. “I was on my way to Nalichor, while Bimal Gurung was returning (to Darjeeling). There was a traffic jam. I was alone and it was then that daju (Bimal Gurung) assaulted me and I suffered injuries to the head,” said Pradhan. Another resident of the village, Durga Pandit, said the name of the place was not “Nalichor” as was being mentioned by political leaders and their supporter but “Nali Chour”. Gurung had, however, denied the charge and said while he was on his way from Ringtang tea garden, eight to nine boys, along with Pradhan, were standing and blowing whistles. The whistle was the Tamang camp’s election symbol. “I carried on with my journey. Later, I heard that they had attacked one of the vehicles at the end of my cavalcade. One supporter was injured and the charge that I assaulted Mahendra Pradhan is false,” said Gurung. Even though Pradhan and Gurung, two centres of the incident, had not explicitly said the incident had occurred at Nali Chour, other leaders of their respective camps started issuing statements that mentioned the village as the place of the clash. “We are peace-loving people and no such incidents had occurred at our village in the past, too. The place is a tourist attraction as we are surrounded by temples, monasteries and churches. We request politicians to remove the name of our village from posters and refrain from mentioning it in their press statements,” said Pandit. This is probably the first time that such a request has been issued by villagers in the Darjeeling hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||North East||14 held from Sivasagar and Charaideo districts over abduction of three ONGC employees||Altogether 14 persons from upper Assam’s Sivasagar and Charaideo districts have been arrested in connection with the kidnapping of the three ONGC employees in the early hours of Wednesday. The trio — M.M. Gogoi (Sivasagar district), Ritil Saikia (Golaghat district) and Alokesh Saikia (Jorhat district) — were abducted by suspected Ulfa(I) cadres from the company’s rig site at Lakwa in Sivasagar district by a group of about five armed cadres belonging the proscribed outfit. Sivasagar SP Amitava Sinha said the 14 persons were arrested from multiple locations in Sivasagar and Charaideo districts for their alleged links with the abduction carried out by the proscribed outfit. “They helped the Ulfa(I).… They are overground workers of the outfit. We will be able to nab the local aides. The trio may have been taken to Mon (Nagaland). Both districts are working in tandem to resolve the case,” Sinha said. The trio were whisked away in an ambulance stationed at the rig site towards the Nagaland border. The vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle “close” to the Assam-Nagaland border. Mon district borders Sivasagar and Charaideo districts. On Thursday, the family members held a press conference appealing to the abductors to release the trio unharmed and as soon as possible. G.P. Singh, special DGP (law and order), is monitoring the probe as well as search operations. Ulfa (I ) has not yet reacted to the development even though the police is sure about the outfit’s involvement in the case. ONGC officials said they have not received any call or demand from any quarter. “Till now we don’t know who is behind the kidnapping,” one of them said. Sources said the possibility of the outfit taking the trio to Myanmar cannot be ruled out. Mon district borders Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Myanmar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
24-04-2021||North East||All-party meeting in Assam on Covid test, vaccine||An all-party meeting here on Thursday called for ramping up of testing and vaccination of polling personnel and agents before the counting of votes on May 2, ruled out a lockdown without prior warning and recommended a well-conceived stimulus package for those on the margins. The meeting was held under the chairmanship chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state and put up a united front in the fight against the pandemic. A senior official said there was more focus on accelerating Covid tests for polling personnel and agents before the counting of votes on May 2. The Congress had laid emphasis on both tests and vaccination of those who will be engaged in counting. “There was near unanimity on avoiding a lockdown. If the government has to go for lockdown as a last resort, then it should give people time to prepare and announce a good compensation or a stimulus package for those living on the margins and protect the interests of the lower middle class and daily labourers affected by the pandemic. The parties also asked for monitoring of private health institutions offering Covid treatment and availability of adequate health facilities,” the official said. The meeting was attended by leaders of the BJP, Congress, AGP, AJP, UPPL, RJD, CPI (ML), CPI(M), Raijor Dal, NPP and National Republican Congress besides top officials. The official also said the government would soon come up with an action plan to involve the local community, including NGOs and club members, to create awareness about the standard operating procedure to check the transmission of the virus. RJD state president Sheikh Shonarul Shah Mustafa had submitted a memorandum wherein he sought extension of the 6pm deadline for shops to close to 8pm. He also recommended that bus operators should not increase the fare unilaterally. He sought free distribution of vaccines and an increase in the number of ICU beds. “We are for lockdown as a last resort and for a focussed and united effort to check the pandemic,” Shah said. Till Thursday, there were 10,571 active Covid cases in Assam with 1,931 detected during the day, the highest single day rise since March 24, which also saw ten deaths. Kamrup Metro is the worst-affected with 680 cases.  Cases have been rising sharply over the past week with 1,665 recorded on Wednesday. “I urged representatives of all political parties to encourage and promote #COVID19 appropriate behaviour among the public, while adhering to the protocol of ‘Test, Trace, Treat’. We shall work unitedly in the spirit of Team Assam to defeat the virus,” Sonowal tweeted after the meeting where he said that the government had adopted a adopted five-fold strategy to combat the pandemic — testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the parties were also briefed about the detection of the B.1.617 strain or the Indian double mutant (L452R and E484Q) strain of SARS-Cov-2 in samples tested at the Dibrugarh airport. On Wednesday, 62 passengers tested positive at Guwahati airport. Most testing positive in Assam have a travel history. Vigilance at airport has been tightened following the incident in which 385 air passengers skipped mandatory Covid tests at the Silchar airport on Tuesday. The Cachar district administration has asked the police to initiate legal action against them by filing FIRs for “violating government orders and putting the society to risk” during the pandemic. Sarma said the second wave was more lethal and it would very challenging to tackle the situation without synchronised efforts. The government is trying to augment healthcare facilities to meet the rise in number of cases. “While free vaccination of people above 45 years are being regularly administered, free vaccination of people in the age group of 18-45 would be taken up from first week of May. Already order for supply of one crore vaccines has been placed with Bharat Biotech and funds collected for Assam Arogya Nidhi would be utilised for the procurement of the doses. Discussion would be held through videoconference with Serum Institute for another such order,” Sarma said. The political parties thanked the initiatives taken by the state government to combat the virus, an official statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
24-04-2021||Opinion||Self before nation||In April 2020 — exactly a year ago — I published an essay in the Hindustan Times urging the prime minister to adopt a more consultative approach towards decision-making. “In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic,” I wrote, “the country faces probably its greatest challenge since Partition... This pandemic and its fallout have already led to enormous human suffering, and this will multiply. In this scenario, to restore social trust and to rebuild the economy may be beyond the abilities of one man and his small circle of trusted advisers.” Having outlined the broader problem, I went on to offer, gratuitously I suppose, a series of specific recommendations. So I said: “The prime minister could do worse than consult former finance ministers who have experience in crisis management, even if they owe allegiance to the Congress. Former finance secretaries and governors of the Reserve Bank of India with relevant expertise could be consulted too. The government could actively reach out to scholars... who understand the vulnerabilities of farmers and labourers far better than the economists currently in North Block. And they should consider bringing on board outstanding former health secretaries who, working with the medical fraternity, had helped contain the AIDS crisis, see off the H1N1 scare, and eradicate polio in India.” (https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/shed-partisanship-reach-out-to-the-best-minds-writes-ramachandra-guha/story-Gl9QENGFmNA2Uc8YB9wtOM.html) In writing as I did, I was, as Dr Johnson might have said, placing my faith in Hope over Experience. For in his tenure as prime minister, Narendra Modi had already made visible his contempt for experts, this contempt demonstrated both in theory — as in the remark that he believed in ‘hard work, not Harvard’ — and in practice, as in his going ahead with the catastrophic experiment with demonetization even when the top economists in his own administration had warned against it. He had also shown an unremitting hostility towards politicians of other parties, treating them — again, in word and in deed — with arrogant condescension. In the year since my piece was published, these two character traits have been much in evidence, and so also a third — the desire to build one’s personal brand further and ever further. Two actions in the past few months demonstrate the extraordinary extent of the prime minister’s vanity. These are his decision to emblazon his photograph on every vaccination certification issued, and his consent to having the country’s largest cricket stadium being rechristened the Narendra Modi Stadium, thereby joining the ranks of Mussolini, Hitler, Stalin, Gaddafi and Saddam as someone who has had a sports arena named for himself in his own lifetime. In an earlier column, I wrote that the idea to rename the Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi most likely “came from a Gujarati politician with a strong familial interest in Indian cricket administration, who may have sought both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his progeny.” (https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/a-prime-minister-and-his-imperial-vanities/cid/1807984) That speculation has been given empirical teeth by an advertisement covering the entire front page of my local newspaper the morning I write this (Thursday, April 22), whereby the chief minister of Karnataka heaps unctuous praise on the prime minister. Dominated by a massive photograph of Modi smiling benignly at the world, the text of the ad conveys the ‘heartfelt thanks from all Bengalureans to Sri Narendra Modi, Honourable Prime Minister of India, for granting approval to Phase-2A & 2B of Namma Metro...’ I later found that the same ad had been issued in English and Hindi newspapers published in New Delhi too (https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/karnataka-govt-publishes-full-page-ads-bengaluru-delhi-newspapers-thanking-pm-147618), presumably because then it would be more likely to be seen directly by its intended audience. The chief minister issuing these ads was seeking both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his administration by his own party MLAs, with the chamchagiri being conducted at public expense. Whether ordinary party worker or chief minister of a major state, everyone in the BJP knows the importance of massaging the monumental ego of their Supreme Leader. When, back in April 2020, I urged the prime minister to get the best minds on board to advise his government, the idealism underlying my proposal stemmed from my professional background. As a historian, I had known of several instances when Indian prime ministers had set aside their partisan prejudices and asked Opposition politicians to help them. These included Jawaharlal Nehru’s request to C. Rajagopalachari to lead a peace delegation to the West in the 1960s, at the height of the Cold War; Indira Gandhi’s request to Jayaprakash Narayan to alert the world to the refugee crisis emanating from the Pakistani army’s crackdown on East Bengal in 1971; and P.V. Narasimha Rao’s request to Atal Bihari Vajpayee to lead a Government of India delegation presenting our case for Kashmir to the United Nations in 1994. These instances of bipartisanship were all admirable and significant, and there was another precedent that was more admirable and significant still. This was the constitution of a national government at the time of Independence. Knowing the gravity of the situation that faced them, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel reached out to the most able individuals regardless of party affiliation. Although B.R. Ambedkar had been a bitter critic of the Congress for the past 20 years, he was asked to become law minister. Other major ministries were assigned to S.P. Mookerjee and R.K. Shanmukham Chetty, who had also been political opponents of the Congress. In acting as they did, the first prime minister of India and the first home minister of India set aside pride and prejudice and put the needs of the nation above those of their own party. The safeguarding of our hard-won freedom required Nehru and Patel to set aside the arrogance that comes with power and embrace the humility that patriotism mandates instead. And they did. A year after my plea for bipartisanship was published in the Hindustan Times, its arguments have been echoed in an editorial published earlier this week in The Telegraph. This states: “The scale of the crisis — the nation is at war with a virus — makes it imperative for the Central government to be collaborative in its approach. It is this shared spirit of cooperation that has helped the country stand together during many a crisis in the past — medical, political or economic. It is a pity that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party refuses to learn useful lessons from this history. Bolstering federalism and a conciliatory approach towards the Opposition, some of whose constituents have vast experience in running the country, should be deemed important in these desperate times.” (https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/the-fiddler-pm-playing-to-the-gallery/cid/1813168) Here are some other Indians, possibly good but certainly naïve, placing their faith in Hope over Experience. It is indeed true that in the past a “shared spirit of cooperation” saw the nation through troubled times. But whether this regime is capable of promoting trust and solidarity between citizens and across party lines is another matter altogether. In the year that the nation has been at war with the virus, the personality cult of the prime minister has steadily expanded, while the government’s approach towards the Opposition has become ever more confrontational. Indeed, the spite and venom expressed by Union ministers and BJP parliamentarians towards the chief ministers of Maharashtra and Delhi beggar description. Delhi and Mumbai are our largest and most important cities. One is our political capital, the other is our financial capital. Each is home to tens of millions of Indians. What kind of deshbhakt would want the residents of these cities to suffer merely because they are ruled by parties other than the BJP? If this sort of partisanship were confined to the BJP’s troll army, it would not be so worrying. Tragically, however, it is practised by the most powerful people in the Union government. In the year since the pandemic began, the actions and travel schedule of the home minister of India both strongly suggest that his top priorities are: (a) bringing his party to power in West Bengal; (b) bringing his party back to power in Maharashtra. Neither is at all within the subjects assigned to his ministerial portfolio, yet it seems that they matter more to him than those subjects that are. Meanwhile, the prime minister’s own sense of what he thinks is important is best demonstrated by a statement he made while campaigning in Asansol on April 17, 2021. “Maine aisi sabha pehli baar dekhi hai (I have never seen such big crowds at a rally),” he boasted (see https://twitter.com/ndtv/status/1383419909128933377). Sure, and we have never seen such insensitivity and callousness from an Indian politician either. By April 17, the second wave of the pandemic had already begun to hit us hard. The hospitals were filling up and so were the cremation grounds, and here was our prime minister bragging in public: ‘See how many people have come to hear me speak!’ The pandemic and its successive waves have come on the back of a flailing economy and a fragile social fabric. This may indeed be the gravest crisis the nation has faced since Partition. More than ever before, we need a government that learns to listen, that listens to learn, that can bring itself to act in the interests not of one party or one religion, and most emphatically not in the interests of one Leader alone. On when, and whether, we can get such a government the future of the Republic may rest. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
24-04-2021||Opinion||Overwhelmed||Taking suo motu cognizance of the ‘national health emergency’, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to come up with a feasible plan within 24 hours to address some of the glaring paucities that have been exposed by the lethal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The apex court’s energy has, however, caused some dismay. This is perhaps because as many as six high courts were examining — critically — some of the shocking instances of administrative failure; India’s highest court is likely to transfer these issues to itself to avoid ‘confusion’. Clarity is, indeed, a virtue. It must be made clear that the government of the day is to be held accountable for its monumental lapses. There is a view that it has got away rather lightly on several occasions in the course of this pandemic. The horrors suffered by India’s migrant workers on account of myopic policy decisions are just one example. There can be no doubts about the scale of the ‘national emergency’. Each passing day, data bear out both its enormity and its cruelties. On Thursday, India logged over three lakh new cases and witnessed over 2,000 deaths: this is yet another grim milestone globally. The human suffering has been amplified by other raging crises. In several states — Gujarat and Haryana are examples — the demand for oxygen has outstripped supply even though an Empowered Group of Officers had raised a red flag last year. Health institutions are running short of not just oxygen but also beds and even life-saving drugs. Laboratories — the first line of response in a medical crisis — have been equally overwhelmed; the delay in diagnosis has added to citizens’ woes. India’s health apparatus is under unprecedented strain. What is shameful is that this crisis was entirely avoidable. The Narendra Modi government had smugly declared victory over the virus instead of preparing for a lethal second wave that was already lashing many other parts of the world. This criminal hubris encouraged non-compliance among the people. Even as the need to curb mass gatherings — religious and political — was ignored, people let down their guard, refusing to wear masks or adhere to other safety protocols. Mr Modi’s government did not pay attention to Bangladesh — a smaller country with finite resources -—which reinforced Covid regulations by combining public awareness campaigns with shaming mechanisms. Equally inexplicable has been the Centre’s refusal to keep the health infrastructure battle-ready and the snail’s pace of the vaccination programme. Did Mr Modi’s government have a robust strategy in place to deal with an unexpected turn of events? Hindsight, of course, offers some advantages. The virus can be expected to return, again and again, with newer mutations and it is to be hoped India will not repeat the mistakes it committed that made the second wave possible. But this government needs to be asked tough questions. If the vanguards of democracy desist from doing so, the powers that be would no longer think it is answerable to the people for their sufferings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
24-04-2021||Opinion||Where perks of getting the jab include free doughnuts and pot||About 30 per cent of the population of the United States of America has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. On April 19, everyone who is 16 years old and over became eligible to take the vaccine as well. Even so, distrust for the vaccine still exists owing to a variety of reasons including conspiracy theories, worries about side effects from the first dose and false information. To encourage as many people to get vaccinated as possible, many businesses started offering fun perks. Krispy Kreme said it will give a person a free doughnut each day for the rest of the year if they show proof of vaccination. In Cleveland, Ohio, a cinema hall offered to give out free popcorn till the end of April to anyone who showed their vaccination card. The Market Garden Brewery is offering the first 2,021 people who show their full vaccine certification beer for just 10 cents. A marijuana dispensary in Michigan is embarking on a programme called ‘Pot for Shots’ where it will give out a free, pre-rolled joint upon seeing proof of the first vaccine dose. In addition to these perks, many small or large companies are offering paid time off and extra pay for employees to go get the vaccine. Chobani, Amtrak, McDonalds and Krogers offered a one-time cash payment to employees to go and get vaccinated. The hope is with these encouragements, more people will trust the shot and also understand that their workplace will help them get it. Early 2020 witnessed a shortage of toilet paper. This year, the shortage is of ketchup packets. As restaurants stopped seated indoor dining, take-away started becoming more popular. As a result, what would have normally been a few bottles of Heinz inside a restaurant now have to reach consumers through the one-time-use small packets of ketchup. The Kraft-Heinz company accounts for 70 per cent of the US ketchup market. It said that it would increase production capacity which would lead to 12 billion ketchup packets being manufactured per year. This would help with the ‘ketchup crisis’. According to the Wall Street Journal, there has already been a 13 per cent rise in ketchup prices since last year. Another equally unexpected pandemic-related shortage is of boba tea or bubble tea — a popular Taiwanese drink in the US consisting of small tapioca balls known as boba. Increased consumer spending has led to a supply chain issue and delays in deliveries. The Boba Guys said on its Instagram page, “This is an industry-wide shortage. Some boba shops are already out. Others will run out in the next few weeks. 99% of boba comes from overseas”. Starbucks has also reported some shortages of cups, syrups and oat milk although it is not a national shortage just yet. Who knew a pair of shoes could upset religious leaders and Conservatives? That is exactly what happened. The chart-topping rapper, Lil Nas X, launched sneakers that reportedly contain a drop of human blood. Lil Nas modelled the shoes on the Nike Air Max 97s (though Nike itself said it had no role to play in this) in collaboration with a New York-based art group, MSCHF. The limited edition sneakers — 666 pairs were manufactured — were priced at $1,018, a reference to the Bible passage, Luke 10:18, that reads: “I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven”. The shoes sold out in under a minute. They also drew intense criticism from religious leaders and evangelical groups. The day after the launch, the rapper released a new music video for the song, “Montero (Call Me by Your Name)” — now topping international charts — where Lil Nas is seen provocatively dancing against a person playing the devil. Subsequently, Nike filed a lawsuit saying people will incorrectly associate the shoes with Nike. The rapper tweeted, “[Y]’all keep streaming call me by your name so i can pay for this damn nike lawsuit [sic].” A 20-year-old black man, Daunte Wright, was fatally shot in Minnesota by a police officer who reportedly meant to use a taser but fired her gun. The senseless shooting immediately sparked protests. Officers trying to control the protesters could be seen firing rubber bullets. Car air fresheners were hung up on the chain security fence outside the Brooklyn Center Police Department. Wright’s mother told reporters that he was pulled over and killed by the police because he had air fresheners hanging on his rear view mirror. Minnesota law says no driver may operate a motor vehicle “with any objects suspended between the driver and the windshield”. The police chief said he was pulled over for expired tabs. The officer who shot Wright was arrested and charged with second-degree manslaughter. In bitter irony, this incident took place during the trial of Derek Chauvin, the white Minneapolis policeman now convicted of murdering George Floyd. Last year witnessed conversations around police brutality against black Americans. The headlines of 2021 have a devastating similarity to those in 2020. The US has been mourning the death of the rapper, Earl Simmons, famously known as DMX. He died of cardiac arrest on April 9 at the age of 50. As a tribute, Efren Andaluz, a local artist based in Queen’s, painted a large mural right by La Estrella Tropical Restaurant in the Bronx. In the past, Andaluz has also painted life-sized mural art depicting Kobe Bryant and his daughter, Gianna, right across the Barclays Center. He has also painted Mac Miller, Anthony Bourdain and other celebrity portraits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
24-04-2021||Opinion||Pure joy||Sir — While excesses are to be frowned upon at a time when the nation is almost collapsing under the weight of the pandemic, it was heartwarming to read about a man in Rajasthan who hired a helicopter to bring his newborn daughter — the first girl child in the family in 35 years — home from his wife’s parents’ place. This is a remarkable step in a state — indeed, a whole nation — that overwhelmingly prefers male children, so much so that female infanticide and foeticide are serious concerns. One hopes that this man’s obvious joy at having had a daughter is seen as an example to follow in our patriarchal country. Ronit Sen, Calcutta Sir — In a historic verdict, a judge found the former Minneapolis police officer, Derek Chauvin, guilty of murdering an unarmed black American man, George Floyd, in an incident last May that ignited a storm of protests against police brutality and a global outpouring of anger at the racial injustices entrenched in the United States of America (“US can breathe after cop who kneed Floyd to death is convicted of murder”, April 22). Chauvin has been convicted of second-degree and third-degree murder and manslaughter for a nine-minute-long encounter during which he knelt on Floyd’s neck on the roadside until the latter died of asphyxiation. Floyd’s final words, “I can’t breathe”, became the clarion call for a massive wave of street protests across the US. At the time, the then president, Donald Trump, blamed the “radical left” for the protests and threatened to send in the National Guard. On the other hand, Joe Biden, who was the front runner of the presidential race at that time, went to Houston to meet Floyd’s relatives. His words of encouragement gave many Americans hope that if he became president, there would be a real possibility of reform in law enforcement and criminal justice that could curb violence against racial minorities. The Chauvin case has lessons for India, which is no stranger to police excesses and prejudice. Custodial deaths, fake encounters and mob lynchings demonstrate a blatant disregard for the law. The frequent cases of vigilante justice point to the dwindling trust in the judicial system. The police-politician-criminal nexus is taking its toll on the dispensation of justice. Earnest introspection followed by course correction is the need of the hour. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — On an era-defining day for the US, Derek Chauvin was found guilty of the murder of George Floyd. The murder highlighted the simmering racial tensions in the country and triggered mass protests under the Black Lives Matter banner. But the case bears an important takeaway for India. Floyd was killed in May 2020, and was convicted in less than a year. The US’s justice delivery system worked fast. The fact that the last moments of Floyd’s life were caught on camera certainly contributed to the urgency with which the case was treated. But the fact remains that justice was delivered quickly. This is a prerequisite for building the people’s trust in a system. In contrast, the Indian judicial system has a mind-boggling backlog of cases. Another relevant aspect of the trial was the nature of the police response. Floyd was picked up following an allegation that he used a counterfeit $20 note to buy cigarettes. The sequence of events led to Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck for over nine minutes, unmindful of the victim repeatedly saying “I can’t breathe”. The prosecution’s witnesses included a police chief who observed that Chauvin violated protocol. India has often seen custodial deaths and other police excesses. Like in the US, it’s hard to get a conviction of police officials who violate norms. We hope that the Chauvin trial will catalyse some change here too and that rogue police officials will be held accountable. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Kadma locality a hotspot, market sealed ||The steel city’s Kadma locality has become a Covid hotspot with the district health department detecting over 80 positive cases in the last two days. Health department officials confirmed that Kadma locality has around 660 active cases making it the top Covid hotspot. The Kadma market was sealed completely on Saturday after detection of 15 fresh cases. On Friday, 30 positive cases were found in the market. With the surge in cases, as many as eight containment zones were declared in residential areas close to the Kadma market. Local civic body - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Saturday put up barricades from all sides preventing entry of people to Kadma market. Barricades were also put up on the Kadma main road restricting movement of vehicles. Telco with 530 active cases is the second hotspot followed by Mango (410 active cases) , Sakchi ( 400 active cases) and Sonari which has 375 active cases. Ravi Bharti, a senior official of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee said that around 450 shops have been shut at the Kadma market and that the vegetable vendors and fruit sellers have been shifted to the adjoining Ganesh Puja  Maidan. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal blamed people for not adhering to Covid protocols. "People have not stopped moving around outside even as the state government has imposed a seven day lockdown to break the Covid chain, "said Pal apprehending a further spike in positive cases. As per the records of the health department out of 4,891 people who underwent Covid tests in East Singhbhum on Friday 810 were found positive. As many as 16 deaths, the highest so far also took place in the past 24 hours. Maximum number of Covid cases were found in Kadma, Telco, Sonari, Mango and Bistupur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||'Immunity booster' lemon prices shoot up in steel city||The price of lemons has almost doubled in the steel city with increased demand for the vitamin C rich fruit during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, the retail price of lemon is Rs 20 for three. It was available for Rs 10 for 3, a week back. The immunity boosting component of vitamin C is driving the demand believe vegetable and fruit sellers. “Demand for lemon has shot up. People coming to the market are looking for lemons like never before,” said Balram Prajapati, who runs a vegetable shop at Sakchi. He added that the price of lemons would go up more in the days to come. “Some of the customers are buying lemons in good quantity. This was not the case earlier,” he said. “Kahte hain ki nimboo khane se rog pratirodhak shakti badti hain. Isliye log ise achhi matra mein kharid rahen hain (It is said lemons increase immunity. This is the reason people are buying lemons in good numbers),” said Sital Gupta, another vegetable seller in Bistupur. The price of lemon is the same in other vegetable markets of the city, including Kadma, Sonari and Telco. “I purchased lemons at Rs 10 (for 3) last week. The vegetable sellers increased the price since its demand has shot up in Covid times,” said Ashutosh Singh, a customer at Bistupur market. Prices of potato and onions, on the other hand, have not gone up in the retail market. While potato is selling at Rs 15 a kg, onion is available at Rs 25 a kilo. A functionary at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpadan Samity said they have not received any complaints over the increase in price of vegetables and fruits. “Strict action will be initiated against those who are hoarding and selling products in black,” he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches 'Covid circuits' to pool in medical resources of a region  ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren launched two dedicated "Covid circuits" aimed at pooling available medical resources and infrastructure from a cluster of neighbouring districts to ensure timely admission and treatment of critical patients free of cost. Unveiling the plan at an online function held at his residence in Kanke on Saturday, Hemant said that in the first phase, the two circuits had been set up in Ranchi and Jamshedpur (East Singbhum), the two districts that have been hit hardest by the pandemic. In the coming days, and depending on the requirement, the state government would roll out four to six similar circuits in other regions. “The idea of a covid circuit is simple—if beds aren’t available in Ranchi or Jamshedpur, patients will then be rushed to nearby districts that have been tagged with either of the cities for early hospitalisation. Considering the surge of cases in Ranchi and Jamshedpur, hospitals are full, leading to a crisis of beds and other resources. However, there are other places where available resources are under-utilised. Hence, we have identified places near these hotspots where patients can be rushed to in the least possible time,” Hemant said. Ranchi circuit comrpises six districts of Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega and Latehar.  Jamshedpur circuit comprises the two adjoining districts of West Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Hemant said it would be the administration’s responsibility to accommodate patients from within respectivecircuits. Hemant provided instances of under-utilised resources. “In the Kolhan region comprising East Singbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, out of 1,500 oxygen-supported beds, only 500 beds are empty currently. But East Singbhum (Jamshedpur) is reeling under an acute crisis of beds,” he said, adding that the tendency of patients to come to the city for better treatment was leading to a crisis. Hemant also announced helplines to provide information on availability of beds and ambulances. “Those in Ranchi can call 0561-2411144, while those in Jamshedpur can call 0657-2440111 to know about resources in a circuit. Simultaneously, one can dial 8987510050. If you have your own resources to reach the hospital, you can take the patient. Or else, we shall provide help in the least possible time after receiving calls on these numbers,” Hemant said, underlining that the government would providing all these services free of cost. Hemant reiterated that avaliability of  oxygen and other resources was sufficient in Jharkhand to fight the pandemic and appealed to people not to panic. “I understand it is natural to panic or feel frustrated with the system when you are in a crisis. But let me assure you all again that the government is fully committed to do its best. Many times, panic is leading to chaos. Now is the time when we all have to show restraint and work together to fight the virus,” he said. The chief minister said that for greater transparency,  the state government was upgrading surveillance at hospitals for strict monitoring. “At Sadar hospital in Ranchi, we have installed CCTVs at all key places on priority. Similarly, at oxygen refilling stations, I have ordered CCTVs so that the authorities van keep a tab on the situation and curb black marketing or other forms of harassment,” he said. The Military Hospital in Namkum, Ranchi, will also set up a  50-bed hospital to treat Covid patients from Tuesday, army officials announced on Saturday after a meeting with the chief minister. A few days ago, Hemant requested the Union government for military help in Covid combat. During the meeting on Saturday,  army officials  informed  the chief minister of their preparedness to open a hospital for the public with 50 dedicated beds and demanded oxygen connections for them. An official release from  the chief minister's office  said that the government was working on the oxygen requirements and that it hopes to start the facility from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Needy patients suffer as the affluent use 'connections' to hold on to Covid beds ||Many patients with moderate Covid symptoms are using political connections to keep ventilator-supported beds reserved in the new trauma centre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), thereby denying necessary medical attention to more needy, doctors at the state-run hospital said on Saturday. “We have around 100 beds for Covid patients with severe symptoms and at least 20 such beds are occupied by affluent patients who do not need intensive care anymore,” said a RIMS doctor who also holds a senior administrative position in the hospital. “They (patients) refuse to move to normal beds with oxygen support even though they do not require ventilators. Such patients often use political connections to ensure that they are not moved out of the ICU,” he added, requesting anonymity. Amid the acute crisis of dedicated Covid beds and an unprecedented rise in the number of cases in Ranchi, this trend of reserving beds with ventilators is adding to the ordeals of patients who do not have influence, say doctors. Another RIMS doctor took to social media on Friday to give a subtle hint of how political connections were gradually becoming important in getting treated for Covid-19 symptoms in government hospitals. “If you want to survive this pandemic, then you should build political connections, not immunity,” he updated as his status on WhatsApp. Dr Ajit Kumar, who was on duty at the Covid ward in Sadar Hospital through Friday night till Saturday, said at least seven oxygen supported beds were occupied by patients who did not need oxygen support. “Their oxygen masks were kept aside and they were sleeping peacefully without any oxygen support. I had to force them to leave the beds as many patients in dire need of oxygen support were waiting in ambulances outside the hospital at that time,” said Dr Kumar, who is also  be the joint secretary of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Ranchi chapter. Kumar said that panic hospitalization and panic hoarding of oxygen and remdesivir injections were making the situation worse in the state capital as many needy patients were unable to get treatment on time due to this practice. In an order issued on Thursday, the health department directed that all medical colleges (other than RIMS) in Jharkhand would directly function under the supervision of the concerned deputy commissioner until further notice. The decision was taken in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand. As per government data, there are around 3000 dedicated Covid beds available in Ranchi for the over 14,000 patients. Recently, the government asked all private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their beds for Covid patients. However, the shortage of beds still continues to haunt patients in the state capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
24-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jhakhand's active caseload closes in on 45,000 mark||Jharkhand inched closer to 45,000 active cases of coronavirus on Friday with 5741 new infections and 63 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.  The other fallout of daily skyrocketing spikes, coupled with the imposition of a seven-day lockdown in the state two days ago, has been on the immunisation drive, data compiled by the state chapter of National Health Mission has indicated. Friday came as a respite for the state in terms of new cases and fatalities compared to Thursday but the upward trajectory of the Covid case graph still remains a major concern. With over 5,000 fresh cases, the total active cases in the state has reached 43,415, marginally short of the 45,000 mark but has already surpassed state health department’s estimates of having about 35,000 active cases by end of April. With 1364 new cases, Ranchi continued to register four- digit spikes. It was followed by East Singbhum with 810 cases, Ramgarh (448), Hazaribag (320), Bokaro (298), Dhanbad (262), Palamau (250), Koderma (228), and Lohardaga (200). As many as six districts reported over 100 cases but less than 200 while seven got double digit hikes. Garhwa however remained the lone exception with no new cases in the last 24 hours. In terms of deaths, Ranchi and East Singhbhum witnessed 15 each, followed by seven in Koderma. As many as 10 districts reported one death each, five districts got two deaths each and two districts had three deaths each in their regions. The rest four districts remained free of any deaths. Of the total 1,90,692 positive cases since March last year, 1,45,499 got recovered and 1778 have died so far. State’s seven days growth rate now stands at 2.63 percent, higher than the national average of 1.36 percent. Similarly, seven days doubling rate is 26.65 days, almost half of the country’s current average of 51.22 days. Recovery rate in the state too has fell sharply at 76.30 percent vis-à-vis the national average of 83.90 percent whereas mortality rate of the state is 0.93 percent than that of 1.10 percent in the country. With experts laying stress on doubling the vaccination efforts in the country to tackle the deadly second wave, lockdown and uncontrolled spread of the virus coupled with the growing fatalities seem to have slowed the pace of vaccination in the state. For, since the imposition of seven-day lockdown in the state on Thursday, the rate of vaccination coverage has fallen drastically, as per the health department’s figures on daily inoculation drive. On Friday, the state achieved a meager 18 per cent coverage of first dose by inoculating 16,818 people against the target of 95,200. The rate of the second dose was just four percent during this period as only 11,891 were administered the vaccine against the target of 2,68,706. On day one of the lockdown yesterday, against the target of 53,430, the first dose could be given only to 12,439 people which was 23 percent. Similarly, against the target of 2,77,665 people for the second dose, only 8783 were given the jab, which was a mere 2 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
