25-04-2021||Calcutta||Mask is must||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
25-04-2021||Calcutta||What to do in case of a Covid death||The death of a Covid-19 victim at home is unlocking a vault of miseries for family members. Getting the death certificate and arranging for a hearse is often taking hours because of the curbs imposed by the government. In many cases, more than one family member is affected by the virus, making things more difficult. The agencies involved in arranging the funeral are often taking a lot of time to reach the home of a deceased person because they are overburdened with the steep rise in the number of deaths. The state health department on Saturday issued a circular containing “guidelines on issuance of death certificates and funeral related activities in non-institutional deaths and deaths occurring during inter-institutional transit due to Covid-19”. “We have arranged for many hearse vans. But this is an unprecedented situation. We request people not to panic and contact us,” said a senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The Telegraph draws up a set of FAQs on the basis of the circular and interactions with officials of the CMC. A member in my family who had tested positive for Covid-19 passes away at home. How do I get a death certificate? The registered medical practitioner under whose treatment the person was before the death, either in physical or virtual mode, can issue the death certificate. What if the doctor cannot be contacted? Contact the local police station. The police will arrange for the body to be taken to the nearest government hospital and arrange for the death certificate, said a CMC official. What if the person dies while being shifted from one hospital to another? “If a person admitted in the Covid/pre-Covid/Sari (severe acute respiratory infections) ward of a hospital dies during transit while being referred to another hospital, the last treating doctor of the referring hospital will issue the death certificate accordingly,” the circular said. After getting the death certificate, how do I arrange for the cremation? Calcuttans should call the chief municipal health officer at 9830011041. They can also send a WhatsApp message to the number along with the following documents. ⚫Death certificate ⚫Covid-positive report ⚫No objection from next of kin ⚫A small note with details — name, age, address of the deceased and a request for arranging the cremation A hearse van should reach the deceased person’s home and take the body away for cremation. Can a family member of a deceased person go to the crematorium? A CMC official said “two family members are allowed to visit the crematorium to see the funeral from a distance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Prescription must for oxygen  at home||The state government on Saturday said that only Covid-19 patients in home isolation or quarantine and patients with other medical conditions will be entitled to buy medical oxygen IP (Indian pharmacopoeia) against a doctor’s prescription. The department of health and family welfare in a government notification stated that several cases of hoarding and sale of medical oxygen cylinders to general public without a valid prescription of a medical doctor have been reported across the state, prompting the department to issue the notification. Reported incidents of Covid deaths because of scarcity of oxygen in parts of the country have led many to believe that oxygen cylinders need to be stored at home for an emergency. The sudden demand of oxygen cylinders in the market has also reportedly encouraged some people to procure the medical oxygen in large quantities from retailers and pharmacies and sell them to people in distress at a higher cost, illegally. Senior officers in Lalbazar said all police stations and the enforcement branch of the city police have been alerted to prevent hoarding in the city. According to the rulebook, license-holding distributors and pharmacies can sell or let out oxygen cylinders or refill them only after checking valid prescriptions of registered medical practitioners. However, in reality, alleged lack of prosecution by the law enforcement agencies and absence of regular checks on distributors’ stocks on one hand and blackmarketeers on the other, often lead to man-made crises in the market. During last year’s lockdown, several people had been arrested for hoarding essential commodities like rice, soy chunks, pulses and sanitisers — that were most in demand when only stores selling essential supplies were allowed to operate. Several shops selling essential commodities like soap and grains were robbed in the city. “It is important to keep a check (on blackmarketeers) to prevent hoarding before the situation goes out of hand. Often, such crisis situations are created when hoarders stockpile essentials and emergency commodities to sell them in the blackmarket,” said a senior police officer. Hoarding or the offence of stocking, selling and transporting medical oxygen cylinders without valid permit and prescription of the medical doctor, will be punished under Drugs and Cosmetic Rules, 1945, IPC and Epidemic Act 1897 and amendments 2020, the notification also mentioned. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 6,638 on Saturday, to 81,375. The state recorded 14,281 new infections and logged 7,584 recoveries during the day. While Calcutta recorded 2,970 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 2,821.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College’s professor passes away ||The first vice-principal of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta, BCom evening section, M.M. Rahman, passed away in the city on Saturday. He was 84. His wife also breathed her last on the same day. Both of them succumbed to Covid-19. Rahman, a professor, was the vice-principal for eight years from July 2006 to June 2014. “With the passing away of Prof M.M. Rahman, the college has lost a true Xaverian of 60 years of bonding and a great professor who not only taught in the college for more than 50 years but immensely contributed in shaping up St Xavier’s College, Calcutta in its present stature,” said Rev. Father Dominic Savio, principal, St. Xavier's College (Autonomous), Calcutta. Rahman was awarded the Nihil Ultra Award, the highest academic award of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, for his dedicated service to the college and “outstanding contribution in the field of higher education”. His association with the college is a long one which started when he entered as a student in 1951. He started teaching in the college in 1960 after completing masters in commerce from Calcutta University. He also served as the Dean of BCom morning department and assistant director of the computer centre of the college. Rahman was known for his “outstanding personality, strict discipline, caring nature for the students, and above all as a dedicated teacher,” the release issued by the college said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: At Calcutta port, job undercurrents||In one Calcutta seat, the Trinamul Congress’s lead has only increased in the past 10 years, no matter which election it was. In 2011, Firhad Hakim had won from Calcutta Port by 25,033 votes. Five years later, he won the seat again, this time by 26,548 votes. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul’s Calcutta South candidate Mala Roy had polled 82,102 votes from this constituency. Her nearest rival Chandra Kumar Bose of the BJP had got 45,863 votes. The margin:  over 39,000 votes. This election, if one Trinamul candidate appears most certain about his victory, that is Firhad. Firhad, the city’s outgoing mayor and the state’s outgoing urban development minister, says this time the margin will be possibly higher. “In my door-to-door campaigns and meetings, I have never said please vote for me. Never,” Firhad said. “I have told my electorate to find someone who has done more than me in this constituency in the past few years and cast votes in his favour.” Firhad listed a sewage pumping station at Kabitirtha Park that should bring relief from waterlogging in parts of Ekbalpore, Mominpore and Garden Reach; a desilting programme to ensure that water keeps flowing down the pipelines to Tolly Nullah; a water pumping station at Watgunge to address the shortage of drinking water; several girls’ schools and a flyover connecting Ramnagar More to Kantapukur. “There is more left to be done,” Firhad said. “A logistics hub at Garden Reach has been built. Our aim is to ensure women who work on assembling mobile phones or those with some other skill get to work in a proper environment in this hub.” The Calcutta Port constituency was once dreaded for criminal activities.   Deputy commissioner of police, port, Vinod Mehta, and his bodyguard Mukhtar Ali were murdered in Garden Reach in 1984. Nearly three decades later in February 2013, a police officer was shot dead in violence that broke out over filing of nominations for a student’s body election at Hari Mohan Ghose College in Garden Reach. Calcutta’s police commissioner RK Pachnanda lost his post. Mohammad Mukhtar, who was later arrested for his alleged involvement in the death of sub-inspector Tapas Chowdhury, is the Congress candidate of the United Front this time. “The state government has all its machinery in place. Then why can’t it prove my involvement in that case? Why am I still out and not in prison?” asks Mukhtar. “People of this area have realised that bluff and will vote against it.” In a constituency with over 40 per cent minority voters, the BJP has decided to go with Awadh Kishore Gupta, its candidate from last time. Gupta is riding a hope of consolidating Hindu votes in the constituency and securing over 46,000 votes that Rakesh Singh, the Congress candidate in 2016 and now his fellow worker in the BJP, had bagged. Gupta then had polled a little over 11,000 votes and Rakesh is now in custody after being arrested in a cocaine case. “The minority vote will be split between Firhad and Mukhtar. There is a clear polarisation in this constituency and the BJP will reap the benefits,” said Gupta. “Half of the projects that are being talked about are yet to take off.” The perceived failure of some Trinamul councillors to deliver the basics has continued to embarrass the leaders across wards. “There is no proper health care facility in the area,” said Mohammad Shahid, a resident of Dent Mission Row. “A maternity home in Kidderpore has been converted into an annex of SSKM Hospital. This will be a mother and child hub,” Hakim says elaborating on his plans. “The existing infrastructure of the Garden Reach maternity home is being overhauled.” Criminal lawyers said the number of cases from Garden Reach and Ekbalpore police station reaching them in Alipore has gone down. “From a monthly average of over 300 cases from Garden Reach police station, the number has come down to 110,” said Arindam Das, a criminal lawyer of Alipore Court. But demand for jobs has gone up. A bustling market area skirting Calcutta’s port, young men and women want jobs to meet their aspirations. “Even if a few MSME’s (Micro Small and Medium Enterprises) set up units here, a lot of us will land with a job,” said Shagir Hussain, a commerce graduate and a resident of Dr Sudhir Bose Road in Kidderpore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Section 144 imposed within 200 meters of all polling stations in the city||Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed from 6.30pm on Saturday within 200 meters of all polling stations in the four Assembly constituencies in the city that will vote on Monday. The government order issued by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday night restricts the movement of more than four persons in a group within the periphery of the polling stations in Rashbehari, Ballygunge, Bhowanipore and Kolkata Port Assembly constituencies for 48 hours before the elections end on Monday. Section 144 of the CrPC is usually imposed at the polling stations only during the election hours. Several police officers said the restriction that was put in place 48-hours before the official time of the ending of the election on Monday was to prevent any pre-poll clashes and unrest in the pockets of the city that will vote. “The firing incident that happened in Belgachhia on Friday was alarming. Monday’s polling would be very sensitive as voters living in the heart of the city would step out of their homes to cast their vote. The restrictions on gatherings from 48-hours before the election is to ensure peace and tranquillity in the neighbourhoods. People should not feel terrorised,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. The commissioner’s order mentions restrictions on carrying stones, weapons, firecrackers and other explosive materials within the areas that are under section 144 of the CrPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||NKDA  stops spot registration for the Covid-19 vaccination||Spot registrations for the Covid-19 vaccination process has been stopped at the two centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) because of erratic supply of the vaccines. Both the vaccination centres —  inside the government bus terminus near Pride Hotel and at the CB Block community market in Action Area 1 — witnessed a surge in the number of walk-ins to get a vaccine after cases started going up. The NKDA officials as well as representatives from the state health department held an emergency meeting on Friday and decided to only administer shots to those who had registered themselves on the CoWin portal. “We are not getting adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines at both the centres. A lot of recipients had to be turned back in the past several days as the centres were running out of vials that led to arguments among officials and residents,” said the official. The NKDA has called in for resident volunteers who will sit at community centres, markets and other public places with laptops and help people get registered on CoWin. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said several blocks had stepped forward with volunteers who would set up the laptops and help people register.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals should reserve 60% of their sanctioned beds for Covid-19 patients, says Panel||All private hospitals should reserve at least 60 per cent of their sanctioned beds for Covid-19 patients, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Saturday. Several private hospitals have already increased their Covid bed count in the past few weeks but that has not been sufficient. “All the clinical establishments in the private healthcare sector would be segregating 40 per cent of the total sanctioned beds, including day care beds, emergency triage, for emergency non-Corona treatment like dialysis and emergency surgeries. The rest, being 60 per cent of the sanctioned beds/set up, would be dedicated for Covid treatment,” the commission said in an advisory to private hospitals. “It is apprehended that many precious lives may be lost if Covid beds are not enhanced to accommodate the increasing number of patients.” Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had 130 Covid beds on Saturday out of the total 700 sanctioned beds in the hospitals. Forty of the Covid beds were critical care beds. An official of the hospital said it would increase the number of Covid beds to 425 within a short time. Peerless Hospital had 90 Covid beds on Saturday of its sanctioned 400 beds. “We will reserve 240 beds in hospital for Covid very soon. Last year, we had 150 Covid beds at the peak of the pandemic,” said an official of the hospital. Belle Vue Clinic had 174 Covid beds on Saturday out of their sanctioned 241 beds in the hospital. Thirty-seven of the Covid beds are critical care beds. An official said they would add 23 more Covid beds. Medica Superspeciality Hospital has 340 sanctioned beds and 224 of these have been converted into Covid beds already. The hospital has 135 critical care beds for Covid patients. Medica will add 20 more Covid beds. Besides it has proposed to the state government to build a 200-bed unit at the Kishore Bharati stadium in Santoshpur. In its advisory, the commission stated that hospitals that have already reserved more than 60 per cent of their sanctioned beds for Covid patients should not reduce the number. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked officials of both private and state government hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. She asked them to open more satellite units where patients with mild symptoms could be admitted. Senior officials of the state government had earlier requested officials of private hospitals to shift their vaccination centres and OPDs out of the hospital and use the space for adding more Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Business||Ola to launch its electric scooter in July||App cab aggregator Ola has said it will launch its electric scooter in July. Ola has invested Rs 2,400 crore in setting up a factory in Tamil Nadu which will manufacture the scooter, with a capacity of 2 million units a year. The new factory will create 10,000 jobs once its completed. “The Ola Scooter is a tech-driven electric vehicle with industry leading range and speed. It will be manufactured at the Ola Future factory in Tamil Nadu. “Ola Scooter will offer the customer best-in-class performance and experience. The electric two-wheeler will be priced aggressively to make it accessible to all and will help accelerate India’s transition to sustainable, clean and electric mobility,” said a company spokesperson. The company recently revealed its plans to provide charging solutions to all its electric two-wheeler customers and unveiled the Ola Hypercharger Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-04-2021||Business||ICICI Bank net profit zooms multi folds in March quarter||ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a whopping 261 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 as provisions showed a sharp fall over the year-ago period. The private sector bank reported a standalone net profit of Rs 4,402.61 crore compared with Rs 1,221.36 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. However, the bottomline fell short of analyst estimates who were pencilling in a number in the range of Rs 4,500-5,000 crore. The jump in its net profit came on the back of a 17 per cent growth in core net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) that rose to Rs 10,431 crore from Rs 8,927 crore in the same period of the previous year. Moreover, provisions showed a sharp drop over the year-ago period. During January-March 2020, banks had stepped up their provision coverage because of the pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown. Provisions at ICICI Bank fell to Rs 2,883.47 crore against Rs 5,967.44 crore. ICICI Bank disclosed that in addition to the Covid-19 related provision of Rs 2,725 crore made in 2019-20, it made a Rs 5,550-crore provision during the first quarter of 2020-21. During the third quarter, the bank used Rs 1,800 crore of the Covid-19 related provisions made in the earlier periods. The lender added that during the fourth quarter, on a prudent basis, it had made additional Covid-related provision amounting to Rs 1,000 crore. Therefore, as on March 31, 2021, the bank held aggregate Covid-19 related provision of Rs 7,475 crore. During the fourth quarter of 2020-21, ICICI Bank’s asset quality improved. The percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross customer assets stood at4.96 per cent against proforma gross NPA of 5.42 per cent in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
25-04-2021||Business||Government extends time till June 30 for making payment of disputed tax||The Central Board of Direct Taxes has extended the time frame for issue of assessment orders, notices and intimations under certain provisions of the Income Tax Act along with extension of time for payment of the amount of disputed tax payable under the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act without an additional charge of 10 per cent by the end of June. This extension comes amid the spiralling second wave of the coronavirus pandemic across the country. Extra time has been allowed for completion of assessment, reassessment and re-computation of income as well as issuing a notice under section 148 of the Income Tax Act in cases where income has escaped assessment. The time limit for passing an order based on the direction of a dispute resolution panel has also been extended. Moreover, time limits for the tax department to intimate businesses about processing their statement on equalisation levy have been extended by two months to the end of June. These extensions come as a relief measure primarily for the tax officials. The CBDT said notifications extending these due dates will be issued soon. The deadlines were earlier extended from March-end to April-end. CBDT said the move to extend certain timelines comes on the back of representations from industry, consultants and other stakeholders. Karishma Phatarphekar, Deloitte India, said, “While it’s a welcome move that no additional amount payable under the VSV has been extended to June 30, it would have been good if they would have also extended the filing deadline beyond March 31 for this category to May 31 so that more taxpayers could avail of the scheme. “The government can also consider enhancing the scope of the scheme to cover taxpayers whose appeals are pending beyond January 31, 2020.” Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of Direct Taxes Professionals Association, said: “Only extension of date for payment under VSV is helpful to the assessee. However, the date for filing the declaration under VSV should have also been extended in the national interest and to minimise litigations.” He said the other four extensions should be revisited by the finance ministry. The extension of due date comes at a time businesses, professional services firms and the tax authorities are grappling with a manpower shortage. Businesses are also expecting extension of due dates for filing GST returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
25-04-2021||Business||Cerberus Global Investments shows interest in Srei Equipment Finance||New York-based private investment firm Cerberus Global Investments BV is the third investor to show interest in capital infusion into Srei Equipment Finance Limited (SEFL). There will also be a forensic audit of the books of the NBFC at the behest of the lenders. The non-bank finance firm had earlier received expressions of interest for capital infusion of about $250 million from US firm Arena Investors and Singapore-based Makara Capital. The capital infusion is aimed at shoring up the capital base of SEFL at a time the NBFC’s cash flow has come under stress because of the asset liability mismatch during the Covid-19 pandemic. While the company has offered moratorium to eligible borrowers, it was not allowed moratorium by its lenders. This has raised concern among investors over the company’s ability to repay its liabilities. The company had anticipated the challenging situation and had approached NCLT with a scheme of proposed repayment of loans. SEFL in a statement on Saturday said that KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services and chartered accountants firm DmKH & Co will act as forensic auditors to the non bank financial company on the advice of its lenders. The NBFC said the audit is part of the proposed debt realignment process. The RBI has conducted a special audit into the books of the lender. SEFL also said that it has appointed former Supreme Court of India judge Justice Deepak Verma as an independent director on its board effective April 23, 2021. SEFL had earlier said that a strategic coordination committee consisting of independent directors has been formed to engage in discussion with private equity funds to bring capital into the business. Ernst & Young is advising the committee on the fund raising exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
25-04-2021||India||Boris Johnson: Hundreds of vital medical equipments sent to India||As India battles a severe second wave of coronavirus pandemic, the UK on Sunday announced sending life-saving medical equipment including ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices to the country. The UK High Commission here said more than 600 pieces of vital medical equipment will be sent to India to support the country in its fight against COVID-19. It said ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices are due to leave the UK on Sunday and the first shipment is expected to arrive in Delhi early on Tuesday with further consignments reaching later this week. "We stand side by side with India as a friend and partner during what is a deeply concerning time in the fight against COVID-19," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus,” he is quoted as saying by the high commission. It said the assistance package, funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, includes ventilators and oxygen concentrators from surplus stocks. “It will be used by the government of India to provide vital medical treatment to those suffering from COVID-19 in India,” it said. The high commission said the support follows a request from India and Prime Minister Johnson's pledge for the UK to do all it can to help the country. “In total, nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators, will be sent to the country this week,” the high commission said. It said the equipment will be crucial in helping to save the lives of the most vulnerable in India. “The oxygen concentrators, for example, can extract oxygen from the air in the atmosphere so that it can be provided to patients, taking the strain off hospital oxygen systems and allowing oxygen to be provided in situations where hospital oxygen supplies have run out,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal urges industrialists to provide oxygen, cryogenic tankers to Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to leading industrialists of the country to help provide oxygen and cryogenic tankers to Delhi amid an acute shortage of the life saving gas required to save serious Covid-19 patients.  In a letter to the industrialists, he said owing to an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases, the national capital was falling woefully short of required oxygen and asked them to treat his request as an SOS.  "Delhi does not produce any oxygen, and as you are aware, Delhi currently faces an acute shortage of oxygen. I would be grateful if you could provide Delhi government with oxygen along with cryogenic tankers," Kejriwal wrote in his letter.  The Railways is transporting four liquid oxygen tankers from Raigarh to the national capital and has asked Delhi government to arrange tankers for it.  "While we have received help from the central government in meeting our oxygen requirements, the ferocity of the second wave is rendering the supply inadequate," he stated.  The chief minister requested the industrialists to provide stocks of oxygen being used or manufactured by them and also sought their help in the import of cryogenic tankers.  In similar letters to chief ministers of other states, Kejriwal had on Saturday urged them to help Delhi with their spare oxygen and tankers.  On Sunday, Kejriwal had said that Centre and Delhi government teams were working in a coordinated manner to ensure steady supply of oxygen to hospitals in the city.  The Centre has increased Delhi's daily quota of oxygen from 480 MT to 490 MT, although the city is still receiving around 330-335 MT of it everyday, he had said.  The Delhi government has also set up a portal and directed the manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals to update figures of supply and consumption of oxygen on it every two hours.  This would help the government to find out shortage beforehand and ensure supply on time, Kejriwal had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Germany preparing a ‘mission of support’ for India: German Chancellor Merkel||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said her government is “urgently” preparing a “mission of support” for India as it battles a massive spike in coronavirus cases that has triggered a severe shortage of medical oxygen in several states. In a message, Merkel said Germany stands in solidarity with India in the “common fight” against the pandemic. “To the people of India I want to express my sympathy on the terrible suffering that Covid-19 has again brought over your communities,” Merkel said. “The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support,” added. Her message was shared on Twitter by German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani too expressed solidarity with India as it reels under the second wave of the pandemic. “Our hearts go out to the Indian people & government as they fight the horrendous outbreak of Covid. On behalf of the Afghan people & government, we send our condolences to the families who lost their loved ones & wish a quick recovery to those who are suffering from the virus,” Ghani tweeted. Afghan foreign minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar said India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid-19 vaccines. “Our hearts & prayers go to all the great people of India at this time of national struggle against Covid-19. India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid vaccines. India will come out of it even stronger,” he said. On Friday, French President Emmanuel Macron expressed solidarity with India and offered his country’s support to it. “I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no one. We stand ready to provide our support,” Macron said. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The country recorded over three lakh-plus coronavirus cases for the fourth straight day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Centre bans use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes||The Centre on Sunday barred the use of liquid oxygen for any non-medical purpose and asked manufacturing units to maximise its production and make it available to the government for medical use. The order by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla came amid a scarcity of medical oxygen in many parts of the country, particularly in Delhi, that have been hit by a fresh wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Exercising the powers conferred under the Disaster Management Act, the union home secretary directed the state and union territory governments to ensure that “use of liquid oxygen is not allowed for any non-medical purpose and all manufacturing units may maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the government for use for medical purposes only, with immediate effect and until further orders.” Further, Bhalla directed that all stocks of liquid oxygen should also be made available to the government for use for medical purposes and no exception is allowed to any industry with regard to use of liquid oxygen. The home secretary referred to various measures taken so far to ensure uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country. He said it was considered necessary to restrict industrial usage of oxygen for ensuring availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of COVID-19 patients and necessary order in this regard was issued on April 22 to restrict the use of industrial oxygen. The central government has reviewed the oxygen supply situation and has decided that with immediate effect, use of liquid oxygen, including the existing stock, will be allowed for medical purposes only, and that all manufacturing units may be allowed to maximise their production of liquid oxygen, and make it available to the government, for use for medical purposes only, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Air India to bring 600 oxygen concentrators from US for private entities||Air India will bring around 600 oxygen concentrators on its two US-India flights in the next two days, aviation industry sources said on Sunday. These oxygen concentrators have been ordered by private entities, the sources mentioned. Various hospitals across the country continue to grapple with a severe shortage of medical oxygen on Sunday even after receiving emergency supplies. Twenty people died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital on Saturday amid a shortage of oxygen. Sources said Air India plans to bring around 10,000 oxygen concentrators for private entities in the coming weeks. When asked about this matter, Air India spokesperson said the airline is prepared to shoulder the responsibility of carrying oxygen concentrators or any consignment into India. “Obviously, Air India with its experience of international operations and wide-body fleet is fully capable of carrying a large volume of cargo consignments,” the spokesperson mentioned. “It goes without saying that we will continue to play a major role in transporting oxygen (equipment) and serve our nation in whatever role assigned to us,” the spokesperson said. A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||4 Covid patients die in Rewari hospital due to oxygen shortage||Four patients died in a private hospital here on Sunday allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen even as the district administration launched an investigation to find out the reason behind the deaths. After the incident, the relatives of some of the patients, who were admitted to the hospital functioning as a designated COVID facility, held a protest outside the building complex alleging there was a grave shortage of medical oxygen. Three patients died in ICU while one patient died in the ward. We have limited oxygen supplies. We are repeatedly telling administration about this and have been sending them reminders, a hospital official told reporters outside the building. We are sending empty oxygen cylinders to the vendors to load them again. Since 9 am, we are telling the authorities that we have limited stock, he said. He said the hospital has a per day consumption of 300 medical oxygen cylinders. There are 114 COVID patients admitted in the hospital, he said. Deputy Commissioner, Narnaul, Ajay Kumar, who is currently officiating as DC of Rewari district, said the allegations of oxygen shortage and four deaths were made by the hospital. Sub Divisional Magistrate, Rewari, Chief Medical Officer, Rewari and other officials are at the hospital to find out exact reasons that led to these deaths. They (hospital) are claiming that there was oxygen shortage. However, from the administration's end, regular supply has been given. So, we are finding out where the gap arose, all this is being investigated, Ajay Kumar told PTI over phone. Meanwhile, a relative whose aunt was admitted to the hospital could be seen pleading with some police officials outside the hospital telling them to do something immediately to ensure the facility gets adequate stock of medical oxygen. Notably, Haryana has seen a surge in coronavirus cases and fatalities during the current month. The demand for medical liquid oxygen has also increased in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||European Union promises aid to fight the second wave of Covid ravaging India||Hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of coronavirus infection in the country The European Union on Sunday said it is pooling in resources to respond rapidly to help India's fight against the fast-spreading coronavirus pandemic. A senior official of the 27-nation powerful bloc said the European Union (EU) has already activated its Civil Protection Mechanism to mobilise support for India including supplying urgently needed oxygen and medicines. Under the mechanism, the EU plays a central role in coordinating its responses to emergencies in Europe and beyond. As India reels under a massive spike in coronavirus cases, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said the EU stands in "full solidarity" with the people of India. “Alarmed by the epidemiological situation in India. We are ready to support. The EU is pooling resources to respond rapidly to India's request for assistance via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism,” der Leyen said in a tweet. EU Ambassador to India Ugo Astuto said the European Union, together with its member states, will do its utmost to support India in this difficult moment. Janez Lenarcic, European Commissioner for Crisis Management in charge of European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid, said the EU’s Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC) is coordinating with member states to provide urgently needed oxygen and medicines to India. “Upon request for assistance by #India, we have activated the #EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The European Union will do its utmost to mobilise assistance to support people of India,” he tweeted. “Our #ERCC is already coordinating EU MS that are ready to provide urgently needed #oxygen & medicine rapidly,” he said. The overall objective of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism is to strengthen cooperation between the member states of the grouping in the field of civil protection. A joint approach helps to pool capacities and ensures that assistance meets the needs, said an EU official. In 2020, the mechanism was used more than 90 times, the official said. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra to vaccinate all adults for free||The Maharashtra government will float global tenders for providing affordable and quality anti-Covid 19 vaccines for free to adult citizens below 45 years, NCP leader and state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. Talking to reporters, Malik said the vaccination drive beginning May 1 will be taken up using the state's funds. "Global tenders will be floated to purchase affordable and quality vaccines," he said. Malik said the Centre had announced to launch a vaccination drive for the citizens above 18 years beginning May 1. "It is clear that the Centre will not provide vaccination for the people below the age of 45 years, which will be done by states," he said. Citing manufacturers of vaccines, the minister said Covishield vaccine will be available to the Centre at Rs 150 per injection, while the rate fixed for state government is Rs 400 per dose and for private hospitals Rs 600 per dose. The price of Covaxin is fixed at Rs 600 per dose for states and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, he said. "The issue was discussed in the last cabinet meeting and it was agreed to provide free vaccination for the people below 45 years. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has agreed for the same," Malik said. The NCP is a part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Uddhav Thackeray. On Saturday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had said the Maharashtra government will float a global tender for Covid-19 vaccines and Remdesivir injections. Meanwhile, Malik thanked the Union government for increasing the supply of Remdesivir injections to Maharashtra, saying that raising the supply to 40,000 vials per day from 26,000 vials will ease the shortage of the key drug for a few days. "If the Centre accepts our demand for providing 50,000 vials per day,the Remdesivir shortage would end. CM Uddhav Thackeray is following up on getting the balance 10,000 vials stock," he said. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Sikkim etc, have reportedly announced free coronavirus vaccination for their adult population.  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Sunday announced the state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to people above the 18 years of age, who will be inoculated beginning May 1. He said the state government will spend about Rs 3,000 crore on the exercise. "The state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to all people above the 18 years of age in the state at the cost of about Rs 3000 crore," Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi. He also said it would have been better if the Centre had agreed to incur the cost of vaccination for the 18-45 age category, as demanded by state governments. For the past several days, Gehlot has been demanding the Centre bear the cost of vaccination of those above the 18 years of age. During a video conference with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, Gehlot had raised this issue. In his tweet on Sunday too, he said, "It would have been better had the Centre, as demanded by state governments, met the cost of vaccinating the 18-45 age group, as it did in the case of those above 45 and 60. This would have saved states' budget from getting disturbed," he said. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that starting vaccination from May 1 for those above 18 will depend on the availability of shots. He said when state government officials spoke to the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, they were told that vaccine is not available. The Centre had last week announced to vaccinate youths above 18 years of age starting May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Twitter, Facebook, others remove posts ‘critical’ of govt’s Covid-19 management||Twitter and other social media platforms have removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to remove content that was critical of the handling of the current medical crisis or spreading fake news around the pandemic. Twitter said it has notified the impacted account holders of its action taken in response to a legal request from the Indian government, while Facebook did not comment on the issue. Sources said the companies have complied with the order. However, it wasn't immediately known what the removed posts were. Meanwhile, government sources said the IT Ministry, on the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs, asked the social media platforms to remove the posts and URLs (uniform resource locators) to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic and disruption of public order due to the said posts. They added that the order was issued in view of the misuse of social media platforms by certain users to spread fake or misleading information and create panic about the pandemic in the society by using unrelated, old and out of the context images or visuals, communally sensitive posts and misinformation about Covid-19 protocols . Although reports suggested that the posts critical of government handling of the medical crisis were asked to be removed, sources said the government is open to criticism and suggestions in the collective fight against Covid-19. However, they said it is necessary to take action against those users who are misusing social media during this grave humanitarian crisis for unethical purposes. Twitter removed or restricted access to more than 50 posts in the past one month at the behest of the government, including tweets that criticized its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Other posts removed showed pictures and videos of a recent Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh. Earlier this year, more than 500 accounts were suspended and access to hundreds of others in India blocked after the government ordered the microblogging platform to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers' protests. India is registering a record number of Covid cases daily. The number of new Covid infections touched 3,49,691 cases and 2,767 fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday at 8 am. A Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both Twitter Rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter's Rules, the content will be removed from the service. “If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only. The legal requests that we receive are detailed in the bianual Twitter Transparency Report, and requests to withhold content are published on Lumen,” the spokesperson said. Reports citing Lumen database (an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content) suggested that more than 50 posts - including those by a Member of Parliament, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request. The microblogging platform emphasised that it is committed to the principles of openness and transparency, and that it tackles misinformation based on the highest potential for harm. It noted that it is tackling Covid-19 misinformation using a combination of product, technology, and human review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Four Congress-ruled states accuse Centre of ‘hijacking’ Covid-19 vaccine stocks||Fours states ruled by the Congress and its allies Sunday accused the Centre of "hijacking" vaccine stocks from manufacturers, and expressed doubts they would be able to launch the inoculation drive to cover those between 18-45 years of age from May 1. They also accused the Centre of meting out "step-motherly" treatment to them, and urged the Union government to provide them free vaccine doses to vaccinate all adults. Addressing a virtual joint press conference, the health ministers of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Jharkhand (ruled by Congress-JMM alliance) asked as to how they will vaccinate all adults when the Centre has already "taken away the stocks" and shots are not available to them. They said they are prepared for the next phase of vaccination drive from May 1, but the manufacturers have expressed inability to provide them vaccine shots. "How do we vaccinate adults of 18-45 years as Serum Institute has said they will not be able to provide vaccines till May 15," Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said. "We have the capacity, but not the vaccine,"he said. "States should get the supplies. The Government of India should provide vaccines as per their requirements." The success of the drive depends on availability of shots, he said. Sharma said, "Our demand is that the Centre fully fund the vaccine. How can we fund it from our budget? No provision has been made by us in the budget." Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo said, "There is no way shots can be administered if the vaccine is not available. How will we provide vaccination? We are ready to vaccinate, provided we have the vaccines." He also alleged politics is being played on vaccination the way the prime minister's photo is put on the certificate of vaccination. "The country is being misguided. The Centre has made a joke of this," he said. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, "We are being meted out step-motherly treatment. The Centre should provide the vaccine and essential life-saving medicines." "If the Centre does not support us, how can we roll out the vaccination drive? We are only hand-to-mouth on vaccines. The Centre should allot the vaccine and provide it to us," Sidhu said. Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta alleged the prime minister is trying to derive political advantage even during this raging pandemic. "Step-motherly treatment is being meted out to Congress-ruled states like us. The prime minister is politicising everything and we have to fight a dual battle of saving people from coronavirus and fighting politics," he said. "The Centre has hijacked their production capacity (manufacturers') and struck a deal for Rs 150 per dose. The government that talks of one constitution, one tax, is now trying to derive benefits out of pandemic by different pricing of vaccines," he said. "How will we launch (the next phase of vaccination drive), when vaccine makers do not have vaccines, (and) how will they provide us supplies. People will ask us to vaccinate, we have set up vaccination centres," he said, adding the Centre should allow them to purchase Remdesivir from Bangladesh, which is not being allowed. "On one side, we are being bound, on the other hand, an impression is being created that there is decentralisation of power to states," he alleged. The Centre last Monday announced its liberalised vaccination policy, making all adults eligible for Covid19 vaccine from May 1 and has asked states to procure vaccines from makers of their own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal extends lockdown in Delhi for another week||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi for another week, saying the severity of Covid-19 was unabated and the positivity rate has been as high as 36 percent in the last few days. The lockdown imposed on April 19 night will now continue till 5 AM on May 3, he said. It was scheduled to end at 5 AM on April 26 before extension. "We will have to watch the situation for a few more days whether the cases decrease or increase," he said. The chief minister said the onslaught of coronavirus has not subsided even as the government had imposed six days lockdown as a last weapon in its arsenal. "Everybody voted for the extension of lockdown. The positivity rate reached up to 36-37 percent in the past few days although it has slightly dipped now. It is around 29 percent today," he said. To keep watch on oxygen availability, the Delhi government has decided that the manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals will update supply and consumption data every two hours on a portal set up by it. He said the Centre has further increased Delhi's oxygen quota by 10 tonnes per day and hoped the chaotic situation due to the oxygen crisis in Delhi will end in a few days. "The Centre has increased Delhi's quota from 480 tonnes to 490 tonnes per day. But, we are yet to receive a full quota. Currently only 330-335 tonnes per day supply is being received by us," he said. The chief minister said his government is receiving much support from the Centre and both are properly coordinating to solve the oxygen supply problem. Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 deaths with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period Several hospitals in the national capital are grappling with severe shortage of medical oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
25-04-2021||India||Over 550 oxygen generating plants to be set up in public health facilities||As many as 551 dedicated pressure swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants will be set up in public health facilities across the country to boost availability of the life-saving gas amid reports of its shortage in several places battling the Covid-19 surge. The PMO said on Sunday that the PM Cares Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for their installation, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi directing these plants should be made functional as soon as possible. He said these plants will serve as a major boost to oxygen availability at the district level. Later, Modi tweeted, "Oxygen plants in every district to ensure adequate oxygen availability...An important decision that will boost oxygen availability to hospitals and help people across the nation." These dedicated plants will be established in identified government hospitals in district headquarters in various states and union territories, and their procurement will be done through the Health and Family Welfare ministry. The PM Cares Fund had earlier this year allocated Rs 201.58 crores for installation of additional 162 dedicated PSA medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country, the PMO noted. It said the basic aim behind establishing PSA oxygen plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district. In addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would serve as a top up to the captive oxygen generation, it said. Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have uninterrupted access to it to manage Covid-19 patients and other sick persons needing such support. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Defeating Covid-19 our biggest priority, says Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Noting that the second wave of COVID-19 is testing people's patience and their capacity to endure pain, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that this "toofan" (storm) has shaken the country after it was full of enthusiasm and self-confidence after successfully tackling the first wave.  In his monthly Mann Ki Baat broadcast, Modi spoke to doctors, nurses and frontline workers, who shared their experience and views on the disease, and expressed confidence that people will soon come out of this crisis.  The over 30-minute broadcast was entirely focussed on the pandemic, which has been rampaging across the country for weeks, with Modi asserting that defeating the disease is the biggest priority.  Modi began the programme by taking note of people's sufferings.  "Many of our near and dear ones have left us untimely. After successfully confronting the first wave of Corona, the country was full of enthusiasm, full of self-confidence, but this storm has shaken the country," he said.  He urged people to go for vaccination against the disease and cautioned them against rumours about it.  The Centre, he said, will continue to provide jabs free of cost to the eligible people (those over 45 years of age).  "We have to accord priority to the expert and scientific advice at this time to win this battle," he said.  Modi also appealed to states to extend the benefit of the Centre's free vaccine campaign to the maximum number of people.  "The government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to endeavours of state governments. The state governments too are trying their best to fulfil their responsibilities," he said.  A doctor, whose conversation with the prime minister was played in the programme, noted that people are a bit scared about the pandemic situation, while saying that there is absolutely no need for it as 80 to 90 per cent of the infected people do not show any of these symptoms.  It is imperative that treatment protocol is as per the doctor's advice, he said.  Echoing his view, Dr Naveed Nazeer Shah from Srinagar urged people to follow COVID guidelines to avoid getting infected and to get inoculated.  The prime minister said while people are getting infected by the disease, they are also recovering from it in big numbers, and also spoke to one Preeti Chaturvedi of Gurugram, who shared her experience of dealing with the disease. She has now recovered.  Modi also lauded the help offered by citizens during the pandemic.  "I urge all of you to get vaccinated and we also have to take full care. 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi', get vaccinated and maintain all precautions. Never forget this mantra. We will soon prevail together over this calamity," the prime minister said.  India logged a record 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections in a day taking it total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,69,60,172 while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||SC judge M.M. Shantanagoudar passes away in Gurgaon ||Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar died at a private hospital in Gurgaon, sources said on Sunday. He was 62. The mortal remains of the judge will be taken to his Rajaji Nagar residence in Bengaluru, where last rites will be conducted. Justice Shantanagoudar was admitted to the Medanta Hospital due to a lung infection and was in the ICU. His condition was stated to be stable till late Saturday evening, but deteriorated later, sources said. In a statement on Sunday, the apex court said: "It is, with profound grief, circulated for information that Hon'ble Mr. Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, Judge, Supreme Court of India left for heavenly abode in the late evening of yesterday. The cremation will take place today i.e. 25th April, 2021 in Bengaluru, Karnataka." The statement, issued by Assistant Registrar Gagan Soni, has asked the secretaries to apprise about the demise and the last rites of Justice Shantanagoudar to all the apex court judges. Justice Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He would have remained in office till May 5, 2023. He was born on May, 5, 1958, in Karnataka and got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003, and became a permanent judge in the court in September 2004. Later, Justice Shantanagoudar was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the acting chief justice on August 1, 2016. He became the chief justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||India logs nearly 3.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, 2,767 fatalities ||With a record single-day rise of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 26,82,751 comprising 15.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.05 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,40,85,110, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,79,18,810 samples have been tested up to April 25 with 17,19,588 samples being tested on Saturday. The 2,767 new fatalities include 676 from Maharashtra, 357 from Delhi, 222 from Uttar Pradesh, 218 from Chhattisgarh, 208 from Karnataka, 152 from Gujarat and 110 from Jharkhand and 104 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,92,311 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 63,928 from Maharashtra, 14,283 from Karnataka, 13,475 from Tamil Nadu, 13,898 from Delhi, 10,959 from Uttar Pradesh, 10,884 from West Bengal, 8,356 from Punjab and 7,616 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana sworn in as 48th Chief Justice of India||Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, who had ruled against the Narendra Modi government over the Internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir and delivered several trend-setting judgments, was on Saturday elevated as the 48th Chief Justice of India. President Ram Nath Kovind formally administered the oath of office and secrecy to Ramana at a brief event held at the Rashtrapathi Bhavan where Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, outgoing CJI S.A. Bobde, judges of the Supreme Court and several other dignitaries were present. A former journalist with one of the leading Telugu dailies Eenadu, Justice Ramana will have a tenure of 16 months and will retire on August 26, 2022. In an interview to The Telegraph earlier this month, Justice Ramana had regretted that the nation, even after 74 years of Independence, continued to suffer from poverty and lack of access to justice for the downtrodden with a mind-boggling four crore cases pending across the courts in the country. “We can assert true accessibility (justice to all) when the person with the maximum disadvantage can still knock on the doors of the court of justice,” Justice Ramana had said while urging the Centre and states to coordinate to create a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation to tackle the problem of massive pendency. Justice Ramana, known for his progressive views, is currently heading a bench monitoring the disposal of criminal cases against lawmakers within a year. He had passed a series of directives to the states to set up special courts to deal with the cases on a priority basis. Justice Ramana has been a part of a number of landmark judgments. Some of them are listed below: Freedom, democracy ⚫ In Anuradha Bhasin v Union of India (2020), the judgment ensured the eventual return of Internet connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir where it had been curbed since August 2019 — by linking it to the fundamental right of free speech. The bench also laid down certain parameters on curfews, holding that “Section 144 CrPC (which bans assemblies of more than five people) cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights”. ⚫ In Foundation for Media Professionals v State (Union Territory of J&K), 2020, the judgment struck a balance between the fundamental rights and the concerns of State security and appointed a committee to ensure that any restrictions, if required, are narrowly tailored and not permanent in nature. ⚫ As part of a five-judge bench in Supreme Court of India v Subash Chandra Agarwal, Justice Ramana held: “The right to information and right to privacy are at an equal footing. There is no requirement to take an a priori view that one right trumps other.” The judgment boosted the case of RTI activists. Empowerment ⚫ In Kirti v Oriental Insurance this year, Justice Ramana’s opinion was key to recognising homemakers’ contribution to the family and giving them an equal status with the earning members. Women’s organisations hailed the judgment. ⚫ In M/s Fortune Infrastructure (now M/s Hicon Infrastructure) & Anr v Trevor D’Lima & Ors, Justice Ramana held that a consumer must be given delivery of their flat within a reasonable time even in the absence of a specified contractual clause. He held a consumer was entitled to a refund and compensation if the developer failed to deliver. ⚫ In Accused X v State of Maharashtra, Justice Ramana saved an accused with acute mental illness from the gallows by ruling that the courts must consider the mental condition of the accused after conviction. “The right to dignity of an accused does not dry out with the judges’ ink, rather, it subsists well beyond the prison gates and operates until his last breath,” he wrote. Politicians ⚫ In Shiv Sena v Union of India (2019), Justice Ramana highlighted the importance of the floor test to curtail the so-called practice of horse trading, and directed an immediate trust vote in Maharashtra. ⚫ In Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil v Karnataka Legislative Assembly  (2019), Justice Ramana observed that for political functionaries, “merely taking the oath to protect and uphold the Constitution may not be sufficient, rather imbibing the constitutional values in everyday functioning is required and expected by the glorious document that is our Constitution”. This was seen as a decisive statement on the Tenth Schedule, which was riddled with confusion and contradictory opinions. All business ⚫ In M/s Alcon Electronics v Celem SA, Justice Ramana paved the way for foreign decrees being executed in India. The business community hailed the judgment as crucial for international trade and commerce. ⚫ In Vidya Drolia v Durga Trading Corporation, his opinion has been cited as decreasing the burden on the courts by making arbitration more efficient in India. ⚫ In Sebi v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, relating to insider trading, Justice Ramana examined practices such as hedging to rule that stockbrokers’ use of price-sensitive confidential information to pre-emptively buy or sell shares was illegal. Sebi amended the law in line with his suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen shortage is result of Modi govt’s failure, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said the oxygen shortage that is killing Covid patients is the result of the Narendra Modi government’s failure to prepare despite early warnings. “India has 1.65 crore Covid cases and over 2,500 people are dying daily. Unfortunately, this is not only because of the pandemic; the government’s attitude, arrogance and failures are part of the causes for this tragedy,” he said. Maken pointed to the report of the parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare, submitted on November 21 and tabled in the Rajya Sabha in February. “In the 190-page report, the word ‘oxygen’ appears 40 times. The report says on page 27: ‘The committee, therefore, strongly advocates national pharmaceutical pricing authority to take appropriate measures, for capping the price of oxygen cylinders so that availability, as well as, affordability of the oxygen cylinder is ensured in all the hospitals and for medical consumption. The committee also recommends the government for encouraging adequate production of oxygen for ensuring its supply as per demand in the hospitals’,” Maken said. He continued: “On page 35, the report said ‘The committee also recommends the (health) ministry to ensure the adequate supply of oxygen cylinder with appropriate price cap’. The empowered group set up by the government of India said on April 1, 2020, ‘In coming days, India could face the worst shortage of oxygen supply.’” “This was said when India had only 2,000 cases daily. We have storage capacity of 50,000 metric tonnes of oxygen. But no arrangements were made for supply of oxygen. Now Tatas are saying they will import cryogenic tankers.” The Congress had earlier pointed out that only 32 out of the 162 sanctioned oxygen plants are operational.Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Despite warnings in April 2020 (by the Empowered Group) and in Oct-Nov 2020 (by the Parliamentary Committee), why did the Government not take the steps it is taking since yesterday? Is this not gross and callous negligence? Will no one be held accountable? Should not the Health Minister and the Health Secretary be asked to resign? People crying for admission of patients in hospitals, people pleading with doctors to examine the patient, people carrying an oxygen cylinder on their back while bringing the patient, hospitals rushing to High Courts seeking oxygen supply.” Maken on Saturday said: “Of the eight sanctioned for Delhi by the Centre, only one is functioning.” He also hit out at the state government. “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spent Rs 355 crore on advertisements last year. This year’s budget for advertisement is Rs 467 crore. We are seeing his publicity every minute on TV channels. With Rs 882 crore (meant for advertisement), Delhi could have built 800 oxygen plants. They could have supplied not only to their hospitals but to the neighbouring states as well.” “In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, the state government sanctioned 37 plants and 24 have been made operational during the last few months. Thirteen are in advanced stage. Today, Delhi is facing such an acute crisis because the Centre and the state do nothing except sparring with each other.” The Congress also objected to the government’s lack of focus and wasteful expenditure with Rahul Gandhi tweeting: “Appeal politely to the Government to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other medical facilities instead of wasting money on PR and unnecessary projects. This crisis will deepen in the coming days. The nation must be prepared to face it. The current situation is unbearable.” In another tweet, Rahul wrote: “India needs vaccines, Mr Lying Machine.” He posted a chart that showed how India lagged behind in the vaccination drive with barely 1.4 per cent of the population getting two doses at a time the US had vaccinated 26.5 per cent, the UK 15.9 per cent, Italy 7.9 per cent, France 7.1 per cent, Germany 6.8 per cent, Brazil 4.3 per cent, Mexico 3.5 per cent and Indonensia 2.3 per cent. On vaccine pricing, Chidambaram said: “The Central Government’s decision to allow multiple prices for vaccines is discriminatory and regressive. States must unanimously reject the decision. The best way forward is for the state governments to jointly form a Price Negotiation Committee and offer to negotiate a uniform price with the two vaccine manufacturers. The joint purchasing power of the state governments will force the manufacturers to agree to a uniform price. States must take the initiative. The Central Government has abdicated its responsibility and surrendered to corporate profiteering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: Defence facilities to provide health services to civilians||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said all health facilities of defence public sector undertakings and the Ordnance Factory Board have been allowed to provide health services to civilians infected with the coronavirus. Singh held a review meeting with the three services chiefs and took stock of the efforts of the defence ministry in contributing to the country’s fight against the second wave of Covid-19. “All health facilities of Defence PSUs & Ordnance Factory Board have been allowed to provide health services to local COVID-19 affected civilian population. The MoD officials and the three Services are closely monitoring the progress of various initiatives taken by the Ministry,” Singh said in a tweet after the meeting. India has recorded the highest one-day tally of new Covid-19 cases anywhere in the world. At least 45 Covid patients have died in New Delhi over the past two days after their hospitals fell short of medical oxygen. Singh said the Defence Research and Development Organisation was adding 250 beds by Saturday evening at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid hospital near Delhi airport, taking the total number of beds to 500. He said work was in full swing to establish a Covid facility in Lucknow that would become operational in the next 5-6 days. The defence minister said work was in full swing to establish a Covid facility in Lucknow that would become operational in the next 5-6 days. This hospital would be run by Armed Forces Medical Services in coordination with the Uttar Pradesh government. Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, one C-17 transport aircraft of the IAF reached Changi airport in Singapore to bring high-capacity oxygen containers to boost the oxygen supply in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Shortage of oxygen kills 45 Covid-19 patients in Delhi ||At least 45 Covid-19 patients have died in Delhi over two days after their hospitals fell short of oxygen, doctors said on Saturday amid a crisis they say has been precipitated by the epidemic’s explosive growth and poor government planning and preparedness. Twenty patients with severe Covid-19 had died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi, hospital authorities said on Saturday, a day after the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in central Delhi reported 25 deaths following a fall in oxygen pressure in its critical care lines. On Saturday night, Ganga Ram was again in crisis mode, with an official saying: “The lives of more than 100 patients are at risk. We have oxygen that will last only 45 minutes to an hour.” Hospitals across Delhi are struggling with what one medical superintendent described as a “nightmarish scenario” in which their oxygen stocks get replenished only two or three hours before they are completely consumed. One south Delhi hospital received fresh supplies on Friday only 30 minutes before exhausting the existing stocks. “Patients are suffering; people have the right to oxygen. If the government cannot arrange for oxygen, it should admit this,” said Devinder Singh Rana, chairperson of Ganga Ram. The hospital on Saturday morning had 516 Covid-19 patients, including 128 on high-flow oxygen, but only 30 minutes of oxygen left. Max Healthcare, which runs a chain of hospitals, too issued an “SOS” on Saturday morning. “Less than 2 hours oxygen supplies at Max Hospital Gurugram and attached dedicated Covid centre…. Supplies expected at 10am diverted,” Max Healthcare tweeted, seeking “urgent help”. A senior official at Ganga Ram told The Telegraph that the hospital needed 3,000 cubic metres of oxygen to run its invasive ventilators but had been receiving only 500 to 1,500 cubic metres. The low supplies and high demand have led to a pressure drop in oxygen lines that feed the critical care facility and the ventilators. By 11pm on Saturday, Ganga Ram had issued its fourth SOS for oxygen to government authorities, hoping someone would help. “Alarms have begun to ring on ventilators and BiPap machines,” the official said. A BiPap is a ventilator-like machine that delivers oxygen. Given the low oxygen pressure, hospital staff — doctors, nurses and paramedics — at Ganga Ram have been using devices called ambubags, which have self-inflatable balloon-like structures, to manually ventilate critically ill Covid-19 patients, the administrator said. The 25 deaths on Friday had followed such manual ventilation. Twenty-nine patients who were on invasive ventilation were again receiving manual ventilation on Saturday, Rana said. “This is a grave situation. Ambubags are being used again; the doctors, nurses are exhausted. Our morale is low. This cannot go on for long.” Doctors attribute the oxygen crisis to both the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and what some public health experts see as the lack of preparedness and planning for transporting oxygen across the country in the event of a second wave of infections. The epidemic, measured by daily new cases, has grown five-fold nationwide over the past month – from around 62,000 new cases on March 26 to over 346,000 on April 23. In Delhi, however, the epidemic has grown 16-fold — from 1,500 new cases in late March to over 24,000 cases on April 23. “We’ve had a near 10-fold increase in our daily oxygen consumption,” said Sumit Ray, head of the critical care department at the Holy Family Hospital in south Delhi, where around 350 Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support or ventilators. “We also have many patients in the emergency department on oxygen.” Ray added: “We’re on the edge every day. Earlier, we used to get oxygen about once a week; now we need it every 20 to 24 hours.” The simultaneous demand from multiple hospitals has meant intense strain on the logistics of oxygen transport, which rely on a limited number of oxygen tankers. The Centre on Saturday tweeted a video of high-capacity oxygen tankers being loaded onto an Indian Air Force transport aircraft at Changi Airport in Singapore to be ferried to India. A public health expert said such actions should have been taken weeks if not months ago. The Union health ministry said the minister, Harsh Vardhan, on Saturday visited the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Chhattarpur, Delhi, to oversee the “restarting” of the facility where 2,000 oxygen-supported beds are to be added in the coming days. But doctors say that’s no relief to critically ill patients currently struggling to survive. “Next impending oxygen crisis at Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over 200 lives at stake if liquid medical oxygen is not supplied by 9pm tonight,” Jaipur Golden’s administrators tweeted at 7.15pm on Saturday. Earlier in the day, its medical director D.K. Baluja had tweeted: “We are desperate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Actual death toll higher than officially reported||Evidence is mounting that the actual death toll from the second wave of the coronavirus in India is far higher than officially reported. Each day, the government reports more than 300,000 new infections, a world record, and India is now seeing more new infections than any other country by far, almost half of all new cases in a global surge. But experts say those numbers, however staggering, represent just a fraction of the real reach of the virus’s spread, which has thrown the country into emergency mode. The sudden surge in recent weeks, with an insidious newer variant possibly playing a role, is casting increasing doubt on India’s official Covid-19 death toll of nearly 200,000, with more than 2,000 people dying every day. Interviews from cremation grounds across the country, where the fires never stop, portray an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may be undercounting or overlooking large numbers of dead, analysts say. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, adding to the confusion. “It’s a complete massacre of data,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan who has been following India closely. “From all the modelling we’ve done, we believe the true number of deaths is two to five times what is being reported.” At one of the large cremation grounds in Ahmedabad, bright orange fires light up the night sky, burning 24 hours a day, like an industrial plant that never shuts down. Suresh Bhai, a worker there, said he had never seen such a never-ending assembly line of death. But he has not been writing down the cause of death as Covid-19 on the thin paper slips that he hands over to the mournful families, even though the number of dead is surging along with the virus. “Beemari, beemari, beemari,” Suresh said. “That’s what we write.” Asked why, he said it was what he had been instructed to do by his bosses, who did not respond to requests for comment. On Saturday, officials reported nearly 350,000 new infections, and the deaths continued to rise. In Bhopal, residents say the cremation grounds haven’t been as busy since the gas disaster in 1984. Over 13 days in mid-April, Bhopal officials reported 41 deaths related to Covid-19. But a survey by The New York Times of the city’s main Covid-19 cremation and burial grounds, where bodies were being handled under strict protocols, revealed a total of more than 1,000 deaths during the same period. “Many deaths are not getting recorded and they are increasing every day,” said G.C. Gautam, a cardiologist based in Bhopal. He said that officials were doing this because “they don’t want to create panic”. The same phenomenon appeared to be happening in Lucknow and Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh and across Gujarat where, during a similar period in mid-April, the authorities reported between 73 and 121 Covid-related deaths each day. But a detailed count compiled by one of Gujarat’s leading newspapers, Sandesh, which sent reporters to cremation and burial grounds across the state, indicated that the number was several times higher, around 610 each day. India’s population is, on average, much younger than in most western nations. Experts say that is the most likely reason that deaths per million in India had seemed relatively low. But the number is quickly climbing. According to excess mortality studies, Covid-19 deaths have been underestimated in many countries, including the US and Britain. But India is a much bigger and poorer country. And its people are spread across 29 states and several federal territories in a highly decentralised system of governance, with different states counting deaths in different ways. Even in a good year, experts say, only about one-fifth of deaths are medically investigated, meaning that the vast number of Indians die without a cause of death being certified. According to the World Health Organisation, a death should be recorded as Covid-related if the disease is assumed to have caused or contributed to it, even if the person had a pre-existing medical condition, such as cancer. In many places in India, that doesn’t seem to be happening. Rupal Thakkar tested positive for Covid-19 in mid-April. On April 16, she was admitted to Shalby Limited, a private hospital in her home city of Ahmedabad, but her oxygen levels suddenly dropped. The next day Thakkar, 48, died. The hospital listed her cause of death as “sudden cardiac death”, which left the Thakkar family outraged. “It was a lifetime shock,” said her younger brother, Dipan Thakkar. “Why would a private hospital connive with the government in hiding the real death numbers? It was an organised crime. It was an illegal act.” Officials at Shalby didn’t respond to requests for comment. After her situation was widely publicised in newspapers, the hospital issued a second death certificate, this time including Covid-19 as a contributing cause. Some families don’t want the truth to come out, said Mukherjee of the University of Michigan. Some want to cremate loved ones outside strict Covid-19 government protocols, and so they hide the fact that their family member died from the coronavirus. Others may feel ashamed about losing a loved one, as if it were their fault. A political agenda may also be at play, experts said. States controlled by the BJP may face pressure to underreport, according to some analysts. Mukherjee cited the very public scandal in 2019 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government tried to suppress data showing a rise in the unemployment rate. When it comes to Covid data, she said, “there is tremendous pressure from the central government on the state governments for projecting progress”. Several officials from the governing party failed to respond to messages seeking comment. But manipulating death numbers seems to be happening in other places, too. One example is the state of Chhattisgarh, in central India, which is run by the Congress. Officials in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, home to a large steel plant, reported more than 150 Covid-19 deaths from April 15 to April 21, according to messages sent to local media that were seen by The Times. The state reported less than half that number for Durg. Chhattisgarh’s health minister, T.S. Singh Deo, denied any intentional underreporting. “We have tried to be as transparent as humanly possible,” he said. “We stand to be corrected at any point in time.” Those working at the burning grounds said they were utterly exhausted and could never remember so many people dying in such a short span of time. On April 14, Covid-19 crematories in Gujarat’s Surat and Gandhi Nagar told The Times that they had cremated 124 people, on a day when the authorities said 73 had died of Covid-19 in the entire state. In Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, bodies are now being burned in some of the city’s parks, the crematories are that backed up. In Ahmedabad, at the Vadaj crematory, huge smokestacks pump out black smoke. Suresh, the clerk, sits in a tiny office, the door closed firmly shut. When reached by telephone, he said he put “beemari” on all the death certificates. He referred questions to a sanitation official who then referred questions to another official who declined to answer calls. Suresh said his crematory handled 15 to 20 bodies of Covid-19 patients every day. As he spoke on Friday, three bodies burned on separate pyres, next to a large and growing stack of freshly chopped wood. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Covaxin at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, call for Centre funds||Covaxin, India’s home-grown Covid-19 vaccine from Bharat Biotech, will cost Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, twice the corresponding price tag on Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India. The price has been announced in the middle of an uproar over the Centre’s hands-off policy that has passed the vaccine buck to the states and citizens. On Saturday, Arvind Subramanian, the chief economic adviser to the Union government during Narendra Modi’s first innings, made it clear that “the Centre, NOT the states, should bear full fiscal ‘costs’ of vaccines”. “Why? Virus does not respect state borders. Centre has better access to resources than states. Fiscal ‘costs’ are trivial compared to lives saved and economic activity preserved…,” Subramanian tweeted. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech announced on Saturday that Covaxin would cost Rs 600 per dose for state governments and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals, but will continue to cost Rs 150 per dose for the central government. Two doses are required for protection. Bharat Biotech said the four-fold difference between the price tags for the Centre and the state governments owes to the Centre’s buying of large volumes and advance purchase orders, including a commitment to pay Rs 1,500 crore. The states are expected to procure smaller orders and are known to delay payments, a company representative said. The Pune-based Serum Institute had earlier this week announced that Covishield would cost Rs 150 per dose for the Centre, Rs 400 for the states and Rs 600 for private hospitals. These prices would apply under the Centre’s revised vaccination policy starting May 1 under which state governments and private hospitals may offer Covid-19 vaccines to people aged 18 or above while the Centre would continue to support vaccinations for all those above 45 years. Large differences between the costs per dose offered to governments and the price tags for private hospitals and the open market are common practice across the vaccine sector. Bharat Biotech said Covaxin is an inactivated (killed) virus that involves an expensive manufacturing process because of relatively low yields. “All costs towards product development, manufacturing facilities, and clinical trials were deployed primarily using internal funding and resources of Bharat Biotech,” Krishna Ella, the company’s chairman, said. The Serum Institute had used a mix of about $270 million of its internal resources, a grant of $300 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and advance at-risk production orders from some foreign governments to raise over $800 million for Covishield production facilities. Under the Centre’s new Covid-19 vaccination policy from May 1, the Centre will procure only 50 per cent of the doses. The manufacturers can sell the other half to either state governments or private hospitals. It is unclear how many doses of either vaccine would be available in private hospitals. Company representatives have said the Serum Institute has a current production capacity of 70 million Covishield doses a month while Bharat Biotech produces about 20 million doses a month. Both have announced plans to ramp up production in the coming months. India has invited foreign vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their Covid-19 vaccines into the country’s private market, but health experts tracking global vaccine orders say the companies’ existing orders make it unlikely that India would get those vaccines within the next few weeks. Under the Centre’s current vaccination campaign, nearly 22.5 million people have already received the two doses required to protect them from the infection. But this is a small fraction of the nearly 900 million people aged above 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
25-04-2021||India||Crowd-funding: Beedi worker donates Rs 2 lakh to help Kerala govt provide free vaccines||An elderly, physically challenged man in Kerala who rolls beedis for a living has donated his life’s savings so that others in his state can get vaccinated against Covid for free. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who referred to the extraordinary act of altruism on Saturday, said the man had donated Rs 2 lakh from his savings bank account that had Rs 200,850. He refrained from identifying the donor to honour the beedi worker’s wish to remain anonymous. A crowd-funding effort launched on Wednesday afternoon to help the state government provide free vaccines to under-45 adults has generated several moving stories of charity from people who themselves are in most need of help. Vijayan said: “The man goes to a bank with a request to transfer Rs 2 lakh to the chief minister’s disaster relief fund (CMDRF).... The bank officials naturally had some doubts since it amounted to almost all his savings.” “So the bank officials asked him what he would do if he needed money in future. He replied that he had the job of a beedi roller and received the state pension for the physically challenged. He told the bank officials his savings were not more important than the lives of his brethren.” By 10pm, the CMDRF had received Rs 1.77 crore on Saturday alone as part of the crowd-funding effort, #vaccinechallenge, taking the total collection in three days well above Rs 3 crore. Vijayan did not reveal the place from where the donor had sent the money, but a clue came from a Facebook post by a bank official who had interacted with the man. Soundar Raj CP, who works at a cooperative bank in Kannur district, said an aged man had walked into the bank on Friday, handed over his passbook to check the balance in his account, and then mentioned the sum he wanted to donate. “I realised the frail-looking man had no other resources. So I suggested he could send Rs 1 lakh and keep the remaining amount in the bank account,” Raj wrote in the post that has been widely circulated since Saturday afternoon. The unnamed donor then responded that he “had no problems now since he was receiving the pension for the physically challenged and earned Rs 1,000 each week by rolling beedis”. Raj quoted the man as saying: “I shall be able to sleep only after I send this money today. Please don’t reveal my name to anyone.” Vijayan had on Friday lauded a poor woman named Subaida who runs a tea shop in Kollam and donated to the CMDRF a sum of Rs 5,000 that she had earned by selling one of her goats. She had walked into the Kollam district collector’s office to hand over the money. In April last year, too, Subaida had donated Rs 5,510 to the CMDRF to help the state combat the first wave of the Covid outbreak. A group of unknown people had started the crowd-funding effort via Twitter in protest against the Centre’s policy of not funding vaccination for the 18-45 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka BJP yet to decide on bearing vaccination cost of people aged above 18 years||Karnataka’s BJP government has yet to decide whether to offer free vaccination to those aged 18 to 45 since the state is grappling with a fiscal stress caused by last year’s lockdown. The Centre has refused to fund the vaccination of the 18-45 group — which becomes eligible for the jab from May 1 — putting the ball in the states’ court. Several states including BJP-ruled Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have announced free vaccination at government facilities for the 18-45 group, but B.S. Yediyurappa’s administration is still calculating the costs. About 3.5 crore people in Karnataka are aged between 18 and 45 and will require 7 crore doses of the vaccine. While the state government has decided to buy 1 crore doses for now at an estimated Rs 400 crore, a cabinet meeting on Monday will decide whether this age group would be vaccinated free, state health minister K. Sudhakar said. While the Centre provided vaccines free to the states for inoculating healthcare and frontline workers and those aged over 45, the states will have to buy Covishield at Rs 400 per dose for the 18-45 group. Private facilities will be vaccinating a segment of the population that is willing to pay their charges. A health department source said that at Rs 400 a dose, the state will need to spend Rs 2,800 crore if it has to provide free vaccination to all its 6.5 crore adults. (The figure includes 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers and over-45s who were already eligible for free vaccination at government facilities.) Till now, 83.8 lakh people in Karnataka have received their first or second shots. Procuring sufficient doses of vaccines has become urgent amid a shortage of doses and a steep rise in infections. From below 1,000 fresh cases a day sometime ago, Karnataka’s single-day number jumped to 26,962 on Friday, its total active cases climbing to 214,311. While Karnataka borrowed Rs 70,671 crore in 2020-21, it is expected to borrow Rs 71,642 crore this financial year. “The figure could rise if the state borrows to fund free vaccination,” an official said. Former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal Secular on Saturday tweeted an “appeal (for) free vaccines for all the 6.5 crore people of Karnataka”, citing the examples of neighbouring Kerala and Goa. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress slammed Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Covid situation in the country and Karnataka that he said had “gone out of hand”. His advice for Modi: “Virus will not vanish if you repeatedly appear on television without any purpose. And also you are not a headmaster to teach lessons to CMs. First show your responsibility by fulfilling the requests placed by the state govts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
25-04-2021||India||Covid: Puri Shree Jagannath Temple to be closed for devotees till May 15||Puri Shree Jagannath Temple will remain closed for devotees till May 15 in the wake of surge of Covid-19 cases in Odisha as well as in Puri city. The decision was taken after a meeting of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) with the servitors of the shrine on Saturday. Though devotees will not be allowed to enter, the age-old traditions of Niti-Kanti (rituals) of Shree Jagannath will continue with the help of servitors and temple officials. Sources said the decision to stop the entry of devotees was taken to keep the servitors free from corona infection so that they can complete all the rituals related to Rath Yatra beginning from Akshya Tritiya, on May 15. “There has been apprehension that the Rath Yatra will be held this year like the previous year sans devotees,” said an official of the temple management committee. Administrator (Rituals), SJTA, Jitenrdra Sahu told reporters, “Regular screening and testing for servitor families will be taken up to ensure that cases of Covid-19 cases amongst them are detected at an early date and they are provided effective treatment. We will focus on vaccination of those servitors who are involved in daily seva-puja of the Lord Jagannath and those involved in the construction of the chariots. All preparations for construction of the chariots will continue as per traditions.” In order to provide quick treatment to the servitors, the temple administration has decided to convert its lodge- Niladri Bhakta Nivas as Covid care centre. “In case a servitor’s condition worsens due to Covid-19 despite the treatment given at the Bhakta Nivas by doctors and nurses, the concerned servitors will be shifted to Bhubaneswar for treatment. The Administrator (Development) of SJTA will act as the nodal officer and ensure all help to the servitor’s family,” Sahu said. The SJTA will take a call on whether it would extend the lock down of the shrine for the devotees further at its next meeting on May 6 keeping in mind the condition of the corona pandemic at that time, officials maintained. Meanwhile, Puri police on Saturday raided different hotels and lodging houses in the city to ensure that people already staying in them have their RT-PCR tests done. The crackdown followed reports of triple mutant variant of Covid-19 virus being found among the people of Bengal who visit Puri in large numbers. The Odisha government had already announced that people coming from Bengal need to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine. Meanwhile, the death toll in Odisha reached 1981 with reported death of another eight persons during last 24 hours. “Regret to inform the demise of eight number of Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” tweeted Odisha health and family welfare department. The number of corona cases in the state reached 4,01,341 with detection of new 6,647 cases. In order to break the chain, the weekend shut down began in all the urban areas of state, including Puri from Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: People interested in 'Covid ki baat', and not 'Mann ki baat', says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that people are no longer interested in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Maan ki baat programme, they, instead, want to hear COVID ki baat (COVID- related talks) as the pandemic has left lakhs gasping for breath, amid shortage of vaccines and oxygen cylinders. Modi, during his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki baat earlier in the day, said that the COVID-19 "storm" has shaken the country, and urged people to get vaccinated. On her part, she said the COVID-19 patients in the state "should vote" and that she has asked the Chief Secretary to make arrangements reports NDTV. "Don't worry about Covid. I am your pehradar (watchman)," she said. Banerjee, during a meeting with party workers at an auditorium in Murshidabad district, claimed that Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah were busy "planning ways to capture Bengal, when they should have been taking appropriate measures" to combat the second wave of the pandemic. "Who is interested in your Mann Ki Baat, people now want to hear COVID ki baat. If there is one infected person in a crowd of 1,000, he can contaminate the rest. Two lakh CAPF personnel came from states like UP, Delhi and Rajasthan and many of them might have been carriers of the virus without their knowledge as no RT PCR tests was conducted by the EC. "I am doing more Covid meetings than campaign meets," Banerjee said at the virtual rally today, after cancelling all her political rallies last week in view of the COVID-19 crisis. On Thursday, PM Modi had also cancelled his four scheduled rallies, hours before the Election Commission announced multiple restrictions, and held a single virtual meeting. "Around one lakh BJP cadres from other states, including ministers from saffron party-ruled states, came to Bengal for campaigning and to rig votes. They put up in hotels and guest houses, and must have contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal," she claimed. Cautioning voters against possible visit of central forces accompanied by BJP men at their residences for "intimidation", Banerjee said, "Please ask them to maintain distance as you dont know if anyone of them is carrying the virus. Mothers and sisters, tell them we are not allowing outsiders inside the house." Iterating her charge that some EC special observers have planned to take TMC leaders into "preventive custody" ahead of the elections, Banerjee said, "That would be illegal detention. None should go to police stations on getting such calls and sit tight till the voting exercise gets over. No one can take your right to exercise franchise." The CM claimed on Saturday that she has come to know from WhatsApp chats between EC observers and top officials, including police superintendents and district magistrates, that intructions have been given for detainment of TMC workers ahead of the voting exercise. Continuing her tirade against the poll panel, she said, "Police superintendents and district magistrates have been changed arbitrarily at the last minute to help the BJP. "We will move the Supreme Court to ensure polls in future are conducted in a more democratic manner. I have already spoken to several senior lawyers." Banerjee, during her addresss, asked those present at the venue to leave the doors of the auditorium ajar for better air circulation, and said that she was "forced" to organise such meetings in enclosed spaces as EC diktats left her with no other option. "We had asked the poll panel to club the last few phases, but it did not pay heed. I know the BJP has made specific plans to rig the election in every phase. In the sixth phase, BJP-sheltered goons from other areas accompanied central forces to residences of our workers in Naihati, Bhatpara, Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. In the next phase, they are trying to terrorise our people in Paschim Bardhaman." Wondering "why the police fall silent when EC takes charge during polls," she asked all officers to perform their job without any biasness. Claiming that "cash flow from BJP camps to buy votes was comparable to water flowing from fire brigade hose pipe", the TMC boss iterated that the saffron party-led central government should have instead borne the cost of the COVID-19 vaccines being provided to people. The CM further said that her government has set up 100 COVID-19 treatment units in state-aided and private hospitals across Bengal over the past one week. "If you (BJP leaders) have such great love for Bengal, why are you not sending us more vaccines? Why is that truckloads of vaccines are being transported to Gujarat? I have nothing against Gujarat, but what about other states? You are discriminating against Bengal and giving lectures at election meetings," she said. She said Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has received three lakh vials so far, which could cater to just about 1.5 lakh people, as each of them need two doses. "We have, however, managed to vaccinate one crore people and have sought another one crore (from the Centre). We will provide vaccines for free from May 5 to anyone who is 18 years of age or above," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Who is interested in ‘Mann ki baat’ says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that people are no longer interested in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Maan ki baat programme, they, instead, want to hear ‘Covid ki baat’ (Covid-related talks) as the pandemic has left lakhs gasping for breath, amid shortage of vaccines and oxygen cylinders. Modi, during his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki baat earlier in the day, said that the COVID-19 “storm” has shaken the country, and urged people to get vaccinated. Banerjee, during a meeting with party workers at an auditorium in Murshidabad district, claimed that Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah were busy “planning ways to capture Bengal, when they should have been taking appropriate measures” to combat the second wave of the pandemic. “Who is interested in your Mann Ki Baat, people now want to hear Covid ki baat. If there is one infected person in a crowd of 1,000, he can contaminate the rest. Two lakh CAPF personnel came from states like UP, Delhi and Rajasthan and many of them might have been carriers of the virus without their knowledge as no RT PCR tests was conducted by the EC. “Around one lakh BJP cadres from other states, including ministers from saffron party-ruled states, came to Bengal for campaigning and to rig votes. They put up in hotels and guest houses, and must have contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal,” she claimed. Cautioning voters against possible visit of central forces accompanied by BJP men at their residences for “intimidation”, Banerjee said, “Please ask them to maintain distance as you don't know if anyone of them is carrying the virus. Mothers and sisters, tell them we are not allowing outsiders inside the house.” Iterating her charge that some EC special observers have planned to take TMC leaders into “preventive custody” ahead of the elections, Banerjee said, “That would be illegal detention. None should go to police stations on getting such calls and sit tight till the voting exercise gets over. No one can take your right to exercise franchise.” The CM claimed on Saturday that she has come to know from WhatsApp chats between EC observers and top officials, including police superintendents and district magistrates, that intructions have been given for detainment of TMC workers ahead of the voting exercise. Continuing her tirade against the poll panel, she said, "Police superintendents and district magistrates have been changed arbitrarily at the last minute to help the BJP. “We will move the Supreme Court to ensure polls in future are conducted in a more democratic manner. I have already spoken to several senior lawyers.” Banerjee, during her addresss, asked those present at the venue to leave the doors of the auditorium ajar for better air circulation, and said that she was “forced” to organise such meetings in enclosed spaces as EC diktats left her with no other option. “We had asked the poll panel to club the last few phases, but it did not pay heed. I know the BJP has made specific plans to rig the election in every phase. In the sixth phase, BJP-sheltered goons from other areas accompanied central forces to residences of our workers in Naihati, Bhatpara, Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. In the next phase, they are trying to terrorise our people in Paschim Bardhaman.” Wondering “why the police fall silent when EC takes charge during polls,” she asked all officers to perform their job without any biasness. Claiming that “cash flow from BJP camps to buy votes was comparable to water flowing from fire brigade hose pipe”, the TMC boss iterated that the saffron party-led central government should have instead borne the cost of the COVID-19 vaccines being provided to people. The CM further said that her government has set up 100 COVID-19 treatment units in state-aided and private hospitals across Bengal over the past one week. “If you (BJP leaders) have such great love for Bengal, why are you not sending us more vaccines? Why is that truckloads of vaccines are being transported to Gujarat? I have nothing against Gujarat, but what about other states? You are discriminating against Bengal and giving lectures at election meetings,” she said. She said Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has received three lakh vials so far, which could cater to just about 1.5 lakh people, as each of them need two doses. “We have, however, managed to vaccinate one crore people and have sought another one crore (from the Centre). We will provide vaccines for free from May 5 to anyone who is 18 years of age or above,” Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Day after attending rally at Calcutta, Babul Supriyo tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister Babul Supriyo Sunday informed that he and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and hence he won't be able to vote in Asansol on April 26. Supriyo has tested positive for the virus for the second time. He, however, said mentally he will be with the BJP candidates of the Asansol area and will monitor the situation from home. "Both me & my wife have tested positive. Me for the 2nd time!! V Sad that I won't be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th polls where 'desperate' @AITCofficial goons hv already unleashed their terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls (sic)," Supriyo tweeted. "However, the #TMchhi terror machinery who I hv handled (well) since 2014 may not rejoice. Wil b doing my duties frm my room & b right by my candidates mentally in every way possible to ensure 9/9 seats there (sic)," he said in a series of tweets. The MP had attended a rally at Entally in Calcutta on Saturday, an event that drew charges that the crowd count exceeded 500 and physical distancing was lax. “We had been very strict to ensure that only 200, not even 500 chairs, were placed.… Social distance was maintained between the chairs…. I know if rules are flouted, the commission will hand me a letter. But if people come out and gather around, what can I do? What was Didi’s police doing? Why weren’t they strict,” he had asked. However, the police now are under the Election Commission. Supriyo, a two-time MP from Asansol, is contesting assembly election from Tollygunge Assembly seat where voting is over. The seventh phase of elections in 36 Assembly segments in Bengal will be held on April 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-positive TMC candidate from Khardah dies in Calcutta ||TMC candidate from Khardah Assembly constituency Kajal Sinha, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a hospital here on Sunday morning, an official of the state health department said. Sinha (59) was found to have contracted the viral disease two days ago, following which he was admitted to Beliaghata ID hospital, the official said. TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed shock and grief over his demise. "Very, very sad. Shocked. Kajal Sinha, our candidate from Khardaha, succumbed to Covid. He dedicated his life to serving people & just fought a tireless campaign. He was a long-serving committed member of @AITCofficial. We will miss him. My condolences to his family & his admirers," Mamata tweeted. Polling was held in Khardah constituency on April 22. Earlier this month, Pradip Kumar Nandi, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP)candidate from Jangipur seat, and Congress nominee from Samserganj constituency Rezaul Haque succumbed to the disease. With a record single-day rise of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Petrol tanker accident on Asian Highway 48||People with containers line up to collect petrol from a tanker that went off the Asian Highway 48 and fell on the side on the outskirts of Dhupguri police station of Jalpaiguri district on Saturday. As petrol started leaking from the tanker, people started rushing to the spot with jerry cans, buckets and even pitchers to collect whatever petrol they could till the police dispersed them. But despite police vigilance, whenever people got the chance, they came back for the “free fuel”, which costs over Rs 90 a litre now in the market. Police chased the crowd with batons a number of times to clear the area and prevent the probability of a blaze. Sources said the oil tanker was heading towards Birpara from Siliguri along AH48. Around noon, as it neared the Sonakhali forest of Dhupguri, the driver lost control of the tanker that fell into a ditch. The driver fled, while cleaner Paresh Roy received minor injuries. The police also called in a fire engine and a recovery van to the spot and readied foam spray as precaution against fire. By afternoon, the recovery van pulled out the tanker from the ditch and towed it away. The driver has not been traced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid bed crisis in East Midnapore||Hospitals in East Midnapore are facing acute crisis of beds for Covid-19 patients and the facilities could not adhere to the state health department’s directive of maintaining stipulated covid beds in the district due to the shortage of health care staff. The state health department had issued a directive last week asking government hospitals to create 500 Covid-19 beds in the district and private hospitals to allocate 25 per cent beds for such patients. Currently, the district has 50 beds at the Baroma Covid hospital and 50 beds at a private hospital in Chandipur, all of which were occupied. The facility at Chandipur reportedly admitted 50 more patients. None of the district’s seven hospitals — including one each super speciality facility in Nandigram, Panskura and Egra, and one each sub-divisional hospitals in Contai, Egra and Haldia, and the Tamluk district hospital — have been able to add a single bed in the past week owing to shortage of health care staff. East Midnapore is recording an average of 400 new cases daily for over the past week. On Saturday, the Sanjukta Morcha backed by the CPM wrote to the district magistrate demanding urgent action on the issue. “The state has failed the people in this crucial time. The ruling party and the district administration should take steps immediately,” said Niranjan Sihi, the CPM’s district secretary. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has contested from Nandigram even though the super speciality hospital there has not added one bed.” The district health department sources said they were aware of the inadequacies but had been unable to source adequate health care staff. Also, there was no proper oxygen supply in the district. A 30-year-old youth recovering at the Chandipur hospital expressed his concern. “My mother’s condition is deteriorating, also in the same ward, as the medical attention has been below average.” A.K. Mudi, the superintendent of Nandigram super speciality hospital, said: “If I have to start a 100-bed ward, I need 15 medical officers, 40 health care staff and 12 Group-D staff as well as adequate oxygen supply. I have informed the health department and awaiting their reply.” The chief medical officer (health), East Midnapore, Bibhas Ray, said: “We are coordinating with the hospitals and beds will be available soon.” On Saturday, a meeting was held between the health department and the district administration over the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal seeks 10% oxygen, Centre plans to import||The Bengal government has written a letter to the Centre, requesting it to allocate 10 per cent of 50,000 tonnes of oxygen that the latter has decided to import, as some 50 per cent of the oxygen produced here is being sent to Uttar Pradesh as a part of Delhi’s rationing system. “Right now, we are getting 223 tonnes of oxygen out of 497 tonnes produced in 10 plants of the state....With the allotted quantum of oxygen, the state’s needs are now being fulfilled. But in the next two weeks, we will need more oxygen as Covid-19 cases could increase. This is why the state has requested for allotment of a part of the oxygen to be imported,” said a senior official. Bengal on Saturday reported the 44th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases, by 6,638, to 81,375. On Saturday, the state logged 7,584 recoveries, but the number of new infections was 14,281, the highest yet. Officials explained there are concerns that with the allotted 223 tonnes of oxygen, the state might not be able to manage the situation in the next two-three days as infections have risen alarmingly. “In response, Bengal was allotted another 85 tonnes of oxygen, but to be supplied from Jamshedpur (Jharkhand). We have requested if we could be allowed to use oxygen produced in our state and the oxygen from Jamshedpur be sent to Uttar Pradesh. But we fear we would require more than 450 tonnes in the next two weeks,” said a source. The officials said arranging oxygen was crucial to treat serious Covid patients during the second wave of pandemic. “This time more cases are being reported and a big percentage of those infected need oxygen support,” said a health department official. The state government has also taken some other steps to increase supply of oxygen. “All the plants that produce medical oxygen have been requested to enhance production. One such plant has accepted the state's request and decided to enhance its production by 20 per cent within the next couple of days,” said a source. The state government also decided to streamline the sale of small oxygen cylinders from the local chemist shops. “Shops will give priority to Covid patients. Shops can sell cylinders if one produces a prescription issued by a registered medical practitioner. But priority must be for Covid patients,” said a source. The state government has taken initiatives to ensure bodies of Covid patients are cremated in a dignified way. In case of any death in a state-run or state-acquired Covid-19 hospital, Calcutta Municipal Corporation will cremate the body following Covid-19 protocols free of cost in Calcutta. In districts, urban development and panchayat departments have been asked to develop a similar facility. In case of deaths at home, if the CMC helpline number 2286-1212/1313 is called up, the civic body will take immediate action, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata's jab at BJP’s free jab promise||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the BJP’s sudden promise to provide universal free vaccination against Covid-19, if voted to power in Bengal, was not only unconstitutional but a “gross violation” of the model code of conduct. Mamata added that she had been promising free vaccination for all as the chief minister since February. The Bengal BJP on Friday suddenly launched a campaign on social media, saying as soon as the party comes to power here, there would be free, universal vaccination against Covid-19. Though the BJP’s free-vaccine announcements on social media carried a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he was conspicuously silent on the matter in his campaign speech hours later. “This is not true, what they (the BJP) are saying. Before the Bihar elections (last year) also, they had promised free vaccines if the BJP came to power there. We here had announced it in the month of February. So, it is too late now (for the BJP),” said Mamata at Bolpur. “This campaign by them means that only if the BJP is in power in a state will they give free vaccines to all, and not so in states where non-BJP parties are in power. Do you think it is proper for the country? Is it constitutionally right? It is absolutely wrong… and it is a gross violation of the model code,” she added. “It would have still been okay had their manifesto included it. This being said now is not only wrong but also fake.” She went on to criticise Modi and his government for the mismanagement of India’s war efforts against the pandemic. “Such an Atmanirbhar Bharat (Modi’s vision of a self-reliant India), where there is no oxygen, no medicines, no vaccines for Covid patients. There is nothing in the country, and they are chanting the slogan of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is only Atmanirbhar BJP,” said the Trinamul chief . “They neglected the Covid situation across the entire country only to try and loot the Bengal election. I say again in no uncertain terms that Modi and (Union home minister Amit) Shah must take full responsibility and resign,” she added. Mamata also lambasted the Election Commission for conducting the Bengal elections over eight phases in two months, despite the raging pandemic. “It was a deliberate move to kill people (by the poll panel) and conduct the election in eight phases. You stopped campaigning but did not (club) the (remaining phases of) elections,” said Mamata, accusing the EC repeatedly of having succumbed to BJP’s pressure. Asked if the state government and the Centre were working together to combat Covid-19, Mamata said this time the Centre did “nothing”. “The last time (during the first wave), we worked together. This time, the central government has done nothing…(it is) their monumental failure and negligence,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: WhatsApp chats prove EC bias, says chief minister||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday lambasted the Election Commission over its alleged bias to “help” the BJP, producing printouts of purported WhatsApp chats between poll observers and government officials to buttress her charges. “It is a plan of the Election Commission, to prevent Trinamul from contesting the polls by detaining our party workers, and in turn helping the BJP...They are directing officers-in-charge or other police officers to detain our workers. We will file FIR against such illegal detentions. It is a plan by the BJP and is being implemented by the Election Commission,” Mamata told journalists in Bolpur. Mamata added that the poll panel should “follow raj dharma and work impartially”. “But if they work like the mouthpiece of the BJP, I have to protest,” she said. After producing a sheaf of printouts with purported chats among poll observers and district magistrates and police officers, she asked a journalist to check the contents. “See the chats of election observers... How they are instructing to detain Trinamul workers by marking them trouble-mongers. In their conversations, they are using words like Trinamul goons. How can the Election Commission say goons of Trinamul? I would have had no objection if they said workers,” she said. “Whose conversations are these? They are conversations of Sudeep Jain (deputy election commissioner) and Vivek Dubey (special observer in Bengal) with police observers and DM and SPs,” she added without revealing the source. Mamata said the WhatsApp chats bore evidence of the poll panel’s bias and she would move Supreme Court to appeal for an impartial conduct of elections by the EC in future. “Evidences are here. I tolerated much in 2016. Now I am determined, I will go to the Supreme Court, the highest court of the country, after the election is over. I will pray there (to get directives) for an impartial election to be conducted in the country in future. We will go to the Constitutional Bench. Three persons (of the EC) are working according to the directives  of the BJP,” she said. Mamata also read out a few of the purported WhatsApp exchanges to establish how the EC was detaining Trinamul workers illegally. “All observers of phase 7 and 8 to collect the list of trouble-mongers identified against whom action u/s (under section) 151CrPC is planned from SP/CP concerned. You will be requested to explain to the Commission that you have verified the adequacy and impartial compilation of that list for detention of P-1 (night before the poll) night...” she read out. “That means it is a plan? What do you mean by plan, Mr Commissioner?” Mamata asked, adding she knew that in the sixth phase of polls in Budbud, Mangalkote and Dum Dum North, her leaders were detained illegally till voting was over. “My eyes were opened in Nandigram,” she added. “One of my leaders, Abdus Samad, was asked to make his driver sit at the Nandigram police station on poll day. He was a leader of the land movement and he could not move...” Mamata told her party workers and their family members, including children, to come out to protest and gherao the police station concerned if anyone from the party was illegally detained in the remaining two phases of elections. “...You will gather at the police station and ask why he or she was illegally detained. You have to move court if needed. You will lodge an FIR if any of the leaders are detained illegally,” Mamata said before leaving for Tarapith Kali Temple in Rampurhat. “...We have bowed our heads for too long. We have shown more respect than they deserve. We will obviously show our respect but the commission should keep in mind that we are also a political party...” she said. Mamata asked Birbhum Trinamul district chief Anubrata Mondal to move court if the EC kept him under surveillance this time. Mondal was kept under EC surveillance in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2016 Assembly polls. She also slammed some government officials for allegedly obeying the BJP’s commands and asked them to work impartially. A senior BJP leader in Birbhum said what the EC was doing was right as some people from Trinamul had a history of preventing supporters of Opposition parties from voting. “It is necessary to arrest those who try to spread violence or stop voters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP can’t cross 70 seats, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday, for the first time since the Bengal polls started, predicted the outcome, saying the BJP would win 70 seats and the Sanjukta Morcha around 30, in the 294-seat Assembly. Mamata asserted the BJP would not get past 70 seats despite the alleged help by the Election Commission. Mamata who met Trinamul workers at the Gitanjali auditorium in Bolpur, and addressed people virtually, said: “It is the BJP’s good fortune that they have got a few persons (of the EC) to help them. With their help, the BJP might get seven, eight, or 10 extra seats. You (the EC officials) may help them get those few seats. But remember, despite all your (the EC’s) efforts, the BJP’s total of seats will not cross 70. It is my challenge. You can’t make it (cross) 70.” “Remember, the CPM and the Congress, jointly, can get 20-30, or 20-22 seats…they can get less too. But remember, you (the BJP and the commission) have no power to stop Trinamul Congress (from retaining power) in Bengal.” It means  she feels her party would get 191 or so — not factoring in the three hill seats that she left for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Sources in her party said her confident assertion after six crucial phases (with 223 seats between them) was on the basis of an internal assessment, built on “reliable and realistic” ground reports. Union home minister Amit Shah and sometimes Prime Minister Narendra Modi have been claiming decisive victories for the BJP to which Mamata has issued rebuttals. But this was the first time the Trinamul chief issued a statement, not a reaction. A senior Trinamul vice-president said Mamata “knows we are getting 55-60, at least, in the 71 seats that remain, and that we won 120-135 out of the 223 seats polled”. The BJP state unit shot back, its chief Dilip Ghosh predicting 160 seats for the party from the 223 that went to polls in the first six phases. “With two phases left, we will comfortably get past 200,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mithun's rally halted, charged with Covid norm flout||The election department of Malda dissolved midway a campaign meeting attended by actor Mithun Chakraborty on Saturday after the Trinamul Congress accused the BJP of flouting Covid-19 safety protocols. More than 500 people — the limit prescribed by the Election Commission — reportedly gathered to see the actor at Baishnabnagar. Chakraborty was campaigning for BJP candidate Swadhin Sarkar. Rajarshi Dutta, district magistrate and district election officer of Malda, said appropriate action had been taken after complaints were filed.  Sources said an FIR had been lodged against the organisers. “More than 500 people gathered at the Baishnabnagar rally. This is a breach of both election guidelines and coronavirus protocols. We have demanded action against Mithun Chakraborty and the BJP,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Pratap Banerjee, a state BJP vice-president and election office in-charge, said his party was abiding by the commission’s rule. “However, in some cases, people get excited and try to get a glimpse of someone like Mithun Chakraborty…. We obviously can’t tell them to go away. But we do ask them to maintain the protocols.” A rally attended by Union minister and Tollygunge candidate Babul Supriyo at Calcutta’s Entally on Saturday, too, drew charges that the crowd count exceeded 500 and physical distancing was lax. Supriyo said: “We had been very strict to ensure that only 200, not even 500 chairs, were placed.… Social distance was maintained between the chairs…. I know if rules are flouted, the commission will hand me a letter. But if people come out and gather around, what can I do? What was Didi’s police doing? Why weren’t they strict?” The police now are under the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul's Abdul Ghani will be taking on Congress’s Isha Khan in Malda||Malda’s Sujapur has another “Ghani” in the electoral fray after close to four-and-a-half decades. Abdul Ghani, a former Calcutta High Court judge, is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate for Sujapur, which votes in the last phase on April 29. Abdul Ghani will be taking on the Congress’s Isha Khan Choudhury, the nephew of the late A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, the political stalwart whose legacy is still palpable in Malda. Sujapur, barely 12km from district headquarters Englishbazar, had been the fief of Ghani Khan, who represented the seat for five terms from 1967 to 1977, including the two untimely elections in 1969 and 1971. Since 1967, Sujapur has always elected a Congress candidate, including members of Ghani Khan’s family. Abdul Ghani, the Trinamul candidate, had also been the chairman of the state wakf board. He studied in London and is the descendent of an erstwhile affluent zamindar family in Englishbazar. “The Congress has won from Sujapur for decades but has failed to bring real change here. I am a son of the soil and I feel that families who have worked as migrant labourers for generations want jobs here. In the past 10 years, there have been massive changes in the state and if development is the parameter, Mamata Banerjee is an icon. People of Sujapur will stand with us this time,” Abdul Ghani said. His namesake, the original Ghani, had a long and illustrious political career. Ghani Khan held key portfolios, including power and irrigation, in Siddhartha Shankar Roy’s cabinet between 1972 and 1977. In 1980, Ghani Khan, considered among the few trusted lieutenants of Indira Gandhi, was elected an MP from Malda. Sujapur’s continued love for the Congress has flummoxed other parties and political pundits alike. Development has by and large eluded Sujapur, 90 per cent of whose voters are from the minority community. The area is dotted with cheek-by-jowl houses and narrow lanes. Piles of plastic scrap articles are found dumped along National Highway 12. The area’s innumerable plastic crushing units — both legal and illegal — have only increased pollution levels. Isha Khan, the sitting MLA, said: “There is no denying that Sujapur cannot forget my uncle, Ghani Khan Choudhury. My uncle always considered Sujapur residents his close relatives. The bond is eternal and we believe the tradition of electing the Congress will continue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: If Anubrata Mondal is sweating, BJP is closing in ||“Eto porishrom ami agey kono vote-e korini (I have not worked so hard for any election before this),” says a half-smiling Anubrata Mondal, seated on a wooden chair on a blistering Birbhum afternoon. An awning in front of the ground-floor office at the Trinamul strongman’s Bolpur home provides some relief to “Keshto”, as Mondal is affectionately called. The Trinamul district chief is minutes away from leaving for a roadshow on a hoodless jeep in Khoirasole on Tuesday afternoon. Birbhum votes on April 29. Although the battle-hardened politician does not say so, it appears that the scorching sun — the mercury has touched 40 degrees Celsius — is weighing on his mind, as also the figurative spotlight that the BJP’s recent success in this Trinamul stronghold has swivelled on him. “I started my election meetings as early as November last year and have not stopped for a single day,” Mondal says. “In earlier elections, I hardly worked for six to eight hours a day. But this time, I start at 9.30am and work till 2am the next day,” says Mondal, one of the most trusted aides of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her go-to person in Birbhum. Mondal has been entrusted with Trinamul’s functioning in not only Birbhum district, which has 11 constituencies, but also in three other constituencies in neighbouring East Burdwan. “I can’t take too much travel.… I have been travelling 400 to 500km a day for the past few months,” says the 60-year-old. Mondal refuses to directly address questions on the BJP’s rise in Birbhum since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul insiders say that despite Mondal succeeding in “gifting” the two Lok Sabha seats in the district — Bolpur and Birbhum — to Mamata, the numbers showed that the BJP had made considerable inroads, leading in five of the 11 Assembly segments. BJP sources claim the party is confident of winning at least four of these five seats — Suri, Sainthia, Dubrajpur, Rampurhat and Mayureswar. Mondal, however, has made a pledge to his party chief. “Not 10, I will win in all 11 seats in Birbhum and three in East Burdwan. You come and meet me on May 2 evening and I will tell you the formula,” Mondal tells this correspondent. The Trinamul sources, however, say the party is not taking the BJP lightly. “It is not the same war as in the past because the BJP has prepared a base in at least six of Birbhum’s 11 constituencies,” a source said. Till 2019, Birbhum had been Trinamul’s backyard. The district has a 37 per cent minority population, and the community plays a decisive role in four constituencies — Muraroi, Nalhati, Hasan and Suri. Mondal and his aides consider this as an advantage for Trinamul. BJP leaders in the area, however, claim that recent rivalries within Trinamul have pushed a section of the minority vote towards the saffron camp. “They want to teach Trinamul a lesson,” a BJP source said. The Scheduled Caste population is also considerable in Birbhum — 29 per cent as per the 2011 census. The BJP’s stellar performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had been attributed to a great extent to the support it received from this segment. “A large part of the SC vote bank is polarised owing to the appeasement politics of Trinamul. The people of Birbhum are looking beyond caste and creed to support us to protest the corrupt practices of Trinamul,” a BJP leader said. The cast and community equations, insiders in both parties say, are new in Birbhum and the sudden change in the electoral game has introduced several new elements. The most prominent among them is the subtle image change that Mondal himself has effected. Always a gregarious speaker, Mondal has been far more subdued in his recent rallies, avoiding controversial statements. In 2019, he had caused an uproar by referring to “nakuldana”, which many had interpreted as a reference to bullets. In 2013, he had told party activists to bomb police should they try to assist Trinamul’s opponents. Asked about the perception of a mellow Mondal, the leader laughs. “I never promised journalists that I would say something inflammatory every election,” he says. “Anyone can think what they want, but I am doing what I have planned. But you may find me in form on the day of the polls,” says Mondal, adding that he has understood that the politics of polemic is a “waste of time” while taking on the BJP. Birbhum BJP president Dhruba Saha asserted the party would win most of the 11 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: All that glitters is not Sonar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised in his many election meetings to transform Bengal into Sonar Bangla. To understand what this might mean The Telegraph looks for clues in the states where the BJP is already in power, the states that in Modi’s words have a “double-engine sarkar”. Since there can be no better test of governance at this time than the Covid pandemic, this newspaper decided to look at the performance of two BJP-ruled states in handling the surge. The first is Gujarat, which selected itself, not merely because Modi and his home minister Amit Shah hold it up as the model for the country. Gujarat was governed for 13 years by Modi himself as chief minister. He retains a keen interest in the state, and has shown it off to two of his best friends, Donald Trump and Xi Jinping. The BJP has been in power there for more than two decades. The second is Uttar Pradesh, home to the Prime Minister’s Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi. It is also a state whose chief minister is the rising star in the BJP and is seen by many as Modi’s natural successor. “The opinion in the state is that Modiji should remain Prime Minister for as long as he wants and that when he steps down, Yogiji should take over from him,” a BJP supporter from Varanasi told this newspaper. Along with Modi and Shah, Adityanath has been a key campaigner for the BJP in the Bengal election. An important reason for picking the two states was that the Congress has not been in power in either for the past two decades, so there is no way it could have played spoiler in their development. Also, there are no roads blocked by farmers in either Ahmedabad or Lucknow that the BJP can blame for hindering supply of life-saving oxygen to the hospitals. Bengal can decide which model it would prefer should the BJP come to power here: The Gujarat Model Hospitals: The dominant image from Gujarat’s cities this month has been of ambulances queued up: outside hospitals and crematoriums. A long line of ambulances is parked outside Ahmedabad Civil Hospital every day, carrying patients awaiting admission. Those not fortunate enough to get an ambulance arrive in any vehicle they can afford and wait at the hospital gates — in cars, autorickshaws and even tempos. Families try to provide oxygen support as the patients lie gasping for breath for hours inside the vehicles. A related and recurring image is that of patients who are stable being led out, oxygen masks still in place, to make room for those whose condition is worse. The state government told Gujarat High Court this month that in seven districts, there were no hospital beds. Two patients died in Banaskantha district this week when the oxygen stocks ran out at a hospital. In Rajkot, an inquiry has been ordered after family members of two patients who had died said oxygen shortage was the cause. Crematoriums: The queue outside crematoriums is long, with many grieving families forced to wait from morning to evening to perform the last rites of their loved ones. PTI quoted a bereaved family member as saying they had to first wait for an ambulance to transport the body and then wait outside the crematorium for their turn. “On average everyone is waiting eight to nine hours,” the family member said. Although Hindus do not normally perform funeral rites after sunset, night cremations are being reported across Gujarat’s cities. On one mid-April night in Surat, 25 wood pyres burned simultaneously. Metal structures of furnaces at some crematoriums in Surat started melting or breaking because they were being used round-the-clock. In Vadodara, crematorium capacity has been increased with 35 new metal pyres. In Surat, two defunct crematoriums have been made functional. Count mismatch: The state government has been accused of hiding death figures. Media reports claiming the actual death toll in Gujarat is much higher than the official numbers have appeared in conjunction with what one public health expert in the state has described as “gross and strange inconsistencies” in numbers of severely ill Covid-19 patients that suggest either fudging or inefficient data collection. “The state official bulletin on Thursday, April 22, claimed there are 376 people on ventilators — but the number of ventilators occupied in Ahmedabad alone was at least 403, according to the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association,” the doctor told this newspaper, requesting anonymity. On a day the government claimed 55 Covid deaths, figures from crematoriums and burial grounds, collated by media organisations, showed that 480 bodies had been disposed of according to pandemic protocol. A doctor in the state said any city where crematoriums or burial grounds are inundated with bodies is likely to be experiencing much higher extra deaths. “If we apply the crude death rate of about 7 per thousand per year on the estimated eight million population of Ahmedabad, the city has roughly 153 deaths per day,” the doctor said. “How can 24 extra deaths from Covid-19 as reported yesterday cause a rush in crematoriums or burial grounds?” Remdesivir: The drug that is believed to cut hospitalisation time for many Covid patients is at the centre of a controversy in Gujarat, after the state’s BJP chief C.R. Patil announced that he had 5,000 vials that would be distributed free in Surat. Asked how such a large stock of the medicine had landed in the BJP chief’s hands, chief minister Vijay Rupani said: “I don’t know. Ask Patil.” Not only is remdesivir in short supply across the country, there are restrictions in place on its retail sale. A local daily, Divya Bhaskar, published Patil’s mobile number as a front-page headline and wrote: “This number belongs to the ‘government’ of injections”. Court’s views: Gujarat High Court has said the state government had failed to prepare for the second wave. “People now think that they are at God’s mercy,” it added. Lending weight to allegations of data fudging, the court has asked the government to be transparent on infection and death counts. “The state should not feel shy of publishing the correct data,” it said. The UP Model Hospitals: The Adityanath government made a referral from the chief medical officer mandatory for securing a hospital bed. The result: precious time lost. A son recounted to Reuters how they had tried in vain to get a bed, and how the call telling them one was available came a day after his 70-year-old father had died. Television channels showed footage of a man lying down on the road in the path of the CMO’s car to get a referral. The system has been scrapped now after an uproar, but the decision came too late for many families. A journalist with Covid, Vinay Srivastava, 65, begged for help on Twitter to get a hospital bed, even tagging chief minister Adityanath. Srivastava posted that his oxygen level had dipped to 52 and died without treatment on April 17, a day after he had started tweeting. Oxygen: Hospital after hospital in Lucknow has taken the extraordinary step of putting up notices saying they are running out of oxygen and have not received supplies despite requests to the state government and the Centre. The notices further ask families to move their patients elsewhere because in the absence of oxygen, they won’t survive. Images of family members queuing up to refill oxygen cylinders and of hugging a cylinder tight when they can find one are being widely shared. Crematoriums: Bodies lined up on the pavement outside a crematorium gave the lie to the state’s claim of zero deaths in Ghaziabad on April 15. Bodies have also been piling up on the steps of Varanasi’s ghats and into the lanes leading to them. A tin wall was installed to hide from view the large number of pyres burning at Lucknow’s most prominent crematorium. Court’s view: “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave it never planned things in advance,” Allahabad High Court said. ⚫ For those in Bengal not happy with either of these models and looking for a third, there is Madhya Pradesh. The BJP ruled the state for 15 years from 2003, lost power in 2018, but toppled the Congress government and returned to the helm in March 2020 — a day later, the nationwide lockdown was announced. On April 16, 2021, state capital Bhopal officially reported eight Covid deaths. The same day, the number of people cremated in Bhopal with Covid protocol was 108. “We believe there is large-scale under-reporting of deaths — the state on Thursday reported 75 Covid deaths over the previous 24 hours, but I know a single hospital in Bhopal had earlier this week with 15 deaths in a day,” said Shankul Dwivedi, a medical practitioner in Bhopal and spokesperson for the Federation of the All India Medical Association, a network of resident doctors nationwide. The daily Dainik Bhaskar has described the state’s data on deaths as a lie. “These burning pyres are telling the truth,” the Bhopal edition of the paper said, with an aerial view of many funeral pyres burning together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
25-04-2021||North East||Two abducted ONGC employees rescued from near Indo-Myanmar border||Two of the three abducted ONGC employees were rescued in a joint operation involving the Indian Army, Assam Rifles, Nagaland Police and village guards from near the Indo-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland on Friday night. The trio — M.M. Gogoi (Sivasagar district), Ritil Saikia (Golaghat district) and Alokesh Saikia (Jorhat district) — were abducted by suspected Ulfa( I) cadres from the ONGC’s rig site at Lakwa in Sivasagar district on April 21 night by a group of five armed cadres belonging to the proscribed outfit. Assam DGP B.J. Mahanta in a series of tweets broke the “good news” and how security forces rescued two of the victims (Mohini Mohan Gogoi and Alokesh Saikia) from near the international border and that efforts were on to rescue the third victim — Ritil Saikia. The rescued employees have not been handed over to the Assam police or the ONGC till the time of filing this report. Operations are still on, the army said. Mahanta thanked the personnel of 57 Mountain Division, Leimakhong, Nagaland police, including its DGP, and the villagers of Mon district upto Maniakshu near the Indo-Myanmar Border for their role in the rescue operations. “Without your kind cooperation and timely intervention of the security forces on our input and continuous coordination, the rescue operation would not have been possible,” Assam DGP tweeted, reiterating the role of the Ulfa(I) in the abduction executed by self-styled major Ganesh Lahon and his accomplices. Though the details of the operations were not shared, sources in Mon said that the encounter took place some 15 km south of Mon town from where the international border is about 30 km. Sources also said the timely alert by the three-tier unified command, which plans and execute counter-insurgency operations in the state, to the Assam Rifles, army and Nagaland police to intensify vigil along the border helped thwart the plans of the Ulfa.The day also saw the Sivasagar police, led by SP Amitava Sinha, arrest one more suspect in the kidnapping case. So far 15 persons, suspected to be overground workers of the outfit from Sivasagar and adjoining Charaideo district, both bordering Mon district of Nagaland. The police arrested one Biraj Chetia, 23, who had purchased a 2014 model bike from one Noor Ali on April 16 from neighbouring Dibrugarh district for Rs 18,000 on the “instruction” of one Ulfa cadre Biplab Jyoti Mohan through his Facebook page. Chetia then handed over the bike to two youths near Moran. The bike, which was recovered from the place of occurrence on April 22, was used in the kidnapping incident,  Sinha said. The arrest of Chetia and 14 others is a “major” breakthrough in the case as it will “help” unearth the abduction plan and the people involved. The Ulfa(I) in a statement released to a section of the media on Saturday evening said they had handed over the three abducted ONGC employees to villagers of Tokoksinghu in Mon district after they were confronted by the security personnel. The outfit said around 500 personnel of the army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police launched the operation at about 10pm and continued till 2.30am. They also blamed the ONGC for all the developments while threatening the energy major of dire consequences in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
25-04-2021||Opinion||Aao bataayen fund ka funda||Farewell. Fly thee well. Naman. Alvida. Gone. Another one. But you too? Must you have? Let us not take names, oh how many names must we take? Men of Gold cut down by men of Tin. Gold holds, tin is tin, eventually it cuts or gets cut. There are differences. Understand differences. Understand too that in this benighted time it is tin cutting down gold. But how many should we count here? That’ll take much time, there’s other more important work to do. I am not in mourning. Far from it. I am only keeping count of the gone, and those who will soon go. I must keep count. That is also the job. I am a responsible man, I see to it that what needs to be done gets done. You wouldn’t know all about what the job entails, you aren’t meant to. In any case, I am not about to tell. I took that oath you may have seen me take, the oath of secrecy. There is a thing about secrets, and that is that they are best kept in dark places. That may well be the reason why they say “dark secret” when they are referring to a secret that is no ordinary secret. I may be wrong, I am never sure; I may be right, I am sure of that even less. But I am telling you about secrets and where they are best kept. In places as dark as my heart. And as cold too. Secrets need cold-chain maintenance so they may remain preserved; else they begin to give, and a secret that has begun to give is no secret at all. You know I always talk sense. May not be good sense, but it is sense. What is a secret that is not preserved as one? But to get back to my cold and dark heart. It is so because it needs to keep secrets. I have, I may inform you, a very large heart as well. And that largeness too has a purpose. That largeness serves the purposes of the size of things that require to be secured in it. In the cold. In the darkness. My heart is such a place. It beats, and it keeps count. One. Two. Three. Four. And so on and on. It is where an elementary sort of arithmetic plays out, and the count is coldly taken. Do not mind, but when one goes, or another, and the count of the gone mounts, so does the count of what has not gone. Understand? No. That is why I say I have commerce in my veins. You need commerce in your veins to understand the algebra of this arithmetic. Here’s how it is. I opened a fund. I said you give to the fund. Because the fund will eventually give to you. How the fund will give to you and when, leave it to me. Give. Then leave it to me. When one of you is gone, there is more for each one of you. Simple. There are fewer to divide the fund amongst. Understood? So it is not such a bad thing you are being reduced, going under or evaporating. Rejoice! The fewer you are, the more the allocation of the fund to each. You can see the fund, there, that fat sporran. The more you give the more it shall fatten. And the more that goes, the greater your unit share. You see the sporran leaking from the bottom? Hush!! It’s a secret not everyone can be told. That’s the thing about secrets. The fund is giving to another fund, a secret fund. Each time one of you goes under, a bit of the fund goes under. And thus, in the process of loss it actually gains. Do not tell anyone, keep it between me and you, that is the surreal secret of this fund — the more we lose, the more we gain. Actually, the more of you that go, the more it serves the national interest, because more is left for the rest. You can see it for yourself, get the arithmetic  right. A sum divided among fewer is always a larger sum, and it is a larger sum that I am forever after. For your sake, in your interest. So go die, perish, let is be one less so the fund can be one more. It’s dripping. It’s all dripping down. Bit by bit. Ting. Ting. Ting. One after another. Gold. And also Gurneys. Thud. Thud. Thud. What’s going under isn’t only you Look, there’s coins more than a fair few Just give me all your money And forget about the rest, honey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Do we owe Pappu an apology?||I have never found the Pappu Can’t Dance Saala number cute. Take away the easy-on-the-eye Imran Khan and the effervescent Genelia D’Souza and what you have essentially is a bully’s number. Pappu has his Gucciwala perfume, light blue angrez eyes and fast car, but hawww, he is a bachelor and he cannot dance. No, to my mind, the fact that the target is the Privileged Other does not blunt the sting of the song. Why make it seem that Pappu’s MBA, his muscles, his popularity, his obviously privileged life, all amount to nothing just because he cannot dance? But it was 2008 when the film, Jaane Tu… Ya Jaane Na ‑ the placeholder for this song ‑ was released. No one was so quick to take offence those days. Narendra Modi was serving his second term as Gujarat chief minister. And the only Amit Indians recognised was Mr Bachchan. The cult of the endearing Pappu was possibly born a year or two before this with a Cadbury’s ad ‑ Pappu paas ho gaya. It showed a middle-aged Pappu celebrating that he had finally passed his school-leaving exams. The other Amit was seen manning the Cadbury kiosk, giving away bar after bar, all on Pappu’s tab. When I watch the ad now, I cannot help but feel a tad sad for Pappu, square peg squeezed into a round hole. Not only does he have to be in sync with a society that cannot imagine he might have a measure of achievement or ambition other than and beyond barahwi pass, but he also has to seem euphoric at having met someone else’s droll standards. Pappu will pick up the tab for all and yet he is infantilised, portrayed as a simpleton. Why? Sometime end-2008, in order to mobilise young voters to cast their votes in the Delhi elections, the Election Commission launched the Pappu Can’t Vote campaign. The idea behind it was to suggest to the young voter that this was his chance to prove that he (or she) was better than Pappu. How so? By exercising the ballot, of course. At the time, the effort was lauded for its creative thinking, but I wonder now if there was some way of doing this without shaming Pappu. Maybe Pappu didn’t want to dance. Maybe his heart was in choreography or singing. Maybe he wanted to be a stand-up comedian. Maybe Pappu didn’t want to pass any exam we know of. Maybe he just wanted to be, without stepping on any toes. And maybe he took the exam when he felt ready for it, and so what if by then he was middle-aged and balding? The A.R. Rahman composed Pappu Can’t song begins with the line — This is the future, maaaan. Now, I never noticed that one before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Be kind||Sir — While we grapple with the coronavirus, we must not forget the plight of other creatures this summer. As temperatures continue to rise outside with little to no sign of respite in the form of summer storms, birds and animals are increasingly at risk of dying from thirst. With many people working from home, it takes the smallest of efforts to help them out. Leaving out small bowls of water and food for birds, feeding local stray animals or allowing them to rest in the shade of our homes can go a long way towards alleviating their troubles. They can also be an oasis for us amidst this chaos. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Sir — The fact that the introduction of spot registration for Covid-19 vaccines increased crowds outside hospitals in Kerala is proof that many people are unable to handle the technology involved in pre-registering for the vaccine on the CoWIN portal. It is unfortunate that Kerala has stopped spot registration because it could not manage crowds and is also short on vaccines. This will allow the virus to spread further and put more pressure on our already beleaguered healthcare system. The country is gasping for medical oxygen and is likely to run out of stocks soon. If nothing is done to check the spread of the virus, more people will lose their lives. At such a time, it is imperative that the government ramps up the vaccination drive. Unfortunately, the Centre is trying to pass the burden of vaccinating the populace on to the states. To make matters worse, the financial pressure on the state exchequer to procure vaccines will be considerably higher than it was on the Centre. Evidently, nothing will deter the Centre from trying to line the pockets of businessmen, not even a fatal pandemic that is leading to mass pyres being lit in places across the country. Sonika Goswami,Serampore, Hooghly Sir — Vaccination against Covid-19 for those aged above 18 years opens up on May 1. But individuals in this age group will have to pay for the vaccination, even at government-run vaccination centres. Those above 45 got their vaccines for free at government-run vaccination centres and will continue to get them for free. This raises questions about claims made by the government and by individual ministers. In her budget speech, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had said she has set aside Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in this financial year’s budget estimate and was committed to increasing this sum if necessary. If those between the ages of 18 and 45 have to pay to get vaccinated, where will this money go? Moreover, the prime minister is routinely offering free vaccines as a poll sop. Does this mean that he values the lives only of those citizens who vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party? The government has failed the people in every way possible. Rishi Thanvi,Jaipur Sir — Vladimir Dementiev, the director of Russian Cultural Centre, Gorky Sadan, who passed away in Calcutta on April 21, was a great friend of India. He also served as the head of the Russian cultural centre in Mumbai. In both cities, he acted as a dynamic cultural ambassador between India and Russia. He revived the two centres with tireless efforts, organizing regular activities focused on arts, culture, literature, music, cinema and the popularization of the Russian language. I had the pleasure of knowing Dementiev closely. Participating in numerous events at the centre in Mumbai — located in a tranquil, tree-lined lane — made me aware of both Russia’s vastness and the depth of its heritage. Sadly, the Russia that its doyens — Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, Gorky and Mayakovsky in literature; Nicholas Roerich and Vasily Vereshchagin in painting; Eisenstein in cinema; and Shostakovich in music, to name a few — represented is no longer familiar to the contemporary Indian. Yet, Russia matters to India. This is why the devoted work of diplomats like Dementiev assumes importance. As I passed by the Russian Cultural Centre the morning after his demise, I saw a veil of sadness over the building. S. Kulkarni, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Amit Shah's valiant trip to save 'Gujarat Model'||After the Election Commission clamped down on campaigning in West Bengal for the ongoing assembly elections, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, rushed to his home state, Gujarat, yesterday. The Covid-19 situation in Gujarat has been particularly bad. Reports of the medical infrastructure crumbling — and leading to large-scale death — have been pouring in from the state where the Bharatiya Janata Party has been in power for over 20 years. The state government has been accused of hiding the death toll figures, with reports from overwhelmed crematoria telling a different tale from the one put forth by the administration. The pathetic state of affairs has exposed the reality of the so-called “Gujarat model” of development. In Delhi’s power corridors, Shah’s rush back home was seen as an effort to bring into play his famed ‘management skills’ in a bid to salvage Narendra Modi’s “Gujarat model”. In BJP corridors, however, the whisper among party leaders was that Shah is more concerned about protecting the Gujarat chief minister, Vijay Rupani, who has been facing flak. It is widely believed that Rupani is Shah’s man. “Vijay Rupani is Amitbhai’s rubber stamp,” one BJP leader remarked. The president of the Karnataka Congress, DK Shivakumar, has always been known for his daredevilry in politics. He seldom shies away from taking chances that usually pay off. But him slipping into personal protective equipment and venturing into a Covid-19 ward at a government hospital in his Kanakapura constituency was something even his diehard fans never expected. Most of his party leaders had no idea about his visit to the Covid-19 ward to meet and check on patients and the facilities. As some Congress leaders said, few would dare to replicate Shivakumar’s feat. It is not enough to know that one is winning; one also has to create a perception to this effect to ward off any attacks by the rival camp. This is exactly what the Congress seems to be doing in Assam — getting its candidates and those of its allies, the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front, to spend time together ahead of the counting of votes on May 2. Although taking a break with family and friends after exhaustive electioneering is the norm, this time the three parties decided to keep their candidates together so that they could get to know one another — know their allies and thwart any perceived bid by the ruling BJP to influence their candidates in case the recently concluded and keenly fought three-phase assembly polls in the state throw up a hung verdict. The Congress had first flown out AIUDF and BPF candidates to Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, respectively. They have since returned. The Congress then got its candidates to spend time in a resort near Guwahati, ‘swimming, playing volleyball and strategizing’ — exuding the confidence of a winner. This has caused the May 2 verdict to become a topic of discussion among officials, political analysts and those in the exit poll business. The pollsters are revisiting and reassessing their forecasts, once again reaching out to political watchers and journalists to get their results right or come as close as possible to the eventual outcome. “We are winning but creating a perception also helps, like minimizing the influence of the ruling party on the official machinery. We have succeeded [at] what the BJP has mastered since 2014. Creating perception even where they have no chance,” said a senior Congress leader when asked why a hype was created about winning when the party is already sure about winning. For most, however, the suspense over the results will continue till May 2. The Youth Congress president, BV Srinivas, who earned a robust reputation for his commitment towards helping people in distress during the harsh lockdown last year, has lived up to expectations yet again after the second wave of Covid-19 hit India hard. Srinivas set up a monitoring system and launched a Youth Congress helpline on Twitter. He and the Youth Congress team helped patients get admission in hospitals, and also delivered oxygen cylinders and life-saving medicines to people’s doorsteps. Social media might be flooded with thousands of requests for help from all over the country, but it also has stories of help reaching the needy in time. Although this dedication has earned Srinivas the image of a do-gooder, he responds humbly to praise by asserting that the “Rahul Gandhi team” was responsible for the work, not just him as an individual. While many politicians and activists have done a great job during the pandemic, Srinivas is probably the only person who has succeeded in creating a national network for timely assistance in almost every state. He is using the party’s resources, but he has shown exceptional leadership and commitment towards the people. This model of politics is rare today as few young leaders choose to rise through social service and struggle. Srinivas has impressed senior leaders and is destined to play a bigger role in the future. The news that the former Union minister, KV Thomas, who has also been a working president of the Kerala Congress, became a ‘minister’, that too when the Left Democratic Front is still in power, came as a surprise. The once-sulking Congress veteran, who was allegedly gearing up to quit the party upon being sidelined, was back in the news with his pictures splashed across the Malayalam media. Only that Thomas was made a minister in a Malayalam movie, Oru Flashback Story. Wearing the typical snow-white shirt and mundu, Thomas is playing the role of a culture minister. Denied a ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the just-concluded assembly elections, Thomas could still become a minister, albeit in a movie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Kumbh vs Corona||The government’s willingness to hold the Kumbh Mela in the middle of the worst health emergency in a hundred years and its unwillingness to curtail it despite a tsunami of second wave Covid infections raise an interesting question. Is Narendra Modi a rational actor on his own terms? Rational, here, doesn’t mean ‘secular’ or ‘progressive’. The question is simply this: if we allow for Modi’s majoritarianism, are his policy choices based on good information and best practice? Do they try to maximize the greatest good of the greatest number, once the welfare of minorities is subtracted? The Kumbh Mela raises this question starkly because by the end of 2020, when the akharas began to lobby for an off-year Kumbh, its potential as a superspreader event was obvious. But Modi’s Central government and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government in Uttarakhand chose to facilitate an unrestricted gathering of hundreds of thousands of people, risking a public health catastrophe that could endanger the lives of Hindus all over the country, because the virus, in its morbidly Nehruvian way, refuses to discriminate between Hindus and Muslims. Why did the prime minister choose to do this? Modi is widely seen as a modernizer. Modi’s major policy initiatives, whether you agree with them or not — demonetization, the goods and services tax, the farm bills, digitization — invoke rational goals. But justifying the Kumbh Mela in terms of rational public health policy is impossible. Uttarakhand’s chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat, didn’t try. He declared that the “flow and blessings of Ma Ganga will ensure coronavirus doesn’t spread”. Modi waited for days to pass and for lakhs of people to gather and bathe and then, after a week of spiking Covid infections, he prayerfully petitioned Avdheshanand Giri of the Juna Akhara, and asked that the mela be scaled down on account of the pandemic. Why would the prime minister of India place himself in this supplicant position? The obvious answer is the right one: Modi thinks it is reasonable in a broadly Hindu country to defer to the core beliefs of Hindus. Hostile critics might call it pandering, but Modi’s position on the Kumbh Mela is consistent with, say, his position on the Ram Mandir. If millions of Hindus believe that Ram was born in Ayodhya, this belief is a fact. Reality must reshape itself to correspond to this juggernaut belief. In the early months of his prime ministership, Modi addressed a conference of doctors in Mumbai and invoked the surgical genius of ancient India where an elephant’s head was grafted on to a human body to produce Ganesha. He could have invoked Sushruta, a historically-documented visionary, who pioneered plastic surgery, but he chose to inspire a gathering of trained doctors by citing a flagrantly impossible bit of folklore. He did this because it is important for majoritarians to teach civil society groups, especially groups of professionals, that modernity and science must defer to bedrock civilizational beliefs, that these beliefs can, indeed must, be respectably aired in scientific gatherings. In the 2019 session of the Indian Science Congress, a paper cited the hundred sons of Dhritarashtra as proof of stem cell research in ancient India. So when akhara astrologers read their charts and declared that the alignment of the stars mandated that the Kumbh Mela be held in the eleventh year of the usual twelve-year cycle, Modi acquiesced, despite the pandemic. Given his political beliefs, he had no choice. How could this elemental gathering of Hindus and holy men be thwarted by second-order public health considerations? What sort of Hindu rashtra would pause a civilizational rite of purification for fear of an invisible speck? Secularists, being cynics, see Modi as a modern authoritarian who uses religion instrumentally. They are wrong. They are confusing Modi with V.D. Savarkar. Savarkar was an atheist intellectual who tricked out an ethnic nationalism in Hindu motley. Modi, closer to the ground than Savarkar was, defers to sadhus in saffron motley because he senses in them a Hindu authenticity that he, a professional politician, lacks. This is not to argue that the sadhus and sadhvis in the BJP and outside it are a threat to Modi’s pre-eminence. It is to suggest that Modi believes that Hindu consolidation in India needs a vanguard of monks. The reason Adityanath is the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh is that a renouncing monk in saffron can normalize majoritarianism and introduce it into public conversation in a way that no trousered bigot can. If you look at the way the BJP has used Adityanath as a majoritarian mascot and provocateur in assembly elections in states as remote from UP as Kerala, it is apparent that his function is to say the hitherto unsayable. It is a function that various sadhvis and sants have consistently performed in the BJP, from praising Godse to contrasting Ramzade and H******de. Liberals in South Asia tend to be parochially focused on the politics of their own nations; majoritarian politicians have a more cosmopolitan awareness of like-minded communalists in their neighbourhood. The explicitly anti-Muslim 969, a monk-led organization in Myanmar, routinely networks with the Bodu Bala Sena, the self-styled ‘Army of Buddhist Power’ in Sri Lanka. The Organization for the Protection of Race, Religion, and Belief in Myanmar, popularly known as Ma-Ba-Tha (the abbreviation of its Burmese name), began in 2013 as a campaign to pass what were collectively known as the Race and Religion Protection Laws. In a little over two years, these laws were approved by the legislature and signed into law by the president. Myanmar’s success in purging a Muslim minority and the role of its Buddhist clergy in this ‘cleansing’ have not gone unnoticed this side of the border. Hinduism lacks an organized clergy; it has nothing equivalent to the Buddhist sangha. But men and women dressed in the colour of renunciation have always had a certain cachet, never more so than now. Unlike deracinated liberals, Modi sees the power and political potential of this saffron cadre and, as the elevation of Adityanath illustrates, he has moved to co-opt it. Five years ago, a journalist suggested to me that if Modi ever failed he would be replaced by someone further to the right of him, more bearded, and more visibly Hindu than him. He had Baba Ramdev in mind and while he was mistaken in that particular, Adityanath’s career suggests that he was right about the general direction of travel. But Adityanath shouldn’t get his hopes up. If Modi is to be replaced in office, he intends to be replaced by a world-renouncing avatar of himself. During the general elections in 2019, Modi was pictured meditating in a cave in Kedarnath, swathed in saffron. If there was a criticism to be made of the art direction, it was that his hair and beard were too smartly trimmed for the Himalayan ascetic look. That has been remedied now. The prime minister has grown his hair and beard out and were he to rig himself out in saffron again, his fleecy magnificence would make UP’s chief minister seem shorn in comparison. I can see that happening as the prime minister decides, in the face of a tanking economy and a surging virus, to get back to Hindu basics. Not in Baba Ramdev’s outré breechclout style, of course; the prime minister is too couture-conscious for that. I imagine he will take a leaf out of Sadhguru’s dress code: the Oriental Sage (in orange) look. I can see the group photograph now: Narendra Modi, stern in saffron in the middle, flanked by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and Sadhguru on his left and Baba Ramdev and Yogi Adityanath on his right. The caption writes itself: Swami & Friends. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Perfectly at home||Slim, lightish-skinned and caring — the woman in numerous Indian advertisements is everything a mother-in-law or a doting father could wish for. The mother-in-law is overcome with amazement when her little grandson’s filthy tee shines like new after his mother uses the even newer washing powder, while a meal the younger woman cooks with ready-made spices under her disapproving eyes has a similar effect — it turns out to be just like ‘mummy’s cooking’. The young, still unmarried working woman does make financial decisions — usually to insure her parents’ health or her father’s future after his retirement. And when she is married, and is being looked after by an endearingly bumbling young husband, it turns out that she is pregnant and must direct her spouse to make practical arrangements for home supplies. They are all efficient, smart, attractive, but most of them are selling domestic or beauty products. This is one of the findings of a study of 1,000 most viewed advertisements on television and YouTube in 2019, conducted by Unicef and the Geena Davis Institute. The aim of the study was to identify and analyse destructive gender stereotypes. It seemed a positive feature that on screen, women as characters, as dominant presences and speakers matched or even surpassed men. But analysis showed that this was not a mark of empowerment; rather, it subtly — sometimes not so subtly — deepened the stereotypes encouraged by a biased society. In these advertisements, it is the quality of women’s representation that is different: they are most often beautiful, sometimes scantily dressed, for example, and therefore sexualized in comparison to men in advertisements. Lighter skin or a particular body shape, too, indicates society’s preferences. Women are seldom shown as decision-makers outside the home, just as men are seldom shown as efficient homemakers. It might be added, however, that men in advertisements, too, are stereotyped, objectified in a different way. Society views wealth and power as ‘sexy’ in a man — never mind his looks — which may partly account for the sharp difference in the representation of genders. The purpose of the Unicef study, however, is of great import. Children’s exposure to visual media make advertisements — shown repeatedly — a source of unconsciously absorbed models and ideas. Even homemakers look glamorous on screen — although not like the bejewelled ladies who go to sleep in zari-bordered silk saris in TV serials — and young girls are sweet, brisk and dazzling. Body-shaming, depression, anorexia are some of the more extreme effects of such unrealistic projections on younger people, especially because of the ‘family’ or relationship narratives built into many of the advertisements. The rarity of empowering role models, too, indirectly circumscribes the woman’s field of activity, while emphasizing the importance of physical attractiveness. These are reflections of deeply-rooted prejudices in society. The Unicef report points out what should be put right, although changing the attitude of advertisers would also depend on changes in society’s perceptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Refugee Colony a hotspot, locality sealed||The densely populated Refugee Colony locality of Steel City was sealed on Sunday following the detection of 90 positive Covid cases in 24 hours. Entry to the locality, which falls under Golmuri police station area, was restricted from all sides. Refugee Colony became the second locality after Kadma which was declared a Covid hotspot. The Kadma market and its near-by residential areas were sealed on Saturday following the detection of over 80 positive cases on Thursday and Friday. Local civic body - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) barricaded the colony from all sides on Sunday afternoon. At least five places within the Refugee Colony have been declared as a containment zone. Soon after sealing the colony, policemen were deployed to keep a tab on movement of people. JNAC official Ravi Bharti confirming the report said, "The entire colony has been sealed. The Covid affected persons in that colony include both men and women. Several elderly persons also tested Covid positive." Bharti added that only shops selling essential commodities will remain open. The East Singhbhum district reported 870 Covid positive cases (out of 5,200 tests) in the last 24 hours with 16 deaths. While 13 Covid patients died in Tata Main Hospital, three deaths took place in Telco-based Tata Motors Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS ropes in IRB jawans to counter staff crunch amid Covid surge||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, the biggest state run government hospital in Ranchi, on Sunday roped in 100 jawans from the Indian Reserve Battalion as an auxiliary workforce to assist the medical frontline workers at the hospital as the first point contact for all Covid-19 patients and facilitate their treatment. Rims officials said that IRB jawans have been trained by them in basic medical care such as fixing oxygen cylinders, monitoring one’s pulse among others so that they could be of help in extending initial care to the patients till the time he/she is admitted in the hospital. Sources said that the jawans will work in tandem with doctors and nurses to assist them in the wake of growing manpower crunch at the hospital amid the ongoing second wave of covid-19, which is rapidly infecting people and taking a toll on many. Additional director at RIIMS, P.K.Waghmare said that the decision to rope in jawans was taken in view of manpower shortage at the hospital with many healthcare professionals getting infected. “We have trained first lot of IRB jawans in very basic medical care so that when the patient comes, they can be attended by them to reduce their stress levels till the time they are attended by any doctor or get hospitalised,” he said, adding that the jawans will largely be put to work at emergency and general wards. According to officials, not all Covid patients rushing to a hospital require immediate hospitalisation or oxygen support but need to be kept under observation. With all hospitals crowded with an inflow of daily patients, hospital staff fail to attend them on time leading to panic, restlessness and anger among their kin. Waghmare said the jawans will be able to fill that gap. Anjali Baraik, a female constable of IRB said that she felt proud to be on Covid duty at the hospital. “It’s time to prove that we can’t just wield lathis and guns to take on enemies but can do our bit in these times of medical calamity,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town industrial units engage in procuring oxygen cylinders for hospitals||A day after the Dhanbad district administration instructed industrial unit owners to provide oxygen cylinders to the district, altogether seven units on Sunday arranged for 65 cylinders. The initiative was undertaken by the Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, (JITA), an association of industrial unit owners of Dhanbad and adjoining areas. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, in a notice issued on Saturday directed industrial units engaged in fabrication work to provide B type and D type oxygen cylinders to district administration and specifically instructed the three industries - M/s Blue Flame Industries Pvt Ltd, Nirsa, M/s Anup Malleable Pvt Ltd, Govindpur and Hindustan Malleable and Forging Pvt Ltd, Jalan Nagar (Bhuli) - to provide all available cylinders to Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, Rajiv Sharma, said, “We also suggest the district administration to ensure the return of the cylinder to the respective units after completion of its usage as the cumulative cost of the 65 cylinders is 7.80 lakh which has been provided to the industries as advance money.” “We, at the same time would also like the district administration to create a oxygen bank facility at the district for which we are ready to extend all support,” said Sharma and added that they would also like to draw the attention of the district administration to create a green corridor to ensure the hassle free transport of oxygen cylinders to different government and private hospitals. The deputy commissioner also held an online meeting with the top officials of industrial units like BCCL, Tata Steel, GAIL Gas Limited, Steel Authority of India Limited, ECL, Damodar Valley Corporation, Maithon Power Limited, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), Indian Medical Association, Builder Association, Chemist and Druggist Association, Rotary Club, Lions Club etc and sought for procuring more resources like ambulance facility for transporting patients to hospitals; kit for Covid test, beds in hospitals, ventilators, RAT kits, and establishment of oxygen plants. The district administration is planning to establish an oxygen plant at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad. A 100 bed Covid ward has been set up at Sadar Hospital including a 60 bed ICU facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad shops limit business hours on their own ||The coal town traders have initiated self regulatory measures for shops and business establishments across the district following the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. In Jharia, the vegetable shops are closing by noon, while grocery shops have fixed their closing time to 3pm. The deadline for medicine shops is 10pm and the liquor shops are closing at 8pm. At Bank More, the commercial hub of the district, the market is open till 3pm while vegetable shops are open till 1pm. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Though the suggestion to restrict the shop opening  time has been given by the local administration but owing to the grim situation everywhere we have decided to abide by the suggestion and restrict the shop opening time further.” Jitu Kehsri, a shop owner of Jharia, while appreciating the self regulation drive said ,“Exposure to a crowd for a longer period of time is more dangerous compared to limited hours of exposure so our decision to restrict the shop opening is quite justified.” Spokesperson of Bank More chamber of commerce, Sandeep Mukherjee said, “different sections of traders began regulations even ahead of the state imposed restrictions. Over 100 producers, suppliers and retailers of electric products under the banner of Dhanbad Electric Traders Association had decided to close down their shops for three days from April 21 to 24 on their own before the state's decision.” Mukherjee said added that though the chamber has not taken any centralised decision to restrict the shop opening timings, if traders are themselves taking a decision to regulate the timings, they are supporting the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant visits oxygen refill stations to understand capacities and availability||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren assured companies running oxygen plants and refilling stations in the state that his government would provide all kinds of assistance and fast track clearances required to upgrade their systems to cope with the rising demand for oxygen. During a visit to two plants on the outskirts of Ranchi on Sunday, Hemant appealed to their proprietors that theyshould be ready to meet hospital requirements round-the-clock in view of the spiralling Covid-19 cases. According to health department officials, Jharkhand has five oxygen produing plants and about 14 refilling plants. “But as far as cylinders are concerned, we barely have 10,000-12,000, which according to the current situation is inadequate," admitted an official. He said earlier in Ranchi, a big hospital would require 10-12 cylinders of oxygen. But now that had shot up to 80-100. "We have to be ready on a war footing. Last week, the state government granted licences to four new plants. Of these, one in Hazaribagh is functioning already,” he added.  On Sunday afternoon, Hemant  visited two oxygen refilling units at Ormanjhi and Vikas in Newri as a part of the government's efforts to ramp up the health infrastructure in the face of a public backlash over inadequate medical facilities amid a raging pandemic. At Ormanjhi, Hemant visited Chottanagpur Industrial Gas Plant, while in Vikas, he went to S.K. Industrial Gas Plant. Accompanied by officials, he spent hours there looking at every installation in detail to assess existing capacities of the plants. Speaking to the media at Ormanjhi, Hemant said that although Jharkhand wasn’t fearing a crisis of oxygen as in other parts in the country, he wanted the state government to take corrective steps in advance. “I have been saying all along that there is no problem about oxygen production in the state. It is in abundance here. But there are certain shortcomings on the logistics side, like cylinders, refilling units, etc,” Hemant said, adding that the government was asking existing oxygen plants to increase capacity on priority on the asurance that all clealrances would be fast tracked. On the Ormanjhi plant, Hemant said, “They told us that they could refill 30 jumbo cylinders in an hour. They are in the process of expanding their capacity soon.” The plant at Vikas is able to fill close to 1000 cylinders per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand headed for season's second heat wave||The weather department has predicted a dry spell in Jharkhand till mid-week with the maximum temperature climbing up by four to five degrees above normal in many parts, including Jamshedpur and Daltongunj. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Sunday issued an alert of extreme day temperature for the next 72-hours. "The mercury will witness a rising trend in the absence of any weather system. Most places across the state would experience dry weather with gradual rise in temperature by another two to three degree Celsius during the next 72 hours. There is no possibility of thunderstorm activity till mid-week," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Sunday's satellite pictures indicated a weak trough at 1.5 km above mean sea level running from Jharkhand to Madhya Pradesh. Weathermen said the trough is very weak to trigger any thunderous activity. The maximum readings witnessed a rise in most places. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and its adjoining areas was hovering between 38-39 degree Celsius for the last two days while the day's reading touched an oppressive 43 degree Celsius at Daltonganj and several other districts in North West Jharkhand. Jamshedpur and several other places of Kolhan have been recording  maximum temperatures of around 42 degree Celsius for the last two days. Bokaro, Ramgarh and Pakur continued to record over 40 degree  Celsius for the second consecutive day. According to the forecast, the steel city was expected to witness a three degree rise in day temperatures in the next 48 hours or so. Monday's maximum reading was two notches above normal. Several other districts, including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Dumka witnessed a rising trend in maximum readings. Weathermen said that the wind pattern over Jharkhand was fluctuating between north-westerly and westerly, which would push up the day temperature. Meanwhile, the weatherman at IMD's Patna Met Centre which too keeps a  tab on Jharkhand weather did not rule out the possibility of another spell of heat wave in Jharkhand next week. "Jharkhand has already witnessed a heat wave in the last week of March. We are expecting another spell of heat wave in the next couple of days due to the rising trend of maximum temperature," explained a weather analyst at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Biometric-authenticated ration delivery halted till May-end amid Covid surge||Jharkhand government has announced to stop biometric authentication enabled ration delivery from public distribution shops (PDS) with immediate effect till May 31 to thwart fears of possible spread of Covid-19, which in its second wave is taking increasing toll on human lives and infecting thousands. Issuing a letter in this regard to all the districts on Friday night, state Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department’s additional secretary Shantanu Agrahari has asked all to revert to offline mode of PDS delivery till the end of next month. “As a precautionary measure in view of growing cases of Covid-19 in the state, it has been decided to stop the online system of PDS delivery. In place of taking thumb impression and retina scan on ePoS machines, PDS dealers should issue ration through one time password (OTP) generated on the registered mobile numbers of the legitimate beneficiaries. In case the OTP fails to generate on time due to network congestion issues, then PDS dealers must provide ration to the bonafide beneficiary by noting their details and allocation on registers through manual mode,” read the letter. All district supply officers are mandated to ensure uploading of the status of ration delivery within three days on government portal for keeping better track of the PDS supply. Jharkhand has about 58 lakh PDS beneficiaries who are covered under the National Food Security Act. This apart, the state government has provided ration cards to about 13 lakh more beneficiaries who were left out of the Act. Amid the growing cases of covid-19, infection through ePoS machines is said to have caused deaths of two PDS dealers recently. Flagging the issue, JMM’s Jama MLA Sita Soren had on April 18 shot letters to chief minister Hemant Soren and state food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon informing them about deaths in Ranchi’s ward 29 and demanded to immediately withdraw biometric authentication system of ration. Following the government's notification to halt this system, Sita Soren, the CM’s sister-in-law, tweeted about her contentment. “I had raised this matter with CM and Rameshwar Oraonji recently. Taking my suggestion in right earnest, the state government has finally notified the same,” she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs record 110 Covid casualties, 5,152 cases||Jharkhand reported 110 Covid casualties on Saturday, the highest in a day so far, which took the Covid toll in the state up to 1,888 as the active caseload crossed the 45,000 mark with 5,152 people found infected by the deadly virus in 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM said. Ranchi reported a record 60 Covid casualties in 24 hours, which took the toll in the district to 546, surpassing East Singhbhum, which had reported the highest Covid fatalities in the state. The NHM highlighted in its bulletin that as many as 16 Covid patients died in East Singhbhum on the day, taking the toll there to 514. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for more than 60 per cent of the Covid casualties in the state so far. Meanwhile, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 14,789 on the day as the district reported 1,609 fresh cases of infection against 824 recoveries. With 570 cases and 368 recoveries, the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 6,173. These two districts also account for more than 40 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 305 cases while Dhanbad and Koderma reported 174 and 212 cases respectively. Latehar reported 215 fresh cases and at least 262 people were found infected in Ramgarh on the day, government data highlighted. Saturday’s findings also took the Covid tally in the state close to the two-lakh mark. As many as 1,95,844 people were infected by Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and around 75.75 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in the state also shot up on the day while the doubling rate dropped below 30 days. As per figures shared by the NHM, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.66 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 26.38 days against the national average of 47.28 days. Amid the unprecedented rise in cases, the vaccination programme against Covid-19 has also failed to achieve the targets set by the government. On Saturday, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to 15,168 beneficiaries, hardly 20 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 11,551 people, around 4 per cent of the over 2.68 lakh beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
25-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Muslim friends help Hindu youth cremate mother in Palamau ||Four Muslim friends helped a Hindu youth cremate his mother, who died of Covid in Jharkhand’s Palamau district, after his relatives refused to come fearing that they would contract the virus. Mohammed Saif Hussain, Jaffer Mohammed, Asif Rain and Mohammed Shamshad, residents of Muslim Nagar, rushed to the nearby Raja Harishchandra Ghat after one of them spotted Prince Gupta standing helplessly with his mother’s body in an ambulance as there was none to carry her to the cremation ghat. Meena Devi, 55, had passed away early on Friday morning. None of her relatives came forward to help Prince take the body for the last rites due to fear of contracting the virus. “One of our friends, Mohammed Saif Hussain, who studies with Prince in the same college, saw him near the crematorium and informed us. We were on Ramazan fast and were at home for Friday namaz,” Jaffer said. “However, when we were informed by our friend, we immediately decided to help. We rushed to the cremation ghat to help our friend conduct the last rites of his mother,” Jaffer, who also contributes to a vernacular daily, added. He said Prince had brought the body of his mother all alone in an ambulance. “We helped him carry the body 200 metres to the ghat. We also assisted him with the rituals. We gave him some money to help him to perform the rituals,” Jaffer said. Meena Devi had been admitted to the Palamau Medical College and Hospital in Daltonganj for five days after testing positive for the coronavirus. “After returning home, we sanitised our hands and also took bath. It was a spontaneous decision to help our friend who was in distress. We could not afford to think about the dangers of the coronavirus infection,” Jaffer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
