26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Charisma and old work versus lockdown service for the poor||At the Ballygunge Assembly constituency, old warhorse Subrata Mukherjee of Trinamul is pitted against the CPM’s Fuad Halim, a doctor known for his service for the poor, and the BJP’s Loknath Chatterjee, little known to most electors. Mukherjee, 74, a 10-term MLA, is a visible face in the area. A veteran of many poll battles, he is known as “efficient” and “accessible”. His personal charisma — he is among the very few in Trinamul who call the party supremo by her first name, Mamata — has also influenced many voters. Halim, 50, has gained respect among the electorate for his service for the poor and needy, especially during the lockdown last year. The physician said he had provided treatment to over 6,000 people between March and November last year for Rs 50 each. “I have also organised free eye cataract surgeries for thousands under the aegis of an NGO I have founded with school friends,” Halim told Metro. A truly cosmopolitan area, the voters in Ballygunge speak Bengali, Hindi and Gujarati, among other languages. There is also a large Muslim electorate. The constituency, which goes to the polls on Monday, has leafy neighbourhoods like Ballygunge Circular Road and Queens Park, replete with bungalows with large gardens. Glittering sedans roll out of the bungalows every now and then. Then there are places like Puddapukur and Ballygunge Place, where the traditionally affluent and educated people have been living for years. In stark contrast are the Pearabagan Bustee, near Ballygunge Government High School, and Samsul Huda Road neighbourhoods where one has to squeeze one’s way through a teeming mass. The aspirations and expectations are as varied. Samir Gayen, 30, who runs a small automobile repairing shop near Pearabagan, and Ali Khan, 29, who stays off Samsul Huda Road and works as a sales representative at a store, said jobs were their topmost priority. “I think whoever forms the next government should create more jobs for the youth,” said Ali, who feels Mukherjee will garner the maximum number of votes. “Fuad Halim, too, will get votes because he has always helped people.” Sumita Chatterjee, 65, an investment consultant who stays on Bondel Road, said people from all communities lived peacefully in Ballygunge. “I was born here and my husband is from here, too. I have lived here all my life. Just a few minutes from our home, there is an area that is Muslim majority but there has never been any trouble,” she said. “This is the first time I find there is a planned attempt to remind everyone what their religion is. This will destroy the quiet neighbourhood. It should never happen.” But the issues that will play at the back of people’s minds when they vote on April 26 could be ones that are not unique to Ballygunge. A number of voters said the worsening Covid epidemic would affect their voting. Tanushree Bandyopadhyay, a schoolteacher in her mid-30s, was angry at how the epidemic was being tackled. “We are living in constant fear. What will happen if we get infected? There are no vacant beds at hospitals. Election rallies and other gatherings should have been stopped long ago. I think people will keep in mind who is responsible for the current situation when they vote in the last two phases,” she said. Chatterjee and Bandyopadhyay both said they were impressed by Halim’s philanthropic activities. Halim had contested from the seat in 2011 but lost to Mukherjee. None of the voters Metro spoke to had heard of the BJP’s Chatterjee, an advocate at Calcutta High Court and a former student of the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences. Chatterjee, 30, however, said he had done his bit of campaigning. “I have spoken about our development programmes. I have also campaigned in Muslim-dominated areas where Trinamul supporters have attacked me several times,” he said. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mukherjee had defeated the Congress-Left combine’s Krishna Debnath by 15,225 votes. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, Trinamul’s South Calcutta candidate Mala Roy had taken a lead of 54,452 votes in the Ballygunge Assembly segment over her nearest competitor, Chandra Kumar Bose of the BJP. Residents said they had seen Mukherjee and Halim campaign, but not many had seen Chatterjee of the BJP. “I am an old-school politician. I go door to door and seek votes. People have a sense of pride in voting and I respect that. I do not bring celebrities and stars to campaign for me,” Mukherjee said while visiting voters at a slum in Puddapukur on Friday morning. He was accompanied by six aides. A section of residents said Halim’s lack of administrative experience could work against him. Mukherjee, on the other hand, is still remembered for his work as Calcutta’s mayor from 2000 to 2005. “The Left Front was in power in the state and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation was run by the Trinamul-BJP alliance. Mukherjee managed to do a lot of good work without fighting with the state government,” said a voter. Halim had wrapped up his campaigning by then and was at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, donating plasma for Covid patients. “Mukherjee has been MLA from Ballygunge for 10 years but done little for the place. There are issues like parking, water scarcity and huge traffic snarls when schools like South Point, BSS and Modern High School for Girls give over. I will try to find a solution to these and many other problems,” said Halim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: In CM backyard, BJP slips on fuel, TMC on muscle ||A middle-aged man stopped Rudranil Ghosh, the BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, during a door-to-door campaign in Surjya Sen Colony behind Presidency Correctional Home on Friday afternoon. “Gas er daam, tel er daam-er ki hobe? Vote hoye gele to dekha korte gele appointment lagbe (What about the price of gas, the price of fuel? Once the vote is over, we will need an appointment to meet you),” the 54-year-old man told Ghosh, who switched sides from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP just before the Assembly polls. When Ghosh was gone, the same man, and several other residents of the colony, told this newspaper that the area had seen a lot of improvement in terms of roads and drainage but they were fed up with the high-handedness of local Trinamul leaders. “From a hospital admission to a government grant, you need the party’s approval for everything. We respect Mamata Banerjee, but her party’s men are no different from the CPM when it ruled the state,” said a senior citizen. Mamata is the sitting MLA of Bhowanipore but this time she has contested from Nandigram against her former party colleague, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. Trinamul has fielded veteran leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay from Bhowanipore, which votes on April 26. Md. Shadab Khan of the Congress is the Sanjukta Morcha candidate from the seat. Bhowanipore is decked out in Trinamul flags, festoons, posters and banners. At least in terms of campaign paraphernalia, the BJP is no match to the ruling party. But while criss-crossing the constituency, this newspaper encountered a mixed bag of responses. Discontent against the ruling party was visible at multiple pockets. On Harish Mukherjee Road, a woman pointed towards Abhishek Banerjee’s residence, around 50 metres away. “Amar tali-r bari aki roye gelo, didir moto. Odike prasad toiri hoye gelo (My tiled-roof house remains what it was, like Didi’s. There, a palace has come up),” said the woman. The third-generation owner of a 110-year-old shop in Jadubabur Bazar that sells school uniforms and kurta-pyjamas was on the other side of the spectrum. “Bhowanipore had been a Congress bastion even at the peak of the Left rule. After Mamata’s emergence, old Congress supporters sided with her because she could fight the CPM. That bond with Mamata has been intact. It does not matter who is fighting from Bhowanipore. This will remain Mamata’s seat. The BJP will come a distant second,” said the 66-year-old man. The Trinamul support base comprises a large section of the old Bengali residents of Bhowanipore, who were Congress loyalists before shifting allegiance to Mamata. Bhowanipore has over two lakh voters. Apart from Bengalis, there are Gujaratis, Marwaris and Punjabis. The BJP had in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls got a lead of 185 votes over Trinamul in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, which falls under the Calcutta South parliamentary seat. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mamata got around 66,000 votes, or a 48 per cent vote share, and won the seat. The Congress’s Deepa Das Munshi came second, getting around 40,000 votes, which translated to a 29 per cent vote share. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul’s Mala Roy led from the Bhowanipore segment, but only by some 3,000 votes. “We are eyeing the Gujarati and Marwari communities, which traditionally vote for the BJP. We also expect the bulk of the lower-middle class votes,” said a BJP leader. A trader in Beltala, whose family traces its roots to Gujarat, said Narendra Modi had made “India proud on the global stage (desh ka naam roshan kiya)”, without delving into the specifics. But around a kilometre away, the mood outside Balwant Singh dhaba, a popular eatery on Harish Mukherjee Road, was different. “No educated person will vote for the BJP and Modi,” said Maninder Singh, 30, who had come for a cup of tea. Calling Modi an “absolute failure” in handling the Covid-19 crisis, he said all the BJP was interested in was “dividing the country along religious lines”. “Uski ulti ginti yahaan se chaalu ho gayi hai (The countdown to Modi’s downfall has started from Bengal),” he said. “After how he has handled the farmers’ agitation, no Punjabi is going to vote for Modi.” Ghosh, the BJP candidate, sounded upbeat. “The queen has left her kingdom because she had sensed defeat,” he said, referring to Mamata’s choice to contest from Nandigram. “There was a slender margin in the Lok Sabha. This time, there is a wind of change in favour of Modiji, despite Trinamul’s desperate attempts to stop us from campaigning. I am confident of winning.” His opponent, Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, was at a makeshift chamber on the ground floor of his Rupnarayan Nandan Lane home when this reporter met him. Chattopadhyay, the minister of power in the outgoing state cabinet, had been down with Covid-19 in the middle of the campaign season but has since recovered. He is a ninth generation resident of Bhowanipore but is better known as the MLA from Rashbehari. “It is a matter of pride that Mamata has chosen me from Bhowanipore. This is the first time I will vote for myself,” he said with a smile. “I started my political career in 1962. But even before Bhowanipore residents knew me as a politician, they knew me as a boxer and social worker,” he said. The boxing club where Chattopadhyay trained stands a stone’s throw from his house. “Roads, drainage, hospitals, everything has seen remarkable development in Bhowanipore. Our work and Mamata Banerjee’s pull are more than enough for a smooth victory,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Weddings and other events deferred as Covid cases rocket||Several weddings are being postponed in the wake of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, said event managers. Families who are still going ahead with the pre-scheduled weddings are scaling down on the festivities. Susmit Ray Choudhuri and Debjani Banerjee, techies based in Mumbai but are in Calcutta for close to a year because of the work-from-home culture, were to have got married at a banquet in Rajarhat on May 14. They had hired an event aggregator six months ago. The number of invitees was around 250. Virtual wedding cards had been sent to guests when the second wave of the virus started making its impact felt. Two days ago, the two families decided to postpone the party to November, hoping things would improve by then. “The fresh surge (in Covid-19 cases) is scarier than last time. We cannot risk a large gathering, with several aged guests. It is not only about the guests. A big event means exposure to several external agencies — decorators, caterers and other vendors. Going ahead with the event would have been too risky,” said Ray Choudhuri. The couple will get their marriage registered at a new flat they have rented on April 30 in front of close family members. The summer wedding season starts in late April and continues into May, said event managers. Sudipto Hore, the general manager of Regenta Orko’s hotel in Kasba, said he has had “at least four wedding events postponed so far”. Some other events are being scaled down substantially, he said. “There is no government cap on the number of guests. But the guest lists of 200-250 are being brought down to 100 or lower, combining both the bride’s and the groom’s side,” he said. “This time last year was pathetic in terms of business. But we were trying to stand up on our feet from November. But this (the second wave) blow has again knocked us down,” said Hore. Event managers in Calcutta said the increasing deaths was driving fear this time. The death of a kin because of Covid-19 makes it virtually impossible for the bride or groom’s family to go ahead with the wedding, they said. “Till a month ago, preparations for weddings were in full swing but things started changing over the past 10-15 days,” said Rishabh Bapna, the owner of a popular event management firm called Cherry Tree. He was supposed to organise three parties — with over 200 people attending each — in the run-up to a gala wedding on April 27. He got a call from the client a few days ago. They wanted only a dinner for 30-40 guests on April 26 before an austere wedding the next day. A caterer in south Calcutta, who did not want to be named, said other social events like birthday parties had also been scaled down. “I had a contract of serving around 60 guests at a birthday party of a boy in New Alipore on April 24. The order was cancelled at the last moment,” the vendor said. The Maualana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, will remain shut till further orders because of Covid. Monday was the hottest day in Calcutta this season, with the Celsius clocking 39.7 degrees. The maximum temperature was four notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Checklist  for voters||The Assembly constituencies that will go to the polls on April 26 include Rashbehari, Ballygunge, Bhowanipore and Kolkata Port. Here is a list of  things voters should know and follow ⚫ Voting starts at: 7 ⚫ Voting ends at: Officially at 6.30pm (voters who stand in the queue till 6.30pm will be allowed to vote) ⚫ Covid-19 patients: Patients suffering from Covid and those under quarantine will be allowed to vote in the last hour under the supervision of health authorities ⚫ Identification: Voters will have to be present any of the following documents at the polling stations to prove their identity • Electoral photo identity card •  Aadhaar card • MGNREGA job card • Passbook with photograph issued by bank/post office • Health insurance smart card issued under the scheme of the ministry of labour • Driving licence • PAN card • Smart card issued by the registrar general of India under National Population Register • Passport • Pension document with photograph • Service identity cards with photographs issued to employees by the central/state govt./PSUs/public limited companies • Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs Covid protocol at booth ⚫ Voters have to stand six feet apart in the queue and wear masks ⚫ Every voter will have to undergo thermal screening for body temperature before entering the booth. If the temperature exceeds 100.4 degree Fahrenheit, the person will be subjected to a second check. If the reading persists, he or she will be asked to collect a token and go home. The voter can come back in the last hour of polling and cast his or her vote following all Covid protocols ⚫ Every voter will be given a disposable glove ⚫ No more than 1,000 voters will be allowed on the premises of a polling station at any given point of time Helplines ⚫ Election Commission of India: 1950 ⚫ Lalbazar control room: 033-22143230 / 033-22141310 ⚫ Dry day: Liquor shops in the Assembly constituencies going to the polls and in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed till the end of polling on Monday. Restaurants licensed to serve liquor may remain open but cannot serve liquor during the period||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta police seizes hoarded oxygen cylinders ||The enforcement branch of Calcutta police has seized at 25 filled medical oxygen cylinders from an agency in Bhowanipore and at least 15 empty cylinders from a godown in Maniktala. Officers suspect the empty cylinders were to be used to sell oxygen at a premium at a time the demand for the life-saver has rocketed following a surge in Covid cases. The police said a racket was operating to procure empty oxygen cylinders from registered sellers and distributors, refill them and sell the gas at double or triple the market rate. “The raid was conducted based on specific information. We have launched an investigation and sought documents for the empty cylinders found in a godown. If the godown owner fails to produce proper documents, he will be arrested,” an officer of the enforcement branch said. The empty oxygen cylinders were of different capacities. Thirteen of them weighed 52kg and two 15kg. Police said the filled cylinders — 10 litres each — were seized because the agency had stored cylinders beyond what it had been allowed to stock. Sources said multiple teams of the enforcement branch had fanned across the city to look out for illegal sale and stocking of medical oxygen to ensure there was no artificial crisis. The raids started on Saturday night, within hours of the state health and family welfare department issuing a notification that referred to reports of hoarding of oxygen cylinders across the state. The notification mentioned that only Covid-19 patients under home isolation or in quarantine and patients of other ailments in need of oxygen could buy or take on rent medical oxygen cylinders from licensed distributors and pharmacies. Reports of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs during the Covid-19 crisis are not uncommon in the country. Reports of deaths of Covid-19 patients in pockets of the country because of lack of oxygen has prompted many to stock oxygen cylinders at home. Blackmarketeers are stocking cylinders, further intensifying the crisis, to sell them at a higher rate. A police officer said: “We are trying to prevent hoarding before things go out of control. We request people not to panic. They should buy or take on rent oxygen cylinders only if asked by doctors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||State govt offers facilities to private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres ||The state government has offered several of its facilities in Calcutta to big private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres but so far there has been only one taker. The lone private player that has shown interest till Sunday evening is Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which is keen on setting up a temporary 200-bed Covid treatment facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur. Medica received the state health department’s nod on Sunday to set up the facility. “The 200-bed facility will start running in seven days,” said an official at Medica. Kishore Bharati Stadium housed a quarantine centre for contacts of Covid patients who did not have spare rooms at home to stay quarantined. Health department officials said they had started releasing people who are testing negative for Covid from the quarantine centre. “We have received the state health department’s nod to set up a temporary Covid treatment facility at Kishore Bharati. We will set up 200 beds. Half of them will have oxygen supply. We will complete the conversion in a week’s time,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The hospital had proposed to the health department that Kishore Bharati Stadium be converted into a Covid treatment centre. “Patients will contact us for admission. It is like an extension of our hospital. The treatment will be offered at West Bengal Health Scheme rates for patients getting admitted to the Kishore Bharati facility,” Roy said. The state government and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have opened a 200-bed safe home – for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms who do not have space at home to isolate – near Science City. They are now working on opening another 200-bed safe home at Gitanjali Stadium in Kasba, next to Acropolis Mall. The CMC and the health department have also decided to increase the number of beds at the safe home at Uttirna in Alipore from 100 to 500. “Any individual who wants to get admitted in a safe home has to contact the state health department or the CMC or the South 24-Parganas district administration. The government will send an ambulance to bring the person to the safe home. The contact numbers are available on the health department’s website,” said an official. An official of the CMC said the safe home at the auditorium was being managed by SSKM Hospital. Patients whose condition is worsening are being shifted to SSKM and patients recovering at SSKM are being sent to Uttirna a day or two before discharge. “This is being done to free beds at SSKM,” said the official. Officials of several private hospitals told Metro that their human resources and infrastructure were stretched to the limit and they were not in a position to run a centre outside their premises. An official at Peerless Hospital said treating a patient outside the hospital was impossible for them. “We are concentrating on increasing the number of Covid beds at our hospital. We think we cannot provide treatment to a patient outside our campus comparable to what we offer at our hospital,” the official said. Ruby General Hospital, too, does not want to set up any treatment facility or satellite unit outside the hospital. “We have 110 beds now. We will increase it to 130 very soon. But we do not want to treat Covid patients outside the hospital,” said an official. An official at AMRI Hospitals, too, expressed inability to run treatment centres at a stadium or an auditorium. The group has opened satellite units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid cases on rise but door-to-door vigil yet to start||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not yet started door-to-door Covid surveillance during the second wave of infections though areas under the civic body are reporting at least 300 new cases every day. An official in the corporation’s health department said they had not yet started door-to-door visits as many from their department were busy with election work. During the first wave of the epidemic last year, the civic body had carried out such a surveillance. “A number of civic officials who would have led such door-to-door monitoring of patients suffering from fever and other Covid symptoms are now on election duty. We don’t have adequate personnel at our disposal to launch such a large-scale campaign right now,” the official said. Last year, the survey was conducted by 1,200-odd health workers. They were trained in Covid surveillance and were also told to look out for accumulated water as part of the civic body’s dengue prevention drive. “Most of the health workers are busy sanitising Bidhannagar College, where security personnel and polling officials are camping, and other facilities involved in the ongoing polls. No additional workers have been hired on a contractual basis to carry out the surveillance,” an official in the health department said. Residents of several blocks in Salt Lake said that even though Covid cases were on the rise, no health team from the civic body was sanitising the blocks, let alone conduct door-to-door visits. Tapas Sengupta, the secretary of the AE Block Samaj Sangha, said no civic team had sanitised the buildings from where Covid-19 cases had been reported and the ones where Covid patients were staying in isolation. “Civic health teams cannot be spotted though there has been a sudden surge in the number of cases,” Sengupta said. Last year, each of the 41 wards of the civic body had been given a couple of portable sanitisation units, a civic official said. Basudeb Basu, a DB Block resident, echoed what Sengupta said. Soham Chakraborty, of ED Block, said no one from the corporation’s health department turned up even after a resident had died of Covid-19. “We are living in fear as the corporation has been completely inactive,” said Chakraborty. The area under the corporation spans around 60.5 sq km. The population, according to the latest census, is around 6.5 lakh and households total 1.46 lakh. While wards in Rajarhat have 1.17 lakh households, Salt Lake accounts for 26,000 households. These, however, exclude households in areas like Duttabad, Polenite,Udayanpally and areas bordering the East Calcutta Wetlands, including Khasmahal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department  books beds at private hospitals||The state health department has decided to requisition Covid beds at private hospitals, which will be reserved for patients referred by the government. An order issued on Saturday said 1,387 beds at 24 private hospitals across the state would be taken over for the treatment of Covid patients. Most of the hospitals are in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts in the state. Some of the hospitals where beds have been requisitioned include Peerless Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Fortis Hospital, CMRI, Belle Vue Clinic and Columbia Asia in Calcutta; ILS Hospital in Dum Dum; Charnock Hospital in New Town; and Megacity in Barasat, North 24-Parganas. The requisitioned beds will be separate from the Covid beds the hospitals have to set aside. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked the private hospitals to reserve at least 60 per cent of their total beds for Covid patients. “The government-requisitioned beds will be separate from the Covid beds that the hospitals have to create for patients who will approach the hospitals directly for admission,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “If a hospital has 100 beds and the government requisitions 20 beds, it has to reserve 60 per cent of the remaining 80 beds for Covid patients. Thus, altogether 68 beds will be reserved for Covid at the hospital, of which 20 will be set aside for the treatment of patients referred by the government,” Banerjee said. “The way the demand for beds is rising, we felt that we needed to augment the number of beds. Patients on government-requisitioned beds will not have to pay. The state government will reimburse the hospitals the cost of their treatment. A patient can get the benefit only if the government refers him or her to any of the hospitals where beds have been requisitioned,” a health department official said. The government had introduced the system last year but the requisitioned beds were gradually released after Covid cases started falling. Patients whose family members approach the health department for admission are usually allotted government-requisitioned beds. The department has requisitioned 30 beds (including 10 critical care beds) each at Peerless, RN Tagore, Belle Vue, CMRI and Medica. Twenty-five beds (including five critical care beds) have been requisitioned at Fortis Hospital. The department has also requisitioned 50 beds (including 20 critical care ones) at Charnock Hospital, 21 beds (including seven critical care ones) at ILS Dum Dum, 50 beds (including 25 critical care and 20 high-dependency ones) at Techno Global Barrackpore and 50 beds (including 12 critical care ones) at Megacity Barasat.  The order, issued on Saturday, came into immediate effect. Despite most private hospitals increasing their Covid bed strength over the past few weeks, the crisis has not been resolved as cases are increasing sharply every day. Case count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 7,425 on Sunday, to 88,800. The state recorded 15,889 new infections, resetting the record for the highest intra-day number yet again, and logged 8,407 recoveries during the day. Calcutta reported 3,779 new infections and North 24-Parganas 3,140.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 508 points to close above 48,000-mark||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 508 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 508.06 points or 1.06 per cent higher at 48,386.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 143.65 points or 1 per cent to 14,485. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, UltraTech Cement, HUL, SBI, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Sun Pharma and TCS were among the laggards. "Domestic equities shrugged off rising COVID-19 cases and rebounded mainly led by sharp recovery in financials," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring pharma, most of key sectoral indices traded in green. Strong March quarter performance led ICICI Bank to recovery sharply, while HCL Technologies witnessed sell-off due to subdued 4Q performance, he added. With 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.74 per cent lower at USD 64.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Former Maruti chief Jagdish Khattar no more||Former managing director of Maruti Suzuki India, Jagdish Khattar, passed away on Monday morning following a cardiac arrest, according to people close to him. Khattar (79), a former bureaucrat, was considered as one of the most high profile leaders of the Indian automotive industry, laying the foundation for Maruti's future growth after the government began its disinvestment in 2002 and gradually exited from its joint venture with Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC). He had joined the then Maruti Udyog Ltd in July 1993 as director (marketing) and went on to become executive director (marketing) in the next six years. He was promoted as joint managing director in 1999, a year that saw various disagreements between SMC and the government. Khattar was appointed to the post of MD of Maruti Udyog Ltd, as per an agreement between the partners, who agreed to appoint their nominee for a three-year term. Even as the government and the Japanese partner continued to squabble over various issues, including ownership and technology transfer, Khattar had also to deal with industrial relations issues when workers at the company's Gurgaon plant went on an indefinite strike in 2000 demanding wage hikes, incentives and pensions, among others. In 2002, when it was SMC's turn to appoint MD, they renamed Khattar as their nominee. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was supposed to last till the age of 65 years or end-2007, whichever was earlier. In 2007, he retired from the top post in the country's largest carmaker, having ensured that the company commanded 50 per cent of the passenger vehicles market in India despite growing competition from global players. A year after retirement, he founded a multi-brand car service chain, Carnation Auto with many reputed private equity investors including Premji Invest and Gaja Capital backing the venture. However, his entrepreneurial venture did not reach the heights of success that he achieved when he was helming Maruti Suzuki. In 2019, he was booked by the CBI along with his company Carnation Auto India Limited for allegedly causing losses of Rs 110 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB). Khattar had, however, defended himself stating that an exhaustive independent forensic audit at the behest of the bankers did not find any wrongdoings in the functioning of Carnation Auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 641.35 points or 1.34 per cent higher at 48,519.80. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 178.90 points or 1.25 per cent to 14,520.25.ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, after the lender on Saturday reported a nearly four-fold jump in its March quarter consolidated profit at Rs 4,886 crore, as against Rs 1,251 crore in the year-ago period. UltraTech Cement, SBI, ONGC, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance were also among the gainers. On the other hand, HCL Tech, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 202.22 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 47,878.45, and Nifty dropped 64.80 points or 0.45 per cent to close at 14,341.35. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,360.76 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be positive at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that while a persistent rise in COVID-19 cases across the nation and enhanced economic restrictions have dented investor sentiments over the last couple of weeks, manufacturing and infrastructure activities have not halted yet and companies appeared to be proactive this time to convince most workers to stay back by offering basic amenities and facilities. "Therefore, a large economic damage like last year is unlikely to happen. Further, cancellation of bond auctioning at higher rate by the RBI last week validates RBI's strong commitment to maintain low-rate interest scenario and support economic activities, he said. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 28,13,658, up from 26,82,751 cases registered on Thursday, according to Union Health Ministry data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.41 per cent lower at USD 65.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor's 2 plants to remain shut during April 26-May 14||After Hero MotoCorp, Toyota Kirloskar Motor has announced that both its plants will remain shut because of a scheduled annual maintenance programme from April 26 to May 14, 2021. The company denied all speculation that the maintenance shutdown has anything to do with the current Covid surge. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and customer service, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, said: “Our annual maintenance programme is always scheduled around this time. It happens twice a year and it has nothing to do with the Covid surge.” Both the units are located at Bidadi near Bangalore, spread across 432 acres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Raymond to focus on consolidation amid second Covid wave||Corporate India is beginning to feel the pinch of the surging second wave of Covid-19 infections and the local lockdowns. However, Gautam Hari Singhania, chairman and managing director of Raymond, tells The Telegraph in an interview that in the current circumstances the company will consolidate and strengthen its existing business. As the vaccination drive speeds up, Singhania hopes the situation will stabilise. The government has declared lockdown in some states because of the rising cases but the whole country is not under lockdown.  Right now it’s a very dynamic situation. Some of our manufacturing plants are shut, impacting various businesses. Hence, we have to wait and watch as to how the situation is developing. We are witnessing a huge spurt in cases and various parts of the country are under a partial lockdown, impacting retail operations. As the vaccination drive is picking up and with the announcement of vaccination for over 18 years, the situation should stabilise sooner than later. I would like to say that the government is doing their best to safeguard us as Covid is not going to go away anytime soon and we have to work on the systems and procedures to live with it. On one hand, the manufacturing units are being asked to keep open for the recovery of the economy, but on the other hand the retail shops are shut. One cannot just manufacture products and put in inventory. We need to sell products to expand the economy. Therefore, my recommendation is to keep the retail shops open with utmost safety and right protocols. There is a need to ensure that we continue to take precautions like wearing masks and maintain social distancing along with rapid vaccination to curtail the spread A few states are still functioning so some manufacturing plants are open and some are shut because of the imposed lockdown. Moreover, we have to see the duration of the lockdown as it will build the inventory, hence impacting manufacturing. Apparel business is definitely impacted as customers have stopped stepping out because of the rise in Covid cases. A lockdown and curfew has been imposed in metro cities such as Maharashtra and Delhi, where we have the maximum flagship stores and the footfall at these stores are near to none. Unlike the first wave, the online platforms are also affected because of restricted movements of delivery agents as only essential products are allowed to be delivered. Irrespective of the lockdown, Raymond has developed a strong omni channel capability. Given our expansive store network spanning across more than 600 towns, we are well positioned to service our consumers across India. Our responsibility is to provide our customers with a safe shopping experience. During the lockdown, for consumers who are hesitant to step out of their homes but are keen on buying products from us, we showed our products over video calls. Raymond introduced concierge services during the lockdown last year too. Today at our more than 1,500 stores, we follow stringent hygiene and each staff member has been trained to be compliant with these new working norms. (a) Resetting the business from scratch and starting all over again. (b) Resilience and agility are the key to success. (c) Continued focus on cost rationalisation and effective working capital management. Raymond witnessed an increase in sales during the wedding and festive season in the third quarter last year. The formal segment has witnessed a recovery from November to March. There was a positive momentum. However, with the on-going second wave, there are certain restrictions announced for weddings and festivities. We will have to wait and watch how the situation evolves till the infection numbers show a downward trend. As far as the WFH scenario is concerned, we introduced a special WFH line that includes an athleisure collection. We have set standard protocols and procedures at the stores, which give customers a safe shopping experience. For consumers hesitant to step out of their homes, we offered the video call service that received a good traction in the ongoing wedding season. My approach is go omni-channel, go digital and enhance your customer service. There is no expansion plan as we continue to consolidate. Last year was full of disruptions and the start of the current fiscal is also shaky with the second wave of Covid coming in. Therefore, the focus will be to strengthen the existing businesses. Our B2B businesses such as engineering and auto components have almost come back to pre-Covid levels, and real estate has been doing well for us as we are currently the leading developer in the Thane region. We are continuously adding products in our FMCG portfolio with changing customer sentiments. We launched an exciting range of products in the personal and home hygiene segments along with a new range of fragrances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Lupin, Sun Pharma and Jubilant Cadista recall drugs in US market||Leading generic drug makers Lupin, Sun Pharma and Jubilant Cadista are recalling different products in the US, the world’s largest market for medicines, for different reasons. According to the latest enforcement report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), the US-based unit of Lupin is recalling 17,814 bottles of Cefprozil for Oral Suspension USP, a second-generation antibiotic used to treat infections of the ear, skin and other bacterial infections. The company is recalling the affected lot for being “Superpotent”. The affected lot has been manufactured at Lupin’s Mandideep plant in Madhya Pradesh and distributed in the US by Baltimore-based Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc. Lupin initiated the Class II voluntary recall across the US and Puerto Rico on March 26 this year. Sun Pharma is recalling 13,834 bottles of diabetes drug Riomet (metformin hydrochloride oral solution) in the US due to “Microbial Contamination of Non-Sterile Product”. The affected lot has been distributed in the US by New Jersey-based Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. The company initiated Class II nationwide recall on March 31 this year. US-based Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals is recalling 12,192 bottles of an antifungal medication Itraconazole Capsules due to “Failed Dissolution Specifications”. The company is a fully-owned subsidiary of Cadista Holdings Inc, which is a part of the Noida-based Jubilant Life Sciences Company. The affected lot has been produced by Jubilant Generics at its Roorkee based plant in Uttarakhand and marketed in the US by Salisbury-based Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Jubilant commenced Class II recall in the US on April 1, 2021. A class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Data analytics startup Spocto helps banks to recover loans||A Mumbai-based data analytics company is aiming for a five-fold growth in topline as financial institutions such as banks and non-bank lenders tap the digital route to credit recovery amid challenges of Covid pandemic. Sumeet Srivastava, who has in the past worked in leadership roles in Monsanto and GE, started Spocto with a focus on financial behaviour analytics to help banks save expenses on credit recovery. Srivastava said that banks typically budget around 2-4 per cent of their loan book for collection-related activities, which can be brought down with the help of technology. The scale of operations got a substantial boost during last year’s lockdown as lenders and financial institutions found it difficult to execute field recovery. “Between April and July last year, during the lockdown, almost all operating parameters such as the number of accounts handled, revenue, employees, got tripled and the trajectory has continued because there is no reason for the banks to go back,” said Srivastava, CEO and founder, Spocto. “Our plan is to cross Rs 100 crore revenue this year. Last three years, we have been averaging 5-6 times growth in the topline,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Petroleum ministry tells ONGC to sell oilfields||The petroleum ministry has told India’s largest oil and gas producer ONGC to sell stake in producing oil fields such as to Ratna R-Series to private firms, get foreign partners in KG basin gas fields, monetise existing infrastructure and hive off drilling and other services into a separate firm to raise production. Amar Nath, additional secretary (exploration) in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, on April 1 wrote to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) chairman and managing director Subhash Kumar giving a seven-point action plan — ‘ONGC Way Forward’ — that would help the firm raise oil and gas production by a third by 2023-24. The action plan calls on ONGC to consider the sale of stake in maturing fields such as Panna-Mukta and Ratna and R-Series in western offshore and onshore fields such as Gandhar in Gujarat to private firms while divesting/privatising “non-performing” marginal fields. It wanted ONGC to bring in global players in gas-rich block KG-DWN-98/2 where output is slated to rise sharply by next year, and in the Ashokenagar block in Bengal, which was recently started production. The Deendayal block in KG basin, which the firm had bought from the Gujarat government-run firm GSPC a couple of years back, has also been identified for the purpose. The ministry also wants the company to explore creating separate entities for drilling, well services, logging, workover services and data processing entities. This is the third attempt by the oil ministry to get ONGC to privatise its oil and gas fields under the Modi government. In October 2017, the directorate general of hydrocarbons, the ministry’s technical arm, had identified 15 producing fields with a collective reserve of 791.2 million tonnes of crude oil and 333.46 billion cubic metres of gas, for handing over to private firms in the hope that they would improve upon the baseline estimate and its extraction. A year later, as many as 149 small and marginal fields of ONGC were identified for private and foreign companies on the grounds that the state-owned firm should focus only on big ones. The first plan couldn’t go through because of strong opposition from ONGC, sources aware of the matter said. The second plan went up to the Cabinet, which on February 19, 2019, decided to bid out 64 marginal fields of ONGC. However, that tender got a tepid response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Essar Oil UK hopes to secure finance deal for Stanlow refinery by June end||Essar Oil UK, which owns the Stanlow refinery in the UK, said it hopes to put together a new financing deal by the end of June to ensure stability of operations and its business. Doubts were raised about business continuity after it was reported that the refinery may cave in after Lloyds Banking Group, the main financier, walked out. It is one of six refineries in the UK producing motor oil and aviation turbine fuel. “After the disruption caused by the pandemic, the company is continuing with its plans to strengthen its balance sheet and is, therefore, expecting to conclude a further financing by the end of June 2021. “The company is confident that this further financing will be concluded swiftly, based on the proposals it has received,” an Essar Oil UK spokesperson said. The Lloyds Banking Group used to provide a receivable securitisation facility to the Stanlow refinery, which allowed the company to get paid when products were sold instead of waiting for customers to pay. The reason for its exit is unknown. Located on the south side of the Mersey estuary near Liverpool, Stanlow produces 16 per cent of UK road transport fuels and the refinery processes 10 million tonnes of crude and feedstock annually. Essar, owned by the Shashi and Ravi Ruia family, bought the refinery from Shell in 2011 for £801 million. The company, which witnessed a few high profile exits in the recent past, has been battling a steep fall in demand for motor oil and ATF over the past year because of the lockdowns. However, demand appeared to be coming back after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. An Essar oil statement noted a significant increase in the products being sold at the refinery, which is now generating a positive EBITDA in the region of $40 million for the second calendar quarter of 2021 (which compares with a negative $18 million in the corresponding quarter of 2020). The company will also benefit further from the anticipated recovery in aviation fuel demand in the coming months, the statement added. The company said it would also deliver operational cost reduction initiatives during the year to further improve the position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Report: Richer nations in Asia-Pacific may recover faster than poorer counterparts post pandemic||Richer countries in the Asia-Pacific region are likely to recover quickly from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic than their poorer counterparts because of variations in the degree of immunity, healthcare system and vaccine roll-out, according to a report. Referring to the much-talked-about K-shaped recovery, which means some groups or countries recover much faster than others, the report said most countries will take years to attain pre-pandemic income levels. “A K-shaped global economic recovery... appears plausible. Most countries will take years to attain pre-pandemic income levels,” said a joint report ‘Responding to the Covid-19 Pandemic: Leaving no Country Behind’ by the ADB, UNDP and the UNESCAP. Reflecting back to the economic recovery process after the 1997-98 financial crisis, the report said the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be “worse”. Advocating that there should not be premature withdrawal of fiscal support by governments across the globe, it said more action is needed, including income support through well-targeted cash transfers, wage subsidies, unemployment insurance tax deferrals, moratoria on debt services as well as equity-like injections into viable firms. The report said that while income equality fell in most of the regions globally during 1995-2015, it rose over 5 percentage points in Asia and the Pacific. “In some 40 per cent of countries in the region, income inequality increased. Worryingly, the market income Gini coefficient soared in China, Indonesia, Bangladesh and India, which are among the five most populous countries in the region and account for over 70 per cent of its population,” the report said. According to the report, the differences in infections and immunity, financial positions, quality and coverage of healthcare systems and COVID-19 vaccine rollout are likely to lead to an uneven recovery across countries in Asia-Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||HCL Tech moves workload to other geographies to tackle Covid challenges||IT services major HCL Technologies is engaging closely with clients to prioritise work and shift some workload from India to other geographies to ensure business continuity as the country grapples with record Covid cases. The company, which expects its 2021-22 revenues to clock double-digit growth in constant currency, is also ramping up its efforts to ensure employees and their families get access to necessary health services amid the second wave of the pandemic. HCL Technologies president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said the company is working with clients to prioritise work. “We have a global organisation. We already have almost 30 per cent of our workforces present outside India. Some geographies have stabilised and their vaccination levels are very high, so they are taking a little more load. Everybody’s very understanding.... including clients and our employees in other geographies,” he added. The company hopes the situation will start to moderate over the next couple of weeks. “Clients are very understanding and supportive. And we are working with them to see how, if there is a shortfall of people in certain operations, what can we do to offset that, how can we prioritise some work over the other... very active conversations happen on a continuous basis,” Vijayakumar said. HCL’s total headcount stood at 1,68,977 at the end of the March quarter with attrition at 9.9 per cent. The company intends to hire about 20,000 freshers in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||India Inc races to ramp up oxygen supplies||India Inc is stepping up supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to support the embattled hospitals across the country that are unable to provide round the clock oxygen support to Covid-19 patients. Steel majors such as JSW Steel, Tata Steel and SAIL which have large industrial grade oxygen capacities have repurposed output in order to increase medical grade supplies to states ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic. Moreover, conglomerates such as Reliance Industries Ltd, ITC and Adani Group are also chipping in to increase production and facilitate transportation of LMO. The ministry of steel stated that Indian plants, both in the public and private sectors, produced 3,474 tonnes of LMO on Saturday, twice what they were producing a week earlier. They managed to dispatch 2,894 tonnes of LMO on the same day. There are 33 oxygen plants in the private and public sectors in India and 29 of these are being tapped regularly. Steel plants require gaseous oxygen, primarily for steel making and for oxygen enrichment in blast furnaces, apart from some general purposes like lancing and gas cutting. The captive oxygen plants of the integrated steel producers are designed to produce primarily gaseous products of oxygen, nitrogen and argon which are used to meet the process needs at desired pressure. Such plants can produce a maximum of 56 per cent liquid oxygen at peak capacity. Medical grade oxygen has a higher concentration compared with industrial oxygen. Plants can only optimise liquid oxygen production by sacrificing some gaseous oxygen and optimising process parameters. However, steel majors suggested that ramping up production would not hurt their steelmaking capacity in any manner. JSW Steel, which is producing 898 tonnes of LMO on an average over the last three days — the highest by any steel company in India — says there will be a ‘zero impact’ on steel production. The company said it plans to increase production of LMO to over 900 tonnes from May onwards and supply to states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. SAIL, which has five plants in four states, is also supplying 800 tonnes per day (TPD) of oxygen while Tata Steel and AM/NS, are contributing 500 TPD and 210 TPD respectively. RIL is the other big supplier outside the steel sector, providing over 700 TPD of oxygen primarily to the state of Gujarat. The transportation of LMO from the production sites to the consumption centres is proving to be a bigger challenge as this requires cryogenic containers to carry liquid gas at a subzero temperature. The Tata Group, ITC and Adani have stepped in to source such containers from southeast Asian countries and the Middle East. The Tatas and ITC have said they will procure 24 such containers each and airlift them to India. A part of the consignment — each container with a 20tonne capacity — has already reached India. These containers will be mounted on trucks or railway rakes to reach supplies to the consumption sites. Eastern states such as Bengal and Odisha, which have many steel plants, are currently reporting a surplus in oxygen while states like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are in deficit. However, the northern states have an acute shortage of oxygen supplies and the producers are struggling to surmount a mammoth challenge even after increasing the number of containers. The process of filling a tanker and emptying at the hospital takes about six hours in itself which is in addition to the time taken to transport the containers over long distances. As a result, states like Delhi continue to gasp for oxygen even though countrywide production of oxygen outstrips cumulative demand. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has asked importers of oxygen and coronavirus related medicines to fill up a single page online form giving description of the goods and its end use in case they face any difficulty in getting prompt customs clearance. All major ports have been urged to waive all charges for ships carrying oxygen and related equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Pension posers: decoding National Pension Scheme||The National Pension Scheme is a government-backed retirement savings programme. It allows the public to invest in a mix of pension funds which manage equity, government bonds, and corporate debt. The ratio can be selected according to the investor’s age and risk appetite. Apart from creating a retirement fund that can be availed when the investor turns 60, the NPS also allows investors to claim income tax deductions through the investment period. Upon maturity at age 60, investors can withdraw 60 per cent of the corpus tax-free, but need to invest 40 per cent of the balance in an annuity plan. An annuity plan is an income scheme that you purchase from one of India’s 12 annuity service providers (ASPs) and receive a monthly income — a guaranteed pension for life. This requirement, a pet peeve with NPS investors, is expected to undergo moderate change. Earlier in April, the chairman of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) announced that it is considering modifying the rules of the scheme, which would impact the investor’s options on maturity. At present, if your NPS balance is up to Rs 2 lakh, you can withdraw the whole amount on maturity and not have to purchase annuity. The PFRDA is mulling raising this limit to Rs 5 lakh so that more eligible investors can make a full withdrawal on maturity and not be stuck with an annuity plan that pays peanuts as pension. Interest rates have plummeted in recent years. Pension plans being guaranteed income schemes invest in securities generating assured returns. Since assured returns have reduced due to falling interest rates, pension plans pay a paltry 5-6 per cent now before tax. As pension is taxable according to the slab rate, the net returns may be negative after accounting for inflation. Therefore, annuity plans in their current form don’t make for great investments. PFRDA acknowledged this. Therefore, they now propose a full withdrawal for investors with a balance up to Rs 5 lakh. However, this still leaves those investors, who will retire with much bigger balances, to buy annuity plans compulsorily and be stuck with the same problems. Would the NPS get rid of the annuity requirement completely in the future? We do not know. Let’s consider why people invest in NPS. It offers tax deductions. Against your NPS contributions, you can claim deductions up to Rs 2 lakh under Section 80CCD, which covers the 80C limit of Rs 1.5 lakh. Those who meet the 80C limit through other means such as PPF can still deduct the additional Rs 50,000 for NPS contributions under 80CCD. Second, the NPS is an extremely low-cost investment scheme, cheaper than an active mutual fund, for example, and comparable to other low-cost investments such as index funds and ETFs. Third, investing in this scheme could potentially provide you better long-term returns in comparison to other retirement schemes such as the Public Provident Fund (7.1 per cent per annum) or Employees’ Provident Fund (8.5 per cent). Under the NPS, several equity schemes have provided five-year returns exceeding 10 per cent per annum; many of its government and corporate debt schemes have returned over 9 per cent over the same period. However, these returns would be lower compared to investments in equity-oriented mutual funds. The Tier 1 NPS account needs you to adhere to the lock-ins, but that’s not the worst thing about the scheme. When you invest in PPF or EPF, you get your whole money back on maturity. With NPS, you are forced to buy annuity which offers low, fully taxable returns.You could anyway generate this return on your own by parking the same fund in a fixed deposit scheme, or investing for higher returns in the securities market, and you could liquidate those investments at any moment. Therefore, viewed in balance, NPS offers benefits which get diluted by the annuity requirement. The reduced access to your own funds is a problem. However, the NPS recognises this. How the scheme may evolve in order to address this issue remains to be seen. Till then, you could access NPS for the benefits it offers, namely tax deductions, low costs of investing, and above-average long-term returns, but also understand your alternatives. For example, if you invested Rs 50,000 once every year for 30 years assuming a rate of return of 9 per cent, your corpus will be approximately Rs 69 lakh, plus you’ll get additional value through tax-savings of Rs 4.5 lakh assuming the 30 per cent slab. Therefore, the projected value of this investment plan would be under Rs 75 lakh. Conversely, you could create about the same value through a systematic investment plan in a mutual fund, investing Rs 4,167 (that’s 50,000/12). At annual rates of 9 per cent, 12 per cent, and 15 per cent over 30 years, this plan could create approximately Rs 77 lakh, Rs 1.47 crore, or Rs 2.92 crore. You may not get additional tax deductions against this investment but the result may be the same. The mutual fund would also provide you instant liquidity without lock-ins and other cumbersome rules that come with NPS withdrawals. The other alternative is that you may simply invest via a Tier 2 NPS account to make withdrawals at your convenience but forgo the tax deductions. In summation, NPS has benefits which get offset by its limitations. Your options are many. Choose one that’s best for you. The writer is CEO of BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||India||Modi and Biden discuss India's Covid situation over telephone||US President Joe Biden on Monday conveyed solidarity with India in its fight against Covid-19 and asserted that his country was determined to support its efforts by quickly deploying resources such as therapeutics, ventilators and identifying sources of raw materials to be made available for the manufacture of Covishield vaccine, according to a statement here. Biden expressed the support of the US to India in a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during which the two leaders discussed the pandemic situation in their countries, including India's ongoing efforts to contain a second wave of Covid-19 through expedited vaccination efforts, and ensuring supply of critical medicines, therapeutics and medical equipment. Modi also informed Biden about India's initiative at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a relaxation in the norms of the Agreement on TRIPS to ensure quick and affordable access to vaccines and medicines for developing countries, the statement said. "Had a fruitful conversation with @POTUS @JoeBiden today. We discussed the evolving Covid situation in both countries in detail. I thanked President Biden for the support being provided by the United States to India. "My discussion with @POTUS @JoeBiden also underscored the importance of smooth and efficient supply chains of vaccine raw materials and medicines. India-US healthcare partnership can address the global challenge of COVID-19," Modi tweeted. According to the statement, Modi conveyed his heartfelt appreciation for the offer of assistance and support from the US. He mentioned India's commitment to contain the Covid-19 pandemic globally through 'Vaccine Maitri', and its participation in COVAX and the Quad Vaccine Initiatives. Modi underscored the need to ensure smooth and open supply chains of raw materials and inputs required for manufacture of vaccines, medicines, and therapeutics related to Covid-19. Both leaders underlined the potential of the India-US partnership in vaccine development and supply to address the Covid-19 pandemic, and directed their respective officials to maintain close coordination and cooperation in their efforts in this domain, the statement said. The two leaders agreed to remain in regular touch. The US president and his Vice President Kamala Harris had earlier assured India and its people of providing all assistance, including urgently sending necessary medical life-saving supplies and equipment, to help the country combat the deadly coronavirus crisis. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need," Biden had said in a tweet. The coronavirus situation remained grim in India with the daily Covid-19 infection tally and death toll touching new peaks in the past few days. India recorded 3,52,991 cases, the highest so far, taking the infection tally to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Situation in India is ‘beyond heartbreaking’, says WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus||As India battles a catastrophic Coivd-19 second wave, the World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday the situation in the country is "beyond heartbreaking" and the organization is sending extra staff and supplies there to help fight the pandemic "The situation in India is beyond heartbreaking," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters. "WHO is doing everything we can, providing critical equipment and supplies, including thousands of oxygen concentrators, prefabricated mobile field hospitals, and laboratory supplies," Tedros told a briefing. More than 2,600 of its experts from various programmes, including polio and tuberculosis, to work with Indian health authorities to help respond to the pandemic, informed WHO. A surge in recent days has seen patients' families taking to social media to beg for oxygen supplies and locations of available hospital beds, and has forced the capital New Delhi to extend a week-long lockdown. India with a population of 1.3 billion has become the latest hotspot of the pandemic that has killed more than three million people worldwide, even as richer countries take steps towards normality with quickening inoculation programmes. The US and Britain rushed ventilators and vaccine materials to help India weather the devastating crisis, while a range of other countries also pledged support. Tedros on Monday lamented that global new case numbers have been rising for the past nine weeks straight. "To put it in perspective," he said, "there were almost as many cases globally last week as in the first five months of the pandemic." The United States remains the worst-affected country, with some 572,200 deaths and over 32 million infections, followed by Brazil and Mexico. But India, in fourth place, has in recent days been driving the global case numbers. The country, which has recorded over 195,000 deaths, registered 2,812 new deaths and 352,991 new infections on Monday alone -- its highest tolls since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Centre asks Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech to lower price of vaccines||The central government on Monday asked the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to lower the price of their Covid-19 vaccines amid criticism from various states who accused the companies of profiteering during such a major crisis. The issue of vaccine pricing was discussed at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. Now the two companies are expected to come up with revised pricing for their vaccines. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine, 'Covishield', for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. Both vaccines are available to the central government at a rate of Rs 150 per dose. The Centre has relaxed its vaccination strategy in the third phase under which the country's large 18-plus population will get inoculated from May 1. Under the new strategy, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. The government had said the manufacturers would have to make an advance declaration of the price for the 50 per cent supply that would be available to the state governments and in the open market. Many states have objected to different prices for the vaccines, with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying this is not time for profiteering. Kerjiwal also appealed to the vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to Rs 150 a dose, saying that they have an entire lifetime to earn profits but this is a time to show humanity. He said the central government should cap the price of vaccines, if needed. Terming the new anti-Covid vaccine policy "discriminatory and insensitive", the Congress on Sunday accused the government of allowing vaccine makers to profiteer to the tune of Rs 1.11 lakh crore. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The population below 45 years of age is 101 crore. To vaccinate them, we need 202 crore doses and the cost of these will have to be borne by the states or the individuals themselves. Based on this and assuming that states will provide 50 per cent vaccination and individuals will bear 50 per cent of vaccination cost, the profit of the two vaccine manufacturers -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- will be Rs 1,11,100 crore." "The Modi government is guilty of permitting brazen profiteering of vaccination. The Modi government is also guilty of abdicating its responsibility and abandoning the young of India between the age group of 18 and 45 years," he alleged and demanded free vaccination of all Indians. The Serum Institute of India (SII) has, however, defended pricing Covishield vaccine at 1.5 times the initial rate, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it has to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots. In a statement on Saturday, the Serum Institute clarified that there was an "inaccurate comparison" done between the global prices of the vaccine with India. "Covishield is the most affordable COVID-19 vaccine available in the market today," SII said. Emphasising that the company has to ensure sustainability, SII said, "The current situation is extremely dire; the virus is constantly mutating while the public remains at risk. Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives." "The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat COVID-19 and other life-threatening diseases," it added. Announcing the price of its coronavirus vaccine, Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna M Ella said that recovering cost is essential in the journey of innovation towards other vaccines such as intranasal Covid-19, Chikungunya, Zika, and Cholera. The government on Monday stressed on expediting the vaccination drive as a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic ripped through the country. India's daily Covid-19 infection tally and death toll have touched new peaks in the past few days. The country recorded 3,52,991 cases, the highest so far, taking the tally of cases to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Amid rising Covid cases, Karnataka govt announces 'close down' for 14 days||The Karnataka government on Monday announced what it termed as a 'close down' across the state for 14 days from Tuesday night in a bid to contol the huge spike in COVID-19 cases in the state. The state cabinet led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also decided to provide COVID-19 vaccinations free of cost at government hospitals for those between 18-44 years of age. "Strict measures to control COVID will be taken. From tomorrow night till the next 14 days, there will be a close down for the whole state," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after a three hour long cabinet meeting here, he said shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to remain open only from 6 am to 10 am. "The agriculture sector, manufacturing sector, construction sector and medical and essential sectors will continue to operate," he said. However, no permission has been granted to garments under the manufacturing sector, the intention being that there should not be any problem as about seven to eight lakh people in very close proximity to each other in the factories. Night curfew, which is in place now between 9 PM to 6 AM, would continue, the Chief Minister said. Transport services would not ply during the close down period, but there would be no restrictions on movement of goods and essential services. Deputy Commissioners of all districts and Tahsildars have been instructed to take strict measures, he said. "If things don't come under control in two weeks, continuing it (strict measures) may become inevitable. People will have to cooperate." Despite bringing into effect lockdown-like measures, the government stopped short of calling it as such and instead used the term "close down". To a question seeking clarification whether it is a lockdown or half lockdown, Yediyurappa said, "you can interpret it however you want. We have clearly stated what measures we want to bring into effect... we have given relaxation between 6 am to 10 am and to certain sectors. On why the government was not using the term lockdown, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said "what term is used is not important, the measures taken are important." Yediyurappa said the cabinet took the decisions on imposing strict restrictions after consulting the expert committee, as the covid case numbers in Bengaluru and surrounding areas have surpassed that of Maharashtra. The Chief Secretary would issue an order, dwelling on the guidelines, in a few hours, he said. The Chief Minister said essential services like banking among others would continue to operate, as also take-aways at hotels, restaurants and liquor shops. "It has been decided to postpone all elections for six months," he added. The state government had last week stopped short of announcing a full-fledged lockdown and had preferred night curfews and a weekend curfew till May 4, keeping in mind the need to keep economic activities going. However, with the state facing a huge spike in COVID-19 cases, the government on Monday announced new measures. Karnataka on Sunday had reported the biggest single day spike of 34,804 new COVID-19 cases and 143 related fatalities, taking the caseload to 13.39 lakh and the toll to 14,426. The total number of active cases stood at 2,62,162. On COVID vaccination, the Chief Minister said it would be given free of cost at government hospitals for those aged between 18 and 44 years. "The health department will draw up the guidelines required. For those above 45 years the Centre is giving vaccines free of cost," he said. The state government on Thursday had decided to purchase one crore doses of Covishield vaccine at a cost of Rs 400 crore, in the first phase. The Centre had recently announced that the vaccination for those above 18 years will begin across the country from May 1 as part of the third phase of the inoculation drive. The CM clarified that there is no shortage of oxygen and said the Centre has increased the daily quota to the state from 300 metric tonnes to 800 metric tonnes. He also said that the union government has increased Karnataka's allocation of Remdesivir from 50,000 to 1,22,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Madras HC slams EC, calls it the most irresponsible institution||The Madras High Court on Monday castigated the Election Commission over the COVID-19 second wave in the country, holding it 'singularly' responsible for the spread, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The EC allowing political parties to take out rallies and meetings had led to the spread of the pandemic,the court said. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the stinging observation on a public interest writ from Karur AIADMK candidate and Transport Minister M R Vijayabaskar for the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to authorities to ensure fair counting of votes on May 2 in Karur by taking effective steps and proper arrangements with COVID-19 protocols. Since as many as 77 candidates are contesting from Karur constituency, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect observance of the protocols, the petitioner alleged. When counsel for the EC told the judges that all necessary steps were underway, the bench shot back saying that by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and meetings, it (Commission) had paved the way for the resurgence of the second wave of the deadly virus. Irked over the submission of the EC counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the Chief Justice replied that the EC must be 'singularly' held responsible for the second wave of the pandemic spike in the country. The bench even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges. The judges also orally warned that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 15,000 new covid cases, while its active cases are in excess of one lakh. Elections had been held in four states--Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and West Bengal and the union territory of Puducherry and the counting of polled votes will be taken up on May 2. While voting is over in all the other states, the seventh of the eight-phase polling in West Bengal is underway on Monday, with the last phase scheduled on April 29. Earlier, the Calcutta High Court had expressed dissatisfaction with the EC over the enforcement of COVID-19 health safety norms during the ongoing West Bengal assembly election process, including campaigning. On April 22, hearing three public interest litigations (PILs) seeking enforcement of Covid protocol during the polls, a division bench presided by Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan had said issuance of circulars and holding meetings on Covid safety were not enough. It later directed the competent authorities to make the people of West Bengal abide by the restrictions imposed by the Commission on public behaviour regarding protective protocol for Covid-19 in the state, which also has witnessed an alarming rise in infections. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday demanded withdrawal of central forces to contain covid spread in West Bengal in the next phase of polling, while welcoming the Madras High Courts observations that the Election Commission could not avoid blame for the spread of Covid. "I welcome the Madras High Court order, which clearly said the EC cannot escape its responsibility. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and EC are responsible for the (current) situation (of Covid spreading in the state)," Banerjee alleged at a workers meeting in North Kolkata where party candidates and workers were present. "I am requesting please withdraw the around 2 lakh- strong central forces drawn from covid-hit states, who are camping in schools and colleges and safe homes hampering covid management operations 75 per cent of them may be infected by the virus. Please withdraw them in the last phase, " she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Thirteen Covid patients dead in Haryana due to lack of oxygen||Thirteen patients died in the private hospitals of Haryana on Sunday allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen. Protests broke out at a hospital in Haryana's Hisar district today after five coronavirus patients died this morning and their families alleged that a shortage of medical oxygen was the cause, reported NDTV.com Four patients died at a hospital Rewari, about 330 km from the state capital Chandigarh following which the district administration launched an investigation to ascertain the reason. Meanwhile, Gurgaon district administration ordered a probe into the death of four patients in a private hospital after reports that they died due to alleged oxygen shortage in the facility. The hospital authorities denied these reports and said those who expired were critically ill. After the deaths in Rewari, relatives of some of the patients, who were admitted to the designated COVID facility, held a protest outside the building complex alleging there was a grave shortage of medical oxygen. "Three patients died in the ICU,while one patient died in the ward. We have limited oxygen supplies. We are repeatedly telling the administration about this and have been sending them reminders," an official of the hospital in Rewari told reporters outside the building. "We have been sending empty oxygen cylinders to vendors to fill them again. Since 9 am, we have been telling the authorities that we have limited stock," he said. The hospital official said the hospital has a consumption of 300 medical oxygen cylinders per day. "There are 114 COVID patients admitted in the hospital," he said. Narnaul Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar, who is currently officiating as the DC of Rewari district, said the allegations of oxygen shortage and four deaths were made by the hospital. "The sub divisional magistrate, chief medical officer and other officials are at the hospital to find out what led to these deaths. They (the hospital) are claiming that there was an oxygen shortage. However, from the administration's end, regular supply has been given. So, we are finding out where the gap arose, all this is being investigated, Kumar had told PTI over phone earlier in the day. A person whose aunt was admitted to the hospital could be seen pleading with some police officials outside the facility, asking them to do something immediately to ensure that the hospital gets adequate stock of medical oxygen. Meanwhile, the Gurgaon hospital, where four patients died allegedly due to oxygen shortage, said, "These patients had severe COVID. Although, we are facing a crunch of oxygen supply, in the case of these patients, it was not that we ran out of oxygen. Being critically ill, their oxygen saturation levels dropped sharply. The doctors tried their best to revive them, but unfortunately they passed away." In the case of COVID patients who are critically ill, one cannot predict when the saturation levels will fall, one of the owners of the private hospital told PTI over phone. She said that given the present surge in demand of oxygen some of the patient's attendants have arranged some cylinders as a back up on their own. However, the Gurgaon district magistrate took cognisance of the incident and ordered a probe which would ascertain the circumstances leading to the deaths despite claims that oxygen was available. The probe will be conducted by Sub Divisional Magistrate Jitender Kumar, according to an official statement. Haryana has seen a rise in coronavirus cases and fatalities in the current month. The demand for medical liquid oxygen has also increased in hospitals. Due to the increased demand to cater to critical COVID patients, the Haryana government on Sunday prohibited all oxygen manufacturing units or suppliers of oxygen in the state from providing the gas to industries till further orders. "It is further directed that these units will provide their entire production of oxygen for medical purposes," a state government order said. These units are also directed to produce oxygen to their maximum capacity and maintain a record of the manufacturing and distribution on a daily basis," it further said. However, industries like pharmaceutical, petroleum refineries, steel plants, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, food and water purification etc have been exempted from the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.52 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,812 casualties in a day||With 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 28,13,658 comprising 16.25 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.62 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,43,04,382. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,93,21,177 samples have been tested up to April 25 with 14,02,367 samples being tested on Sunday. The 2,812 new fatalities include 832 from Maharashtra, 350 from Delhi, 206 from Uttar Pradesh, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 157 from Gujarat, 143 from Karnataka, and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,95,123 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 64,760 from Maharashtra, 14,426 from Karnataka, 14,248 from Delhi, 13,557 from Tamil Nadu, 11,165 from Uttar Pradesh, 10,941 from West Bengal, 8,432 from Punjab and 7,685 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid: AIIMS doctor speaks of traumatic choices||Suvrankar Datta, a Covid-positive doctor isolated in his room in a Delhi apartment, hopes his infection remains mild as he is unsure he will get a bed easily even at the hospital where he works — the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. The institute, where Datta is pursuing postgraduate studies in radio-diagnosis, was on Sunday night bursting with patients, occupying almost all its beds and its emergency department where over 24 patients were on critical care support and more than 100 were on “oxygen points”. As India’s second Covid-19 wave continues to surge with more than 349,000 new patients recorded nationwide on Sunday morning, doctors say hospital beds, oxygen and even some medicines are in short supply in the hardest-hit locations. “Over a 24-hour period, we now get between 100 to 150 patients who require oxygen support. We hold them, providing all support we can, until a hospital bed becomes available,” said a senior resident in the emergency department. “We have some patients here three or four days, waiting for a bed. We’re helpless.” A patient can be moved only when a bed becomes available either at the AIIMS Trauma Centre or the AIIMS facility at Jhajjar (Haryana), both managing Covid-19 patients. A bed becomes available only after a patient is ready for discharge or dies. Under the limited resources, one resident said, emergency department doctors now often face difficult triage choices — deciding which patient the available resource should go to —  almost every day. “We’re in a disaster-like situation. If we have a 28-year-old and an 80-year-old and both need critical life-saving intervention, we’d offer it to the 28-year old,” the resident said. “We’re helpless; we have to do this to save as many lives as we can.” Datta, who grew up in Calcutta and obtained his MBBS from the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, had been on emergency duty before he tested positive on Friday. He is now on a standard prescribed regimen of vitamin C, zinc, doxycycline, ivermectin, steam inhalation four times a day and gargles twice a day. “I’m hoping I won’t need a bed,” he said on Sunday. “We expect the demand for beds to go up in the coming days.” Doctors say about 90 per cent of Covid-19 patients develop mild illness, do not require hospital care and recover with supportive treatment at home. But the second wave has surged so fast in some places that the numbers of patients have far exceeded the available hospital beds. A Delhi government dashboard available via a mobile app that tracks bed availability across the national capital every few hours showed on Sunday night that 4,662 of the 4,675 available intensive care unit beds were occupied. Only 13 were available, 2 at the AIIMS Trauma Centre and 11 at the Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital. “The app is misleading. We have over 100 patients in emergency waiting to be shifted,” said the senior resident in the emergency department. “Misleading information brings great inconvenience to people who see the status on the app and rush to AIIMS to get beds.” AIIMS director Randeep Guleria told The Telegraph that the institute had over 900 Covid-19 patients admitted along with trauma and cancer patients. “Our beds are not vacant; we’re trying our best,” Guleria said. Guleria and other doctors are worried that panic among sections of the public is exacerbating the strain on hospitals, staff and resources. “Eighty-five to 90 per cent of patients do not need any hospital care, neither oxygen support nor drugs like remdesivir,” he said. Clinical management guidelines updated by the AIIMS earlier this week iterate that patients whose oxygen levels are above 92 do not need hospital care. But doctors are concerned that some patients or their families have procured oxygen cylinders or the antiviral drug remdesivir. “A patient whose oxygen level changes from 97 to 96 or 95 shouldn’t assume that he or she is deteriorating,” said a senior pulmonary medicine specialist. “The guidelines are very clear: seek hospital care only below 92 or 90.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid: Where are the vaccines, ask states||Health ministers from Congress-ruled states on Sunday objected to the differential pricing of vaccines for the Centre and the states, but asked the Union government to ensure availability of doses to make the drive to inoculate those aged 18 to 45 successful. “We approached the (Covishield maker) Serum Institute of India to buy vaccines. They told us they were not in a position to supply to the states as the Centre’s orders would be completed (only) by May 15,” Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said. Currently, the Centre is supplying vaccines free to the states to vaccinate those aged 45 and above. From May 1, when all adults become eligible for the jab, the states will have to buy the vaccines from the manufacturers at prices far higher than that charged to the Centre. On Sunday, the health ministers of Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand -- ruled by the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance — said at a joint news conference they were ready to pay for the doses despite the irrationality of the differential pricing. However, they said, the manufacturers didn’t seem to be in a position to supply the required volume of vaccines. They argued that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had bungled in the quest to play politics and shift to the states the responsibility to vaccinate those aged 18 to 45. “We will pay but where is the vaccine?... The Centre hasn’t even given us enough remdesivir and oxygen,” Sharma said. Chhattisgarh health minister T.S. Singhdeo accused the Centre of playing politics with the vaccination drive. “The states will fund the drive to vaccinate those aged between 18 and 45 but the certificate will carry Modi’s photograph. Even that is fine but the Centre should have planned before the rollout of the new plan, making sure there was no vaccine shortage,” he said. The health ministers of Punjab and Jharkhand, Balbir Sidhu and Banna Gupta, made similar points. All the ministers expressed outrage at the Modi government’s decision to allow the vaccine manufacturers to fix prices for the states and private hospitals that are higher than the Rs 150 per dose the Centre had negotiated for itself. Covishield will cost the states Rs 400 a dose and private hospitals Rs 600; while the corresponding figures for Covaxin are Rs 600 and Rs 1,200. Sharma said: “The Centre should not only have fixed the price for the states but also finalised the quotas and delivery schedule.” Gupta said: “The people will say it’s now the states’ responsibility without realising that vaccines are not available. We can’t produce vaccines at our home.” The health ministers said the cash-strapped states had ramped up testing facilities and increased the number of hospital beds but the Centre had not worked out an effective plan to supply oxygen. “We have surplus oxygen and conveyed to the Centre that we can give to the other states if transport is arranged. No tanker has come,” Singhdeo said. The health ministers contested Modi’s claim that Covid hadn’t spread to rural areas. They accused the Centre of discriminatory allotment of remdesivir and oxygen, arguing the quotas hadn’t been fixed according to the states’ populations or volume of patients. “Rajasthan has 1.27 lakh (Covid) patients but got 140 tonnes of oxygen while Gujarat got 927 tonnes with 1 lakh infections,” Sharma said. “Rajasthan got 26,500 remdesivir (doses) and Gujarat 1.6 lakh.” Gupta said the Prime Minister had used the pandemic for partisan politics and political propaganda. “Modiji says mask zaroori, do gaj ki doori. He then holds election rallies where thousands jostle with one another. He imposed a total lockdown on four hours’ notice when the cases were few, and now argues against lockdowns when they (cases) have peaked,” Gupta said. The Congress central leadership too has taken up the issue of pricing. “The government’s ineptitude has been called out by the two vaccine manufacturers who have now put five prices on the table for similar vaccines and the government is silent,” former finance minister P. Chidambaram said. “It is time to call the bluff of the two manufacturers. The way to do it is to invoke compulsory licensing and invite price bids from other pharma manufacturers that will include royalty payable to SII (Serum Institute) and (Covaxin maker) Bharat Biotech. “L1, L2 (lowest and second-lowest bidder), etc, will reveal the true cost of manufacturing of the two vaccines, including a reasonable profit. There is a body of opinion that holds that even at Rs 150 per dose, the two current manufacturers will make a small profit. If true, at Rs 400-1,000, it will be profiteering. Perhaps that is what the government wants. Will the ministry of health please respond?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Modi government has introduced the most discriminatory and insensitive vaccination policy in the entire world. The government’s vaccination policy has deregulated 50 per cent of the production of the two vaccine manufacturers as free from price regulations altogether.” Surjewala added: “A rough calculation suggests, assuming that states will provide 50 per cent of the vaccination and individuals will bear 50 per cent of the vaccination cost, that the profit of the two vaccine manufacturers will be Rs 111,100 crore. They will profiteer even from the 28 per cent population that lives below the poverty line.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Modi silent on oxygen crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Covid outbreak was “testing our patience” and ability to “endure misery” but spoke not a word on the oxygen crisis that has claimed dozens of lives in the country. Rather unusually, his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, devoted most of its time to carrying Modi’s conversations with healthcare workers who appeared to play down the outbreak’s severity and the shortage of key medicines like remdesivir, and painted a rosy picture of good treatment and high recoveries. Several high courts, including Delhi High Court, have over the past few days expressed concern at the poor Covid management by the central and state governments, and public health experts have blamed the crisis partly on the Centre’s lack of preparedness and planning. “My dear countrymen, namaskar. Today, I’m expressing my mann ki baat at a time when the corona(virus) is testing our patience; it is testing to the limit (people’s ability to) endure misery,” Modi said. He was silent on the cause of much of that misery: the Centre’s failure to provide enough oxygen to hospitals. At least 45 Covid patients died in Delhi on Friday and Saturday after their hospitals fell short of oxygen. After Modi made a cursory reference to how the second “toofan” (storm) of the pandemic had “shaken the country”, the broadcast shifted to airing optimistic comments by doctors, nurses and other frontline workers that seemed aimed at glossing over the government’s lapses. Apart from making the obvious point that people shouldn’t panic, these healthcare workers in their prerecorded conversations with Modi  largely portrayed the country’s health system as having risen to the challenge. “This time, for emerging victorious in this battle, we have to accord priority to expert and scientific advice,” Modi said. The programme then aired his conversation with a Mumbai doctor, Sashank Joshi, who said he was experienced in treating Covid patients. “Dr Sashank, I would like you to tell people about the second wave. How different is it medically, what precautions are necessary?” Modi asked. “Thank you, sir. This second deluge, which has come in rapidly, is fastermoving than the first wave,” the doctor replied. “But the good thing is that the recovery rate is higher and the mortality rate pretty low.” Modi made encouraging noises. “There is absolutely no need to be scared,” the doctor continued. “What they call ‘mutation’, there’s absolutely no need to be afraid of that. These mutations keep happening  the way we change clothes, the virus keeps changing its colours. There is nothing to fear and we shall overcome this wave too.” Dr Sashank spoke out against people running after “expensive treatments”, referring by name to remdesivir, a key anti-Covid drug that happens to be in short supply. He urged people to rely on cheap medicines. “Sir, I want to clarify that we have the world’s best treatment available. You will see that India has the best recovery rate. If you compare Europe, America, our patients are recovering through our treatment protocols,” the doctor said. India’s recovery rate happens to be among the world’s best but experts have suggested this owes mainly to the country having a younger population compared to Western nations. Besides, there have been allegations of gross and deliberate underreporting of Covid deaths, which if true would artificially inflate the apparent recovery rate. Modi also spoke to a Kashmiri doctor, Naveed Nazeer Shah, who too said the second wave was nothing to panic about and urged people to maintain Covid protocols and take the vaccine. Unlike last year when he had dictated measures like a nationwide lockdown, Modi on Sunday appeared to leave the Covid battle to the states, much as his government has done in the matter of the vaccination of those aged 18 to 45. “The Government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to the endeavours of the state governments,” Modi said. “The state governments too are trying their best to fulfil their responsibilities.” The Modi administration’s attempts to lob the ball in the states’ court is being widely seen as a way of ensuring that the state governments, and not the Centre, face the fire for the suffering caused by the second wave of the epidemic. BJP managers have been blaming the Opposition-ruled states even for the oxygen crisis at their hospitals, accusing them of mismanaging the distribution of the gas allotted by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Agra Covid patients denied oxygen, ambulances, pyres and dignity||Denied an incinerator or pyre for hours in Agra, a dead Covid patient’s relatives drove him 90km to Aligarh to cremate him on Saturday evening. Another Covid victim’s son tied him to the top of his car and drove to a crematorium in Agra after failing to find an ambulance on Saturday evening for the dead man’s last journey. In the city of the Taj Mahal that remains the face of India to many across the world, the Covid surge and a collapsing infrastructure is denying the dead not just oxygen, pyres and ambulances but also dignity. On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients — about 1,000 in all — because of the lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, said. It’s not clear yet how many of these patients were critical or may have died after discharge. Prempal Singh, a train driver who had tested positive on Thursday, died in an Agra hospital on Saturday. “We kept shuttling between the two crematories in Agra city but didn’t get any space,” his son Krishna Kumar Lodhi, a resident of Agra’s Awadhpuri Colony, said. “At 3pm, an employee at one of the crematories told us to leave the body, saying space would become available after nine hours. We contacted our relatives in Aligarh and they arranged a pyre at the Numaish Ground crematorium. We performed the last rites in Aligarh late in the night.” Mohit Kumar had secured a slot at Agra’s Tajganj crematorium for his father Awadhesh Kumar but could not find an ambulance. Eventually, he tied his father to the roof of his sedan. “Despite running four incinerators for 20 hours a day, we are unable to cremate all the bodies,” Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, the official in charge of the Tajganj crematorium, said. “We have stopped counting the bodies. Most of them are dead corona(virus) patients.” Jaswant Kumar, a worker at Agra’s second crematory — the traditional cremation ground of Kailash Mokshdham — said: “We used to cremate three or four bodies a day; now we burn two or three every hour. Arranging firewood is a challenge.” Dr Yadav, the IMA official, said: “The state government has earmarked 34 centres as Covid hospitals in Agra. There were 3,340 patients in these hospitals on Saturday when all of them ran out of oxygen.” He said most of the hospitals somehow managed to arrange a few cylinders through their own efforts, but 10 could not and had to discharge all their Covid patients. By and large, only those Covid patients who need oxygen support are now admitted to hospital. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital told reporters: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.” A doctor in Agra said on the condition of anonymity: “The government’s focus is on Lucknow because of media pressure. We don’t think help will reach Agra all the way from the state capital, 333km away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Covid: Volunteers in Ghaziabad do what government should||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Kappan chained like an animal at Mathura hospital, wife tells CJI||The wife of jailed journalist Siddique Kappan has written to the Chief Justice of India alleging that her husband had been chained to his bed “like an animal” at a Mathura hospital where he is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and denied permission to even use the toilet. The lawyer representing Kappan has written to Chief Justice N.V. Ramana on behalf of Raihanath seeking the immediate transfer of the journalist back to Mathura jail, citing inhuman conditions at the hospital where he has been under treatment since Wednesday. The letter filed by lawyer Wills Mathew stated that Kappan “is chained like an animal” to the bed at KM Medical College Hospital in Mathura and he could neither take food nor visit the toilet since being admitted. “If immediate corrective steps are not taken, it will result in his untimely death,” the letter stated. The Delhi-based stringer of a Malayalam news portal was arrested while en route to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl. Three members of the Muslim Right-wing Popular Front of India were arrested along with him from the same car. While Uttar Pradesh police booked them under provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal sections for allegedly trying to foment trouble in Mathura, Kappan has denied any links with the organisation and insisted he had been heading to Hathras only as a reporter. They have since been named in a 5,000-page chargesheet filed in a Mathura court. Raihanath said Kappan had made a desperate call to her around 4.30pm on Saturday from someone’s phone and narrated his predicament. “He told me how he was chained to the bed as soon as he was admitted to the hospital four days ago and never even once allowed to use the toilet. He was forced to urinate in a plastic bottle,” she told The Telegraph on Sunday. Kappan had tested positive for Covid-19  on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Cremations spiral in Kanpur||The number of cremations taking place at Kanpur’s crematoriums has increased several-fold — far more than the 66 deaths officially attributed to the coronavirus in the entire district over the past six days. Data from Bhairoghat and Bhagwatghat crematoriums shows 462 bodies were consigned to flames from April 19 to April 24. People have to wait with the bodies for the last rites and the situation is no different at burial grounds. In last six days, Kanpur Nagar district officially recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths, while 406 cremations took place at Bhairoghat and 56 in Bhagwatghat alone. “The number of cremations has risen several fold in the last week,” said Qamruddin, a Kanpur municipal corporation employee at the Bhairoghat electric crematorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Covid-19: No shield for oxygen tanker drivers||Sohan Singh Aitiana on Sunday sent two trained drivers with empty oxygen tanker trucks from Calcutta to Reliance’s Jamnagar plant. It will take six to seven days for both the drivers to bring back the gas for supply to hospitals in Calcutta. Aitiana, president, Bulk LPG Transport Contractors Association, East India, said he usually deals with transport of LPG. However, the  Bengal government sought his help for deputing drivers for oxygen. The state government does not have adequate trained drivers to do this job. “The drivers of oxygen tanker trucks are highly trained drivers. They travel long distances. Since they have to deliver this life supporting gas at the earliest, they work tirelessly. Now their work pressure is much higher,” Aitiana said. Oxygen is transported in tankers mounted on trucks. Since the drivers enter hospital premises and also eat at roadside dhabas, they get exposed to Covid virus. However, these drivers are yet to be tagged as frontline workers in the fight against Covid. All India Motor Transport Congress (AITC), an apex organisation of transporters, last year demanded to the central government to consider the tanker drivers as frontline workers, cover them under insurance and prioritise their vaccination. “The government discussed the demand. The transport ministry was in favour of it. But somewhere it was rejected,” said Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of AITC. Gupta said there are about 1,000 oxygen tankers available within the country. These are not enough to meet the current demand, he added. The leading manufacturers of oxygen gas as Reliance and Air Water India Private Ltd are supplying the gas. An official of Air Water India Private Ltd said that the drivers are sent by the transporters who provide the trucks. They do not drive during 12am to 5am. Each of them drives by turn every three hours. They also take rest in between. “The work of drivers has increased hugely in the last 15 days because of the increase in demand,” the official said. All India Road Transport Workers’ Federation general secretary K.K. Divakaran said the truck drivers, including those carrying tankers, work up to 15 hours a day. There should be rules to allow them to up to eight hours a day. According to the Factories Act, the normal working period is eight hours a day. Besides, they do not get work for 40 per cent of days. “The central government must come up with a policy to ensure compensation is paid to the drivers for the period they have no work. Besides, the government must ensure free treatment for their family members and social security. They are the lifeline of the nation,” Divakaran said. Only a few states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu provide food assistance to drivers’ families in the Covid period. Other states should follow it, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Centre lectures states on ways to tackle Covid surge||The Centre on Sunday asked states with large numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases and high hospital bed occupancy rates to introduce “intensive action and local containment measures” to restrict intermingling of people and break infection transmission chains. The Union health ministry said all districts where the test positivity — the proportion found Covid-19 positive among those tested — is 10 per cent or higher for a week or where oxygen support of intensive care unit bed occupancy is 60 per cent or higher should consider these measures. The focus would be on “containment” to flatten the epidemic curve through multiple measures, including night curfews and a ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, or other similar gatherings and congregations. Essential services, including healthcare, police, fire, banks, electricity, water, and sanitation, and public transport needed for these services will continue, the government said in a statement released on Sunday night. Shopping malls, cinemas, restaurants, sports complexes, gyms, swimming pools and religious places should remain closed the earmarked districts, the government said. Public transport may operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent. Government and private offices would need to operate at a maximum staff strength of 50 per cent in these districts. All industrial and science establishments may continue to run but the workforce would be expected to maintain physical distancing. The Centre’s advisory comes at a time at least 12 states – Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and Bengal — are showing sharp increases in their daily new cases. The advisory is in line with recommendations from a panel of medical experts that had earlier this month said decisions on local lockdowns to be taken on the basis of trends in transmission, hospital occupancy, and mortality rates. The Lancet India Commission Covid-19 India Task Force panel had said that it does not recommend a national lockdown or even state lockdowns, but India should consider a “middle ground approach” focused on local actions to break infection transmission chains. Several states, including Delhi, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh, have implemented some or all of these restrictions. An analysis by the health ministry a week ago had counted 146 districts across India where the test positivity was more than 15 per cent and would thus qualify for intensive actions. Public health experts have said strong and effective measures to break infection transmission chains would be required wherever the healthcare system is overwhelmed by patients and is facing shortages of hospital beds, oxygen or healthcare staff. “Some of our own doctors and nurses are positive and under isolation – we’re working with fewer staff but more patients,” said a senior doctor in a central government hospital in New Delhi. “Something has to be done as quickly as possible to curb the infection spread.” New Delhi: Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Rajan Mishra, a Padma Bhushan awardee, died of Covid-19 at a hospital on Sunday after his family tried in vain to get him ventilator support. “We were trying for a ventilator but nobody supported us, nothing in any hospital. Later, the Prime Minister's Office reached out to help but he had left us by then,” his son Rajnish  said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death but did not mention that Mishra had died waiting for ventilator support. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||US, Britain offer Covid support to India||The US has promised additional support to Covid-hit India, Britain is sending oxygen concentrators and ventilators, and the European Union has activated its Civil Protection Mechanism to help the Indian medical system fight the pandemic challenge that has overwhelmed it. The Narendra Modi government maintained a studied silence through the day to the US offer of support and did not comment on the subsequent assurances of support that came in later in the evening. The external affairs ministry did not confirm or deny that India had requested the EU to activate its Civil Protection Mechanism, as claimed by the European Commissioner for Crisis Management Janez Lenarcic. According to the website of the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations: “When the scale of an emergency overwhelms the response capabilities of a country, it can request assistance via the Mechanism.” Lenarcic tweeted: “Upon request for assistance by #India, we have activated the #EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The EU will do its utmost to mobilise assistance to support people of India. Our #ERCC is already coordinating EU MS that are ready to provide urgently needed #oxygen & medicine rapidly.” A request to the EU to activate its Civil Protection Mechanism would be an admission by the government that India is overwhelmed by the situation. Earlier, under attack at home and here for turning a blind eye to the pandemic situation in India, the senior leadership of the Biden administration for the first time during this wave of Covid in India publicly took note and assured rapid additional support. “Our hearts go out to the Indian people in the midst of the horrific Covid-19 outbreak. We are working closely with our partners in the Indian government, and we will rapidly deploy additional support to the people of India and India’s health care heroes,” US secretary of state Antony Blinken tweeted on Saturday. This was followed up by a separate tweet from US President Joe Biden’s national security adviser, Jake Sullivan. Sullivan wrote: “The US is deeply concerned by the severe Covid outbreak in India. We are working around the clock to deploy more supplies and support to our friends and partners in India as they bravely battle this pandemic. More very soon.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a statement: “The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support.” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson too pledged support. A consignment of ventilators and oxygen concentrators is expected to reach India by Tuesday. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus,” Johnson said. The offers of help come at a time more countries, including Bangladesh, have begun shuttering down on travel from India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||India||Covid: 12-hour wait for Odisha teacher cremation ||A Kumbh mela returnee, a school teacher, passed away in Boudh district on Saturday night but his body lay unattended in his house for nearly 12 hours with neither his neighbours nor relatives turned up for cremation. It was only after the local administration intervened that the body of Sunil Das, who originally hails from Ganjam, could be cremated around 2 pm on Sunday. This horrifying incident that took place at Dhalpur under Harbhanga police station of Boudh district, about 230km from here, illustrates the level of fear among people about coming in contact with Covid-19 positive people. The Block Development Officer (BDO) of Harbhanga, Nilakantha Behera told The Telegraph, “The teacher, Sunil Das (65) belonged to Ganjam district but used to stay here along with his wife after retirement. “A practising Brahmin and a highly religious person he had gone to the Kumbh mela leaving the wife at home. He had returned only four days ago. He was in home isolation.” Behera said: “After he returned, his swab test was done. On Saturday morning, he had high fever and later in the evening he even vomited several times. His condition deteriorated later and he passed away. 'Since he was infected with the coronavirus people were hesitant to act as his pall bearers.” Her wife tried her best to seek the help of neighbours but to no avail. “None of the neighbours and relatives turned up fearing infection. Later, we approached the local administration which came for our help. “The local BDO arranged the PPE Kits and an ambulance. After he convinced his relatives, the body was cremated in the afternoon,” said local journalist Siman Nayak. Nayak said: “Sunil Sir who used to teach Sanskrit, had been residing here along with his wife following his retirement. All his kids settled outside. “The wife had to remain a silent spectator and helplessly watch the body of Sunil Sir. None of us could dare to ask her any question as she was passing through a trauma. It’s shocking that his body remained unattended for nearly 12 hours.” Officials maintained that his swab test report, which came positive, reached his family only after he passed away. “We have now launched a tracing exercise to find out persons who had come in his contact. We will conduct swab tests of all these people,” local BDO Behera said. Noted social activist Sudarshan Dash said: “This is not the only instance where relatives have shown reluctance to take a body to the crematorium. Such incidents are a regular phenomenon. We need to create awareness on the issue.” In a related development, Puri district administration on Sunday announced that it would not allow cremation of any non-Puri resident at Swargadwara located on the Puri sea beach from  Monday onwards in view of the rise in coronavirus cases. Swargadwara is considered as an auspicious place and there is a belief that if someone is cremated at Swargadwara he or she will go to heaven. Meanwhile, the number of deaths because of coronavirus in the state reached 1,988. Seven persons were reported dead in Odisha in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata backs Madras HC order, says EC is 'BJP's parrot'||Mamata Banerjee cast her vote at Bhowanipore's Mitra Institution late in the evening on Monday on the penultimate day of voting in 36 Assembly seats that includes three incumbent ministers from South Calcutta, the backyard of the Bengal chief minister. About 75 per cent polling was recorded till 5.30pm in Bengal on Monday, coinciding with the end of campaigning for the last phase of polling on Thursday, April 29. In the four constituencies of Calcutta South, about 60 per cent polling was recorded till 5.30pm. The 32 other Assembly seats where voting was held are spread over South Dinajpur, Maldah, Murshidabad and Burdwan West, the last citadel of the Congress where both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP have made significant inroads. The most significant development of the day, however, happened some 1,672km away in Chennai where the Madras High Court sqaurely blamed the Election Commission of India for the surge in Covid cases. “Your institution is singularly responsible for the second wave of Covid-19. Your officers should be booked on murder charges probably,” said the bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. “Were you on another planet when the election rallies were held?” asked Chief Justice Banerjee. The high court is scheduled to hear the matter again on Friday and if unsatisfied with the poll panel's response, counting of votes on May 2 could be impacted. The Madras High Court observation was welcomed by Mamata. “Their neglect, wrong decisions have put us on the brink of disaster. A Prime Minister and a home minister spent three months here just because they want to win Bengal at any cost and put everyone’s life at risk, instead of planning for steps against Covid,” the chief minister said in North Calcutta's Shyampukur, winding up 50 days of campaigning to seek a third term, her fiercest electoral battle since she led the Trinamul Congress to victory 10 years ago. The Madras High Court’s censure of the central poll panel comes at a time when the country's health infrastructure is crumbling under pressure from the spiralling number of Covid cases. Till Monday 8am, India had recorded 3.52 lakh new cases, taking active cases to 28lakh. In Bengal, the number of Covid cases jumped to 15,889 in the last 24 hours. 'Madras HC is right' Mamata came down heavily on the central poll panel for its refusal to club voting days amind the rise in Covid cases in the state. "They could have clubbed the phases together as the Covid situation started worsening from the third phase onwards. But they did not listen to us. They continued to be the BJP’s pet parrot,” she said. “The court (Madras high court) is right. They could hold polls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in one phase and Assam in two phases, but for Bengal they ordered eight-phases… I will request the EC to withdraw central forces from areas where polling has been held as they are spreading Covid. We can’t set up safe houses as schools and colleges are occupied,” she said. Mamata reiterated that she would move the Supreme Court against the partisan behaviour of the Election Commission. “Someone has to bell the cat… I would not have raised it had they not crossed all limits,” she said, indicating the electoral tussle will drag on beyond May 2 when votes are to be counted. Agents confined On the seventh phase of voting, Mamata alleged that Trinamul polling agents in Asansol South were told not to leave their homes. “I have received similar reports from Habibpur, Raninagar,” she said. There were no reports of major violence during the polling in the 36 Assembly constituencies on Monday. No lockdown While the state administration has taken steps to increase beds to treat Covid patients, Mamata has ruled out imposing a lockdown. Karnataka will go on a 14-day lockdown from Tuesday night, while the Delhi government has extended the lockdown period by another week, as  states grapple with the crisis arranging for beds, oxygen and vaccination, most of which the Centre has dumped on the state’s shoulders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Voting goes on for 7th phase amid rising Covid cases||Stray incidents of violence were reported Monday from some areas where voting is underway for the seventh phase of the assembly elections in Bengal, though the overall polling process has been peaceful. Polling began at 7 am on Monday for 34 seats in the seventh phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal, amid tight security and a rampaging second wave of COVID-19. Till 5pm, 75.06 per cent voter turnout was recorded. Long queues were seen outside most polling booths where voting is underway adhering to Covid protocols. Over 86 lakh voters will decide the political fate of 284 candidates in this phase. Security measures have been heightened in view of the violence in the previous phases, particularly the death of five people in Cooch Behar in the fourth round of polling on April 10, an Election Commission official said. A few incidents of scuffle were reported from the Asansol area, where TMC candidate Sayoni Ghosh claimed that BJP activists tried to jam booths in her constituency.  The allegation was dubbed as baseless by BJP candidate Agnimitra Paul, who asserted, "Ghosh is making excuses sensing defeat". Meanwhile, there was commotion in Rash Behari constituency after BJP candidate Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha's agent was accused of molesting women voters inside a polling booth, police said. Mohan Rao was detained after several women voters claimed he tried to drag them holding their hands inside Bidya Bharati School, a police officer said. Rao, however, rubbished the allegations and said no such incident had taken place. "We have received a complaint in this regard and a probe is underway," the officer said. In the Jamuria constituency, Left Front candidate Aishe Ghosh alleged that her party agents were stopped from entering the booth by TMC workers, a charge denied by the ruling party. The poll panel has deployed at least 796 companies of central forces in the seventh phase to ensure free and fair voting, he said. It has also put in place measures to ensure strict adherence to health protocols during the election process, including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. The state registered its highest single-day spike of 15,889 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, while 57 more people succumbed to the virus. Voting is being held at 12,068 polling stations spread over nine assembly constituencies each in Murshidabad and Paschim Bardhaman districts, six each in Dakshin Dinajpur and Malda and four in Kolkata, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's home turf Bhabanipur.Polling will continue till 6.30 pm. Elections to two assembly constituecies - Samserganj and Jangipur in Murshidabad district - have been adjourned following the death of two coronavirus-positive candidates. The EC has fixed May 16 as the date for polling in these two seats. Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in the state have already taken place, with the last phase scheduled for Thursday. Votes will be counted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dr Kafeel Khan appeals to not fall for fascists||Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur doctor and whistleblower who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and has emerged as a symbol of resistance against State oppression, on Sunday urged Bengal’s voters not to fall prey to the “gimmicks of the fascists”. Speaking from Delhi, Khan sought to remind Bengal’s people ahead of the last two phases of the Assembly polls how the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh had failed to provide basic healthcare to citizens. “In UP there is anarchy. There is no governance. I just want to tell the people of Bengal that their state is a pillar,” Khan told The Telegraph. “The Prime Minister, the home minister and all the RSS big shots want to destroy the last fort that is standing tall against the fascist regime. The people of Bengal must not fall prey to the false propaganda and gimmicks of the fascists.” Khan had in 2017 exposed the truth behind serial child deaths at the state-run Baba Raghav Das Medical College and Hospital in Gorakhpur, the hometown of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A private company had allegedly stopped its oxygen supply to the hospital over unpaid dues, and Khan had arranged for oxygen locally by paying out of his own pocket. Khan was, however, arrested a few days later – on September 2, 2017 -- charged under several penal code sections, and removed as the nodal officer in charge of the hospital’s encephalitis ward. He was accused of dereliction of duty and engagement in private practice. He was acquitted of all charges on September 27, 2019. But a special task force of the UP police re-arrested him in Mumbai on December 13 under the National Securities Act in connection with an anti-CAA speech he had made at Aligarh Muslim University. On September 1, 2020, Allahabad High Court dropped all NSA charges against him and he was released. Appealing to the “good conscience” of Bengal’s electorate, Khan said the state is known for its people’s intellect and achievements in literature and other fields of culture. He hoped the state’s voters would send out the message to the nation that they would not succumb to “the BJP’s falsehoods”. “Why were polls conducted in a single phase in Tamil Nadu, which has a population of 6 crore, whereas there are eight phases in Bengal?” he said. “They did the same thing in UP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. They had the time (because of the heavily staggered voting) to manipulate (voters). The people of Bengal must have seen through this plan.” Khan’s appeal to Bengal comes at a time hospitals in several parts of the country have reported oxygen shortages that have led to a spurt in the deaths of Covid patients. “Health along with education and employment are the basic issues. I have done so many camps in Murshidabad, and also in Calcutta. I’ve asked people what they want and they’ve always mentioned these three things,” Khan said. “But instead of talking about that, everyone (among the BJP campaigners) is talking about shamshan-kabristan, Ali-Bajrangbali. The same chief minister who can’t control crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh is boasting in Bengal that if the BJP comes to power, women will be safe.” Adityanath has been one of the BJP’s star campaigners in Bengal, delivering his speeches with barely concealed communal overtones. He has declared that if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, it will ensure women’s security by forming “anti-Romeo squads” – a discredited and abandoned experiment in his own state. Khan accused the Adityanath government of fudging figures to downplay the severity of the Covid situation in Uttar Pradesh. He said that while the Adityanath government counted 224 Covid deaths in the northern state in the past 24 hours, around 457 bodies were cremated in Kanpur’s crematoriums alone during the same period. Khan’s jibe at Adityanath comes a day after it was reported that the UP chief minister had, in a videoconference with select journalists on Saturday evening, appeared to attribute the charges of oxygen and medicine shortage in the state to a conspiracy. He said government officials had been directed to act under the NSA and the Gangsters Act against “antisocial elements” involved in “black marketeering” medicine, “spreading rumours” and “trying to spoil the atmosphere”. However, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association in Agra, on Sunday said that 10 hospitals in Agra city had had to discharge all their Covid patients on Saturday because they had no oxygen left. “People are dying and these people are still lying to us,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 patient found hanging in East Midnapore||A 46-year-old state government employee, who had tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly committed suicide early on Sunday in East Midnapore’s Balarampur village under Tamluk, when he was in home isolation. Family sources confirmed that the deceased had been in “panic mode” with regard to the pandemic over the past year, a fear that was compounded when he was unable to get vaccinated owing to the supply shortfall. “All these factors came together and created a panic and a depression for him when he tested positive on Friday. Because of the diagnosis, his wife and small son shifted to their in-laws at a nearby village,” said a neighbour. “This was clearly a suicide, and would not have happened if there were better resources in place,” said the deceased's father, who is 78. Sources said the deceased worked as a clerk at West Midnapore’s Ghatal court. “We had been leaving his food at the door of his room every morning, but this morning (Sunday) he did not respond to calls so we opened the door by force to find him hanging from the ceiling,” said a family member. On Sunday, The Telegraph reported how East Midnapore was facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 beds in government hospitals. District officials said on Sunday that they were “trying and hoping for the best”. “We have started action and hope better resources will be available soon. We requisitioned the state for vaccine supplies, we have nearly no first doses left,” said a senior district official. The chief medical officer could not be reached for comment. Panchayat samiti functionary Joydeb Burman said the body had been attended to “according to protocol” and “pleaded with” district health officials to organise an “immediate vaccination drive”. “Today’s incident was extremely unfortunate, but it is happening everywhere. Younger Covid patients are succumbing now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Reliance Jute Mill shut, workers ransack two trade union offices||Groups of labourers attached to the Bhatpara-based Reliance Jute mill allegedly ransacked two trade union offices, affiliated to the INTTUC and the BMS, after the mill authorities issued an indefinite ceasework order on Sunday morning. The Reliance Jute Mill — no relation to the Ambanis — is one of the oldest jute mills in the country, founded in 1906. It is known as a pioneer of production and marketing of quality decorative fabrics and jute yarns suited for export. The indefinite ceasework rendered 5,000 workers jobless barely six months after it opened before Durga Puja following its closure in January 2020 owing to workers demanding gratuity and retirement benefits for at least 165 mill retirees. Mill authorities this time did not specifically cite a reason for the ceasework. Insiders attributed the closure to low production in the wake of a hike in raw material price. Workers blamed mill authorities and also the leaders of the Trinamul and BJP-affiliated unions for “playing with their lives” and causing a “survival crisis”. Angry workers allegedly ransacked the union offices and damaged furniture. They lot a bonfire of the furniture too outside the premises of the union office cluster. They tried to enter the mill, but were prevented by security personnel who kept the gates closed. A fire tender doused the blaze. Thwarted protesters later blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore road for about an hour, demanding intervention from the administration in reopening the mill. The blockade was withdrawn only after the police assured protesters of taking up the matter with the administration. Rakesh Shaw, a mill worker, said he found the behaviour of mill authorities inexplicable. “They did not specifically give a reason for the closure. They refused to talk to workers. The management has been running the mill according to their whims.” Accusing trade unions of inaction, Shaw added: “We have six unions attached to this mill. But none appear to be bothered about the plight of workers. They use us to get votes.” Senior company officials  refused to speak despite repeated calls, claiming to be busy in meetings. An official on the condition of anonymity said: “Production was hampered because of a spike in the price of raw materials as well as agitation by a section of workers these last two weeks. Lack of maintenance hampered production and caused technical snags. We decided to stop work till normality is restored.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Four assembly segments in Calcutta  to vote on Monday||Four of 11 Assembly segments in Calcutta  — Calcutta Port, Bhowanipore, Rashbehari and Ballygunge — go to the polls on Monday. Voters in the remaining seven —  Chowringhee, Entally, Beliaghata, Jorasanko, Shyampukur, Maniktala and Kashipur-Belgachia — will exercise their franchise on Thursday, the last day of the eight-phase polls in Bengal. Of the 294 seats in Bengal, Calcutta has barely 4 per cent, but being the state capital, winning city seats is a matter of prestige for political parties. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul had won all 11 seats comfortably. The 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, sent a warning signal to the ruling party as the BJP secured leads in Rashbehari, Jorasanko and Shyampukur Assembly segments. The BJP breathed down Trinamul’s neck in two more  — Maniktala where Trinamul had a slender lead of less than 1,000 votes, and Bhowanipore, a constituency represented by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, where the ruling party had a 3,500-vote lead. Ahead of the two-phase polls in Calcutta — where over 30 lakh people will cast their votes — The Telegraph takes a look at the factors that make the battle for the state capital so intense. Covid fear Calcutta recorded 3,779 new Covid cases and 18 deaths on Sunday and the steady northward climb in infections has created panic in the city. The casualty of this Covid-19 fear could be poor voter turnout. Calcutta records around 64 per cent voter turnout, but poll panel officials think the figure would be lower this time. “The effect of the pandemic has been seen in urban North 24-Parganas, where polling percentage declined significantly,” said a poll official. Against this backdrop, the poll panel has taken up several measures to build confidence among voters by splitting booths to bring down number of voters per booth, making wearing of masks mandatory and distributing gloves and sanitisers at booths. The Election Commission banned rallies, road shows and large meetings before the last two phases. The poll panel extended the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Leaders of Trinamul and the BJP said these last-minute changes threw their last-hour campaign plans awry. Trinamul insiders, however, said Covid-related curbs could help them. “The BJP’s traditional voters live in highrises and are unlikely to come out to vote. It will be a boon for us,” said a Trinamul source. Outsider debate Several political observers this reporter spoke to said that bohiragawto or outsiders — a tag that Trinamul had hurled at the BJP — will be crucial. With Trinamul repeatedly calling BJP star campaigners — like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and several other leaders visiting the state frequently or camping in Bengal for the election campaign — outsiders, the issue is a talking point. Trinamul had pitched the election as a battle between Bengal and outsiders trying to invade the state, but this has its pros and cons. The language used by many BJP leaders in campaigns has led many Calcuttans to believe the BJP has scant respect for Bengal’s culture. “It started with the demolition of the bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Then Amit Shah could not identify the statue of Birsa Munda. They don’t know where Rabindranath Tagore was born. I don’t feel safe when I see the BJP’s  all-out efforts to come to power in the state,” said Subhasis Pal, the owner of a sari shop in Bhowanipore. At the same time, the outsider campaign by Trinamul initially caused some worry among some non-Bengalis in Bengal. Trinamul realised this and Mamata tried to assure non-Bengali communities a couple months ago that the outsider tag was only for BJP leaders who came to the state ahead of polls. The results of Jorasanko and Shyampukur will depend on whether non-Bengali Calcuttans have accepted Mamata’s take on “outsiders”. Nearly 45 per cent of the residents of these areas are non-Bengalis. This is why the BJP is eyeing these two seats. Voter mindspace Trinamul has a strong base among the middle class in the city, who form nearly 40 per cent of Calcutta’s population. A retired bureaucrat, who served in important positions such as state home secretary, said most middle-class families in Calcutta are informed about what is happening in BJP-ruled states and are apprehensive of the saffron party. “(Urban) Bengalis usually don’t want problems over issues such as food habits or religion. They have seen troubles over these issues in some northern states where BJP has been ruling for years. This is why they are anti-BJP and Trinamul will benefit from this fear of the BJP,” he said. Also, Calcutta has no bitter  experience with Trinamul unlike in some rural areas. “A section of people in the rural Bengal are angry with local Trinamul leaders as they demand cut money for government benefits. The urban middle class does not have that experience as they hardly depend on government schemes like Banglar Awas Yojana or free bicycles,” said a political observer in the city. The urban middle class is largely happy with Trinamul’s  civic services in Calcutta. Another issue that has drawn the Trinamul closer to the middle class is its opposition to repeal the urban land ceiling act. “The BJP is in favour of doing away with the Act. If the act is withdrawn, no middle class family will be able to live in the city peacefully as outsiders will try to buy our plots forcibly,” said Adhir Das, a government employee who lives on Sarat Bose Road. The city has 3,000 registered slums with 18 lakh residents and Trinamul has an edge among this section. Trinamul insiders said slum dwellers got benefits under government schemes such as homes, pension or Swasthya Sathi cards. “This was possible for two reasons. First, the CMC actively monitored the projects. Second, city councillors did not demand money in lieu of these benefits,” said a Trinamul insider. Another issue that has made Trinamul popular in slums is the urban daily wage scheme on the lines of MGNREGA. Launched during the Left era with the active participation of Asok Bhattacharya, then urban development minister, the Trinamul-led government took it forward in a proper manner. “Every day, some 25,000 people get jobs under it,” said a source in the CMC. The Trinamul, however, is concerned about young voters. Urban Bengal has 1.25 crore people aged between 16 and 25 years, and a large number of them stay in Calcutta. “According to a rough estimate, 2 to 3 lakh voters of around 30 lakh voters in Calcutta are aged below 25. They are aspirational, they want corporate jobs. In the last Lok Sabha polls, we feel a large section of these voters went against us. This is why we have stressed in our poll promises things like IT,” said a Trinamul leader. Overall, Trinamul leaders seem sure of getting nine of 11 seats in Calcutta. However, Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary, disagreed. “All these predictions regarding Calcutta will go wrong this time. The new government that the BJP would form will have representation from Calcutta as well,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee's leg injury 'substantially improved', plaster will be removed soon||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday indicated for the first time that her leg injury had “substantially improved” and her plaster would be removed soon. Mamata had suffered injury to the left ankle while she was campaigning in the Nandigram Assembly segment in East Midnapore on March 10. Speaking at a Trinamul Congress workers’ meet in Behrampore, the chief minister said: “For a month and 20 days in a row, I have not been at home. I have been outside roaming for the election campaign. I did not take a leave even on Poila Boisakh (April 15) as I held a rally in Calcutta. Otherwise, I could not get time to hold the rally in Calcutta.... I am sorry to say I could not campaign much in Murshidabad, Malda and Birbhum. But now, my injured leg has healed. I think I am doing better now.” “I have been out for 10 days at a stretch, so I could not even get the plaster removed. Now, I will return home and get it (the cast) removed,” she added. Trinamul Congress leaders had alleged conspiracy behind Mamata Banerjee’s injury. Nonetheless, the chief minister did not put a halt of more than a few days to her state-wide election campaign trail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC candidate Kajal dies battling Covid||Trinamul’s Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha, who tested Covid-19 positive, died on Sunday morning, becoming the third person contesting the Bengal elections to die of complications related to the infection. Sinha tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the Beleghata ID and BG Hospital on April 21. Expressing her grief over Sinha’s demise, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Very very sad. Shocked. Kajal Sinha our candidate from Khardaha, succumbed to Covid. He dedicated his life to serving people & just fought a tireless campaign. He was a long-serving committed member of @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress). We will miss him. My condolences to his family and his admirers.” Sinha was one Mamata’s trusted lieutenants and a party colleague since she was a Youth Congress leader. Mamata later at a news conference in Murshidabad’s Behrampore said Sinha would win the Khardah seat, which went to polls on April 22. Before Sinha, Jangipur’s RSP candidate Pradip Kumar Nandi and Samserganj’s Congress candidate Rezaul Haque died of complications from Covid-19. The election to these two seats were initially countermanded and rescheduled for May 16. For Khardah, since polls have taken place, a re-poll will be announced if Sinha wins. If someone else wins, there will be no re-poll, an Election Commission source said. Family sources said that Sinha was diabetic which multiplied his health complications.  “His condition deteriorated from April 23 when he was shifted to the ICU. The doctors tried their best, but failed,” a family member said. Trinamul had nominated Sinha for the first time from Khardah when finance minister Amit Mitra, who currently represents the seat, refused to contest the polls owing to his ill health. Party sources said, Sinha who was the administrator of the Khardah Municipality, was a natural choice this time for his popularity among people cutting across party lines. He was pitted against former party colleague and turncoat BJP candidate Silbhadra Dutta, who was shifted to Khardah from Barrackpore. Dutta mourned the death. “I lost one of my close friends...I was missing him on the day of the poll. I was on the road but he was on the bed fighting the disease. I had prayed for his recovery. But the God had other ideas about him in mind.” CPM’s Khardah candidate Debajyoti Das also took to Facebook to express his condolences. “…For his (Sinha) family, relatives, friends and political colleagues this loss is irretrievable. His untimely death is very painful for fellow citizens like us as well…” Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, who faced flak on Saturday for addressing a rally in Calcutta’s Entally where Covid-19 protocols were allegedly flouted, tested positive on Sunday for the virus for a second time. Supriyo took to Twitter to announce both he and his wife were positive. But his post had political innuendos: “V (very) sad that I won’t be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th Polls where ‘desperate’ @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress) Goons hv (have) already unleashed terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Retired soldier Subrata Saha's list of promises||Subrata Saha, a retired lieutenant general and the BJP’s Rashbehari candidate, has listed five changes he will bring about if he and his party are voted to power. ⚫ Security: That is most fundamental. Without ensuring that, nothing can thrive. The environment of fear and hooliganism must end. The associated point is to check infiltration: infiltration of ideas, techniques and people as well. ⚫ Employment: This must be the top priority. Irrespective of where the people live — a slum or a high-rise — without employment generation they’ll be finished. The middle order is being drained out and we will have to check that. This includes enhancement of skills and bringing in industries. ⚫ The Adiganga: All we need to do is revive the Adiganga and manage the Kalighat temple well. It can be the best spot for tourism to begin with. ⚫ Lake Complex: I believe the Lake area has tremendous untapped potential, divided into those multiple clubs. We just need to bring them together and bring an end to the divide-and-rule policy and synergise them. They will do wonders from all perspectives, including environment, tourism, culture and sports. ⚫ Hawkers: The hawkers of Gariahat cater to almost 30 per cent of the consumer needs of south Calcutta. It is an asset that is mismanaged. Even if they are relocated, more than 10 other people will fill up the vacuum. So there is competition and vested interests start working. It has to be dealt with in such a manner that none of the interests are hurt. It requires high-end management through committees of well-meaning and experienced people…. Help of institutions like IIM Calcutta can be sought. Unlike his rival, Trinamul’s Debasish Kumar who is a local, Saha doesn’t enjoy the advantage of familiarity, but the army veteran is confident that his courteous behaviour will earn him the trust of his electorate. “Communication is key. A lot can be done when we exchange looks with people. The moment I show them a thumbs up or gesture towards them, asking about their wellbeing, they immediately respond with a smile or a warm wave,” Saha says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee says Murshidabad and Malda will be a 'big factor' in election results ||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said Murshidabad and Malda would be a “big factor” in the election results and every vote of those two districts would help her party retain power in Bengal, with a mango — the fruit the two districts are widely famous for — allusion. “Murshidabad and Malda now are a big factor. Each vote from you (voters of the two districts) will help us stay in power in Bengal,” said the Trinamul Congress chief at a party workers’ meet here. “Remember, this time I need the aam (the mango fruit) and the aamshawtwo (fruit leather made out of mango pulp mixed with concentrated sugar solution, and sun-dried) this time. Given the situation this time, I want the aameyr achar (mango pickle) too,” said a smiling Mamata, to thunderous applause from her audience at the Murshidabad district headquarters. Trinamul leaders said Mamata was trying to say she wanted all 22 seats of Murshidabad and all 12 of Malda, two districts where voters of Muslim community — over 60 per cent in Murshidabad and over 50 per cent in Malda — play a decisive role in elections. “By claiming the fruit and its main by-products, she basically said she expected all seats from the two districts. In Bengali, there is a saying that talking about being left with the aameyr anti (mango seed), which basically means being left with nothing. What she requested the people in these two districts to ensure is that the others are left with the anti,” said a district leader who attended the meeting. Mamata specifically reached out to the migrant workers too, many of whom reside in Malda and Murshidabad. Sources said around 6 lakh migrant workers from Murshidabad and 4 lakh from Malda work in Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. The presence of migrant workers is substantial in Birbhum and North Dinajpur too. “A large number of people from Murshidabad and Malda go to work in other states. You know how I stood by the migrant workers during their crisis (last year),” she said. “I stood by the families when migrant workers were gunned down by militants in Kulgam (in 2019) of Jammu and Kashmir…. I did that everywhere, whenever workers from our state died or suffered elsewhere,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: It’s time for Covid-er baat, Mamata Banerjee tells Narendra Modi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday that the nation had had enough of Narendra Modi’s “Mann Ki Baat” and some “Covid-er baat (talk about Covid)” was in order from the Prime Minister. Mamata once again mounted a scathing offensive against Modi, his party, his government at the Centre and the Election Commission of India (allegedly working at the behest of the BJP) for their part in letting the second wave of the pandemic in India get to the devastating stage for the sake of winning the Bengal election. “Vaccines are not available in our country. There is no oxygen and medicine. Amid such a situation, he (Modi) is continuing his Mann ‘Ki Baat’. Nobody is ready to listen to your ‘Mann Ki Baat’, there’s been enough of it… now, it’s time for Covid-er baat. Now is the time for you to give us vaccines, oxygen and medicines,” said Mamata at a Trinamul Congress workers’ meet at Rabindra Bhavan in Behrampore. The chief minister was referring to the Sunday edition of Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme. “Covid-19 would not have had such a spike here if Narendra Modi and his ministers had taken action earlier. The fact is that they ruined the entire country in a bid to capture Bengal…. If there was a proper plan to vaccinate the people, Covid-19 would not have gone to such a state,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “They had the option to resist (the second wave), but they did not, despite the five-month period in between when the infection numbers were not high,” she added. Mamata criticised Modi’s boasts of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), referring to his government’s decision to supply medicines and vaccines to 80-odd countries, thereby contributing to the domestic crisis. She claimed the 2 lakh central forces personnel, deployed untested by the Election Commission allegedly at the BJP’s behest, had contributed substantially to the spike in Covid cases in Bengal. “Two lakh central forces from states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Delhi (some of the worst-hit states) have come here. They have been roaming freely, going from one district to another. They don’t even know themselves whether they are infected as they were never tested or screened,” she said. “If central forces come your homes, speak to them from a safe distance. If they come too close, I request the mothers and sisters to ask them to go for a test or treatment first,” she added. Mamata said the poll panel could not evade responsibility for the worsening of outbreak after forcing Bengal to go through an unprecedented eight-phase polling amid the pandemic. “When Covid cases started increasing after the third phase of the elections, I requested the commission to club the remaining phases. I kept requesting them. I also requested them to stop the campaign, for all. But they did not listen,” she said. “Many ministers and their large entourages from other states came and stayed at luxury hotels across Bengal. Over one lakh BJP cadres from outside were brought and they also spread Covid-19 rampantly Bengal,” Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Political parties trade charges of violence and violations before Malda vote day||Major political parties in Malda, a district where Assembly polls would be held in half of its 12 seats on Monday, traded charges of violence and violations of Election Commission norms before voting day. The BJP alleged Trinamul-backed goons had torched one of its election offices at Manikchak on Saturday night. Refuting the allegation, Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of bringing in over 1,000 people at a public meeting in Manikchak on Sunday, where party leaders like Locket Chatterjee were present, disobeying the EC’s Covid protocols that limit crowds to 500. Trinamul further alleged that Nishith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, who visited Malda on Sunday, violated the model code of conduct by visiting BSF camps. The Congress accused Trinamul of offering money to women voters in Sujapur. Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the Malda district BJP president, said they set up an election office in Balutola under Manikchak police station, which “Trinamul supporters set ablaze”. “We filed a police complaint,” he said. Hemanta Sharma, a district Trinamul leader, dismissed the charge and pointed to the BJP’s crowd violations in the Locket Chatterjee meeting. J.P. Nadda, the BJP’s national president, virtually addressed the meeting while Chatterjee and some others gave speeches before those physically present. Trinamul said some 1,000 people had  come to the venue. The BJP put the number at less than 500. “Violating the model code of conduct and defying Covid-19 protocol is the BJP’s habit. On Saturday, BJP violated crowd protocol in Baishnabnagar (at Mithun Chakraborty’s rally). That meeting was stopped midway, but they have not learnt any lesson.” BJP’s Mandal claimed less than 500 people were present. “A few days ago, Trinamul claimed our venues stay empty. The party is now raising a totally opposite objection.” Isha Khan Choudhury, the Congress MLA of Sujapur who is contesting from the seat, filed a police complaint against Trinamul workers, saying they were calling up women of his constituency and asking them to get their Aadhaar cards registered with a mobile number to get Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 as monthly aid after elections. Ahead of polls, Trinamul had said in its manifesto that it would pay monthly aid to all distressed families of the state. “This is a bid to buy votes,” said Khan Choudhury. District youth Trinamul chief Prasenjit Das filed a complaint with the poll panel alleging BJP MP Pramanik visited BSF camps in Habibpur on Sunday. He said it was a ploy to exploit the central armed police forces during the polls. Administrative officials said they would look into each complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: For Scheduled Castes, a clue in the  teacup||Rajkumar Fulmani had been associated with the BJP since 1987. Now, he is a face of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. Fulmani, a former BJP member of the Birbhum zilla parishad, has attended around 100 meetings where he has told people how the party is against the Scheduled Castes, whom the saffron camp has been assiduously wooing. Fulmali, 52, a non-teaching employee of a high school in Birbhum who belongs to an SC community, told The Telegraph: “I had been associated with the SC-ST Morcha of the BJP since 1987 and I was elected as a member of the Birbhum zilla parishad in 2008. I have seen how SC people are treated by the party. Upper caste leaders of the BJP used to keep a separate cup to serve me tea.” SCs make up around 23 per cent of Bengal’s voters. BJP leaders believe that one of the reasons behind the party bagging an unprecedented 18 seats in Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was the support of the SCs. Fulmani said he had also been highlighting how Dalits were being “tortured” in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh. “I am telling the people about Hathras (where a Dalit teen was gang-raped and brutally murdered by upper caste men). The BJP is playing a game to polarise the SCs because they are very poor,” said Fulmani, who left the BJP in 2015. “I was an active leader of the BJP till 2014 and did not join any other political party after quitting. Today I am not asking anyone to vote for any particular party. I am only requesting them not to cast their valuable votes for a party that will ruin the culture of Bengal. I am also telling people how the BJP is trying to snatch the rights of farmers through the new farm laws,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress slips in Murshidabad, Trinamul gains||The Congress may have been in decline in many parts of the country but in Murshidabad, a minority-dominated district on the India-Bangladesh border, it has continued to enjoy support. Until now, that is. Ahead of the contest for Murshidabad’s 22 Assembly seats, which will go to the polls in the last two phases on April 26 and 29, there is a buzz that voters are planning something of a silent revolt against the Congress and its local veteran, five-time MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. If that happens, the 2021 elections could further impact the party’s dwindling fortunes in Bengal. The beneficiary, of course, will be Trinamul. “We are against the BJP. That is for obvious reasons. But we have had enough of waiting for the Congress to take any decisive action against the saffron party,” says Samser Ali Biswas, 56, a ration dealer from Hariharpara’s Jhajha village. Although Hariharpara is still a Congress stronghold, people like Biswas are looking to buck the trend. The reason behind this silent movement, several residents told this correspondent, is the fear of being ruled by the BJP. As per the 2011 census, Muslims make up around 68 per cent of Murshidabad’s population. “Our refrain now is that we are with Didi, for 2021. Not Trinamul, but Didi,” says one of Samser’s neighbours. “We are a little fed up with Adhir’s constant tirades against Didi instead of against the BJP. We need to do whatever possible to ensure that the BJP does not rule us,” Samser weighs in. People in Hariharpara, reflecting a district-wide trend, feel that the Sanyukta Morcha, the fledgling coalition of the Congress, Left and the ISF, does not hold much promise. They concur with Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the ISF is actually a BJP front to split the Muslim votes. “The very day the BJP published its manifesto, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah asserted that they would enforce the new citizenship law in their first cabinet meeting. That was the last straw for me and I decided that I would do my bit in opposing the party,” says Samser, who has been campaigning for Trinamul candidate Niamat Sheikh. In Behrampore’s Nagrajol village, Rohim Sheikh, 28, is an unemployed graduate. Accustomed to cultivating his family land part-time for little or no income, his fortunes now reflect a change from his childhood when he claims his family would visit Adhir’s home and vice versa. “We have been a Congress family for generations. But not anymore. They are not a formidable force in opposing the BJP and that is much more important for us,” says the Beldanga constituency voter. In the same village, senior citizen Saifuddin Sheikh has been ill for a few months and has been advised rest. He was once a Congress worker who had rubbed shoulders with Adhir. Saifuddin, too, appears to have had a change of heart. Murshidabad has, historically, been no stranger to political trend-setting. In 1977 when the Left Front came to power in Bengal riding the anti-Indira Gandhi sentiment, Murshidabad gave six out of 19 seats to the Congress. Even in 2011, when Trinamul dethroned the Left, Murshidabad had been unimpressed, giving just one seat to Mamata’s party. In the 2016 Assembly polls too, Murshidabad accounted for only four of the 211 seats Trinamul won across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, Trinamul made headway here by securing two of three seats in the district — Murshidabad and Jangipur. BJP leaders in Murshidabad are aware of their demographic limitations but are trying to put up a brave face. “Victory in six to seven seats in the district is our conservative goal and we will stand by it,” BJP district general secretary Shakharaf Sarkar says. Trinamul feels it will benefit from the BJP’s polarisation tactics. “We will get a larger vote share in Murshidabad because of the BJP’s communalism,” says district Trinamul chief and MP Abu Taher Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: 30 people arrested for not wearing masks in Siliguri ||Over 30 people were arrested in Siliguri on Sunday for not wearing masks in public spaces, following the Bengal government’s orders to the district and police authorities to strictly enforce its last year’s orders of enforcing social distancing and mandatory wearing of facial masks. This is the first time that people not wearing masks have been arrested from north Bengal after the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. On Sunday, Darjeeling district recorded 203 new cases of which 17 were from the hilly region. Sources said the state chief secretary issued a fresh order on Saturday highlighting previous orders on punitive steps if Covid-19 protocols are violated and sought strict enforcement of the same by district officials. “Wearing facial masks in public was made mandatory in the pandemic situation by an order issued on April 12, 2020,” said a district official. Another order issued on June 2, 2020, had directed any police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector or equivalent, to ensure mandatory use of facial mask/cover in public and “to initiate appropriate legal action against any person” who violated the norm. “Over the past months there was general laxity on taking legal action. However, the fresh advisory from the state government has prodded the administration to take punitive steps,” said an official. Police and civil administration teams moved around Siliguri town on Sunday in busy areas of the town such as Naya Bazar, Pradhan Nagar, PC Mittal Bus Stand and Tenzing Norgay Bus Terminus. Sources in the police said around 30-odd people were arrested from various parts of the town till late evening. Priyadarshini S., the SDO of Siliguri, who also took part in the exercise, said: “We are enforcing the state government’s order. We are moving around and encouraging people to wear masks.” In Darjeeling hills, police held awareness events and asked people to wear masks but did not make arrests. Those flouting social distancing and masks norms can be booked under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. On conviction, the accused can be imprisoned for a year or be fined or both. In a separate notification, the state’s department of health and family welfare has stated that it has been brought to its notice that “there have been instances of hoarding of medical oxygen cylinders” and selling those without the valid prescription of a doctor. The notification has also stated that under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, medical oxygen cannot be sold without a doctor’s prescription.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Flavours of Bengal: Shola||The dazzling white look in which Ma Durga or her daughter Saraswati often appear in Bengal — the crown, the breastplate, the sari — are all made of a bright white material with intricate patterns that comes from shola (white sponge wood plant/Indian cork). The material used is actually the wood of the plant, among one of the lightest woods in the world. It can be shaped exquisitely, allowing for a whole range of designs that is a glorious Bengal craft. When the Goddess is dressed up in the white of shola, her look is called “sholar saaj”, in itself a Bengali tradition. It is a rival of “daaker saaj”, the style that has the Goddess wearing shimmering ornaments and clothes made with metal foil and wire. The shola plant grows wildly in marshy areas of Bengal, Assam, Odisha and the Deccan. Shaping its wood into finely detailed designs requires great skill. Shola is not only decoration for deities, but also an intrinsic part of Hindu rituals in Bengal. The chandmala hanging from the hand of an idol was traditionally made of shola. The mukut and topor, the headgear of the Bengali bride and groom, are made of shola. The Manasa chali, the backdrop of the snake goddess’s idol, can have a touch of shola at the top. String puppets are made from a shola base and a clay exterior. Marugacha of Nadia is famous for its shola puppets. Flowers are made with shola for both ritual and ornamental purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Ashok Lahiri's journey from AC rooms to Balurghat’s streets ||Over the years, most of his days have been spent in air-conditioned rooms in plush offices of the national capital, brainstorming, analysing data and working on policies. However, life has changed for Ashok Lahiri during the past couple of months. In his late sixties, he has had to hit the streets with leaders and workers of the BJP, touching different localities, interacting with people, delivering speeches and promising a “better Bengal.” The former chief economic adviser to the Government of India has been fielded by the BJP as the candidate in Balurghat seat of South Dinajpur district. “Sitting on a chair in an air-conditioned room and working in PCs with assistants… and here, running miles with enthusiastic youths who want me to run and cover as much area as possible… it is much different. I would say that contesting in the elections, meeting common people… altogether it is very educative,” said Lahiri, sitting at the BJP office in Balurghat. An alumnus of Presidency University, he has been fielded against Sekhar Dasgupta of the Trinamul Congress and Sucheta Biswas of the RSP. Balurghat, known to be an RSP bastion, was bagged by Trinamul in 2011. However, in 2016, RSP veteran and former state minister Biswanath Choudhury won it back. South Dinajpur, which borders Bangladesh, came on the BJP’s radar after 2016 when Trinamul won only two of the six seats in the district. “The saffron camp tried to polarise voters, drew support from a section of Left voters and managed to secure the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Another reason for its win was the acute infighting within the Trinamul in the district. The contest seems to be interesting this time,” said a veteran in Balurghat’s politics. Lahiri, who has served on the Asian Development Bank, had stints at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, and has taught at the Delhi School of Economics, said he backs the BJP’s policies. “Also, I the admire the BJP for its direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and also its emphasis on infrastructure development. As the party asked me to contest, I found an opportunity,” said Lahiri. The direct benefit transfer scheme though was launched by the Manmohan Singh government in 2013. On Bengal, the BJP candidate said: “If you make an absolute judgement, then India is progressing and so is Bengal. But the question is always relative evaluation. After Independence, it was one of the advanced states but unfortunately, Bengal has lost its position. Look at the per capita income, the health parameters, industry parameters, education… there are things we have missed out.” “Being a coastal state, the utmost priority should be to develop a deep sea port in coastal areas. I believe we need a state-of-the-art port and there are locations like Tajpur and Sagar (Islands),” the economist said. The road infrastructure from north to south Bengal also needs improvement, he pointed out, adding that it takes 14 hours to travel 570km (between Calcutta and Siliguri). Lahiri, who has served as the chief economic adviser under the Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh, said: “Policymaking in government is a very complex process and the Prime Minister plays an important role. He is the ultimate decision maker….  I have worked under two Prime Ministers and both were very pleasant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: No jobs but BJP focusing on polarisation, says Aishe Ghosh||The distance between the lush green campus of JNU in Delhi and the dusty roads of Jamuria, a small town in West Burdwan district, is more than 1,500km but the battle she had fought at the university and the one at hand in the Bengal elections are the same for Aishe Ghosh. “There are a lot of differences between JNU and the Jamuria Assembly area. But for someone like me, the fight is the same,” says Aishe, the firebrand SFI leader and JNU students’ union chief who is making her first appearance in politics beyond the campus. Aishe, 26, has been fielded as the CPM candidate of Jamuria, which votes on Monday (April 26). “Earlier, I had fought for students’ rights, now it is for the rights of all.” Aishe, the first sitting president of the JNU Students’ Union to contest an Assembly election, is taking on the BJP’s Tapas Roy and the Trinamul Congress’s Hareram Singh, a veteran trade union leader in this coal belt. Jamuria has both authorised coal mines run by Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) and several illegal ones that are controlled by pilferers. “It has been a CPM stronghold even after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011. People here have elected our candidate, Jahanara Khatun, twice from this seat. Though elsewhere there will be a 1:1 contest between the BJP and Trinamul, this coal belt will witness a triangular fight,” says a CPM leader in Jamuria. Aishe says while campaigning door-to-door: “The public response has been overwhelming as the ordinary people here know about their rights.… We are telling people about employment, education and food for them and how the central and state governments are denying them their rights.” Campaigning, however, has not been easy for her. BJP supporters have on several occasions tried to disturb campaign meetings of Aishe by chanting Jai Shri Ram slogans, but the district’s youngest candidate is not bothered. “I did not react to their ploy and asked my partymen to remain indifferent. The people will understand us,” she says. Aishe has focused on scarcity of drinking water, pollution and bad roads and how illegal mining is causing subsidence and endangering the lives of ordinary people. She says the only solution to the problems of the locals is creation of employment, something she says both the Trinamul and BJP governments have ignored. “Several factories here, including the CPSUs, are closed. Neither the state nor the Centre has taken proper initiatives to solve the problems here. They are either busy blaming each other or making false promises,” she says. Aishe hails from nearby Durgapur, which is an industrial town and has several closed public sector units like Mining and Allied Machineries Corporation Ltd, Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Bengal Chemicals and Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation. Aishe says she fails to comprehend why despite the bread-and-butter issues, the BJP is trying to polarise voters along communal lines. She, however, feels that most people have not been swayed by such attempts. “If we can make people understand the facts and what should be the actual duties and role of a government, we will be able to steer clear of this evil attempt at polarisation,” Aishe says. Jamuria is among the nine Assembly seats in West Burdwan where the BJP was ahead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This Assembly segment has 2.22 lakh voters — of whom 27 per cent are Muslims. In 2016, the CPM-Congress combine had won four seats — Jamuria, Raniganj, Durgapur (East) and Durgapur (West). “I think I can repeat the 2016 performance,” Aishe says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Forest officials recover carcass of male adult leopard with a piece of wood in abdomen||The carcass of a male adult leopard was found at the plantation of a tea estate in Jalpaiguri Sadar block on Sunday. Foresters, on being informed by plantation employees, recovered the carcass. Post-mortem revealed the animal had a piece of wood in its abdomen. “We suspect it might have swallowed the wood with its food. This led to infection and death,” said Hari Krishnan, an official of Baikunthapur forest department. According to sources, some workers of Bhandiguri tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town spotted the carcass lying under a tree. “We were spraying pesticides at the plantation when we spotted the leopard. At first we were worried that it was a live animal but we soon realised it was dead. We informed garden officials, who in turn told the forest department,” said worker Shahjahan Ali. Another worker added there were no injury marks on its body. A team from the Belakoba forest range of Baikunthapur forest division took away the carcass. Fatal accident A youth died and some other persons were injured when a pick-up van loaded with vegetables turned on its side in Koranipara on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town on Sunday. Officials of Kotwali police station said some vegetable-sellers were going to Siliguri from Mondalghat in the pick-up van. On the way, one of its tyres exploded and the driver lost control of the vehicle near Koranipara. Residents rushed the occupants of the van to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri where doctors pronounced Sanjay Karati, 25, of Nandanpur, near Jalpaiguri town, dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee calls out for Covid warriors again||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday announced a proposal to re-enlist “Covid warriors” on the rosters of casual workers fighting the ongoing pandemic in the state, at a time most health districts are battling bed and vaccine shortages. The Mamata government last year had enlisted “Covid warriors” — mostly migrant workers who came back home with Covid, and then recovered from the infection — in Covid hospitals as casual labour. Addressing a workers’ meet in Murshidabad district’s Behrampore, Mamata stressed the need to revert to modes of work adopted during the first wave last year. “We are standing by all those Covid warriors who are either working or have contracted the disease. Remember, Murshidabad was the first place where the Covid Warriors club originated,” said Mamata, referring to the initiative of her government last year. “Many are still working with us. After the elections, we will enlist them into various employments including in the health department so they can make our fight against Covid better,” she added, speaking at Rabindra Bhavan in Behrampore. Sources said the move, if successful, would require reversals that were undertaken during the dip in cases last year. A casual worker at government hospitals is paid anywhere between Rs 300 and 500 a day. However, most such youths were let go when the government pulled out of leased private healthcare facilities at a time when Covid cases dipped to save costs. “The situation will need to go back to one where we have the maximum possible infrastructure and manpower,” said a district official. “Covid warriors need to be re-enlisted and we are going through rosters that are lying with healthcare or party workers,” they added. Murshidabad has a high number of migrant workers  as they are renowned across the country for their skills in masonry and agriculture. In Hooghly’s Arambagh, a group of 22 such youths are protesting outside the state hospital for over a week demanding their jobs back in light of the spike in Covid infections. “We will be very happy for the opportunity to serve people and to make a living. We are living without income,” said Jayanta Malik, one of the Covid warriors demonstrating in Arambagh. Sources said around 20 Covid warriors have been deployed at Covid hospitals and other places as the number of patients rose in Birbhum. Deputy chief medical officer-III (health) Jayanta Sukul confirmed tentative plans of the re-enlistment. “The recent spike is very worrying and we are working on possible solutions. We have reinstated few Covid warriors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||North East||Covid-19: Assam helps resume Bhutan oxygen plant||The Assam government on Sunday helped a Guwahati-based entrepreneur resume work on an oxygen plant he is setting up in Bhutan’s Samdrup Jongkhar district bordering Baksa district so that it can easily source oxygen for critical Covid patients in times of crisis. Assam’s minister of state for health Pijush Hazarika along with Rajya Sabha MP Biswajit Daimary visited the under-construction oxygen plant in the morning on the direction of health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “After our stock-taking visit, our health minister (Sarma) got in touch with the Centre to secure permission from Bhutan to allow completion of the  plant which was stuck following the outbreak of Covid last year. It will take about 20-30 days to commission the plant from where we can source 50MT of oxygen everyday,” Hazarika told The Telegraph. India is facing acute shortage of oxygen because of rising Covid patients with acute respiratory problem. Though Assam has no such problem at the moment, the state government is not taking any chance because of soaring Covid cases. Till Saturday, Assam had 14,198 active cases, 2,236 detected during the day with 14 deaths. Over 13,000 cases were reported this month. The Bhutan plant is being set up by Guwahati-based PJ Kochar in partnership with a Bhutanese national. “In these challenging times this plant will be of immense help in winning the fight against Covid-19,” Hazarika said. Samdrup Jonkhar, the gateway to eastern Bhutan, is about 110 km from Guwahati. Bhutan shares 267 km border with four Assam districts — Baksa, Chirang, Kokrajhar and Udalguri. Besides helping resume work on the stalled oxygen plant, health minister Sarma has also urged all hospitals to set up their own oxygen units. The government is ready to extend all possible help to these hospitals. Assam has installed eight oxygen plants with a capacity of 5.25MT a day since last year. It has plans to set up 15 more plants. Few days ago, Sarma had announced granting all oxygen-carrying vehicles-tankers the status of ambulance, to enable their hassle-free movement in the state and transit through Assam for speedy delivery of oxygen to centres. Sarma on Sunday said ruled out a lockdown for the moment even though cases are rising. He also said that the state is not facing shortage of resources to tackle the crisis whether it is oxygen, medicines, kits or vaccines. He also disclosed that Sun Pharma has started producing Remdesivir at its Palashbari unit in Kamrup district, about 50km from here. The company, which has the capacity to produce 3,60,000 vials a month, has committed to provide 10,000 vials to the state government which will help tide over shortage, the minister said. “In what shall give comfort to all, pleased to share that I visited @SunPharma_Live plant Palasbari, which has a capacity of 80K #Remdesivir vials production per week. Requested them to speed up production & rollout. They would support Assam as well,” Sarma tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
26-04-2021||Opinion||Skewed focus: EU on artificial intelligence||Trust is imperative; this is the principle underlying the new regulations unveiled by the European Union to govern the use of artificial intelligence. Trust can only stem from transparency. Therefore, according to the draft rules, companies providing AI services and those using these would have to be able to explain exactly how the AI is making decisions, be open to risk assessments, and ensure human oversight in how these systems are created and used. This is a lofty aim; experts claim that as AI systems get more complex and feed on more data, it may be impossible to put a finger on why the machine is making a particular decision. Regulations to control AI — an ecosystem with no set definition yet either in law or in the industry — will thus have to be fluid and evolve with the times. More important, a one-size-fits-all approach cannot be used to govern a system that feeds on data from across the world and performs a vast range of functions, from making self-driving cars work to taking hiring and lending decisions in banks and scoring examinations. The draft rules not only set limits around using AI in these fields, but they also place checks and balances on “high-risk” applications of AI by law enforcement and courts to safeguard people’s fundamental rights. While some uses like live facial recognition in public places may be banned altogether, there are several exemptions in the name of national security that leave room for encroachments on privacy and fundamental rights. It is dangerous that while governments demand accountability from tech firms, they keep loopholes open to mine data and exploit the invasive reach of AI. The world was looking towards the EU — its General Data Protection Regulation in 2018 has become the framework for similar legislations worldwide — for a way forward when it comes to regulating AI. While its emphasis on transparency is significant, the burden of accountability is placed on those developing AI. Moreover, the draft skirts around issues of racial and gender bias that have plagued new technologies since their inception. These prejudices can make the use of AI in the interest of “national security” antithetical to democratic principles. In India, where regulations of the internet and its services tend to be overarching and weigh in favour of State control, such imbalances can mean the difference between democracy and a surveillance State. Transformative technology like AI should not be stifled by undue restrictions. It is citizens’ interests and not the State that must be at the centre of legislation regulating AI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion|| Look away: Nawaz criticizes celebs flaunting vacations||Sir — The actor, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, has rightly criticized celebrities for flaunting their vacations amidst a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic that has brought India to its knees. While none can deny the importance of taking a break, there is no need to publicize this. Media houses, too, should be ashamed of focusing on such issues while the country runs out of space at hospitals and crematoriums. Arjun Bisht,Gurgaon Blinded by bias Sir — Women are under-represented in most areas of life; the judiciary is no different. This was recently brought to the attention of the apex court by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association, which requested the court to consider more women as judges in high courts. The petition noted that there are many qualified and experienced women lawyers who deserve to be appointed to the bench, and sought a provision or a ratio to be considered for their elevation to such posts. In the last 70 years, only eight women have been appointed to the Supreme Court, out of a total of 247 judges. It has only one woman judge now. Women are poorly represented in other legal positions too. There are only 17 women designated as senior counsels in the Supreme Court against 403 men. The judiciary needs gender sensitization to deal with crimes against women. The traditional symbol of justice as the blindfolded goddess holding the scales would be meaningless in the absence of women judges. The newly appointed Chief Justice of India has the responsibility to change the situation; he can do so through the collegium that selects judges for the higher courts. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Too far Sir — The alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, made worse by the shortage of essentials such as oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and vaccines, tells a grim tale of how unprepared the country was to tackle the second wave (“Overwhelmed”, April 24). The authorities either chose to ignore it or were callous about it. Still, the Supreme Court’s intervention in all cases pertaining to Covid-19 at this stage seems to be unwarranted. Several high courts were dealing with the situation appropriately, issuing directives to the Central and state governments to overcome the precarious situation at the earliest. Last year, the Supreme Court failed to give justice to millions of migrant workers by dismissing a petition which asked that the Centre identify and provide food and shelter to these labourers. It also accepted the claims of the executive too willingly; it could have done more. No democracy can function without an independent judiciary. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Mask off: Election Commission||The Election Commission has an onerous responsibility. The Calcutta High Court underlined this fact while the second wave of the pandemic is raging during elections in West Bengal. The importance of the EC’s function was not recalled in a positive context. Reportedly, the high court expressed its disapproval with one aspect of the EC’s role in Bengal in strong terms, saying that it was not satisfied with the material on record that the EC and its officers in the state were doing enough to implement the commission’s circulars. The court was hearing petitions that Covid-19 protocols were being flouted in election campaigns which would lead to a huge rise in infections. That such apprehensions are tragically realistic is being proved by the rising graphs of sickness and death. Campaigns, rallies, even voting sites, have become dangerous because masks are not being worn or worn properly, while physical distancing is honoured more in the breach than the observance. The Calcutta High Court reportedly found that the EC’s affidavit was ‘unable to update’ the court on what has been done to enforce Covid-19 guidelines in campaigns and poll booths, and asked it to file a shorter one. Circulars and meetings are not enough to discharge the EC’s onerous responsibility, according to the court. It was scathing in declaring that it was sure circulars were not mere advisories to be wrapped up by the political parties or those engaged in political propaganda or the public. Most important, the court reminded the EC of its accountability to the Representation of the People Act as well as to the people, who needed to trust the institution that the exercise of democracy would be upheld with the necessary health safeguards even during the challenge posed by the pandemic. At a time when the EC is being seen increasingly as being driven by other than neutral interests, the Calcutta High Court’s remarks show up its present inadequacy as the guardian of democracy. Allowing a long, eight-phase election in a state, any state, in the middle of a pandemic, with no bar or restraint on election rallies, can scarcely be perceived as being in the people’s interest. The Calcutta High Court has brought up just one part of the EC’s onerous role. But the remarks may bring to mind the other parts as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Some old lies: Afghanistan||“If they go, we’ll all have to go. That’s the reality of it,” said a British source about President Joe Biden’s announcement that the last American troops will be out of Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. (What possessed him to choose that date?) Once they are all gone, the Taliban will take back power in Afghanistan, probably within months, certainly within a few years. They will close girls’ schools again, ban music, hang people with the wrong haircuts and so on. Twenty years of being chased around the hills by gunships has probably not moderated their views. And when journalists asked Biden the inevitable question — doesn’t he feel any responsibility for Afghan human rights, and especially women’s rights? — he said, “Zero responsibility. The responsibility I have is to protect America’s self-interests and not to put our women and men in harm’s way to try to solve every single problem in the world by the use of force.” Finally, a senior American politician using words as if they mean something. But it didn’t last. Soon enough a ‘senior official’ was talking twaddle on Biden’s behalf: “We went to Afghanistan to deliver justice to those who attacked us on September 11th and to disrupt terrorists seeking to use Afghanistan as a safe haven...” Ridiculous. ‘Justice’ could have been delivered by a single assassin or one mass bombing raid on the camp of Osama bin Laden, al Qaida’s leader, tucked away deep in the Afghan hills. The invasion was show business. The 9/11 attacks were plotted by al Qaida members in Germany, and all 19 hijackers were Arabs, not Afghans. They were trained in Afghanistan because bin Laden was given refuge there by the Taliban, an Islamist regime, when the US forced Islamist-ruled Sudan to expel him. But it would have been madness for bin Laden to tell the Taliban what he was planning. Some of the brighter people in the US intelligence services would have known that. But President George W. Bush needed to invade somewhere to discharge American rage about the attack (which he failed to prevent), and where else but Afghanistan? A stealthy assassination or a bombing raid wouldn’t do the job. As it happened, the invasion of Afghanistan was so easy that it didn’t provide enough catharsis for vengeance-seeking Americans, so Bush ended up adding an invasion of Iraq to the list as well. Saddam Hussein certainly had nothing to do with 9/11 (or with the Taliban or bin Laden, for that matter), but a spectacular invasion plus Hussein’s capture and execution gave Americans ‘closure’. That psychodrama was actually played out by 2004, but by then American troops were mired hip-deep in both countries, and it has taken all this time to get them out again. And now on to Ukraine, which Russia is allegedly getting ready to invade: daily reports of the Russian military build-up, and veiled hints that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, is the new Hitler abound. You know, ‘Today Ukraine, tomorrow the world!” After all, he’s a proven aggressor: Georgia, Crimea, eastern Ukraine. Stupid as it seems, it was Georgia that started the war with Russia in 2008, hoping to seize South Ossetia and seal the tunnel under the Caucasus range. Crimea was settled by Russians after its previous rulers, Turkic-speaking Muslims whose business model was slave-raiding in Russia, were conquered in 1783. It remained Russian until Nikita Khrushchev gave it to Ukraine on a whim in 1954. Putin took it back non-violently 60 years later with warm support from the mainly Russian population, although that was certainly illegal. So is Russia’s support for Russian-speaking rebels in two eastern provinces of Ukraine, which is just like Ronald Reagan’s military backing for ‘Contra’ rebels against the Nicaraguan government in the 1980s. Putin is definitely a naughty boy, but a big-time invader of important places? This is just the media stirring things up, with some help from the politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Forests bathed in blood||After the recent Maoist attack on security forces in Bijapur, Chhattisgarh, in which 22 jawans were killed, Sonia Gandhi paid homage to the martyrs and Rahul Gandhi alleged it to be a “poorly designed and incompetently executed operation”. Law and order is a state subject. Central forces deployed in a state work under the command of the state government. Or is that not the case in Chhattisgarh? If it was indeed a “poorly designed and incompetently executed” operation, we need some more answers from the ‘high command’. The Naxal movement started in 1967 when the Congress was in power in West Bengal. The movement was brutally terminated by the then chief minister, Siddhartha Shankar Ray, by 1972. However, the Maoists started their movement in Andhra Pradesh soon after, and spread wings in Madhya Pradesh. Indira Gandhi was back in power in 1980 and had asked the then Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Arjun Singh, whether he would like to follow the ‘Ray model’. Indira Gandhi had apparently agreed to the suggestion that Singh work on a special ‘Bastar development plan’ with a promise of a moratorium on big industry and mining that was expected to dissuade the tribals from the Maoists. Ramchandra Singh Deo, Chhattisgarh’s first finance minister, was given the responsibility to formulate the plan. Unfortunately, by the time the plan was ready, Indira Gandhi was assassinated and Singh had been sent to Punjab as governor. In the early 1990s, when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in Madhya Pradesh, it started a ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan (People’s Awareness Programme)’ with help from local leaders of the Communist Party of India and the Congress to finish the Maoists. The brutalities inflicted by the police-led Jan Jagran forced large numbers of tribal people to join the Maoists for the first time. The same Jan Jagran policy, now renamed Salwa Judum, was followed by the BJP after coming to power in Chhattisgarh in 2003. This time, the leadership was given to a Congress leader called Mahendra Karma. The Salwa Judum killed many and was later declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. As per numerous intelligence reports, the Salwa Judum increased the power of the Maoists manyfold. And, as in the 1990s, it was not possible for anyone to remain non-partisan because of the Salwa Judum’s violence. Many more tribals joined the Maoist movement. Mahendra Karma lost his life along with other state Congress leaders in a retaliatory Maoist attack in 2013. A Congress government in Andhra Pradesh had tried to start a dialogue with the Maoists in 2004 but it failed. We need to learn from those mistakes. There was another attempt at dialogue in 2010 but the Maoists alleged that their emissary was killed by the then Congress government at the Centre. So in 2018, when the Congress manifesto promised ‘a policy and serious efforts for solving Maoists problem through talks’ there was hope. The BJP manifesto continued to talk about ‘Naxal-mukt’ Chhattisgarh. So when the chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, says on numerous occasions that he will talk ‘only to victims and not Maoists’, there are speculations about the policy being changed. The mediators sent by the state government to secure the release of the abducted commando told the media that it appears as if the Maoists want to talk. But Baghel insists that talks would only be possible if the Maoists reject violence and impose no conditions. This is a policy that has often been followed by governments and it has never worked. If the State makes the handover of weapons a precondition for talks, they will never take place. The handover of weapons should be the final objective of talks, not a precondition. Recently, I visited Raipur University where I had learned my first lessons on Maoism many years ago and one of my professors told me this story. He said, “My brother-in-law was posted in Bijapur (where the recent attack took place). To please him, I got him a ‘free’ transfer out of Bastar but to my surprise he bribed his way back to Bijapur. The reason my brother-in-law gave was that there is more money to be made while serving in Bastar. If Rs 100 is allocated to Bastar, Rs 30 goes to the Maoists which run their movement, Rs 30 goes to the party in power, and officers like him distribute Rs 30 amongst themselves. Bastar is a cash cow for all.” The Maoists have been successful in Chhattisgarh because they are able to hide in the forest. They cannot win a direct battle with government forces. In plains areas like West Bengal, a Congress government finished them in just five years. Whereas in Bastar, they have been able to sustain themselves for more than 40 years. The Congress manifesto in 2018, promising to solve the Maoist problem, had generated enthusiasm. But does that promise of talks still hold? Or has Congress gone back to the Ray and Salwa Judum models? This question needs an urgent answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
26-04-2021||Opinion||Something’s rotten||I had not planned to write this article. In fact, I was due to write another on the havoc wreaked by the pandemic on our already fragile education system. That problem will not go away. I have, therefore, shelved it for something more immediate. What changed my mind was Bengal’s interminable election, especially the events at Sitalkuchi. I will not discuss the actual killings or the roles of the security forces and the Election Commission. One should not comment lightly on such matters amidst a fog of cross-charges and disinformation. But some related issues concern all citizens. One assumes that whatever their deeper calculations, all political parties would express formal grief at deaths by police firing. Astonishingly, the Bharatiya Janata Party set up a virtual chorus of exultation, not only justifying the deaths but guaranteeing more such incidents and even complaining why so few people were killed. This accords with the aggressive macho tenor of the party’s campaign against India’s only woman chief minister, backed by a promise to cleanse Bengal of crime if they come to power. Their state president hopes to accomplish this feat in a week. No one can dispute that Bengal is bedevilled by political violence (not so much of other kinds). To rectify this in seven days would demand an excess of police action at which the imagination recoils: mass arrests, overflowing prisons, almost certainly deaths, perhaps staged police ‘encounters’. Even at that dire level of State-sponsored violence, seven months would not suffice — as it has not in BJP-ruled states held up as models. Years after their initial spate of suppression, of encounter killings and unsparing vigilantism, the world wakes up virtually every week to new reports of horrific violence and misrule in those parts. The reason is not far to seek. Such rapid-fire cleansing is not possible within the ambit of the law. It requires law-keepers to operate massively outside the law, aided if not supplanted by vigilante groups bound by no law at all. The earlier lawlessness gives way to a more pervasive anarchy, now underwritten by the government. The law itself is weaponized to this end, and new laws passed defying natural justice and our democratic Constitution. Bengal’s last-phase voters must ask themselves if this is indeed what they want. There is more. BJP members consistently suggest that the paramilitary action in Sitalkuchi and various decisions of the Election Commission bear out their own agenda, as though they had planned it themselves. It would be misguided to indict the Commission on the basis of such loose talk. What concerns us is that the BJP should be at such pains to persuade us of their complicity. There is also the matter of the chief minister’s intercepted phone call. As the mischief she was allegedly planning did not occur, she can at most be charged with a thought-crime. But we may well ask how the BJP obtained the recording. The party’s fondness for invading citizens’ privacy is amply testified, including dormant projects like the Social Media Surveillance Hub. We may wish to know how their current escapade accords with the law. We are contemplating a regime that erases the line between law and lawlessness. So what’s new about that, we may ask. For four decades and more, governance in Bengal has straddled that porous border. Countless citizens negotiate it daily under the current regime. Does it matter if, dropping the denial mode, we openly legitimize or even legalize wrongdoing under cover of the public good? One might argue that it matters immensely, for it robs us of both moral and legal protection against such iniquity. The malfeasance that seeks some cover or subterfuge shows a nagging insecurity, a lurking sense of wrongdoing. To enthrone it openly celebrates it as a model or an ideal. To work our way back to a humane and democratic order becomes that much the harder. You can reclaim a derelict house occupied by squatters. If you pull down the house, there is nothing left to reclaim. Contrary to belief, authoritarian and even totalitarian rule seldom arrives through military coup or armed revolution. It commonly proceeds by gradual, unsuspected steps from a familiar structure of misrule: we cannot tell when we cross the watershed. Bengal today may be at that decisive moment. We may be crossing another watershed too. Elections in Bengal have been increasingly fragmented: seven instalments in 2019, eight this year. This is supposedly to control political violence, but may be counter-productive. To hold public interest, each phase must outbid the last in rhetoric and, alarmingly, in disorder: the contenders grow ever more strident and reckless. Has a state election ever attained such nationwide hype? The ‘All-India’ Trinamul Congress hardly exists outside Bengal: one understands their stake in the turf battle. But why should the party commanding the Union and several states be so desperate to add this one to the tally? We have lost count of the prime minister’s campaign trips. The Union home minister is virtually camping in the state. Why are two of India’s astutest and busiest men engaged in this apparently grotesque overkill? What are they planning for our state? On seven years’ evidence, it cannot be unmixed concern for the well-being of Bengal. The immediate outcome is rather the opposite. Political violence has arguably exceeded the appalling level of the 2018 panchayat elections, the adversaries being now more evenly matched. The threats and profanities are by no means one-sided: a TMC stalwart has bested their own record by offering to chop off the hands of Opposition voters. This menace will not abate after the elections. And more frightening by far, a new poison of communalism is corroding the state in accord with electoral algorithms. There is a story of a little girl watching Hamlet. Half-way through, she remarked: “I don’t know how it’ll end, but it can’t end well.” That child’s comment has a sombre relevance to Bengal’s current predicament. I am overcome with fear: for myself, my state, and my country. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad coal roof collapse at abandoned mine site injures 4 ||The coal roof of an abandoned mining patch of a BCCL outsourced company in Katras collapsed on Monday injuring four miners. The miners were rescued by their family members and admitted to different private hospitals. The incident took place three days after a crater developed in the backyard of a government primary school in Kuhunka village of Nirsa allegedly due to illegal mining. Rajkumar Das, a local resident, said, “Though more than 50 persons were working at the site when a coal heap suddenly collapsed, six were buried of which four were injured but were taken out from the rubbles by other co-workers and their family members.” Another local resident requesting anonymity said, “Illegal mining like other parts of the district are also prevalent at various abandoned mining sites of Katras and people risk their life to excavate coal in unscientific manner leading to frequent  leading to loss of life or injury to the persons.” The mining companies are being held responsible for not sealing their sites in a permanent manner leading to illegal mining activities. Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu, said, “We have not received any information with the regard to the incident but if any incident has taken place we will investigate the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Good Samaritans launch free kitchen to help Covid patients and families ||Rotary Club of Jamshedpur  has launched a free food campaign for people down with Covid and living in home isolation. Amid the rising Covid cases in Jamshedpur,  the "FoodforSoul" campaign was launched jointly on Sunday  by chief guest and former Bahragora MLA Kunal Sarangi, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) special officer Krishna Kumar and former Rotary Club of Jamshedpur president Gyan Taneja. Under the programme, JNAC will facilitate delivery of cooked food in areas under its jurisdiction. Food packets will be delivered  by volunteers to families twice daily.  Rotary Club of Jamshedpur handed over 100 food packets to the JNAC special officer on Sunday. There are instances where an entire family has become infected. Many are  facing economic hardship too. Moreoever, there are families where there is nobody to cook. Taneja said 100 Covid-affected families will be provided cook food free daily. “We are there for the affected people in difficult times. The programme will continue till the situation improves,” he said. Sarangi said, "The number of people living in home isolation is increasing and we can tide over the crisis with such initiatives. Rotary Club of Jamshedpur has done a commendable job for people facing crisis in difficult times.” JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar also appreciated the initiative of Rotary Club . In another such initiative, social workers of Jugsalai locality have started a "Sneh Bhojan" programme for Covid patients in home isolation. They are delivering free food packets to affected families across the steel city. Those needing help can call or whatsapp 7250020460. “We thought we should join hands and help people in crisis. We have started a kitchen in Jugsalai where food is prepared. Food is being delivered across Jamshedpur,” said social worker Anil Modi who started the programme with a few friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Maoists blow up rail tracks, Howrah-Mumbai service disrupted for hours||The movement of trains on the Howrah-Mumbai route was affected for several hours on Monday as CPI-Maoist rebels who had called a Bharat Bandh against the policies of the Centre triggered a blast on the railway tracks between Lotapahar and Sonua railway stations, about 80 Kms from here. The spot falls under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railways (SER) in West singhbhum district. Though no casualties took place, the powerful blast damaged the railway tracks for about two meters. A major incident was averted, said railway sources. Spokesperson of Chakradharpur railway division, Manish Pathak, said the blast took place at around 2.15 am and the information of the blast was received by the station manager of Sonua from the driver of a goods train. "On receiving  the information movement of trains on  Rourkela-Chakradharpur section was immediately stopped and as many as eight  mail / express trains and several goods trains were stopped at different stations - Sini, Chakradharpur, Sonua, Goelkera, Manoharpur , Rourkela and Tatanagar," said the spokesperson. Some of the affected trains included Howrah-Pune Azad Hind Express, Tata-  Alleppey Express, Howrah -Ahmedabad Express, Ahmedabad - Howrah Express and several other passenger and goods trains. Patrolling teams along with Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force rushed to the spot and started an investigation. During the investigation it was found that the Up main line was damaged in the blast. Restoration work began after getting necessary security clearances. Movement of trains on the Down line and the new third line was restored after 8 am while movement of trains on the Up line resumed at around 10 am after clearance from all departments. Chief Public Relations Officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh, said,'' Train movement in Chakrdharpur and Rourkela section has become normal. An enquiry in this regard has been ordered by the DRM of Chakradharpur division.``||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Chaos at Dhanbad hospital after 3 Covid patients die||The coal town’s Pragati Nursing Home witnessed an upheaval caused by relatives of three deceased Covid patients alleging medical negligence in their treatment. The doctors and staff of the hospital have fled since the incident. This is the second time an incident like this is being reported from the same hospital. The hospital, having a 30 bed Covid treatment facility, is among the 20 private hospitals of the district which have been allowed private treatment besides the eight government run facilities. The son of one of the deceased patients, Arun Kumar Upadhayay, said his father was being treated in the general ward despite being Covid positive and was suffering from typhoid and a lung infection. After his death, the hospital claimed Arun Kumar tested negative for the virus. “My brother was admitted in the hospital three days ago due to Covid infection and his condition started deteriorating since the morning after he was administered four different injections,” said Arun Kumar’s brother. “We have serious doubt that my brother’s condition deteriorated due to injection and our doubt has also been based on the fact that his medical file is missing from the hospital along with the doctors and staff,” he said. Chanda Kar, a resident of Shalimar in Jharia, also charged the hospital management of negligence leading to the death of her husband. She accused the hospital of misplacing the medical file related to his treatment. The OC of Saraidhela police station, Kishor Tirkey, said, “The family members of the deceased patients are accusing the hospital of medical negligence but we can only reach any conclusion after interacting with the hospital authorities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Patients suffer as nurses refuse to resume work at Sadar Hospital||Covid patients undergoing treatment at Ranchi Sadar Hospital had a harrowing time for the second consecutive day on Monday as barely 15 of the over 100 nurses resumed work after a day-long strike on Sunday. The nurses on Covid duty also refused to administer injections and medicines to some of the needy patients, citing lack of prescriptions and other reasons, patients complained. The nurses had agreed to resume work after Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan assured them payment of  arrears and other monetary perks on Sunday. “I was prescribed Remdesivir by the doctor who was treating me. The injection is available but no nurse is willing to administer the injection citing some or the other reason,” said Vinay Kumar, a Covid patient surviving on oxygen support in the hospital. Like Vinay, many other Covid patients are left with no option but to wait for nurses to resume work, so they can at least get medicines on time, said Rakesh Tiwari, an attendant at the hospital. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar issued an ultimatum to the nurses on Monday, saying that they either resume work within 24 hours or face departmental action, which may even lead to suspension or termination. “If they (nurses) do not rejoin duty in 24 hours, then we will be forced to write to the department seeking strict action against them,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the absence of sufficient nurses made it particularly difficult for the hospital administration to run the 60-bed ICU  for Covid patients. There are 200 general beds and 60 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at Sadar Hospital. The government had roped in more than 100 nurses from Community Health Centres (CHCs) to attend to Covid patients in the hospital as the facility did not have sufficient nurses on rolls. However, the outsourced nurses from CHCs went on strike on Sunday, demanding payment of the additional Rs 15,000 per month promised to them and arrears pending for three months, among other financial benefits, doctors said. Covid patients undergoing treatment at the hospital had to suffer on Sunday as well, said doctors. A doctor on duty at the hospital said that medicines were not reaching patients on time despite being available in the hospital due to the strike by nurses. “Usually, nurses administer injections and medicines prescribed to patients. In their absence, it becomes impossible for the limited number of doctors to treat patients, write prescriptions and also administer medicines,” he said. Many doctors in the hospital have also contracted Covid-19 infection and have gone into isolation, further increasing the pressure on the caregivers still working in Covid wards of the hospital, sources said. Ranchi is facing its worst wave of Covid-19 since the beginning of April. The district has reported more than 5000 cases and over 50 casualties every day on an average in the past one week. Sadar Hospital, in the heart of the state capital, is one of the largest state-run Covid care facilities in the city, which has more than 15,000 Covid patients at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant writes to Gujarat chief minister on pending oxygen equipment orders||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to his Gujarat counterpart, Vijay Rupani, on Monday, requesting him to work in tandem with other states and ensure timely delivery of medical essentials that had been ordered earlier but were held up in Gujarat. “My state of Jharkhand is a surplus manufacturer of oxygen, the most lifesaving element in Covid treatment. Unfortunately, we are struggling with bottlenecks in our supply chain due to paucity of oxygen cylinders and the capacity of refillers. I have been informed that many of our orders of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tankers, vapourisers and cylinders are pending with manufacturers in Gujarat. “I seek your assistance in getting the concerned manufacturers to expedite the delivery of the aforementioned orders. This would allow us to make oxygen available to hospitals and subsequently to the people who are desperately in need of it,” he wrote, adding that in this hour of crisis, it woul dbe good if they could all work together. Hemant's letter was prompted by concerns shared by at least two of Ranchi's oxygen refilling plants which he had visited on Sunday. He told the media after his visit that the government had asked all oxygen plants to ramp up capacities and be ready to address the needs of hospitals 24x7. An official of the state task force for oxygen here said that Gujarat happens to be the manufacturing hub of all logistics and equipments related to oxygen. “Even during the recent review meeting, we had come across issues of tankers, vapourisers and other equipment not being supplied regularly or getting stuck in Gujarat. Hence, the state government decided to formally take up the matter with the Gujarat government as we are in the process of increasing oxygen supported beds daily in the wake of the rising Covid cases," the official  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: From Bokaro, 3 Oxygen Express trains for UP in 4 days ||In a span of four days, three Oxygen Express trains left Bokaro for Lucknow, including one with five tankers of oxygen on Monday morning. A total of 171 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been supplied from Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) to Uttar Pradesh. At present, the Yogi Adityanath government is working to airdrop oxygen cylinders and tankers to fetch oxygen from Bokaro, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication, BSL. Meanwhile, the Haryana government has also started the process of bringing liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that his government has placed an order for 6,000 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. And soon, oxygen will be brought from Bokaro to Haryana by a special train. BSL, a unit of SAIL, is producing 150 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day. Inox Air Product Private Limited is engaged round the clock generating oxygen for BSL steel-making process, which the steel major is diverting for saving lives of Covid patients across the country. In the month of April, BSL alone supplied more than 800 tonnes of liquid oxygen to Ranchi, Bihar, UP, West Bengal, Maharashtra, and Madhya Pradesh by road transport. In the past 26 days, 401 tonnes of liquid oxygen was sent to UP including 230 tonnes through the road route, said Dhan. The first oxygen special train carried 50 tonnes of liquid oxygen in three tankers, the second which left on Sunday had 50 tonnes in four tankers and the third one with 77 tonnes of oxygen. In addition to BSL’s efforts, the Indian Air Force and the Indian Oil Corporation have jointly taken initiatives to meet the need for an empty medical oxygen tanker. The Air Force is trying to bring an empty tanker from Baroda and an empty tanker from Pune to Bokaro for filling liquid medical oxygen from the BSL. After filling the liquid medical oxygen, the tanker will be dispatched to its destination by road or rail, said BSL sources. Around 39,647 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been supplied so far from SAIL plants across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: State witnesses ‘22 degree Sun Halo’ ||Hazaribagh: Jharkhand residents witnessed a bright ring formed around the blazing sun on Monday, a rare optical phenomenon called 22 degree Sun Halo. Apart from Ranchi, it was seen in areas like Hazaribagh, Latehar, Gumla. The giant ring was seen in the afternoon for an hour. The ‘Sun Halo,’ a circle of light with 22 degree radius, is produced when sun light is refracted in hexagonal suspended ice crystals and super cool water droplets formed in the cirrus clouds. The halo is created when the Sun is aligned with these crystals at a particular angle. Two colours, red and blue, were visible to the naked eye. The phenomenon attracted onlookers, with people seen clicking pictures on their rooftops and some attaching superstitious beliefs to the sighting. (Inputs from The Hindu)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid deaths cross 100 for second consecutive day||Jharkhand reported more than 100 Covid deaths for the second consecutive day on Sunday with 103 patients, including 43 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, dying during treatment during the last 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state closer to the 2,000 mark. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported 110 Covid casualties on Saturday, 63 deaths on Friday and 106 fatalities on Thursday. Sunday’s casualties took the Covid toll in Ranchi up at 589 and that in East Singhbhum to 520. So far, as many as 1991 people have died of the viral infection in Jharkhand. The active caseload in the state also inched closer to the 50,000 mark as Jharkhand reported 5903 fresh cases against 3287 Covid recoveries on Sunday. As per data with the NHM, as many as 48,105 people, including 15,500 from Ranchi alone, were battling the viral infection in the state on Sunday. Ranchi reported as many as 1494 fresh cases against 723 recoveries on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 702 cases against 361 recoveries. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 6,498. As per government records, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for over 40 per cent of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in the state. The Covid tally in the state also breached the 2 lakh mark on Sunday. On Sunday, Jharkhand tested swab samples of 30,299 residents and more than 15 per cent of them were found infected. As many as 2,01,747 people have been infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and around 75 per cent of them have recovered, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand has dropped significantly from over 98 per cent in the month of March. The growth rate of the viral infection reached 2.72 per cent on the day against the national average of 1.46 per cent. The doubling rate of infection dropped to 25.86 days against the national average of 47.78 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days before the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 6365 people, only 19 per cent of those registered for the jab on the day. The second dose was administered to 4835 residents, hardly 2 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Eleven state workers dead in Chamoli glacier burst ||Eleven workers from the state have died and seven others have been injured in the April 23 glacier burst in remote Sumna area in Uttrakhand’s Chamoli district. State disaster management department in Jharkhand was informed about the developments by authorities in Chamoli in a formal communiqué on Sunday. All workers were employed by the Border Roads Organisation. Chief minister Hemant Soren broke the bad news through his twitter handle sharing the details of the deceased and injured and said that the government was in touch with Uttrakhand government for further assistance, if any. “Jharkhand has lost 11 brave migrant workers who were working in tough situation along the national borders in April 23 glacier disaster. Our government firmly stands with their families and also those who are currently undergoing treatment in the hospitals. We are in touch with officials in Uttrakhand to take further steps,” Soren said. Chamoli district magistrate Swati S Bhadoria in her letter to the state disaster management department, Jharkhand said that of the seven injured five are under treatment in Joshimath and two are in Dehradun hospital. As per the details shared with the Jharkhand government, of the 11, four workers each belong to Dumka and Khunti district, two are from Ranchi and one is from West Singbhum. Four injured are natives of Khunti and three are from West Singbhum. In a similar incident on February 7 this year, 14 migrant workers from Jharkhand, who were employed in NTPC’s thermal power project in Chamoli lost their lives. They belonged to Lohardaga (9), Ramgarh (4), and Bokaro (1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
26-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Second oxygen train leaves Bokaro||The second oxygen special train left Bokaro Steel City for Lucknow on Sunday afternoon, reports our correspondent. The train was carrying four tankers with 46.48 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen. and was being run on a priority basis, the railways informed, adding the empty tankers had reached Bokaro on Saturday night. While the first rake was run on Friday, a third one with five empty tankers also reached Bokaro. All necessary steps for smooth loading and unloading of tankers have been made at Bokaro station, the railways further informed. “The railways started running oxygen express trains to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of oxygen,” it said. The railways have already delivered 150 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen at destination stations and many more such trains would also be run, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
