27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Voters blame Election Commission for bungling of Covid-19 management||The bungling of Covid-19 management was a burning issue for voters on Saturday, taking precedence over issues like unemployment and development that emerged frequently in conversations during the last few rounds of voting in Calcutta. Many of the voters The Telegraph spoke to across constituencies blamed the Election Commission of India and the “babus from Delhi” for the current situation. The election commission should have at least clubbed the last three phases of the elections as there was enough evidence that things were going out of control, voters said. The Centre should not have wasted crucial time when the Covid numbers were low and used the relative lull to ramp up health infrastructure, a voter in Ballygunge said. Employment and development can only be of use if people live to enjoy them, “only if their health is fine”, said a young voter in Rashbehari. “I think Covid has become the most important issue in today’s phase and it will also remain the most important issue in the last phase of the polls on Thursday,” said Moloy Prakash Mitra, 49, who voted at a booth on Ballygunge Circular Road. “Issues like unemployment and development have become secondary. It is now a question of life and death,” said the businessman. Sukla Mitra, 70, Moloy’s mother, added: “There can be no justification for allowing such huge rallies and meetings. No one was wearing masks during election campaigns and there was no distancing. Yet the rallies continued.” Sixty-nine-year-old Chandra Chatterjee, who voted at a booth in Lake Market, found “no justification” for having eight-phase polls in Bengal. “The eight-phase polls are squarely responsible for the Covid situation in Bengal today. If elections can be held in two-three phases in other states, then why not in Bengal?” she asked. “The babus from Delhi came almost every day to hold rallies and meetings, while the Covid situation kept worsening.” Shagufta Taj, 25, who voted with her parents at a school off Broad Street in Ballygunge, also felt that large rallies should have been stopped. “Everyone knew that the pandemic was around, yet large public meetings were allowed. Why? The people in those campaigns acted very irresponsibly,” she said. Bengal recorded 15,992 new cases on Sunday and there were 68 deaths from Covid-19. The state had reported 827 new cases and two deaths from Covid on March 27, when the first phase of polls was held in Bengal. A month before that, on February 27, the state had reported 192 new Covid cases and two deaths. “The numbers had started to rise by the time the first phase of polls was held. But neither the election commission nor the leaders from Delhi felt that it was necessary to stop large gatherings to halt the spike,” said a voter who wished not to be named. Many people have been critical of the role played by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, who held rallies in Bengal almost every day even as Covid numbers kept rising and more and more people dying of the disease. The argument was repeated by voters on Monday. “What was the need of holding so many rallies by the Prime Minister? All the meetings had large gatherings,” said Mohammad Tarique Ahmed, 28. He felt that the last three phases of the polls should have been clubbed to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The Trinamul Congress had proposed to the election commission that the last three phases be clubbed but the panel did not agree. There was enough evidence by then that the Covid situation in our state was getting out of control. Are people’s lives less important than elections?” asked Ahmed, who voted at Lady Brabourne College. Conversations with voters in some of the earlier phases of the polls had revealed that issues like jobs, communal harmony, development and women’s safety were their top priorities. But on Monday, most voters Metro spoke to said that the Covid situation in the country was at the top of their mind now. “Covid is the most important issue now,” said Shagufta. Many residents in the south Calcutta constituencies that went to the polls on Monday did not vote because they were angry with how the Centre had ignored the deteriorating Covid situation. Many of these people were until a few days ago vouching for a change in Bengal as they believed “a change in Bengal” would create more jobs and usher in an era of rapid development in the state. But the Covid situation seems to have overtaken their aspirations for a change. “The Prime Minister in a recent rally boasted that he had never seen such a huge gathering in a rally, but we all know that staying away from one another helps reduce the spread of Covid. How can a Prime Minister make such an irresponsible statement?” said a south Calcutta voter, a long-time admirer of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission fails to keep ramp promise at polling booths||A champion of disability rights, Jeeja Ghosh, who went to vote on Monday, did not find a ramp at the polling station, a promise she said that the Election Commission had not kept. Ghosh, 51, who went to St Lawrence High School to cast her vote, said that while her own experience was “comfortable”, the fight was not hers alone but for all individuals with disabilities who deserve more “dignified” treatment. She related her experience to The Telegraph. I went to the polling station around 10.15am with my husband to vote. It was comfortable and I had no problem but what I noticed is that there was no ramp. If a person is on a wheelchair how are they expected to navigate the steps, even if it is only a few steps? Picking up the wheelchair physically is not dignified and that is why we ask for ramps. I asked the security personnel in the premises “ramp ache? (Is there a ramp?)”. They answered in the negative, saying “na didi, ramp nei (there is no ramp).” A ramp is one of the things that the Election Commission had promised to us in a meeting that they had with us in January and also in an online meeting in March. They had called some of us (individuals and NGOs working for disability rights) for a meeting and we had pointed out that there should be ramps. They had told us that they would arrange for ramps but it was not there. Even if the booth is on the ground floor and there are only a few steps, there has to be a ramp.  The other issue that we had spoken about in the meeting was the presence of Braille script on the EVM machine, which I noticed was there in my polling booth. In the 15 minutes that I was there on the premises, I did not see anyone in a wheelchair but there could have been individuals who needed a ramp to reach the polling booth. I could climb up the three steps but there are others who cannot. The usual attitude of those at the booth is “amra achi, tule debo (we are there, we will lift the person)”. But that is not the right approach. Not having ramps also acts as a deterrent for individuals with disabilities to go out to exercise their voting rights. Being physically picked up amounts to sympathy and we do not want others to sympathise. We want to be treated as equals. That is our right and that is what we want.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: 2 held for illegal sale of remdesivir||A 23-year-old homemaker who had allegedly promised a family a dose of six vials of remdesivir 100 has been detained on the charge of facilitating the illegal sale of a vial for Rs 21,000, enforcement branch officers said. Remdesivir is at times used to treat Covid. One dose of the medicine, comprising six vials, costs around Rs 4,000, police said. An employee of a reputable city pharmacy was arrested at a spot on Park Street where he was supposed to deliver the medicine to the woman, who police identified as Nidhi Goel, on Monday evening. Police said one vial of remdesivir 100 was seized from him. He had allegedly removed it from a reputable store without keeping any record. No receipt had been issued, the police said. According to the protocol, one dose of the medicine comprises six vials. “We had received a complaint from a family alleging that a woman was selling them one vial of remdesivir 100 for Rs 21,000. Initially, she had promised six vials, but apparently could arrange only one. The actual price of the entire dose of six vials should be within Rs 4,000. The family said they had contacted the woman through a mobile number they found on social media. Tracking the phone number, we zeroed in on her. She is Nidhi Goel, a resident of Park Street,” said deputy commissioner, enforcement branch, K.P. Barui. Pursuing her statement, a joint team comprising officers of the enforcement branch and the state drug controller picked up the pharmacy employee, Biswajit Das. Barui said Das was an employee of a medical store on Chowringhee that had taken the franchise of Blueprint. “We have found details of the store owner. He will be booked, too,” Barui said. Das has purportedly admitted before the police to have smuggled out close to two dozen remdesivir vials violating the ban on their sale to individuals, an officer said. A state government order on April 24, which dealt with the “guidelines for judicious use of remdesivir”, mentioned: “remdesivir has been approved under Emergency Use Authorisation in the management of Covid-19 virus infection during the replicative phase of the virus, but it has been observed that it has been used indiscriminately which is not only inappropriate but has also created an artificial crisis in the market…. It must not be sold to patients on prescription and should only be supplied to hospital by companies or their vendors.” The order also mentioned that roughly 10-20 per cent of all Covid-19 cases fulfilled the criteria of treatment with remdesivir. A formal complaint was lodged with Park Street police station by officers of the drug controller, Bengal, on Monday night and a case was drawn under IPC sections related to cheating and criminal conspiracy and under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. A police officer said many who felt insecure and threatened by rising cases of Covid-19 in the country might have decided to stock remdesivir at home and some black marketeers had illegally procured the drug from distributors and pharmacies to exploit the opportunity. Several hospitals in the city that are treating Covid-19 patients reported non-availability of remdesivir in the market. An official of Peerless Hospital said: “We have 20 patients who need remdesivir today but we have doses enough for only four. We have been promised fresh doses by the government.” Another private hospital official said they had a requirement for 200 patients but had stock for only 40. “The government has promised us more vials. We are telling the patients’ families that we would not be able to administer the drug if we don’t get fresh supplies from the government,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||‘School’ on JU campus for disadvantaged children||Jadavpur University campus has a fresh batch of students. They are not university students, but little children who had no other means of carrying on their education amid the pandemic. A group of university students — present and former — has organised classes over the weekend for around 12 children on a campus that is otherwise shorn of people. The JU students, who last year had run community kitchen for the destitute, have launched an initiative so that these first generation learners don’t lose touch with books for want of smartphones or tabs. On Sunday evening, Pritam Nashkar, Joy Halder, Priya Sardar, Payel Sardar, Jyoti Gupta and others were walking in a group on the concrete driveway of the campus that overlooks Aurobindo Bhavan, the administrative headquarters of JU. They reside in slums around Jadavpur railway station. With small bags, containing textbooks, held in their hands, they entered through gate number 1 and were headed to the “school” set up within a fenced enclosure that faces Aurobindo Bhavan. A room that used to be accessed by the university’s gardeners has been turned into a school, named after Ashu and Timir — Ashu Majumder and Timir Baran Singha, the two former JU students who were killed by police during the crackdown on Naxals in early 70s. Two of the four teachers Soumyajyoti, a postgraduate student of sociology, and Debjan Sengupta, who graduated in comparative literature in 2019, were waiting for their pupils. Debjan asked the children: “Kar Kar mukhe mask ney?” (Is there anyone who is not wearing a mask?” They responded: “Sabbai er ache”. (All of us are wearing). They sanitised their hands and entered the school. “It is important that they also get a lesson on how to keep themselves clean and take it back to their homes,” said Debjan. The Sunday’s class started with the birthday celebration of Pritam Nashkar. Small slices of cake were placed on the mattress and a candle was lit to celebrate. These children, whose parents are masons, attendants and drivers, don’t have smartphones for attending classes on the digital platforms and are gradually losing touch with education — a void that the students of the university are trying to bridge. Sunday’s birthday boy offered a case study. “I don’t have a smartphone. Over the past one year I have not been able to attend any classes,” said Pritam, a Class-VII student of Jadavpur Rishi Aurobindo Vidyapaith. His father works as a mason whose earnings have dropped amid the pandemic following a slump in construction works. Joy Halder, a Class IX student of the same school, too could not attend any classes following lack of smartphone. “My mother works in a mall and could not buy me a smartphone,” said Joy. The schools affiliated to the state board had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the renewed surge of Covid-19 forced the government to announce summer vacation from April 20 till further notice. Schools are free to hold classes on the digital platforms, but for likes of Joy and Pritam this does not make any sense. What made the JU students, associated with the JU Commune, think of starting the school? Arijit Saha, an MTech student of power engineering said, they felt the need while they used to visit the slums for distributing food. “The parents told us about the plight of kids following the closure of schools and absence of devices. This led to the launch of school from March 9, that marks the death anniversary of Ashu Majumder,” said Arijit. Taishi Nandi, a postgraduate student of comparative literature said, lack of touch with the school was weakening the base of these students. “This will create a situation where in they will fail to cope up when promoted to higher classes,” said Taishi. Since the university has been closed till May 3 following a rising number of cases, the organisers are not sure whether the classes could be held this weekend. A notice was issued on Saturday. “As we came to know about closure very late, the classes were held. But we have told our students the classes could be suspended for some days only. We will soon resume,” said Debjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Adherence to Covid-19 norms confined to masks at booths across Calcutta||Adherence to Covid-19 protocols was limited to masks at most polling booths across Calcutta on Monday. Voters stood close to one another in queues. At several booths, they discarded their gloves on the premises of the polling stations or on the road outside, instead of disposing them in designated yellow bins. Some people wore masks under their chins. Outside a polling booth in Lake Market, at least 100 people stood in the queue around 10am. Many of them did not maintain social distancing. Some of the voters had their masks under their chins. “It is very suffocating. I just lowered my mask to breathe properly for a while,” said a young man who had his mask literally hanging from his chin. At another polling booth at a school in Rifle Range, social distancing in the queue seemed like an alien concept. Things were no different at the booth inside Patha Bhavan school in Ballygunge. After this newspaper started taking pictures, the jawans guarding the booth took it upon themselves to prod people to stand apart from each other. At a polling station inside a girls’ school on Sarat Bose Road, voter after voter was discarding the gloves on the road outside the booth, though yellow bins had been kept on the booth premises to dispose of the gloves. One of the voters, who wore a handkerchief as a face cover instead of a mask, threw his glove right outside the booth. The glove landed on a heap of discarded gloves. A jawan standing near him chose to turn a blind eye. Ditto at St Lawrence High School in Ballygunge. A jawan posted there said he had told a couple of voters to wear their masks properly. But he pointed to his senior when asked about the improper discarding of gloves. Calcutta High Court has repeatedly directed the election commission to take “hard” measures to ensure the safety of citizens in the polling season in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Monday, multiple voters told The Telegraph that holding elections in eight phases was driving the surge in Bengal. But some of them also pointed out that the onus was on citizens to follow basic Covid-19 protocols. The number of people without masks on Monday was much less compared with the previous rounds of voting in the city and on the fringes. Workers of political parties at camps near polling stations, who seldom cared to wear masks, had mended their ways on Monday. But not all of them. Two camps, one of Trinamul and the other of the BJP, were set up almost opposite one another near a polling booth on Lake Road. Among the four persons in the Trinamul camp, one was without a mask. The camp of the rival party had two young men, both without masks. “Checking the names of the voters is not an easy task. It needs concentration. Being suffocated behind a mask makes it doubly difficult,” said a Trinamul worker at a camp in Chetla. He was wearing one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||State health department asks private hospitals to obtain Covid vaccines from manufacturers||The state health department on Monday officially told private hospitals that they would have to procure Covid vaccines from the manufacturers from May. The state government now supplies vaccine doses to private hospitals. The arrangement will end on April 30. Private hospitals now pay Rs 150 a vial. Each vial contains 10 doses. From May 1, the private hospitals have to shell out more. The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has announced that private hospitals have to pay Rs 600 for each dose. Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, has priced its vaccine at Rs 1,200 a dose for private hospitals. “We have officially come to know that private hospitals have to buy their own stock of vaccine vials. While the government has assured us of help in contacting the manufacturers, we have asked for more clarity on some issues. The state government will get back to us in a couple of days,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “We are not sure whether we will get a minimum number of doses as we have to buy directly from the manufacturers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We are not taking any bookings for vaccination for May because we are not sure about the supply. What is more worrying is how we will vaccinate those whose second dose is due from May. We do not want to fail on our commitment to administer the second dose but we are not sure about the supply,” said Mitra. The Centre has announced that anyone above 18 will be eligible to be vaccinated against Covid from May 1. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that vaccination of people above 18 will begin on May 5 in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Calcuttans vote to ‘preserve the city’s inclusive culture’||Calcuttans came out in good numbers to cast their votes on Monday despite the Covid-19 threat and many of them said this election was more than a battle for political power. Outside a polling booth in Bhowanipore, financial consultant Alka Karnani said: “Diwali dinner at our home is incomplete without our Muslim friends. Similarly, we go to their places during Id celebrations.” “We must preserve the inclusive culture of Calcutta against an onslaught of religious polarisation,” said Shiv Karnani, a resident of Nafar Kundu Road. Shiv and his wife Alka voted at a booth in Bakulbagan, a stone’s throw from their home. Shiv’s ancestors trace their roots to Rajasthan but moved to Bengal over 200 years ago. “When I go to Rajasthan now, I go there as a tourist. Calcutta is my home,” said the 57-year-old, who is in the medical equipment industry. The couple have two sons, the elder one settled abroad. “We also want our children to get jobs here. So that they don’t have to leave home for jobs,” Alka said. A sizeable presence of senior citizens and women was seen in queues outside many polling booths on Monday. An old man, walking with a stick, came out of a booth on Ramesh Mitra Road in Bhowanipore around 11am. The April sun was scorching and the man paused to rest for a few seconds after every few steps. On seeing a couple of TV cameras, he flashed his left index finger marked with the poll ink. “Some of my family members and neighbours were sceptical about me stepping out to vote. But I was bent on voting. Voting gives me a reassurance that I am still not invalid,” said Sambhu Nath Dutta, 86, a resident of Puddapukur in Bhowanipore. Asked what the main issue that influenced his voting was, Dutta replied: “I voted for a Bengal where everyone can live together peacefully, a Bengal without violence.” The Election Commission had arranged for postal ballots at home for voters aged above 80. But Dutta said he was not aware of the provision. At the polling station in Deshbandhu College for Women off Rashbehari Avenue, the queue of voters stretched around 100 metres around noon. Several voters stood under umbrellas. At the Institute of Jute Technology on Ballygunge Circular Road, the polling booth was busy since early morning. The queue of women voters was much longer than that of men. From Chetla to Lake Gardens, polling stations were busy for most of the day. Till 5pm, the voter turnout percentage in Calcutta was around 60 per cent, according to the EC. Sukriti Dutta, 20, a first-time voter, stepped out of a polling booth on Sarat Bose Road around 10.30am. The BSc student, a resident of Manoharpukur, said women’s safety was one of the main issues for her. “I can return home safely after 10pm now. I voted to keep things that way,” she said. The polling booth at South City International School was also busy. Debdatta Mukherjee, 64, a Poddarnagar resident, had come to vote at the booth with wife Kabita, 60. “The communal polarisation we are witnessing threatens to tear apart the ‘politically conscious’ badge that Bengalis love to flaunt. There are no jobs here, there is no industry. Social harmony is the only asset that we have in Bengal. We must protect it,” said Debdatta, a chemical engineer from Jadavpur University. Ridhhisha Halder, all of seven months, made her way to a polling station in Bhowanipore on Monday morning, in her mother’s arms. “There is no one to look after her at home. We could not miss voting. So, here we are,” said her mother Urmila, a homemaker. Her husband Ritesh said the vote was important because it was a battle between locals and outsiders. “We are not perfect. But we are happy. We don’t need the ‘Sonar Bangla’ projected by leaders from Delhi. They will turn Bengal into a land of strife and unrest,” said Ritesh. Md Tarique Ahmed, 28, a marketing professional, cast his vote at Lady Brabourne College in Park Circus. He said that Bengal would not fall to the politics of polarisation. “The BJP relies on a tried and tested formula — division of people along religious lines. The party has done the same in other states. But it will not work in Bengal,” he said. Anirban Ganguly, 31, a Ballygunge resident, had come to cast his vote at a polling booth at South Calcutta Law College. He stressed the need to ramp  up the healthcare infrastructure. “The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed the ramshackle state of our healthcare system. Any government, at the state or Centre, should concentrate on affordable healthcare for all,” said Ganguly, who works in the travel and tourism sector. Sreedita Dasgupta, a first-time voter, and mother Srabanti had come to cast their votes at South City International School. Sreedita, a BTech student at a private engineering college, said she wanted enough jobs in her home state. “Young people studying here should not have to leave the state in search of jobs. I want the new government to ensure that,” she said. Her mother said: “Manush e manush e hingsha jano bondho hoye (Violence among humans should stop).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021:  Nikhat and Pritam vote for humanity||Kuppili Pritam and Nikhat Parveen stepped out of a polling booth in the Calcutta Port constituency on Monday and she spoke about how “humanity comes first”. Nikhat has been fasting every day in the Ramazan month like any devout Muslim and she holds the diya during the household puja at her Hindu in-laws’ place with equal fervour. So does Kuppili Pritam. A cook at a star hotel in Calcutta, Pritam makes the iftar meal at home whenever he gets a chance. On Id, he takes leave from work to celebrate. “My husband loves cooking Chinese dishes. That is what he specialises in. But on the day of Id, he prepares mughlai,” Nikhat says with a smile. Nikhat and some of her friends in their Mominpore neighbourhood chose to step out in the afternoon to cast their votes. That was convenient for them because they wake up early for their sehri, the pre-dawn meal during the Ramazan fasting, and go back to sleep. Since her childhood, Nikhat has never skipped her Ramazan fast. Pritam and his family have not come in the way of her choice. “We grew up together from childhood. He (Pritam) was my best friend. So when we decided to get married, there were no issues,” Nikhat said, arranging the white snakha bangle around her wrists. “My papa was slightly upset because we went to the Kalighat temple to marry. But later he accepted my decision.” A Class VIII dropout, Nikhat doesn’t remember her mobile number. But the 23-year-old remembers nuances of some of the Hindu rituals, which she has picked up from her in-laws since she married Pritam in February last year. Pritam had worn a golden sherwani suit with an ornate cap for the occasion and Nikhat chose a red Benarasi sari. When the two exchanged garlands, priests in the temple clapped to the sounds of conch shells. “There were no issues with either family. The rest you hear from her,” Pritam said before rushing to join his work in the hotel. A predominantly minority locality, Mominpore has accepted the marriage without a hue and cry. When the couple’s fathers, Kuppili Raju and Akbar Hussain, meet and greet, residents of the area don’t pause to stare. “A girl has married a boy from her neighbourhood. It doesn’t matter what their faiths are. They are happy and that’s what we want them to be,” said Bablu Karim, a resident of Braunfeld Row. The narrative of division based on religion being played out for the last few months across the state has hit Mominpore, too. But every time the issue of mandir and masjid cropped up, it firmed their resolve to preserve the city’s inclusive culture. “Saabse aagey hai insaniyat (It’s the humanity that comes first),” Nikhat said. “We voted today to preserve this Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
27-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 558 points to close just below 49,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 558 points on Tuesday, driven by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and L&T. The 30-share BSE index ended 557.63 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 48,944.14. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 168.05 points or 1.16 per cent to 14,653.05. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, SBI and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, NTPC, Kotak Bank, Nestle India and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. Persistent strength in US markets has rubbed off on Indian stocks, with yesterday's dip in treasury yields ahead of FOMC decision also helping the overall risk appetite, said Anand James, Chief Market Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Banks have been quite upbeat lately and extended gains by over 1 per cent post noon, but it was metals that shone with over 2.5 per cent gains. However, with April derivative expiry approaching, and with Nifty option premiums not pricing much above 14,700 for now, caution is recommended, he added. With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. With Nasdaq and S&P at record highs, the global support to markets is strong. The FOMC meeting starting later in the day will be keenly watched by markets for clues on probable trends in rates and yields, experts said. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent higher at USD 65.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Global task force created by CEOs of 40 US companies to help India in Covid fight||In a show of solidarity, the CEOs of about 40 top American companies have come together to create a first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to mobilise resources and coordinate efforts to help India fight the battle against COVID-19. A collective initiative of the US-India Business Council of the US Chamber of Commerce, and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and Business Roundtable, the task force during its meeting here on Monday committed to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen told PTI. The new US public-private partnership to provide India critical medical supplies, vaccines, oxygen and other life-saving assistance amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases is called the 'Global Task Force on Pandemic Response: Mobilising for India'. The first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to address a public health crisis in another country was addressed by US Secretary of State Tony Blinken. The conversation showed how the United States and India can leverage the expertise and capabilities of the US private sector towards solutions for India's COVID-19 crisis, Blinken said in a tweet. "A number of American companies have come together over the weekend. We are focused on doing our very best to help in any way that we possibly can. As the prime minister said, we were very confident, our spirits were up after successfully tackling the first wave, but this storm has shaken the nation. It is up to us to help in any way possible," Renjen said in response to a question. Observing that the first issue is around oxygen and its concentrators, Renjen said they have commitments to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks. The first 1,000 will arrive in the middle of this week, he said, adding that by May 5, they expect another 11,000 oxygen concentrators to reach the country. "Our goal is to get 25,000, and maybe even a number higher than that," he added. The second issue is to look at oxygen cylinders with 10-litre and 45-litre capacity and to get other supplies like monitoring kits, Renjen said. "I am very pleased with the fact that these companies have come together. We're working with the USISPF, as well as the USIBC and with the Business Roundtable to coordinate this effort to help India in any way that that is required, he said. Welcoming the call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden and the decision of the US to urgently send supplies to India, the Deloitte CEO reiterated that the two countries are natural allies. "I'm very heartened by the fact that the US government is going to step up and do its part," he said. The fight against COVID-19 is personal for Renjen as several family members of Renjen, who comes from Rohtak, Haryana have contracted the disease. Around 2,000 of Deloitte's employees in India have been infected, he said. "We are facilitating individuals getting the vaccines. We are providing them medical assistance, home testing kits. This is being consistently done by all entities that have big footprints in India. That is really important to do," Renjen said. "We will do everything on our part to take care of our employees, like I believe every one of the multinationals that were on the call with me are committed to doing. But they have really stepped up," he said. "This is a real kudos to Indian talent," Renjen said. The task force also comprises representations from retail sector, e-commerce, pharmaceutical, technology industry and large manufacturing entities. "This global crisis requires a global response, and the American business community could not be better positioned, or more determined, to help lead the way, said Suzanne Clark, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce. It was wonderful to see everybody focused on making sure that they do their part, that they contribute. Out of that discussion, the first step that we came up with was these oxygen concentrators, Renjen said. Our point to the US government is to provide assistance (to India), wherever it's requested, he added. These US companies are coordinating with the Indian ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. Earlier in the week, he gave us the list of items that are of critical need, Renjen said. The list includes oxygen concentrators, oxygen generators, two critical medicines that he wanted to see if the US government can release, monitoring kits, and encouraging the US government to ease supply of critical materials for vaccines. Responding to a question, Renjen exuded confidence that India would overcome this. "This too shall pass. I am very confident in my Indian brothers and sisters; we will overcome this," he said. "I don't think we need to panic. We listen to the scientists and listen to the people that are managing this in the country. I think we just have to navigate through it. We will have two or three weeks of very difficult times." "It is a tragic situation, particularly for people that have COVID or who have lost loved ones. My heart goes out to them, but we are going to do our part, Renjen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 150 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and TCS despite a negative trend in Asian markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 155.63 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 48,542.14. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.80 points or 0.34 per cent to 14,534.80. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, TCS, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, HDFC, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 508.06 points or 1.06 per cent higher at 48,386.51, and Nifty jumped 143.65 points or 1 per cent to 14,485. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,111.89 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities rebounded mainly led by sharp recovery in financials, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring Pharma, most of the key sectoral indices traded in green in the morning session. Strong March quarter performance led ICICI Bank to recover sharply, while HCL Tech witnessed sell-off due to subdued 4Q performance. A persistent rise in COVID-19 cases across the nation and enhanced economic restrictions has dented investors sentiments over the last couple of weeks. However, a sharp reduction in fresh caseload in Maharashtra on Monday offered some comfort and a further reversal in caseload should augur well for the economy and markets," he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 28,82,204, up from 28,13,658 cases registered on Monday, according to Union Health Ministry data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Bourses on Wall Street ended with gains in overnight sessions. "With Nasdaq and S&P at record highs, the global support to markets is strong. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting starting later in the day will be keenly watched by markets for clues on probable trends in rates and yields," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent higher at USD 65.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Long-term investors to acquire majority stake in Mphasis||Blackstone along with Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), UC Investments and other long-term investors are acquiring a majority stake in Mphasis for a consideration of up to $2.8 billion, or Rs 21,000 crore. However, the transaction will trigger a mandatory open offer and the acquirers will have to purchase up to 26 per cent additional shares of the company from its public shareholders. Blackstone said in a statement that based on the open offer subscription, the blended purchase price will vary in the range of Rs 1,452-1,497 per share, which is at a 12-16 per cent premium to the 12-month average price and 3-6 per cent discount to the six-month average price. The purchase consideration will vary between Rs 15,200 and Rs 21,000 crore ($2-2.8 billion). However, the open offer is being made at a price of Rs 1,677.16 per share, aggregating to a total consideration of Rs 8,262 crore. The announcement led to shares of Mphasis closing nearly 1.62 per cent or Rs 27.55 higher at Rs 1,725.25 on the BSE. At present, Marble II Pte Ltd has a 56.03 per cent stake in Mphasis. While the new acquirers will buy a little over 55 per cent, they are not part of the seller’s promoter group. Moreover, the seller and the acquirer belong to separate funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Covid: Tech firms offer to help with oxygen and medical equipment shortage||Technology giants Google, Microsoft and Amazon have pledged support through various initiatives to help with the ongoing oxygen and medical equipment shortage in the country. While Google will provide Rs 135 crore in funding, Amazon will urgently airlift over 8,000 oxygen concentrators and 500 BiPAP machines from Singapore. Sundar Pichai, CEO, Alphabet, tweeted: “Devastated...Google and Googlers are providing Rs 135 crore in funding to GiveIndia, Unicef for medical supplies.” Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, in a tweet said: “I am heartbroken by the current situation in India. I’m grateful the US government is mobilising to help. Microsoft will continue to use its voice, resources, and technology to aid relief efforts and support the purchase of critical oxygen concentration devices.” Meanwhile, Gautam Adani, chairman of Adani group, tweeted the company’s first shipment of four ISO cryogenic tanks with 80 tonnes of liquid oxygen was on its way from Dammam (Saudi Arabia) to Mundra. Reliance Foundation has said its Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital will manage a 650-bed facility at the National Sports Club of India. HPL offers Bengal oxygen support Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL) can meet 40 per cent of Bengal’s requirement of medical oxygen, the company said on Monday. The petrochemical complex of HPL, located at Haldia, operates a nitrogen plant which also produces 95 tonne per day of liquid oxygen as a by-product. The unit needs substantial quantities of gaseous nitrogen which is met by HPL’s captive nitrogen plant owned by Praxair and built on HPL’s land. Therefore, HPL in the process of meeting its nitrogen requirement for its units, has been able to generate a substantial quantity of oxygen through Praxair and meet the urgent requirement of medical oxygen in the state. This will include the creation of 100 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds that will be made operational in phases from May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Linde plans to ease oxygen woes||Linde, a leading global company in industrial gases, has stepped in to ease the supply crunch of medical oxygen witnessed in the Covid-hit states. In an interview with The Telegraph, Moloy Banerjee, head of gases-South Asia of Linde South Asia Services Pvt Ltd, says it is working with their operations and partners across various countries in the Asia-Pacific region to source cryogenic containers in a short period. India is going through one of the worst phases of the Covid crisis because of non-availability of oxygen. Being in this industry for decades in India, what  do you think has led to this crisis? This second wave of Covid-19 is spreading faster and wider than the first wave and is also leading to more severe infections, which require a higher use of medical oxygen for treatment. What measures need to be taken to alleviate the crisis? Our main focus should be on increasing supply and improving distribution efficiency, and thankfully many such measures are already in place. For example, Linde is working with various partners to urgently import cryogenic ISO containers from across the Asia Pacific to India. We are also converting liquid argon and liquid nitrogen tankers to liquid oxygen instead, as well as building new installations at various partner hospitals. The government of India has already issued a directive to redirect almost all oxygen production and supplies to healthcare services and have repurposed railways and airways to supply to areas in need. We are even seeing companies in other industries that are allocating resources to produce medical oxygen. Linde has 20 plants in India. Where are they located and how much LMO (liquid medical oxygen) can they produce? Our plants are spread across India, and are capable of producing over 2,000 mt of LMO a day. What is the current demand-supply scenario of LMO. How can we be more prepared should the demand rise further? Please refer to authorised publications for this data. Various ways are being explored to enhance availability and distribution. Will it impact the supply to industrial customers? The government of India has already issued a directive to redirect supplies of oxygen from most industries to healthcare services from April 22. Linde is completely complying with the directive. It appeared that the transportation of oxygen from the plants to the crisis-prone states had been a major challenge. We understand Tata Group and ITC imported cryogenic tankers and airlifted them to India. What role is Linde playing in this logistics chain? Linde India is working with our operations and partners across APAC, such as Singapore, China and Thailand, to supply and import ISO cryogenic containers to India. This is an unprecedented level of coordination for Linde as these arrangements are being done in an extremely short amount of time in tandem with partners from several countries. Once the tankers arrive in India, we facilitate their delivery to various partnered medical centers and hospitals. Is there a constraint on how many tankers can be filled in a day? If so, how can it be resolved? The bigger challenge right now is the limited availability of tankers, which is why Linde has been taking measures. How many cryogenic containers does Linde plan to bring to India? We have tied up with Tata Group to bring 24 containers and four of them have already arrived. Linde Group is procuring these containers from various sources. We are in dialogue with others to execute more such arrangements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||HDFC Life Insurance steps up its reserves on account of Covid-related risks||HDFC Life Insurance on Monday said that it has stepped up its reserves on account of Covid-related risks in 2021-22. The life insurer, which had provided Rs 41 crore as on March 31, 2020 for potential adverse mortality experience due to Covid, has increased the amount to Rs 165 crore for the ongoing fiscal. “Based on our actual experience in FY21 and after factoring in aspects such as the latest mortality trends across businesses and customer segments and geographical spread of Covid 2.0, we have provided a Covid reserve of Rs 165 crore for FY22. We will continue to review the adequacy of the reserve through the course of FY22,” said Vibha Padalkar, MD and CEO, HDFC Life. She added that while the reserve for the time being is adequate, there is no clarity on how bad the current pandemic is going to be, whether there is a possibility of another wave and how recovery will affect long term mortality rates. In 2020-21, HDFC Life had settled over 2.9 lakh death claims, resulting in payouts of more than Rs 3,000 crore. Covid claims net of reinsurance was Rs 145 crore. The life insurer, which saw its market share increase to 15.5 per cent  from 14.2 per cent on individual weighted received premium, posted a 5 per cent rise in profit after tax in 2020-21 to Rs 1,360 core. Total premium during the year increased 18 per cent to Rs 38,583 crore from Rs 32,707 crore in 2019-20. While new business premium saw a 17 per cent growth, there was a 19 per cent growth in renewal premium. The insurer said that it has seen an upswing in savings business on a sequential basis as more customers continue to evaluate investing in bundled solutions. “Given the resurgence of Covid and the looming uncertainty around economic and market momentum, we will continue to maintain a cautiously optimistic stance for FY22 and evaluate our approach dynamically. The current pandemic has led to a higher awareness around the need for protection and the inadequacy of current insurance coverage,” HDFC Life said in a statement. The board of the life insurer has recommended a final dividend of Rs 2.02 per equity share of face value Rs 10 for FY21. HDFC Life Insurance scrips at Rs 704.75 were up 2.52 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Former Maruti chief Jagdish Khattar passes away||Jagdish Khattar, who led Maruti Suzuki as managing director for eight years, died of cardiac arrest early this morning. He was 79. A former bureaucrat, Khattar was considered as one of the most high-profile leaders of the Indian automotive industry, laying the foundation for Maruti’s future growth after the government began its divestment in 2002 and gradually exited its joint venture with Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC). His tenure saw Maruti establishing itself as India’s largest car company. After retiring from Maruti in October 2007, Khattar launched an entrepreneurial venture, Carnation Auto, a multi-brand automobile service network also dealing in used cars business. “This is a deep personal loss and has come as a big shock. We had worked together for many years. He is someone who had done a lot of good for Maruti,” R. C. Bhargava,  chairman of Maruti Suzuki India, told a television channel. Khattar had joined the then Maruti Udyog Ltd in July 1993 as director (marketing) and went on to become the executive director (marketing) in the next six years. He was promoted as the joint managing director in 1999, a year that saw various disagreements between SMC and the government. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was to last till the age of 65 years or end of 2007, whichever was earlier. Khattar was appointed to the post of MD of Maruti Udyog Ltd, as per an agreement between the partners, who agreed to appoint their nominee for a three-year term. Even as the government and the Japanese partner continued to squabble over various issues, including ownership and technology transfer, Khattar had also to deal with industrial relations issues when workers at the company's Gurgaon plant went on an indefinite strike in 2000 demanding wage hikes, incentives and pensions, among others. In 2002, when it was SMC's turn to appoint MD, they renamed Khattar as their nominee. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was supposed to last till the age of 65 years or end-2007, whichever was earlier. In 2007, he retired from the top post in the country's largest carmaker, having ensured that the company commanded 50 per cent of the passenger vehicles market in India despite growing competition from global players. A year after retirement, he founded a multi-brand car service chain, Carnation Auto with many reputed private equity investors including Premji Invest and Gaja Capital backing the venture. However, his entrepreneurial venture did not reach the heights of success that he achieved when he was helming Maruti Suzuki. In 2019, he was booked by the CBI along with his company Carnation Auto India Limited for allegedly causing losses of Rs 110 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB).  Khattar had, however, defended himself stating that an exhaustive independent forensic audit at the behest of the bankers did not find any wrongdoings in the functioning of Carnation Auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Government extends cap on domestic airfares||The government on Monday extended the cap on domestic airfares, which was earlier slated till April 30, to  May 31. The ministry of civil aviation also capped the maximum capacity utilised by airlines to 80 per cent of the summer schedule of 2020 till May-end. The order comes days after the airlines had appealed to the government to reduce the capacity to 60 per cent as bookings had fallen because of the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. Earlier this month, the airlines met ministry officials and sought financial help to keep running operations and “strict enforcement” of the lower fare limit fixed by the government to prevent predatory pricing by some. The ministry officials did not explain why the airline capacity has been kept unchanged despite the request from airlines and an increase in the number of cases. The summer schedule of 2021 is applicable between March 28 and October 30. The directorate-general of civil aviation had in March allocated 18,843 departures per week for domestic airlines during the upcoming summer schedule 2021 from 108 airports across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||RIL-BP start output from second gas field||Reliance Industries and its partner BP Plc of the UK have started production from the Satellite Cluster gas field in the deepwater KG-D6 block, two months ahead of schedule. The Satellite Cluster is the second of the three developments to come onstream, following the start of the R Cluster in December 2020. It was scheduled to start output in mid-2021. The field is located about 60 km from the existing onshore terminal at Kakinada on the east coast of India in water depths of up to 1,850 metres. The three clusters — R Cluster, Satellite Cluster and MJ — are together expected to produce around 30mmscmd (or 1 billion cubic feet a day) of natural gas by 2023, which will meet 15 of India’s projected demand. The MJ cluster will come on stream in the latter half of 2022. The fields will each use the existing hub infrastructure in the KG D6 block. RIL is the operator of the block with a 66.67 per cent participating interest and BP  holds a 33.33 per cent participating interest,” RIL said. The field will produce gas from four reservoirs using a total of five wells and is expected to reach an output of up to 6 mmscmd. Together, the R Cluster and Satellite Cluster are expected to contribute about 20 per cent of India’s current gas production. With state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC) also slated to begin the supply of 2 mmscmd of gas from KG-DWN-98/2 field in June 2021, India’s natural gas production is projected to jump 52 per cent to 122 million standard cubic meters (mmscmd) per day by 2024. HDFC Securities said in a report said the output is projected to rise in the current fiscal that started on April 1 to 93 mmscmd, 107 mmscmd in the following year and 122 mmscmd in 2023-24. ONGC, which had in recent years seen output stagnate, is likely to see production rise to 67 mmscmd in 2021-22 from 62 mmscmd in the previous year. This would rise to 69 mmscmd in FY23 and 75 mmscmd in FY24. The Reliance-BP combine, which in December last year brought newer fields in their eastern offshore KG-D6 block to production, would lead to the rise in gas output by non-PSUs. Its output, which was 11 mmscmd in 2020-21, would rise to 38 mmscmd by FY24, the brokerage estimated. It projected domestic gas demand to climb from 153.8 mmscmd in FY21 (April 2020 to March 2021) to 215.5 mmscmd in 2024-25. The increase in production augments well with the government plans for raising the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.2 per cent in a bid to cut emissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Vedanta tells SC that Tamil Nadu govt shouldn't be allowed to take over its oxygen plant||Vedanta Limited has told the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu government should not be allowed to take over its Rs 150-crore oxygen plant in the state even as the main political parties of Tamil Nadu have agreed on Monday to let Vedanta operate its oxygen plant alone with some riders. However, the parties said in their joint resolution that under no circumstances should Vedanta be allowed to re-start any of its other facilities at the Thoothukudi factory. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board will provide power to the plant for four months. A state-appointed monitoring committee will periodically oversee the unit. The all-party meet also demanded that Vedanta should first meet the oxygen requirements of Tamil Nadu before sending cylinders to other states. In an affidavit filed before the top court, Vedanta had said: “ Running the plant was beyond the competence of the government and would lead to the production of sub-standard oxygen.” Instead, the company had urged the apex court to permit it to operate the plant under the supervision of an independent body. The apex court will take up the company’s affidavit on Tuesday along with the views of the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government on the issue. The court had last week sought the response of the two governments on Vedanta’s plea to reopen the closed plant for daily production of 1,050 million tonnes of oxygen. The plant is closed since May 2018 following incidents of violence and police firing in which 13 persons had died. Appointments Vedanta Ltd on Monday announced the elevation of Sauvick Mazumdar as the the CEO of the company’s iron and steel business. The company, in a statement, also said that N. L. Vhatte, who was director, Vedanta-value added business, will take up the role of CEO, ESL Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||RBI imposes 15-year cap on bank chief’s tenure||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday capped the tenure of a chief executive at a private bank at 15 years while tightening corporate governance rules that have been vigorously debated in the industry since the central bank floated a discussion paper on the subject last June. The immediate fallout of the final guidelines is that Uday Kotak will be able to continue as MD and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank until January 2024 after which he will have to appoint a successor. The spotlight had fallen on Uday Kotak, who has been leading the bank since 2003, after the central bank articulated its resolve to tighten governance standards in the banking industry. Under the draft rules framed in the discussion paper, Kotak would have had to step down in April 2023 assuming the guidelines came into effect from April 2021. However, the banking regulator had granted Kotak a three-year extension starting January 1, 2021. Under the provisions of the latest circular, he will be allowed to complete his tenure. Releasing the final guidelines today, the RBI said the post of the MD&CEO or whole-time director (WTD) cannot be held by the same incumbent for more than 15 years. It added that the individual will be eligible for re-appointment as MD & CEO or WTD in the same bank, if considered necessary and desirable by the board, but this will be allowed only after a three-year cooling period during which the “individual shall not be appointed or associated with the bank or its group entities in any capacity either directly or indirectly”. The current upper age limit of 70 years for MD & CEO and WTDs in private sector banks will continue. However, within the overall limit of 70 years, individual bank’s boards are free to prescribe a lower retirement age for the WTDs, including the MD & CEO. The RBI said that a MD & CEO or WTD who is also a promoter or a major shareholder, cannot hold these posts for more than 12 years. However, in extraordinary circumstances and at the RBI’s sole discretion, the incumbent may be allowed to stay on as MD & CEO or WTD up to 15 years. There is a caveat here: the re-appointment of a promoter as MD and CEO will be linked to the bank’s adherence to milestones relating to share dilution — an issue that turned controversial last year when Kotak went to court challenging an RBI directive. In December 2018, Kotak had taken the RBI to court challenging the central bank’s directive issued in August 2017 that required him to trim the promoter’s stake to 20 per cent of paid-up voting equity capital by December 31, 2018 and to 15 per cent by March 31, 2020. A compromise was eventually reached and the banking regulator said promoters could hold up to 26 per cent in the bank. However, the promoter’s voting rights were restricted to 15 per cent with effect from April 2020. In June last year, Uday Kotak sold 5.6 crore shares, or a 2.8 per cent stake, to bring down his stake in Kotak Bank to a little over 26 per cent to comply with RBI regulations. Banks have been given time till October 31 to comply with the latest set of instructions. The rules will apply to all private sector banks, including Small Finance Banks (SFBs) and wholly-owned subsidiaries of foreign banks. The RBI also stipulated that the chairman of the board should be an independent director. In the absence of the chairman, the meetings of the board shall be chaired by an independent director. The quorum for the meetings shall be one-third of the total strength of the board or three directors, whichever is higher. At least half of the directors attending shall be independent directors. The other key measure is that the upper age limit for non-executive directors (NEDs), including the chair, has been pegged at 75 years. The total tenure of an NED, continuously or otherwise, on the board of a bank will not exceed eight years. After completing his tenure, the person may be considered for re-appointment only after a minimum gap of three years. However, the person can be appointed as a director in another bank. An audit committee of a bank will only have non-executive directors, half of whom will be independent. Non-executive directors will form the majority on the risk management committee which must meet at least once every quarter. The nomination and remuneration committee of a bank will only have non-executive directors. Norms for rural banks, local area banks and payment banks will be notified separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||India||PM Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah monitoring Oxygen supply, Govt tells Apex Court||The Centre while submitting an affidavit highlighting the Covid situation of the country mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah are directly monitoring oxygen supply across the country. “The Central Government, with active and constant supervision and direct involvement of the Hon'ble Prime Minister and the Hon'ble Home Minister, is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing evolving and implementing innovative measures,” read the government’s 201-page affidavit. It further stated, “Resultantly, more and more medical oxygen is generated and is being made available every day, keeping in mind not just existing requirements but potential future requirements. It is submitted that these efforts include augmenting oxygen supply from all available sources within India and also importing oxygen from other countries using not only the diplomatic channels but also personal intervention of the political executive.” The Supreme Court had earlier asked the government for a detailed response on various aspects of the Covid crisis engulfing the country such as the supply of oxygen, beds, essential drugs like Remdesivir and vaccines. Taking into account that many High Courts were hearing petitions related crunch in critical supplies across India, the Apex Court had last week taken up the case on its own. The centre’s affidavit filed in response, indicated that “robust interactive mechanism” was in place with senior official working on the supply of oxygen on real-time basis. It also mentioned about a series of high-level meetings being conducted by PM Modi to make the country respond to the second wave of the pandemic. The document also mentioned that on February 21, the Union Health Ministry had written to the states and Union Territories that has witnessed a spike in Covid cases to put “immediate requisite public health interventions”. The Union ministry for home affairs also in the affidavit mentioned that the unprecedented surge in the number of Covid-19 cases had created the crisis due to “limitation in resources” and that such resources need to be “professionally augmented and utilised.” Also while talking to PTI, the government said, “It is also pertinent to note that the medical oxygen in any country cannot be unlimited. While the government started all out efforts to augment oxygen resources and procure more and more oxygen from all available sources, these supplies available at any given time in the country are to be distributed to all the states, especially those which are critically burdened with high number of active COVID cases, in a balanced manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
27-04-2021||India||PM Modi chairs high-level meeting to review Covid situation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was informed about the increasing production of oxygen, whose shortage has been reported in several places amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, at a high-level meeting on Tuesday during which he asked officials to work closely with state governments to start PSA Oxygen plants at the earliest. In the meeting on the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Modi reviewed the availability of medical infrastructure and directed officials to ensure rapid upgradation of health facilities, the PMO said in a statement. Three empowered groups also made a presentation to the prime minister, it added. Modi was briefed about the functioning of the Oxygen Express Railways service as well as the domestic and international sorties undertaken by the Air Force to transport oxygen tankers. Officials also noted that they are encouraging states to also set up PSA oxygen plants. The empowered group working on the medical infrastructure and Covid-19 management briefed him on efforts being undertaken to ramp up the availability of beds and ICUs. They informed him on efforts to break the chain of transmission with Modi stressing the need to ensure that specific guidelines and strategies evolved regarding the Covid management needs to be properly implemented by relevant agencies in the states. "It was discussed that the production of LMO in the country has increased from 5700 MT/day in August 2020 to the present 8922 MT (on 25th April 2021). The domestic production of LMO is expected to cross 9250 MT/day by the end of April 2021," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Never asked for 5-star rooms as Covid facilities, says Delhi HC after media report||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it has not made any request for creating Covid-19 facilities for its judges, staff and their families in a five star hotel. Taking suo motu cognisance of the news reports which said that 100 rooms of Ashoka Hotel in national capital have been converted into a Covid health facility for judges of Delhi High Court on its request, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said,"No communication has been made to anyone in this regard". "We have not made any such request for taking over facilities of a five star hotel," the bench said and directed the Delhi government to "take corrective steps immediately". In an order issued by the sub-divisional magistrate of Chanakyapuri on April 25, it was stated that the Covid facility at Ashoka Hotel will be associated with Primus Hospital. The order also said that the facility was being set up on the request of the Delhi High Court. Terming the order as "wrong", the bench said the image being projected as a result of it was that the Delhi High Court judges have taken it for their benefit or that the Delhi government has done it to appease the court. The high court also did not agree with senior advocate Rahul Mehra's claim that the media played "mischief", saying "the media is not wrong". It said that the media only pointed out what was wrong in the order and it was the SDM's order which was wrong. The bench, in another hearing, also directed the AAP government to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines for Covid-19 patients and address the issue of oxygen distribution to hospitals as well as individuals. It directed the Delhi government to file a report on the number of deaths of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and nursing homes due to the shortage of oxygen. The high court also directed the government to take over the plant of an oxygen refiller for not supplying gas to hospitals and allegedly giving it in black market, and made it clear that the same action should be taken with regard to other suppliers who refuse to fall in line. Besides, it asked the Delhi government to take account of stock and sale of medicines such as Remdesivir, Fabiflu and Tocilizumab at hospitals' pharmacies, as people are unable to get these drugs which are being sold at much higher rates in black market. The bench, which was hearing the case relating to oxygen crisis and shortage of medicines to treat Covid-19 patients for over three hours, said non-accounting of oxygen cylinders supplies by Delhi government was leading to artificial shortage of gas and black marketing . The court observed it is not the time to become vultures. “Are you aware of black marketing? Is it a good human gesture,” the bench said to oxygen refillers. It also said the Delhi government's entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines for treating Covid-19 patients is going on. The bench further said this is a mess that the state government has been unable to resolve. “You have the power, take action against those engaging in black marketing of oxygen cylinders and medicines,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||India now better prepared to combat Covid compared to 2020, says Harsh Vardhan||India is better prepared mentally and physically this year with more experience to beat the COVID-19 pandemic as compared to 2020, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. He made the remark while inaugurating a series of blood donation camps at 13 locations in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh through a webinar in the presence of Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, a health ministry statement said. The camps are being organised by the Competent Foundation with the help of various associations, NGOs and blood banks in wake of fulfilling the blood requisition due to COVID-19 pandemic, it said. Addressing the webinar, Vardhan appreciated the efforts of the foundation to organise blood donation camps with more strength and expansion for fulfilling the blood requirement due to the pandemic. He exhorted people to at least donate blood once a year on their birthdays as it is a big help for humanity. He said that in his opinion, donating blood is even more pious than visiting revered holy places, the statement said. Vardhan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the largest vaccination drive in the world in January, which is now being accelerated further as the vaccination of young people is about to begin from May 1. He also said that in 2021, the country is better prepared mentally and physically with more experience to beat the pandemic as compared to last year, the statement stated. He appreciated the fact that this blood donation camp has been set up following all COVID protocols, guidelines and SOPs. He said that the blood donation drive is being done before vaccination of youth which is commendable as after being vaccinated it is advisable to not donate blood for 2 months. President of Competent Foundation Sanjay Tandon said this year the foundation decided to organise blood donation camps beyond Chandigarh tricity in 13 different locations across the region with more strength in the wake of fulfilling the blood requirement during the COVID pandemic, the statement stated. He appealed that in the middle of coronavirus epidemic, blood donation has become more important because supply of blood has become extremely difficult.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Future generations won't forgive you, Priyanka tells Yogi ||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Tuesday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, alleging low testing for COVID-19, a shortage of oxygen beds and a sluggish vaccination drive in the state, which is battling a "terrible" second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In her letter to Adityanath, the Congress general secretary also alleged coronavirus patients and their attendant were scrambling for beds, medicines and oxygen in the state to no avail. Uttar Pradesh Monday reported 249 coronavirus deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far, and 33,574 fresh cases. The infection has killed 11,414 people in the state till Monday, "If you don't employ the entire resources of the government with determination in this hour of crisis, the future generations will never forgive you," she said in her letter, in which she has also made 10 suggestions on fighting the raging pandemic. She said the second wave of the pandemic is at its peak in many cities of Uttar Pradesh and "is now spreading to villages". "The biggest concern is that the rate of coronavirus cases is rising, while testing is very low. A large number of cases are not being reported," Gandhi alleged in her letter in Hindi. She said the war against COVID-19 rests on four pillars of testing, treatment, tracking and vaccination. "There is no testing in rural areas and people in the urban areas also area facing a lot of difficulties in getting their tests done. Test reports do not come for several days. In a state with a population of over 23 crore, there are only 126 government test centres and 115 private centres," she said. She said another big concern area was an alleged lack of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and an acute shortage of medicines and their massive black-marketing. "The Ayushman card scheme has failed, it is not being honoured by any hospital. People are being forced to pay three-four times more for oxygen, Remedesivir and other life-saving drugs," she said, adding it is difficult for the poor and middle class to get treatment in such a scenario. She also alleged people have to face a lot of difficulties at crematoriums and death figures are also being "underreported". "This game of underreporting deaths is being played every day in every district, in every town of UP," she said, asking, "It is being done on whose directions?" People are not getting wood for the cremation of bodies and families have to wait for 12 hours for an ambulance to take their deceased loved ones to cremation ground, she claimed. On vaccination, she said the pace of immunisation was "sluggish" in the state as it has inoculated "less than 1 crore people in five months". "Uttar Pradesh will need at least Rs 10,000 crore to vaccinate 60 per cent of the state's population, while it has allocated only Rs 40 crore. I urge you (CM) to explore the possibility of manufacturing vaccines in Bharat Immunological and Biological Corporation in Bulandshahr," she suggested. She added, "Whatever may be your motive behind the order to book people who are exposing the truth of this pandemic and confiscate their property, please first focus your attention on trying to control this deadly virus." She said the state government should announce an economic package for the welfare of all health workers and frontline workers, and also re-notify all the closed COVID-19 hospitals and care centres. It should immediately increase the availability of oxygen-beds, she said. All medical personnel and paramedical staff retired from territorial service should be recalled to work in hospitals near their homes, she said. "Increase the number of RT-PCR tests. It should be ensured that at least 80 per cent of the tests are through RTPCR. Open new testing centers in rural areas and purchase of adequate test kits and appointment of trained staff," she said. Covid kits should be distributed in villages with the help of Anganwadi and Asha workers, she added. She also suggested granting ambulance status' to oxygen tankers for faster transportation and demanded financial assistance for the poor, the laborers, street vendors and migrant workers. She demanded relief for shopkeepers, small businesses and said that government should encourage people, parties and institutions to come forward to help them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Centre raps Kejriwal government for failure to arrange tankers to transport oxygen||The Centre has rapped the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for its alleged failure to arrange tankers for transportation of oxygen for the city's hospitals and said proactive actions by it could have "avoided tragic incidents". In a hard-hitting letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also claimed that the Delhi government's efforts to resolve logistical issues for procuring oxygen have "not been up to the mark" at a time when other states and union territories have been making earnest and professional efforts on the matter. Bhalla wrote the letter on April 25. However, on Tuesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. Kejriwal said the scrambling for oxygen witnessed last week amid a surge in Covid-19 cases has been addressed and the situation has improved significantly in the past two days. In the next month, the Delhi government will set up 44 oxygen plants at various hospitals, including 21 that will be imported from France. The Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, Kejriwal said during an online briefing. The chief minister said the Centre has provided five oxygen tankers to Delhi. Highlighting various steps taken by the central government like stopping oxygen supply to industries, uninterrupted movement of oxygen tankers, airlifting of tankers from abroad, the union home secretary said all state governments and UTs have been making diligent and continuous efforts at their level for the last few days to arrange tankers for the allocated quantity of medical oxygen and a specially designated virtual group was formed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) for facilitation. "However, Delhi government has hardly been able to arrange any tankers so far though many crucial days have passed since the government of India made allotment of oxygen," Bhalla's letter said, urging the Delhi chief secretary to urgently take immediate action in this regard as is being done by chief secretaries and other officials of other states and UTs. The home secretary said presently, there is no shortage of medical oxygen supply and Delhi had been allocated 480 MT on April 21 after consultation with officers of the Delhi government. "However, it has been brought to my notice that Delhi has received less supply than its actual allocation made by the government of India largely due to logistical issues which are not at all addressed by the state government," he said. Bhalla said the Delhi government had directed INOX, one of the main suppliers of oxygen, to supply 98 MT to 17 hospitals situated within Delhi, while INOX was supplying 105 MT to 45 hospitals situated within Delhi for a long time. Furthermore, alternative arrangements for the remaining 28 hospitals were not properly tied up by the Delhi government, he claimed. "As a result, some of these hospitals have been complaining about severe shortage of medical oxygen and one hospital mentioned that some persons died because of it. "This could have been avoided had proper, effective, and meaningful consultations with various stakeholders, specially the suppliers and recipient hospitals, had been done well in time by Delhi government," Bhalla said. Highlighting that most of the hospitals in Delhi were converted into Covid-19 facilities in view of the sudden and alarming rise in cases, the home secretary said such hospitals by very nature of their earlier functioning, did not have adequate storing capacity to store the oxygen supplied as per their present requirements since in their earlier functioning most of them did not need more quantity of oxygen. For the same reasons, he said, their oxygen dispensing infrastructure also may not have been up to the requirement, especially for augmented oxygen supply required for Covid-19 patients. Bhalla said a virtual meeting with all hospitals in Delhi, taking stock of their respective capacities and infrastructure, guiding them to suitably augment their storage and pressure facilities to the required level with the help of experts of the field "would have avoided tragic incidents". "Such things are to be immediately taken up proactively and on a war footing with the state government taking the initiative. "In these difficult times, it is extremely important that the central government and the governments of various states and UTs work in tandem to tackle this Covid crisis and minimise human suffering. Therefore, I will request you to take urgent, effective, innovative and result-oriented measures like Chief Secretaries of other states and UTs have taken," the home secretary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||High courts can function but we can’t be mute spectators, says SC on Covid crisis||Terming the massive resurgence of Covid-19 cases a "national crisis", the Supreme Court Tuesday said it cannot remain a mute spectator and made clear that its suo motu proceeding on devising national policy for Covid-19 management is not meant to supplant high court hearings. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the high courts are in a better position to monitor the pandemic situation within their territorial boundaries and the apex court was playing a complementary role and its intervention must be understood in the correct perspective as there are some matters which transcend the regional boundaries. There is a need for top court's intervention on certain national issues as there might be matters related to coordination between states, it said. "We are playing a complementary role. If High Courts have any difficulty in dealing with issues due to territorial limitations, we will help, said the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. These observations assume significance as some lawyers had criticized the apex court last Thursday for taking suo motu cognizance of the pandemic's resurgence and issues by saying that high courts be allowed to continue with hearings. A day later on April 23, a bench headed by the then CJI S A Bobde, who has retired, took a very strong exception to unfair criticism by some lawyers for something which was not part of its order in the suo motu case related to framing of national policy on the Covid-19 pandemic and said this is how institution is being destroyed . The bench on Tuesday also took note of the submissions of lawyers including senior advocate Vikas Singh on differential pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and asked the Centre to apprise it of the rationale and basis behind such pricing. On the government's decision to vaccinate all citizens above 18 years, the court sought replies from states by Thursday as to how they intend to cope with the surge in vaccine demand and the infrastructure required for that. The bench also asked the Centre to apprise the top court of the modalities on distribution of oxygen as well as the vaccines to states and the monitoring mechanism. In the hearing, conducted via video conferencing, the top court also appointed senior counsel Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae to assist it in the Covid-19 management case as Harish Salve had sought recusal following some controversial remarks by some lawyers. Last Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an essential part of treatment, the top court had said it seemed that a certain amount of panic has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking relief. Prior to this, the bench had rapped some lawyers for their unfair criticism that the apex court was intending to transfer to itself the cases from HCs saying that no such order was passed. It had also lamented imputation of motive by some senior bar members while allowing senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as an amicus curiae from the case after he had said that he did not want it to be decided under the shadow that he was friends with Justice Bobde from school and college days||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Vaccine talks: For Modi, Biden no cakewalk as with Trump   ||So what’s changed in India-US relations in the 100 days since Joe Biden took charge as president -- and not for the better? For starters, it seems that, like elephants, Biden doesn’t forget. That’s become evident in the initially tepid US response to India’s Covid-19 crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi now is learning the hard way that it might not have been the smartest move to have enlisted Donald Trump as the warm-up act at his Howdy Modi rally in Houston two years ago. And Modi pitching for “ab ki baar, Trump sarkar” at the rally -- well, that was bound to rankle with any Democratic president occupying the White House. It may come as no surprise then that there was conspicuous silence from both Biden and vice-president Kamala Harris (who bhakts continue to troll 24/7) immediately after India’s Covid cases exploded. In fact, the US at first declined to lift the embargo on the export of vital raw material needed to ramp up vaccine production in India. Over the last couple of days, the White House has changed its position and has been busy assuring India of “America’s full support to provide emergency assistance and resources” in tackling the surging Covid crisis. But that was only after France, Germany and even Pakistan and China were quick to offer aid packages as the second coronavirus wave mercilessly swept the country. Biden finally spoke to Modi on Monday after India’s new Covid infections hit record levels for the fifth straight day. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden tweeted. But even that supportive statement was an uncomfortable reminder of India’s humiliatingly dizzy descent from being “the pharmacy to the world” benefactor to a supplicant. One moment, India was being hailed as the global vaccine powerhouse while the next it was scouring the globe for medical supplies. The US has said it will “immediately” supply raw materials urgently required for making vaccines, reversing its initial refusal. It’s also promised to supply badly needed oxygen generation equipment as well as diagnostic tests, treatments, ventilators and protective gear. What’s going on? Clearly, there’s a general lack of enthusiasm in the White House for Modi and Harris has been at pains to distance herself from the Hindutva brigade in the country where her mother was born. The White House only stepped up to the plate after a very noticeable interval and before it antagonised the Indian-American community. Another intriguing thing is who the White House communicated with when it decided to step up its response to India’s unprecedented health catastrophe. It was US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan who conveyed on Sunday the United States’ “solidarity with the people of India” to his Indian counterpart, Ajit Doval. This could signal a tilting of the diplomatic scales in Delhi toward the NSA and Doval at the expense of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and its minister S. Jaishankar, observers say. “Power in the US has always been in the White House, except under Trump. But Jaishankar can only talk with the State Department. This effectively puts him on a lower grade,” said one senior diplomatic advisor. “Unless the NSA is brought under the MEA, as Kissinger was under Nixon, the foreign minister will be a superior clerk,” he added. In fact, Doval may be emerging now as “the go-to man in Indian diplomacy, a sort of Pranab Mukherjee in foreign affairs,” said the same observer. Both Jaishankar and Doval were working on their US counterparts to accede to India’s Covid assistance request, but it is noteworthy that the White House chose to respond to the NSA chief, following the same line of communication as under US presidencies prior to Trump’s, he said. Biden has made his displeasure clear, but the fact is that he is very mindful of the mutual interests Washington and New Dehli share in squaring up to Chinese aggression. There’s been an urgent move to strengthen the Quad, the alliance of India, the US, Japan and Australia, that aims to face down the Chinese and halt its efforts to dominate Asia and be a global superpower on par or stronger than the US. The new US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin underscored the depth of Washington’s concerns about China’s muscular assertiveness when he made his first international trip a swing through Japan, South Korea and then India. Here, significantly, he met Modi along with Doval. Austin’s visit came after a Quad summit between Modi, Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison. The fact it took place during the pandemic, even though over videolink, showed the importance the Americans attach to the Quad. So it is clear that India and the US continue to need each other, and maybe more than ever. But Biden isn’t about to let Modi go scot-free without reminding him about his cardinal sin of backing the wrong horse. “Biden will give Modi what India needs, definitely, but he will make Modi stew in the juice of his indiscretions,” the observer said. Another element to note is that while Biden has made strong statements in favour of multilateralism, he has by no means abandoned Trump’s “America First” credo, said a senior White House watcher. “There’s a sense that the US will remain inwardly fixated” and keep marching to its own drummer, he said. That was underlined when the US destroyer the USS John Paul Jones sailed through what India calls its exclusive economic zone. The US then issued a statement which bluntly said America was asserting “navigational rights and freedoms,” and, adding insult to injury, emphasised that the voyage had been made “without requesting prior permission.” The changing of the guard in the White House has other implications too. Both Biden and Harris must ensure that the Democratic administration doesn’t alienate the party’s liberal base so Modi’s actions on human rights, press freedom and preserving democratic institutions will be under scrutiny absent during the Trump years. Modi is going to find it won’t be the same cakewalk with Biden after walking hand-in-hand with Trump at the Houston rally which was attended by tens of thousands of Indian-Americans who traditionally lean Democrat. Biden is showing Modi that “diplomacy is the art of the possible and not an election rally,” said the observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||SC allows Vedanta to operate oxygen plant at Tuticorin ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed Vedanta to operate its closed oxygen plant at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu, saying the order has been passed in view of "national need" for oxygen. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said Vedanta shall not be allowed to enter and operate its copper smelting plant under the garb of this order. The top court said there should be no political bickering over the generation of oxygen by Vedanta as the country is facing a national crisis. It said the order allowing Vedanta to operate its oxygen plant would not create any equity in its favour. The apex court asked Tamil Nadu to form a panel, including the district collector and th Tuticorin superintendent of police, to monitor activities at Vedanta's oxygen plant. On April 23, the top court had said people are dying due to lack of oxygen, and questioned the Tamil Nadu government on why it can't take over Vedanta's Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin, closed since May 2018 over pollution concerns, for producing oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||EC bans victory processions on or after counting of votes amid Covid surge||The Election Commission on Tuesday banned all victory processions on or after counting of votes in states where assembly polls were held, sources said, adding that the decision has been taken to check the spread of the coronavirus. An Election Commission notification said, "Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,". The poll panel had previously laid down a set of protocols for politicians to follow to minimise the chance of transmission amid rising Covid cases. But these were largely ignored by parties who organised huge rallies and gatherings. The EC did little to crack down on violations other than issuing circulars reiterating its Covid protocols. The second wave has, meanwhile, intensified in its ferocity, making way for suggestions that the elections have turned into Covid catalysts. Yesterday, Madras High Court rebuked the Commission in harshest terms, holding it “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave. The HC also called the body “the most irresponsible institution.” “Were you (living) on another planet?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy asked commission officials. When counsel for the poll panel said all the required steps were being taken, the bench retorted that by allowing political parties to organise rallies, the commission had paved the way for the Covid resurgence and that its officials might be booked for murder. The bench directed the Election Commission to file a detailed report by April 30 on the Covid-19 protocols to be followed on counting day. Observing that the situation now was one of survival, the judges warned orally that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. Last week, Calcutta High Court had also censured the commission over the lax enforcement of Covid safety norms during the ongoing elections. Counting of votes is scheduled to be held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry on May 2. BJP welcomes EC order BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the Election Commission's order banning victory processions during and after counting of votes. "I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karykartas of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in this hour of crisis," Nadda said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||India logs over 3.23 lakh fresh Covid cases, 2,771 casualties in a day||With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,97,894 with 2,771 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. There has been a slight dip in the daily cases as compared to the number of new infections reported in the past few days. The active cases have increased to 28,82,204 comprising 16.34 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,45,56,209 while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,09,79,877 samples have been tested up to April 26 with 16,58,700 samples being tested on Monday. The 2,771 new fatalities include 524 from Maharashtra, 380 from Delhi, 249 from Uttar Pradesh, 226 from Chhattisgarh, 201 from Karnataka, 158 from Gujarat and 124 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,97,894 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 65,284 from Maharashtra, 14,628 from Delhi, 14,627 from Karnataka, 13,651 from Tamil Nadu, 11,414 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,009 from West Bengal, 8,530 from Punjab, 7,736 from Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh 7,536. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
27-04-2021||India||Madras HC holds EC responsible for Covid resurgence||Madras High Court on Monday held the Election Commission “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. It said the commission’s decision to let political parties organise rallies had led to the resurgence of the pandemic. “Were you (living) on another planet?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy asked commission officials. The Bengal BJP defended the  commission. Last week, Calcutta High Court had censured the commission over the lax enforcement of Covid safety norms during the ongoing elections. “Public health is of paramount importance. It is distressing that constitutional authorities have to be reminded in such regard,” the Madras bench said. “It is only when a citizen survives that he will be able to enjoy the rights that a democratic republic guarantees.” The bench was hearing a public interest petition moved by M.R. Vijayabaskar, Tamil Nadu transport minister and AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls. With 77 candidates contesting from Karur constituency, it would be a challenge to accommodate all their agents in the counting hall while observing the pandemic protocols too, the petitioner has argued. He has, therefore, sought a directive to election authorities to take all the steps necessary to ensure Covid safety and fair counting on May 2. When counsel for the poll panel said all the required steps were being taken, the bench retorted that by allowing political parties to organise rallies, the commission had paved the way for the Covid resurgence and that its officials might be booked for murder. The bench directed the Election Commission to file a detailed report by April 30 on the Covid-19 protocols to be followed on counting day. Observing that the situation now was one of survival, the judges warned orally that they would not hesitate to stop the counting of votes on May 2. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 15,000 new Covid cases. The state’s tally of active cases has crossed 1 lakh. On April 22, while hearing three petitions seeking the enforcement of pandemic protocols during the Bengal polls, a Calcutta High Court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had told the commission that issuing circulars and holding meetings on Covid safety were not enough. The bench later directed the authorities to ensure that people in Bengal followed the Covid restrictions imposed by the poll panel. Bengal has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid cases during the eight-phase polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Coronavirus outbreak: In UP, a wife’s desperate step in vain||In Yogi Adityanath’s realm that claims to never run out of oxygen cylinders, the only dispensers of the gas Renu Singhal could find for her critically ill Covid-positive husband on Saturday were her own lungs. The 45-year-old Agra resident tried to help husband Ravi, 47, with mouth-to-mouth breathing — not a recommended procedure for a highly infectious Covid patient. But after three hospitals had turned the couple away citing oxygen shortage, she was desperate. Ravi, though, died in her arms inside the auto-rickshaw where she was trying to resuscitate him, a few steps from the emergency ward of a fourth hospital that apparently had oxygen. Ravi was too weak to get off the auto and walk into the emergency room; and no stretcher, trolley or hospital employee was immediately available to carry him inside, Renu told reporters on Monday. “He was coronavirus-positive and had high fever. He was in home isolation,” she told the reporters, who had arrived at her Vikas Colony home after seeing pictures that onlookers had clicked of her trying rescue breathing on her dying husband. “On Saturday morning, he complained of breathing problems. I decided to take him to a hospital,” Renu said. When the government’s ambulance helpline (108) failed to respond and Ravi’s condition started worsening, she got him into an auto-rickshaw and began her futile tour of the city’s hospitals. “None of the three hospitals we visited had any oxygen left. They said they would admit my husband if we came back with an oxygen cylinder,” she said. By the time she reached the fourth, the S.N. Medical College Hospital, no employee was in sight to wheel Ravi in, she said. So she sat in the auto, parked on the hospital premises, trying mouth-to-mouth breathing to save her husband. Eventually, when some hospital staff arrived and took him inside, the doctors declared him dead on arrival, Renu said. Renu is staying in quarantine; it couldn’t be ascertained if she had taken a Covid test. The auto driver couldn’t be contacted and efforts to get in touch with the S.N. Hospital authorities were unsuccessful. Dr R.C. Pandey, chief medical officer for Agra district, said he had not heard about the incident. He said Agra city had 34 dedicated private Covid hospitals and the government was trying its best to provide everything they needed. On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients -- about 1,000 in all – because of the lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, has said. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital, Agra, had told reporters on Saturday: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: No need to stock up on oxygen at home, caution doctors||Senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response on Monday cautioned against what they view as panic-driven actions by some people to seek hospital beds, procure oxygen cylinders or buy vials of the antiviral remdesivir for patients who do not need them. Two doctors, both members of the national Covid-19 task force, underlined that 85 to 90 per cent of Covid-19 patients do not need hospital care and that a scramble for either beds or oxygen cylinders could deny these resources to patients who genuinely need them. “Some people think that if they keep oxygen at home and take oxygen early in the infection, they won’t need oxygen later. This is a false notion,” said Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Oxygen has emerged as a key treatment for Covid-19 but its misuse is a concern, Guleria said. “If oxygen saturation is 94 or 95, there is no reason to raise it to 98 or 99. This would be a misuse of oxygen that could be used in patients whose levels are below 90.” The standard treatment protocols recommend that patients with oxygen levels between 93 and 90 and respiratory rates of 24 or more breaths per minute should be admitted to hospital and those with oxygen levels below 90 or respiratory rates of 30 or higher should be under critical care. “These protocols should be adopted by both — by doctors and by the public,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the task force and a member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. “Please don’t panic; this disease is serious in only a small proportion of individuals.” Critical care medicine experts have also warned that the small proportions of Covid-19 patients who develop moderate or severe disease and whose oxygen levels fall below 90 require other medical interventions, too, such as steroid therapy and blood tests for inflammatory markers. Patients whose oxygen levels have dropped below 90 should not rely only on home-procured oxygen cylinders but need to urgently go to a hospital, said Priyadarshi Kumar, a critical care and respiratory medicine specialist in Noida. “The amount of oxygen in a cylinder might get exhausted quickly. A 60-litre oxygen cylinder would last only about 20 minutes for a patient who requires 3 litres of oxygen a minute,” Kumar said. While some patients may benefit from mask-based oxygen, he said, others may require high-flow oxygen or non-invasive or invasive ventilation. The concerns about oxygen misuse come amid moves by individuals and housing societies in some hard-hit cities to procure and store oxygen cylinders or oxygen concentrators as standby devices. Guleria and Paul also cautioned against efforts to hoard or even consume the antiviral remdesivir which, ideally should be available only to hospitals but is believed to be circulating in the market. Guleria said early consumption of the medication would not prevent severe disease. “Remdesivir is not a magic bullet, its benefits have not been well-established,” he said. The standard protocols recommend remdesivir only in patients who are within 10 days of their onset of symptoms. Paul, underlining the need for personal precautions, said people should consider wearing masks even at home to reduce the risk of transmission. “Even within the family, please wear masks…. It appears this virus (variant) is more transmissible,” he said. Anecdotal accounts from doctors treating Covid-19 patients suggest that more members per households with positive cases are likely to become infected during the current wave than were during the first wave last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Indian High Commission in Australia slams 'The Australian'||The Indian High Commission in Australia has sent out a bristling rejoinder to The Australian newspaper for an article criticising the Indian leadership’s handling of the pandemic; clearly borrowing a leaf out of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency copybook when Indian missions would issue counters to negative news in foreign publications. On Monday, the Indian mission in Canberra wrote to The Australian — the country’s only national broadsheet — objecting to it carrying The Times article titled “Modi leads India out of lockdown and into a Covid apocalypse”. The mission has described the article as “baseless, malicious and slanderous” and said it seems to have been “written only with the sole objective of undermining the universally acclaimed approach taken by the Government of India to fight against the deadly global pandemic at this decisive moment’’. The letter then cites the steps the government has taken over the past year, and also subsequent to the surge, which has literally left the nation gasping for oxygen. “Coverage of such motivated and malicious reports in your publication only helps in spreading falsehoods and undermining humanity’s common fight against the pandemic,’’ India’s deputy high commissioner to Australia P.S. Karthigeyan wrote in the rejoinder which he wants published in the newspaper. Reacting to the rejoinder which was also posted by the Indian High Commission on its verified Twitter handle, columnist Vir Sanghvi said: “I do wish we didn’t put our professional diplomats into situations where they have to make excuses for our politicians. The last time this happened on a regular basis was during the Emergency.” Meanwhile, Australian cricketer Pat Cummins on Monday announced a donation of $50,000 to the PM CARES Fund to purchase oxygen supplies for Indian hospitals, making him the first person from the well paid game of cricket to publicly pledge money to help India battle the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses the govt of hiding the truth about Covid||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the government was hiding the truth about Covid, amid widespread concern that the numbers of infections and deaths were far higher than projected. “Like jobs and economic growth, the central government is not allowing the real coronavirus data to come in the public domain. Not the pandemic, but the government has definitely controlled the truth about pandemic,” he wrote on Twitter. The Congress ran a social media campaign on Monday to highlight the mismatch between ground reality and official figures. It cited reports from different states to show the suppression of data. One post said: “In 13 days in April, official figure says 41 deaths while news reports suggest more than a thousand deaths.” Another said: “On April 14, Gujarat total death figure was 73 while crematorium reports suggested 124 deaths in Surat and Gandhinagar alone.” Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said in an interview: “The whole attempt is to hide real data. While testing by private labs has been stopped to hide the number of infections, deaths are grossly underreported. In Bhopal one day, the official figure was four while reports put it at 112. Till a few days ago, there was an attempt to deny oxygen shortage. I challenge chief minister Shivraj Chouhan to tell me about one health facility in the entire state where everything is available — oxygen, medicine, injections, beds and doctors.” Reacting to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s claim of no oxygen shortage in his state, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday: “What should be the punishment for lying to the people in this hour of crisis? Put yourself in the position of that patient who is told the hospital can’t give admission because there is no oxygen. Patients are asked to leave because there is no oxygen.” She also confronted Adityanath for threatening to invoke the National Security Act and seize the properties of those spreading rumours about oxygen shortage. “There is an oxygen emergency in the entire state. Please file a case against me, seize my property. But please for God’s sake try to understand the gravity of the situation and start working towards saving lives,” she said. Rahul also commented on the raging discourse on vaccines, saying: “Enough of debate. Every citizen must get free vaccine — that’s all. Don’t make India a victim of the BJP system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid : Ration cards  hurdle to grain for migrants||Thousands of migrant workers in cities such as Delhi and Calcutta are unable to access subsidised foodgrains either because they don’t have ration cards or because the cards they have are registered elsewhere. After sitting idle for over a week, migrant construction worker Guna Nayak was happy to get a day’s work to clean a showroom in South Extension in Delhi. The owner was “very kind hearted,” Guna said. The wage of Rs 500 was Rs 100 more than what he usually gets from construction work. More importantly, Guna got 3kg rice and 5kg wheat as a gesture of help. “We had finished the rations at home. Seth ji was a nice man. He realised the difficulties of the workers at present. He gave me ration and also assured more help in future. Now I can manage for a few more days,” Guna said. Guna, a permanent resident of Kendrapada in Odisha, lives with his wife and daughter in a one-room house in Kotla Mubarakpur here. His wife does embroidery work and earns around Rs 100 a day. Guna pays Rs 3,000 as monthly rent. “If we can get ration here, it will be of great help for us. I have enquired at the ration shop here. They asked me to get my ration from the shop in Odisha. Now I am neither getting ration in Odisha nor here,” Nayak said. He is not registered for subsidised food in Odisha either. Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), eligible families get 5kg dry ration per person per month at Rs 3 per kg of rice and Rs 2 per kg of wheat. But for this, they need ration cards. Sushil Raut, another worker from Odisha, does have one but that is registered in his home state and he cannot get food in Delhi where he works. “We are managing with the ration we had. We will go back to our village next week,” Raut, a father of two, said. The Centre had launched the One Nation One Ration Card scheme to make subsidised foodgrain accessible to beneficiaries anywhere in India. Several states, including Delhi and Bengal, are yet to join the scheme. According to official data, 26 states have joined the scheme. Last week, the Centre decided to allocate free foodgrains of 5kg per person per month for May and June to nearly 80 crore beneficiaries under the food security act. Food rights activist Deepa Sinha appeared sceptical about all migrant workers getting the free grains. She said only 10,000 ration card holders had accessed the benefits under the one nation one ration card scheme in April. The government should provide ration even to workers who do not have cards, Sinha said. “The Centre’s announcement will benefit some migrants, not all,” she added. Economist Sunil Ray, former director of A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, sought social security protection for the workers, including access to food and shelter, medical coverage, education for children, pension and allowance for the period they remain unemployed. He said: “The migrant workers are levers of the economic growth but they are the most vulnerable section of the society. In case of any emergency, the State as an institution withdraws from extending any support to them. This is barbaric manifestation of the behaviour of the State.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Centre to leave import of vaccines to states||India’s government has decided to leave the import of Covid-19 vaccines to state authorities and companies, two government officials told Reuters, a decision that may slow acquisitions of shots as a second wave of the pandemic rips through the country. They said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government would instead aim to support domestic vaccine makers by guaranteeing purchases from them. The government this month paid Indian producers in advance, for the first time, for vaccine doses. After cases began soaring this month, Modi’s government urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to seek permission to sell their shots in India, and he relaxed rules for them. But the sources said New Delhi was now leaving it to the states and firms to sign deals with foreign drugmakers. India’s new coronavirus caseload hit a record daily peak for a fifth day on Monday. “The situation is desperate,” one of the government officials told Reuters. He added that India would allow import of vaccines by local partners of drug companies but the federal government “won’t buy”. The second government official said: “I don’t think the government will be buying foreign vaccines.” Both officials have direct knowledge of the matter but declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue. The ministries of external affairs, health and commerce did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has said it will float a global tender to import vaccines. But many poorer states may fall behind without financial support from the Centre. Health economist Rijo M. John, guest professor at the Indian Institute of Management in the city of Kozhikode, said: “Vaccines should be bought, imported by the Centre and given to the people for free.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Gowda call to Modi for unity in Covid fight||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda has urged Narendra Modi to rope in members of the Opposition in the fight against Covid-19 as one nation. “The virus does not understand political partisanship. This is a national crisis, and we should fight it as one nation,” Gowda said in a letter he released on Twitter on Monday. The former Prime Minister called for better coordination between state governments by deploying a minister each to communicate with each other to seek and offer help. “One minister in each state can be put in charge to both seek help from other states as well as offer help. This, too, is cooperative federalism,” Gowda said. He sought a ban on all large public gatherings for six months and curbs on election victory celebrations on May 2. Gowda sought the postponement of all bypolls by six months. “I learnt that dedicated Covid hospitals and health centres in both private and public sectors across the nation came down by six per cent between December 2020 and April 2021. In reality this should have increased in anticipation of the second wave. Going forward, such decisions to shut down should be taken only after due deliberation,” Gowda stated. The Janata Dal Secular leader called for immediate decentralisation of Covid management and opening war rooms in district headquarters and suggested they should not be disbanded as soon as the coronavirus curve begins to slide and maintain them until the pandemic abates around the world. “The focus currently has been on big cities. But there is a greater danger lurking in non-urban districts and taluk centres. Village clusters also need urgent attention,” he urged, adding the ministry of rural development and panchayati raj should coordinate such efforts. In highlighting the confusion on the vaccination front, Gowda urged Prime Minister Modi to ensure science gets the primordial place in pandemic management. “Science has to be placed above every belief we may have and faith we follow,” he said, apparently alluding to propaganda about unscientific solutions such as cow urine. “It has to be told that vaccines are the only best thing we have to protect not just our own lives but those of others too,” he said, citing the cynicism about vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: Yogi orders crack down on hospitals flagging oxygen shortage||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has sent out a clear message to the state’s hospitals: keep your mouth shut about any oxygen crisis or face action. At an online meeting on Sunday evening, Adityanath asked senior administrative and police officers, including divisional commissioners and inspectors-general, to crack down on hospitals that discharge patients citing an oxygen shortage or complain to the media about the crisis, a senior health department official said. “The chief minister said that action must be initiated against hospitals that put up notices saying they had no oxygen and the patients should be shifted elsewhere. He said there should be a probe to establish whether they deliberately tried to create panic,” the official said. “He (Adityanath) said there is no scarcity of oxygen in Uttar Pradesh. He said the government was ensuring the availability of the gas at every public and private hospital, but its misuse has to be stopped.” According to the official, some of Adityanath’s subsequent directives, however, appeared an indirect acknowledgement of the problem. “He asked the officials to ensure that every government or private hospital with 100 or more beds had an oxygen plant. He told them to prepare proposals and send them to the chief secretary,” the official said. Many hospitals in Lucknow and other parts of the state had put up notices at their gates over the weekend declaring an oxygen shortage and advising families of Covid patients to shift them elsewhere. An executive of a private hospital in Lucknow, who asked not to be named, said: “I invite him (Adityanath) to visit every hospital and audit the oxygen supply. If he does so honestly, he would find himself guilty of having left the hospitals and the people in the lurch.” He added: “The chief minister has no problem that graveyards and cremation grounds are running out of space. All he wants is that the hospitals fulfil his agenda of hiding the truth.” Several doctors from the Lakhimpur Kheri, Firozabad, Bareilly and Meerut districts on Monday told local reporters they continued to face an oxygen crisis. Dr Sanjay Jain of Anand Hospital, Meerut, said: “We shifted 20 patients from our hospital to Aryavart Hospital because of the oxygen shortage. We need 300 to 400 cylinders a day but are getting only 150.” Dr Rohit Kamboj of Meerut’s Nutema Hospital said: “We have 80 (Covid) patients. The oxygen shortage is hampering their treatment.” A government doctor from the Firozabad district hospital, seeking anonymity, said: “We don’t have oxygen. When we demand 100 cylinders, officials give us 10. The patients’ relatives are restless and are taking them to other places.” On Saturday, 10 hospitals in Agra were forced to discharge all their Covid patients —about 1,000 in all — because of a lack of oxygen, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association, had said. Dr Surendra Singh of Yashwant Hospital, Agra, had told reporters on Saturday: “We were promised 50 oxygen cylinders a week but the government gave us only 5 cylinders over the last 10 days. We discharged our (Covid) patients when we had no option left.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Centre purging tweets puts people’s health at risk: Activists||The removal of dozens of tweets seen to be critical of the Indian government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic is putting people’s health at risk and quashing dissent, lawmakers and human rights activists said on Monday. Twitter withheld some tweets after a legal request by the Indian government, a company spokeswoman told Reuters on Saturday. These included tweets from a lawmaker, a minister in Bengal, and a filmmaker. “Suppression of information and criticism of government is not only dangerous for India but it is putting people around the world at risk,” said Mirza Saaib Beg, a lawyer whose tweets were among those withheld. “Freedom of inquiry is an intrinsic part of freedom of speech and expression. These restrictions are further reflective of the weakening of all institutional spaces in India,” said Beg, who is studying at the University of Oxford. The ministry for information technology did not respond to a request for comment. The country’s new coronavirus infections hit a record peak for a fifth day on Monday, rising to about 353,000 cases. There is mounting criticism that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and state authorities let their guard down earlier this year, allowing big religious and political gatherings to take place when cases fell to below 10,000 a day. “Questioning the government of India’s decision to allow mass gatherings... where people from all across the country gathered and violated Covid safety protocols... cannot be called to be violating any laws of the country,” said Pawan Khera, a spokesman for the Opposition Congress, whose tweets were also withheld. The law cited in the government’s Twitter request is the Information Technology Act, 2000, which allows authorities to order blocking of public access to information to protect “sovereignty and integrity of India” and maintain public order. Requests from the government are reviewed under Twitter’s rules and the local law, a spokeswoman for the micro-blogging site told Reuters. There is a “lack of transparency” in the government’s order, said the Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights group in Delhi. “What is clear is there are more directions being issued across social media platforms in India,” it said in a statement. Twitter has about 17.5 million users in India. In its most recent transparency report for the six months to June 30, 2020, Twitter said it had received 42,220 legal demands to remove content from 53 countries, with most of the requests coming from five countries including Russia, India and Turkey. Earlier this year, the social media giant withheld dozens of accounts on the request of the Indian government on grounds that users were posting misleading content related to farmers’ protests near Delhi, aiming to incite violence. But Twitter did not fully comply with the government order to take down more than 1,100 accounts and posts, saying it had not blocked all of the content because it believed the directives were not in line with Indian laws. Following the face-off with Twitter earlier this year, the Indian government unveiled tougher rules to regulate big social media firms that it said were needed to hold the companies accountable for any misuse or abuse. “We all would prefer free spaces to objectively critique power in the offline as well as online space. However, both spaces are increasingly shrinking,” Beg told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
27-04-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka imposes 14-day lockdown ||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday announced a 14-day lockdown beginning Tuesday night amid surge in the Covid-19 cases in the state. The state government has taken the decision after consulting the Covid expert committee. “We came to this decision after taking expert advice on how to handle the situation,” Yediyurappa told a news conference after the cabinet meeting on Monday. The lockdown comes into force at 10pm on Tuesday with the only relaxation being a morning window to buy essentials. “Stores selling grocery and other essentials will be open from 6am to 10am during the lockdown. But that is going to be the only relaxation,” the chief minister said. Home delivery of food will be allowed throughout the lockdown period. Yediyurappa cautioned shopkeepers to shutter at 10am and avoid action by police patrols that would monitor the implementation of the restrictions. Ambulances and other vehicles belonging to hospitals, other emergency services and goods transport will be allowed while all public transport will stay off the roads during the lockdown. Private vehicles will be allowed only in case of emergency. The farm sector, construction activities and manufacturing units are allowed to run during the lockdown. Yediyurappa said there was no other way out other than a lockdown since Covid numbers in Bangalore have surpassed that of Mumbai. Bangalore had 1,80,542 active cases on Sunday as against 75,740 in Mumbai. The Karnataka capital accounted for 20,733 of the 34,804 cases reported on Sunday. State health minister K. Sudhakar said the maximum daily cases Bangalore recorded in the first wave was around 4,500. “This time it’s up by five times already. This has become a major problem for us,” he said, alluding to the decision to go for a lockdown. The cabinet has decided to provide free vaccines for 18-45 age group when the third phase of vaccination starts on May 1. Free vaccines will continue to be available for those above 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel leash on Trinamul strongman ahead of last phase of voting ||The Election Commission of India has ordered that Trinamul Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal be kept under strict surveillance from Tuesday evening till Friday, April 30, the day after the eighth and last phase of polling in Bengal. The CEC's order issued on Tuesday read: “… Anubrata Mondal, district president of AITC, Birbhum, should be kept under strict surveillance of Executive Magistrate and CAPF, round the clock from 5pm of 27th April 2021 till 7.30 am of 30th April, 2021 for ensuring free and fair election… Videography to be arranged with date time stamping.” As many as 11 seats in Birbhum will go the polls on April 29, in the last phase. This is third election in Bengal where Mondal, known for making outlandish comments and generally regarded as a Trinamul strongman, has been kept under surveillance. In the 2016 Assembly and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, EC had imposed similar restrictions on Mondal’s movements before and during the day of polling, a fact that did not go down well with his leader and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. During her visit to Bolpur on April 24, Mamata had advised Mondal to go to court if the EC attempted to curtail his movements on polling day. “They (BJP) are very angry with him. This time if they try to keep you under surveillance, go to the court. They cannot do this with anyone,” Mamata had said. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had managed to take the lead in five of the 11 Assembly seats, which would be crucial in this election and Mondal’s absence from the field on the day of polling could make a difference. Mondal's rise in the Trinamul coincided with the CPM's downfall in 2009 when it was left licking its wounds in a district that it had made its own in the 32 years of the Left Front. The swing from the Trinamul to the BJP, in a district which takes pride in its association with Rabindranath Tagore and Tarashankar Bandyopadhyay, has been swift starting from the 2018 panchayat polls. In Birbhum, like in rest of the state, Trinamul won most panchayat seats uncontested, the backlash against which was seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP gained, leading in five Assembly segments of Birbhum. Now, as the reiging strongman of the Trinamul, Mondal's prestige is at stake. For, it is he who has to ensure Trinamul is able to regain lost ground. In the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls, Mondal was served a notice by the central poll panel for his comment, “a dreadful game will be played,” referring to his party boss’ slogan, "Khela hobe (Game on)". The CBI had summoned Mondal on Tuesday in connection with an ongoing investigation in a cattle smuggling case. But, Mondal did not appear citing “elections”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hint of minority loyalty’s shift to Trinamul in Congress bastion||The elections held in six of the 12 constituencies in Malda — a district with around 55 per cent minority population — on Monday bore broad hints that the battle was a direct contest between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress. Over 13 lakh voters went to the booths to exercise their franchise in the first phase of the elections in the district, which has always been a Congress stronghold. The rest of the seats in the district will vote on April 29. “Unlike earlier elections when the Congress always had an extra edge in most seats in the district, the political equations appear to be different this time. A considerable section of Muslims, who had been with the Congress for decades, seem to be siding with Trinamul,” said Najibar Rehman, an educationist and a political analyst in Malda town. “This is because of the sudden emergence of the saffron camp and its pro-NRC and CAA narrative, which is being strongly and consistently resisted by Mamata Banerjee,” he explained. According to him, in the six seats where elections were held today — Malatipur, Ratua, Harishchandrapur, Gazole, Chanchal and Habibpur — the concentration of minorities is higher in around four. “The presence of minorities is comparatively less in Habibpur and Gazole. It is evident that the BJP would have some advantage in those two Assembly segments,” he added. During the day, The Telegraph spoke to scores of voters. They said they had changed their mind and unlike in the past when they had voted the Congress, their preference was Trinamul this time. “The contest in the minority-dominated seats would be interesting this time. In some seats, the Congress might even slip into the third position,” said a Trinamul leader. Since 2011, when Mamata Banerjee came to power in the state, Malda has been one of the districts where Trinamul could not perform well, both in the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. In the Lok Sabha (there are two seats in Malda) polls, the party has never won so far. In the Assembly polls, Trinamul could win only one seat in 2011 but in 2016, the party drew a blank. During her visits to Malda, the chief minister time and again urged people to vote for Trinamul, while highlighting the development works carried out in the district. On Monday, however, the situation appeared to have changed to some extent. That the minorities preferred Trinamul to other anti-BJP parties was evident from the gatherings of voters at the election offices opened by the party near the booths in minority-dominated belts. “A sizeable portion of the minority population feels the Congress’s stand on the NRC and the CAA is much mellowed as compared to the unequivocal stand by Mamata Banerjee that she would never let the NRC, NPR or the CAA be implemented in Bengal. They feel it is the Trinamul supremo who can save them from any prospective inconvenience which will occur if these are implemented in the state,” said Hemanta Sharma, a district Trinamul leader. In Malda, votes of the minority community determine the election results in around seven of the 12 seats. Asif Mehebub, a three-time Congress MLA from Chanchal, however, claimed that minorities still believed in the Congress’s capability in fighting credibly against communal forces. “Wait for the results and you would see how Trinamul gets disillusioned,” he said. The booth offices of the BJP were seen only in some areas of the six constituencies where the concentration of minorities is comparatively less. Since 2019, after the BJP managed to win one of the Lok Sabha seats in the district, the saffron brigade has taken the task of polarising voters and has engaged organisations like the RSS and the Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram to drum up support from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. That the BJP is focussing on around five Assembly seats of the district where the concentration of minorities is less was evident as it did not conduct its ‘rath yatra’ in most of the remaining constituencies. Also, engaging hardliners like Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adhityanath for campaign and regular reference to issues like cattle smuggling and other crimes in areas near the India-Bangladesh border reaffirmed that the party intended to polarise votes. District BJP leaders, when asked about the poll results, claimed the minorities were with them and reiterated their narrative that the Congress and Trinamul had not done anything for the people. “No initiative was taken for their socio-economic development. Also, the infrastructure is poor in most areas of the district. There are no job opportunities and thousands of minority youths have to go to other states. This time, the results would be different,” said Gobinda Mandal, the district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Voter turnout affected in urban areas by raging Covid pandemic||Voter turnout in the penultimate phase of the eight-phase Assembly polls in the state was affected in the urban areas by the raging Covid-19 pandemic. According to the numbers released by the Election Commission of India (EC), voter turnout in the 34 Assembly segments across five districts, including four seats in Calcutta, till 5pm on Monday was 75.06 per cent. But a district-wise break up clearly brought out the rural-urban divide in Monday’s voting. The four Calcutta Assembly constituencies — Ballygunge, Rashbehari, Bhowanipore and Calcutta Port — that went to the polls on Monday recorded 59.91 per cent turnout till 5pm, significantly lower than the average turnout. West Burdwan district, which also has several urban constituencies, recorded a 70.34 per cent voter turnout, again, lower than the average of Monday, and its usual average pattern in elections where the turnout per cent touches 84 or so. On the other hand, South Dinajpur, Malda and Murshisaband, which are primarily rural areas, recorded 80.21 per cent, 78.76 per cent and 80.30 per cent turnouts, respectively, till 5pm. “It is clear Covid-19 concerns have taken a toll on the poll percentage in urban areas in the seventh phase of polling on Monday,” said a poll panel source, adding that the trend was witnessed first in the urban areas of North 24-Parganas in the sixth phase. According to the state health department’s bulletin, Bengal recorded a total of 15,992 Covid-19 lab-reported cases on Monday, of which 3,868 infections were reported from Calcutta and 770 cases from West Burdwan. “In both the areas where polling percentage was low, people are struggling with a huge number of daily positive cases. This is the reason for the comparatively lower turnout,” said a source. Poll panel sources also said that in the previous phases it was noticed that the voter turnout increased by about 4 per cent in the last 90 minutes with the elections on till 6.30pm. “It remains to be seen whether that trend holds true this time as well....If that happens, the turnout would be around the usual trend of 64 to 65 per cent in Calcutta,” said the source. A break-up of voter turnout of the four Assembly segments in Calcutta shows that Ballygunge recorded 59.59, Rashbehari 55.93, Bhowanipore 60.01 and Calcutta Port 64.09. High minority turnout Another trend — consistent with the earlier phases of Bengal elections this time — was the high turnout in the minority-dominated areas. “Districts such as Murshidabad, Malda and South Dinajpur, with a high percentage of minority voters, recorded higher polling percentage and these places can even surpass their average voter turnout. Even Calcutta Port, with many minority voters, recorded the highest voter turnout in the city. This may give a hint that ruling Trinamul would be in a better position in these Assembly segments,” said a political observer. Lower turnout in Calcutta till 5pm was attributed to lower participation of people in highrises. “This will surely help Trinamul as people living in these highrises are generally believed to be BJP voters,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. Campaigning for the eighth and final phase of elections, to be held on Thursday, also ended at 6.30pm on Monday. Thirty-five seats will go to polls on Thursday. Sitalkuchi repoll Repolling at booth 5/126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly seat of Cooch Behar will be held on April 29, the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls. Polling was halted here on April 10 when central forces opened fire to disperse a crowd, which left four youths dead. On Monday, Pawan Kadyan, the district magistrate and district election officer of Cooch Behar, said he had received instructions from the EC to conduct the polls at the booth on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee casts vote at Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cast her vote at Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore, Calcutta, on Monday. Mamata, a two-term legislator from Bhowanipore, arrived at the polling station around 3.52pm amid loud cheers from local people who had gathered at the booth, where she had always voted. A wooden ramp, sources in the local administration said, had been set up for the wheelchair-bound chief minister. Mamata didn’t speak to journalists waiting at the entrance, but paused twice — once before entering the booth and again while coming out of it — to pose for photos. She displayed the victory sign on both the occasions, which sources close to her said was her confidence that she would return as the chief minister for the third time in a row. This time, Mamata’s close aide and long-time colleague Sovandeb Chatterjee has been fielded from Bhowanipore as she nominated herself as the Trinamul candidate from Nandigram to take on turncoat Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP has fielded another Trinamul turncoat and actor Rudranil Ghosh against Chatterjee. Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, a voter of the Ballygunge segment, didn’t cast his vote on Monday owing to health complications. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from respiratory problems for the past few years and couldn't exercise his franchise during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls either. Bhattacharjee’s wife Mira and daughter Suchetana cast their votes at the Pathabhavan School. “His health condition isn't suitable for him to cast his vote. Nothing can be done in that case,” Mira told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Couple travels from Ayodhya to Bengal for oxygen||A middle-aged couple from Uttar Pradesh travelled 850km to Bengal and got admitted to a private hospital in Chinsurah after six hospitals turned them away in their home state, citing an oxygen scarcity that chief minister Yogi Adityanath refuses to admit. The couple are from Ayodhya, the theatre of the BJP’s ascent that is set to have a Ram temple to satisfy the party’s ambitions but whose people, like their peers elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh, find life-saving oxygen hard to come by in a crisis. Sources said Lalji Yadav, 50, and wife Rekha, 48, had begun their journey from Ayodhya by ambulance on Thursday after relatives in Mogra, Hooghly, advised them to come to Bengal and arranged two hospital beds in nearby Chinsurah. It was late Friday night when the couple arrived at the Ajanta Seva Sadan Hospital in Chinsurah. Hospital authorities said the patients were “gasping for breath” when they came. On Monday evening, Ajanta Seva Sadan officials said Lalji was critical but Rekha was recovering. Rekha’s brother Ravi Shankar Yadav, a Mogra resident, cited the incident as a cautionary tale about BJP rule at a time Bengal has just one phase of voting left before the Assembly poll results are announced on May 2. “I couldn’t have saved my sister and brother-in-law if I were not living in Bengal. I thank the state government and our Didi; our Bengal is far better than Uttar Pradesh,” Ravi Shankar said. Adityanath has consistently denied an oxygen shortage in his state and accused hospitals that publicise the crisis of “spreading panic”. He has asked his administration to crack down on these hospitals, a senior health official told this newspaper on Monday. Both Ravi Shankar, a garment trader, and Rekha were brought up in Bengal after their father migrated to the state from Uttar Pradesh. Rekha was married off to Lalji 28 years ago. Family sources said Lalji and Rekha had had fever and a cough for more than 10 days. They developed severe breathing problems a few days ago despite testing negative for Covid at a health centre. On Thursday, they informed Ravi Shankar about the scarcity of oxygen and hospital beds in Uttar Pradesh. He immediately asked them to come over and contacted Ajanta Seva Sadan. “My sister and brother-in-law visited at least six hospitals (in Uttar Pradesh) but none would provide oxygen support to them. But here, in my state, I managed two beds within minutes,” Ravi Shankar said. “They hired an ambulance at a cost of Rs 60,000 and arrived here on Friday evening, after travelling nearly 24 hours.” Rekha said from her hospital bed that she and Lalji had “suffered without treatment” in their home state. She said the oxygen was so minimal in the ambulance that the couple had to ration it through their long journey. “The low oxygen supply in the ambulance led to the deterioration in my husband’s condition,” she said. Ravi Shankar said: “Bengal is a hundred times better than any other state, including Uttar Pradesh. It’s pathetic that my relatives had to travel 850km by road to Bengal to receive treatment. I want to thank my state government for the infrastructure it has to combat Covid.” Ravi Shankar cast doubt on the testing process in Uttar Pradesh, too. “Just think, they were officially Covid-negative in Uttar Pradesh despite the severe symptoms but turned positive when tested in Bengal,” he said. Rekha said: “We were denied treatment at every hospital we went to and had no option other than coming to Bengal, my mother’s birthplace. We were saved only because we reached Bengal.” Ajanta Seva Sadan officials said a patient who had earlier been treated for Covid at the hospital had contacted them on Thursday and sought two beds with oxygen facilities. Since the beds were available, the hospital asked that the patients be brought immediately. “We had no idea that the patients were coming from Uttar Pradesh. Only after they arrived did we learn the entire story,” said Sanjoy Sinha, owner of Ajanta Seva Sadan, a 50-bed Covid hospital. “It’s pathetic that the couple, who were gasping for breath, had to travel almost 24 hours because their state government failed to provide them oxygen.” Sinha added: “We are feeling proud to have been able to provide treatment to patients from Uttar Pradesh. We are proud that other states are now depending on Bengal, and we have proved we have good healthcare facilities.” Ravi Shankar said the only thing he needed now was a single dose of remdesivir for Lalji that the hospital had on Monday asked him to procure amid a countrywide scarcity of the drug. “I’m looking. I’m sure I’ll get it soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: State BJP defends  Election Commission nod to political rallies||The Bengal BJP on Monday sprang to a gallant defence of the Election Commission of India — which had not yet defended itself — in the wake of scathing criticism in a Madras High Court observation about the Covid-19 second wave. The high court had slammed the EC for allowing political rallies amid the deadly second wave of Covid-19, holding the poll panel “singularly responsible” for the increasing numbers of infections across the country. The court observed that poll panel officials should be booked on “murder charges, probably”. In response, Bengal BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya did a U-turn of his normal non-controversial  style to issue a statement alleging a “conspiracy” and accusing the high court of echoing the Trinamul Congress. He lamented how the Indian judiciary was “tainted” and demanded investigation. “Is there an election ongoing in Brazil? In Germany? In Holland? In London? In Maharashtra? In Punjab? In Haryana? In Jharkhand?” asked Bhattacharya, questioning the timing of the observation by Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of Madras High Court. “I’m saying this with full respect for the judiciary, this statement has tainted the entire judicial system. What the Trinamul Congress says in Bengal and what Madras High Court has said in its statement are almost set to the same tune. There must be an investigation into it,” said the BJP’s Rajarhat-Gopalpur candidate. “The judiciary has been set up for the people, courts have been set up for the people. Not the other way round. The place of democracy is the highest. Everywhere democracy will win,” said Bhattacharya. “The second wave… whatever artificial little crisis there is, is thanks to sections with vested interests, whom the incapable state government has not been able to act against…. That is being misutilised for the sake of petty politics amid ongoing elections,” he added. “What the court has said is extremely disheartening.... This is a conspiracy. I think the Supreme Court, if need be, will take suo motu action against this conspiracy.” Sections within the BJP state unit admitted in private that such a reaction from the party in defence of the poll panel, at a time it has repeatedly been accused of colluding with the party, was perhaps best avoided. “With such reactions, we are only legitimising Mamata Banerjee’s allegations against the commission of being hand in glove with us,” said a state  BJP functionary. Other BJP sources said Bhattacharya was following orders from “the very top”. They said the party’s stand was based on a Supreme Court judgment of 1954, where it purportedly said only an election tribunal and no other court — including the Supreme Court itself — could decide on disputes regarding elections to the Parliament or state legislatures. BJP chief J.P. Nadda, in Bengal for campaigning on Monday, indirectly urged the court to “keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words”. “This isn’t an order, I believe this is an observation… a comment that they’ve made,” said Nadda. “This is a constitutional obligation (conducting the polls) which the EC has to fulfill, and they are doing so,” he added. “...I have only one request… be it any institution, or the people sitting in that institution… they should keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words….” Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been accusing the EC of having worsened the pandemic here with eight-phase elections, welcomed the observation. “First of all, I would like to welcome the Madras High Court’s observation. Madras High Court has very clearly said the Election Commission cannot avoid its responsibilities…. We had also repeatedly said so,” Mamata said. “We saw the Covid-19 spike from the third phase (of polls), we kept urging the commission to club the remaining phases. The commission kept refusing (as did the BJP)…. The second wave’s proportions are all because of the Prime Minister and the Union home minister’s desperation to conquer Bengal… coupled with the commission’s refusal to do the needful despite the alarm bells,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge: Mirik's Sumendu Lake will be closed from Tuesday||Sumendu Lake, the top tourist attraction in Mirik, will be closed from Tuesday, making it the first major tourist point to be closed in north Bengal after the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. The lake is managed by Mirik municipality. L.B. Rai, chairman of the civic body, said: “We have decided to close the gates of the lake from tomorrow (Tuesday) as part of our effort to contain the spread of the virus.” The civic chairman said Mirik had recorded 11 Covid-19 positive cases in a single day on Monday. “Tourists are coming, local residents are also gathering (near the lake). This is why we decided to close the lake as it is the top draw among the tourists in Mirik,” said Rai. No government agency in Bengal has declared “a closure” yet. On April 19, the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) had decided to close down all lodges and tourist spots under its authority but the order was withdrawn within hours the same day. There are around 30-odd properties including popular spots like Gangamaya Park in Darjeeling and lodges like Deolo in Kalimpong and Kurseong Tourist Lodge under the GTA tourism department. Sources said that there was “some confusion” in interpreting the intent of senior GTA officials as a result of which the closure order was “erroneously” issued. As of now there is no restriction on tourist travel in Bengal. However, from Monday noon, it is mandatory for flight passengers to have a negative Covid report, conducted 72 hours prior to departure, for those arriving from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana. Sikkim norms In the neighbouring state of Sikkim, no tourist point has been closed as yet but all tourists entering the state have to produce RT-PCR test 72-hour prior to departure. “However, those tourists whose 72-hour RT-PCR test has expired have to undertake a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) either at Rango, Melli (entry points) and Pakyong airport,” said a source. Travellers to Sikkim must register themselves in www.sikkimtourism.gov.in, the state tourism web portal. From Monday, residents of Sikkim entering the state will also have to produce a 72-hour RT-PCR test report. “If they fail to produce the report, they will have to go in for 10 days of quarantine either at home or at a paid centre,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: East Midnapore residents reel under drinking water crisis ||Over a lakh residents from East Midnapore’s 25 blocks are reeling under a drinking water crisis for the past fortnight but officials can’t implement solutions to it as the model code of conduct is in place in view of the lengthy eight-phase Bengal elections. People in Nandigram, Khejuri, Ramnagar, Bhagabanpur, Potashpur and parts of Contai are facing one of the worst water crises in the middle of a scorching summer and the pandemic. Elections in these places ended nearly a month ago, but as the model code of conduct stays in place till May 2, when results are announced, neither the panchayat authorities nor public health and engineering department who are tasked with drinking water supply here, can repair or install pumps and pipelines. Drinking water is mainly sourced from hand pumps in this area, and less commonly through motorised submersible pumps which feed pipelines in the area. However, groundwater level has gone down, like it does every summer. Pumps and pipelines need to be repaired or replaced, which comes under the ambit of tenders that are forbidden till the model code is in place. “Our elections ended weeks ago but we are still suffering from election restrictions and many of us have to lug buckets of water for a kilometre or more,” said Piyush Panda, 60, a farmer from Uttar Lakhi village where most tube wells can’t pump water anymore. “Women are using dirty pond water for cooking and washing the dishes. We are used to the problem of drinking water every summer but are not used to not having it resolved soon,” he added. Panda's fate is shared by several residents of neighbouring villages, where panchayat and zilla parishad authorities said they were aware of the problem and had petitioned district authorities “repeatedly” for two weeks to take some action. “But our hands are tied owing to the model code,” said one panchayat member. Zila parishad functionary and Trinamul nominee from Khejuri Partha Pratim Das admitted that “work was hard to get done during the elections”. “We have informed the district administration regarding the problem but they have not responded,” he said. Another senior Trinamul worker said public health and engineering officials were supposed to connect 10,000 new households with piped water but could not do so because of the elections. Asked, executive district engineer (Tamluk), Shaktipada Mondal, said: “We had contacted the departments concerned on the water crisis on April 1 but as far as we are aware no clearances have been granted. We are looking into temporary solutions to alleviate people’s problems for the time being.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Surge in Covid cases prompt Jalpaiguri officials to draw up new plans for May 2  ||The nationwide spike in Covid-19 cases has prompted officials of the Jalpaiguri district administration to draw up new plans to curb the spread of the contagion at the district’s three counting centres. On May 2, along with the rest of the state, votes of seven Assembly constituencies of the district would be counted in these centres. “Keeping in mind the current scenario, we have made some new plans to minimise the risk of infection in all the three counting centres,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. “In each centre, sanitisation would be carried out every hour. Alarms would be installed to remind the concerned staff that they need to sanitise the counting centre premises. Also, it has been decided that transparent plastic sheets would be put in between seats at the centre where counting personnel, agents of political parties and officials would be present,” she said. She also said that a proposal to use “bust size” PPE kits — PPEs that cover the head and the shoulders — have been sent to the Election Commission. “If we get the approval, such kits will be provided to the counting staff and each of them has to use it when they count the votes,” the district magistrate added. In Jalpaiguri district, counting of votes of four seats (Dabgram-Fulbari, Rajganj, Jalpaiguri and Dhupguri) will be carried out at the second campus of North Bengal University that is located on the outskirts of the town. The counting of Maynaguri seat will be held at the campus of the Netaji Open University that is next to the second campus of NBU. “The third counting centre of the district is the Parimal Mitra College in Malbazar where counting of votes for Mal and Nagrakata seats will be carried out,” said a source in the administration. There will be 600 counting staff at all three centres. The largest counting centre will, however, be the North Bengal University second campus, so more personnel will be engaged there in comparision with the other two. “Initially, it was planned to count votes in 20-odd tables in a single round for each constituency. But to ensure adequate distance among the tables, it has been decided to reduce the number of tables. The final decision would be taken soon according to the recommendations of the Election Commission,” the source added. The administration has prepared a list of counting personnel who would be kept in reserve. In case any person or team is found to be infected with the contagion, the teams in reserve would be engaged. Oxygen supply plan The increase in the number of Covid-19 patients has made the Jalpaiguri district administration and the district health department install a network of pipelines so that medical oxygen can be directly given to patients who are under treatment at Covid hospitals that have been opened at the Biswa Bangla Kriranjan of the town and also at the night shelter of super-specialty hospital. The oxygen facility, sources said, would be available in 400-odd beds of these places. “Liquid oxygen would be stored in tanks at these hospitals from where it would be supplied to the beds through the network of pipelines,” said Godara Basu, the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Restrictions between India-Bangla borders put Bangladeshis in a quandary||The sudden restriction on movement of people through land borders between India and Bangladesh put hundreds of Bangladeshis — most of whom had come to Calcutta on medical visa — in a quandary as they were not allowed to enter their country through the Petrapole-Benapole border on Monday. On Sunday, the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta issued a circular — following instructions from the foreign ministry in Dhaka —announcing that movement of foreigners and Bangladeshi citizens through all common borders between the two countries would remain suspended for two weeks from April 26 to May 9 “in view of the recent upsurge of the second wave of Covid-19” in Bangladesh and India”. The circular also stated that Bangladeshi nationals whose visa was close to expiry within the suspended period would be allowed to return on submission of a Covid negative report and subsequently by obtaining a ‘No Objection’ certificate from the Deputy High Commission’s office in Calcutta. Unaware of the sudden change in the immigration norms, a large number of Bangladeshi nationals gathered at the Petrapole immigration centre on Monday morning and they were not allowed to enter their country. “I came to know about the order only early this morning. A large number of people from Bangladesh came to India on medical visas. Our Deputy High Commission should have alerted us ahead with at least two days’ time so that we could have enough time to return. But people mostly accompanying patients don’t know where and how they would stay during this suspended period,” said Mohammed Habibur Rahaman, a Bangladeshi who reached India for the treatment of one of his relatives. “I appeal to the Bangladesh government to be kind enough and to allow us a minimum time to return home to save the life of the patients whom we brought to India for treatment,” Ramahan added. Another Bangladeshi citizen said: “Many of us are also running out of money after paying the cost of treatment as they came with serious patients. How could our authorities be so unkind to these patients?” The Bangladeshi nationals repeatedly appealed to the Indian Immigration authorities to take up their matter with the counterparts in the neighbouring countries. Tarun Biswas, chief immigration officer at Petrapole, said: “We are helpless. It is the Bangladeshi authorities who sealed the border.” An official at the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta said: “We have no directive for allowing people in general to cross the border. Only in some exceptions may permission be granted to return. People with visa expiring shortly will be considered to return on obtaining no-objection certificate and following the Covid protocol.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic incidents of violence erupts in small pockets||The seventh phase of the protracted eight-phase Bengal elections was largely peaceful, but sporadic incidents of violence did occur before or through voting day. Bomb kills student In the jute mill belt of North 24-Parganas, which had gone to the polls in the sixth phase, a first-year BA student was killed late on Sunday by a bomb, prompting outrage by residents of the area. The victim, Anurag Shaw, 20, an Indian army aspirant, was targeted by unidentified attackers with a crude bomb. The explosive hurled at Shaw landed on his shoulder. Drink raises brows The BJP has filed a complaint with the Election Commission, accusing the presiding officer of Banskopa polling station, under Durgapur East constituency, of having a drink with a Trinamul leader’s husband on the banks of a pond on Sunday night. Voter protest Over 1,200 voters at Harishpur village of Andal in the Pandabeswar Assembly seat abstained from voting on Monday to protest the “apathy” of the local administration regarding their proposed rehabilitation. Several residents of the village had last year their houses and land cracking up owing to nearby mining activities. Sources said the state government and the ECIL assured them of rehabilitation, but no action was taken. TMC on central forces Trinamul in Durgapur East constituency alleged that central force personnel ransacked one of its party offices, located 1km away from a polling station. Party sources alleged that a central force team arrived at the office and ransacked it when workers were preparing food on Monday afternoon, beat up the workers and locked up the building. A complaint was later lodged at Kanksa police station. In the same seat, Trinamul alleged false voting by the BJP, backed by central forces, at the Vidyasagar school polling station. They alleged that BJP workers offered the personnel drinks and incentivised them into false voting.  In Durgapur West, Trinamul accused central forces of ransacking its campaign office and beating up party workers at ward 22 in Durgapur town. Trinamul candidate Biswanath Pariyal rushed to the spot and sought a clarification from personnel about the alleged act. A complaint was registered with the Election Commission. In Malipara village, under Raninagar assembly constituency, Trinamul alleged that the central forces ransacked the home of Trinamul leader Mizan Hasan and assaulted women family members of the leader. Trinamul filed a police complaint later. Trinamul leader Rubel Ali had to be admitted to the Nabagram Rural Hospital on Monday after he was allegedly beaten by a team of central force personnel in Nimgram area, under Nabagram constituency. Asked about the incident, Rubel said, “My only fault was that I introduced myself as a Trinamul worker.” A police complaint has been registered. Cap controversy BJP candidate from Asansol South constituency, Agnimitra Paul, forcibly removed the cap of a Trinamul agent at the Baktanagar polling station after spotting a sticker with the ruling party emblem on it. Paul also lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, accusing the agent of influencing voters. Thrash complaint The BJP candidate from Gangarampur seat, Satyendra Nath Roy, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and South Dinajpur district police claiming that one of his polling agents was picked up by a police team from their home and beaten up. Police refused to clarify the reason behind the detention of the agent. Attack finger A Trinamul worker and his wife were allegedly attacked with sharp weapons by miscreants, with suspected Congress links, while going to cast votes in the Chanchal area of Malda. Asked, Congress sources denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||North East||Wildfire in Mizoram spreads to six districts||Six of Mizoram’s 11 districts have been affected till Monday evening in a forest fire that was first spotted in Lunglei district on Saturday morning prompting a massive dousing operation involving community volunteers, police and security personnel. Government officials and volunteers said it was perhaps one of the worst wildfires to have hit the state, prompting Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga to seek the help of the Indian Air Force to douse the fire which is still raging at a few places. Under-secretary in the disaster management and rehabilitation department, Malsawmtluanga Fanchun, told The Telegraph thatpreliminary reports from the six affected districts — Champhai, Hnahthial, Lunglei, Lawngtlai, Khawzawl and Serchhip — reveal that about 5,789.5 acres of forest area has been destroyed in the forest fire. Though there has been no loss of life, 11 firefighters have suffered injuries till now. Over 85 per cent of Mizoram’s total area is covered by forests, making wildfires quite common, especially during the dry season. This year, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh too have reported massive forest fires. The devastation caused in Mizoram is unprecedented, Malsawmtluanga said. The fire has affected 53 villages, destroyed 14 houses (12 completely), killed 20 domestic animals and forced 60 of the 83 affected persons to shift to relief camps, the senior official said based on the preliminary reports from the districts. “A clear picture of the worst affected districts will emerge by tomorrow (Tuesday). Fire is still raging in some areas. Apart from the fire, we are also fighting Covid. These are very testing times for all of us,” Malsawmtluanga said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Zoramthanga to take stock of the situation while assuring all possible support from the Centre in overcoming this crisis. “We all pray for the safety and wellbeing of the people of Mizoram,” Modi said. Zoramthanga had tweeted on Sunday night about the wildfire affecting multiple locations in the state, adding: “Keep us in your prayers!” He had earlier spoken to the IAF authorities, explaining the extreme urgency of the situation. The IAF responded by deploying two Mi-17V5 helicopters, equipped with Bambi bucket, to douse the fire in Lunglei district and adjoining areas. Bambi bucket are filled from nearby waterbodies by the choppers and used to spray water to douse the fire in the affected areas. An IAF official said two choppers reached Lunglei and one of them did a recce with the deputy commissioner on board. “No flame was reported. Only smoke was observed at two places for which Bambi bucket ops has begun,” he said. Apart from local volunteers, the Assam Rifles and Border Security Force (BSF) have also stepped out with their men and equipment,  and are actively participating in the fire-fighting efforts. Private water tankers have also voluntarily deployed their vehicles for fire-fighting. A government statement on Sunday had said the fire has been raging “non-stop” for the past 32 hours around Lunglei town in south Mizoram. The fire was first reported around 7am on Saturday mainly in “uninhabited” forest areas surrounding Lunglei, and has spread to more than 10 village council areas within the town. “In some localities such as Zotlang, Serkawn, Chanmari, the fire reached some buildings, but could be contained and doused before it caused any major loss to property. No loss of human life has yet been reported due to the wildfire,” the statement said. Lunglei is around five hours’ drive from the capital Aizawl. Dry vegetation due to drought-like conditions, coupled with strong winds, has made the mission of dousing the forest fire extremely challenging, and the unfriendly terrain of the area also poses a very serious risk and hindrance for the fire-fighters, the statement said. Lunglei deputy commissioner and District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chairman Kulothungan A had convened an emergency meeting with key stakeholders in his office on Sunday.A probe is also on to find out what or who caused the fire. “There are reasons to believe that the fire is manmade. A meeting will be convened with village councils and Young Mizo Association (YMA) leaders of the affected areas to ascertain the exact cause,” an official in Lunglei said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
27-04-2021||Opinion||Green lantern: Biden's eco policies||New beginnings that hold out promise for a better future are important during the bleakest of hours. The pledge for such a beginning was made by the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, who brought his country back to the Paris climate accord in January. Now, Mr Biden, whose presidency was expected to offer a fillip to the fight against climate change, has promised to cut the US’s greenhouse gas emissions by half by 2030 as part of the Paris pact — a target that more than doubles the US’s prior commitment under the pact in 2015. The path to achieving this bold agenda will not be without challenges. A razor-thin majority in the Senate for the Democrats limits the possibility of Mr Biden implementing sweeping reforms to curb carbon emissions — Republicans from fossil-fuel states in the US oppose policies they consider detrimental to industry in their home states. Moreover, the investment needed to green the US economy will be humongous, with one estimate placing it at over $2.5 trillion: a gap that will likely need to be filled by private capital. Nevertheless, the step taken by the Biden administration would hold out hope for emulation by other nations, thereby building global momentum against climate inertia. The mere expression of intent is, of course, not enough; in order to return to credible climate leadership, the action taken by the US needs to be empowering in broader ways. For one, it is important for Mr Biden to take on a collaborative role with other heads of state to remove the bottlenecks that continue to plague climate talks; these include prolonged — fruitless? — negotiations, the constant postponement of critical, but divisive, issues that hold the key to the planet’s survival, and the stubborn unwillingness of richer nations to greater concessions and cuts. The US should lead the way by extending meaningful assistance to developing economies by transferring funds and technology, two prickly issues that have bedevilled climate negotiations. The newly-announced ‘Agenda 2030’ climate initiative between India and the US, which aims to “mobilise investments and enable green collaborations”, is a step in the right direction in this context. Squabbling nations must remember that climate collaborations could foster greater bilateral cooperation. By turning climate talks into a means of fostering global partnerships, influential nations — the top emitters in the world — could build valuable bridges to facilitate cultural, social and economic exchange alongside mitigating climate disaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||New dawn: Diversity in Oscars 2021||Sir — The 93rd Academy Awards, which was held on Sunday, has been lauded as the most diverse in terms of nominations in its long history. With an unprecedented inclusion of women and people of colour, and the award for direction going to Chloé Zhao, a woman of colour, the Oscars, it is hoped, has paved the way for inclusivity in entertainment. Hopefully, other award shows will now follow suit. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta End of an era Sir — The passing of Sankha Ghosh at the age of 89 to Covid-19 marks the end of a generation of Bengali poets who captured the cadences of the land and the language in all its colloquialism (“In death too, a quiet message from Ghosh”, April 22). Born in Chandpur, now in Bangladesh, Ghosh was a quintessential academic. He was not only a poet but also a critic and a storyteller. The birth of the little magazine, Krittibas, in 1953 ushered in a new wave of modernism in Bengali literature. Meant as a platform for upcoming poets, it nurtured writers such as Sankha Ghosh, Shakti Chattopadhyay, Sunil Gangopadhyay and Binoy Majumdar, who forged a new identity for contemporary Bengali poetry. These poets sought a deeper engagement with middle-class preoccupations such as employment, politics, ambition, idealism and love. In collections such as Dinguli Raatguli, Murkho Boro, Samajik Noy, Mukh Dheke Jay Bigyapone and Babarer Prarthana, Ghosh broke out with his experiments in meter and theme, writing on communal violence, capitalism and the process of ageing. There are also numerous instances of the dedicated political humanism of Ghosh. He protested against the 2002 Gujarat riots and the violence in Nandigram in 2007, wrote against the  Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the murders of public intellectuals. Ghosh, like many of his contemporaries, was unflinching in his criticisms of society. He will be missed. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Sankha Ghosh was one of the most revered poets of his time who stood out for voicing his concerns on various social and political issues. He spoke against intolerance and strove to give a voice to the common people. His poems will continue to move people across generations. Rudra Dasgupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||Steep price: Covid-19 vaccines||It is said that India’s ruling regime is working tirelessly to realize its dream of ‘one nation, one party’. Strangely, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government does not seem to be equally enthusiastic about ‘one nation, one price’ for the coronavirus vaccines. The newly-minted vaccination policy announced by the Centre has led to such speculation. The Narendra Modi government has said that from May 1, the Centre would only procure 50 per cent of the doses, permitting vaccine manufacturers to sell the remaining batches of medicine to state governments and private hospitals at variable prices. The results are there for all to see. Covaxin, the indigenous drug, is set to be available at Rs 1,200 per dose in private hospitals; Covishield — the AstraZeneca drug that is being produced by Serum Institute of India — would, reportedly, be sold at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per vial for private hospitals. Apparently, the pricing is sensitive to investment requirements, which, in turn, would be critical to augment manufacturing capacities at a time when India is being severely lashed by the second wave of the pandemic. Of course, the BJP’s pledges on the vaccine have been characteristically dodgy. During the assembly elections in Bihar, the party had promised to vaccinate the people of the state free of cost, a pledge that has rung hollow; yet, the party has also made similar noises in poll-bound Bengal. The Centre’s vaccination policy is riddled with similar inconsistencies. Unlike recipients aged 45 and above, those above 18 years but below 45 — the constituency for which vaccination will now be available from May — would not be able to receive free doses in government hospitals. The differential pricing of doses is likely to replicate such segmentation. Those with lower purchasing power and, arguably, at greater risk of contracting and spreading the virus on account of several socio-economic constraints, are unlikely to have greater access to the medicine. The other concern lies with the absence of a mechanism of retail price capping. Hence, the possibility of price fluctuations cannot be ruled out. Several states have promised to vaccinate their citizens for free but there is concern whether they would have sufficient amounts of doses at their disposal. The incongruities in the vaccine pricing strategy seem to mirror the ineptitude and ad-hocism that have mired this government’s attempts to tame Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||Missing link: Green issues and Bengal polls||About a decade back when the world was just waking up to the threat of climate change and people’s action to protect greenery was being put forward as a possible prescription, I had a chance to speak to Sunderlal Bahuguna of Chipko movement fame, the landmark global movement had stopped the felling of trees in the Himalayas during the 1950s. My obvious first question to the frail figure was how could he manage to turn the opposition against felling trees in the Himalayas into a mass movement at a time when nobody had even heard about climate change or for that matter afforestation? “It was simple; I could make them understand that if the trees were cut randomly as planned by the contractors, their lives would be in complete disarray,” responded the octogenarian. The discussion seems relevant at a time when West Bengal is in the midst of one of its fiercest electoral battles and environmentalists are complaining that green issues find no space in the manifestos of political parties. The green lobby is as much to blame for this as political leaders. What Bahuguna did almost seven decades back, most green activists are not able to do in the 2020s: linking the wider developmental discourse and people with the critical environmental issues. As a result, issues like air pollution or river encroachment have remained broadly insulated from the heat and fire of elections. This in spite of the recently released State of India’s Environment report by Down to Earth, which draws from Niti Aayog data to underline the critical linkage (or, the lack of it) between performances in environmental and developmental sectors. In the run up to the West Bengal assembly elections, the prime minister said that there was no development in the state under the Mamata Banerjee-led government, and that the Bharatiya Janata Party, if it comes to power, will build Sonar Bangla (read, will provide the highest form of development). But where does Modi’s India stand on ‘development’? According to its own calculation, Modi mastered a meagre 61.92 out of 100 in sustainable development goals in 2020; globally ranked at 117, a slide down of two spots within a year. Banerjee incidentally scored around the same marks (60 out of 100) in 2020, but managed to register an improvement of a few points among Indian states compared to 2019. The paradox is that while India managed to do reasonably well in some important environmental sectors like ‘clean water and sanitation’, ‘clean energy’ and even moderately on ‘climate action’; these achievements are not reflected in the most important developmental indicators like minimizing poverty and hunger where Modi scored below par. In contrast, Banerjee’s Bengal might have done poorly in some of the environment indicators, but actually performed better when it comes to reducing poverty and hunger. Even states like Gujarat and Maharashtra fared poorly compared to West Bengal when it comes to these key development indicators. The disparity vindicates not only the need to look at environmental issues in adjunct to developmental agendas, which are closer to common people’s understanding and hence response, but also at the mindset of the average Indian politician when it comes to the environment. The former Union environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, once said that Indian politicians across the spectrum consider environmental agendas as a deterrent to development. This is exactly why the Union environment minister takes pride in clearing record proposals in a day, or the government keeps on allowing hydroelectric projects in Uttarakhand in spite of repeated disasters. Indira Gandhi, during the 1972 Stockholm environment summit, asked, “[a]re not poverty and need the greatest polluters?” and then added “... how can we speak to those who live in villages and in slums about keeping the oceans, the rivers and the air clean, when their own lives are contaminated at the source?” One may debate Gandhi’s point of view; but there is no denying she brought environmental agendas at the core of the developmental discourse. Unfortunately both politicians and green activists largely failed to read this clue in the last five decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||What lies beneath: Mineral mining in India||India produces 95 metallic, non-metallic, fuel, atomic and minor minerals. The share of mining in India’s GDP is 2.6 per cent but its contribution to the economy is greater as it provides the material foundation for other sectors. India has a detailed set of mining-related laws and rules for minerals exploration, extraction and incidental activities. As per the Constitution, the development of minerals is within the legislative jurisdiction of states as well as the Union. But the shared competence over minerals has often been a subject of contention rather than cooperation. The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act is the main legislation governing the minerals sector in India. Notable amendments were made to the Act in 2015 which changed the minerals concession system from a ‘first-come-first-serve’ basis to competitive auction and included the District Mineral Foundation. In March 2021, the MMDR bill, 2021 was passed in Parliament through a voice vote despite demands for the bill to be referred to a Select Committee. The bill aimed at increasing and expediting exploration and auction of minerals and coal. It enables the Centre to intervene in matters such as mineral auctions, end use, utilization of funds and so on. As per the existing Act, state governments have the power to notify an area for the granting of mining lease. This lease is granted through competitive bidding. The 2021 amendment curtails the power of the states by adding a proviso that where a state government has not notified the area within a stipulated time the Centre can notify the area for the granting of mining lease. The stipulated time is going to be fixed by the Centre as well. The overall scheme of mining regulation, whereby states are the owners and, therefore, the granters of a lease, stands changed with the Centre empowered to auction mines in states. Another domain where the Central government has expanded its reach is the DMF. When the DMF was included in the MMDR Act, it was hailed as a historic move to ensure decentralization and address social sustainability in the mining sector. The DMF is a non-profit trust to “work for the interest and benefit of persons, and areas affected by mining-related operations” in any affected district. Under the Act, any DMF is to be constituted, established, and assigned functions only by the state government. The 2021 amendment provides that “the Central Government may give directions regarding composition and utilisation of fund by the District Mineral Foundation.” The whole premise of the DMF was decentralized decision-making: the new provision attempts to reverse that. The gap between ownership and control over minerals has been at the core of many discussions on resource federalism in India. Irrespective of the concession regime in place, states have always demanded greater autonomy in decision-making related to minerals. Since minerals comprise a major share in the revenue of resource-rich states, they want to defend their fiscal powers with respect to minerals. Granting of lease and licence for mining and prospecting is a prerogative of states, albeit as per the rules laid down by the Centre. The MMDR 2021 amendment has stretched the Centre’s powers by allowing it to auction mines when the states have not notified and auctioned a mine within the period specified by the Centre. Taxation on mineral rights is a subject within state jurisdiction. However, the scope of the Central law (MMDR Act) is so expansive that it leaves little room for states to levy any additional charge on minerals. Even the royalty rates — the primary mineral revenue accruing to states — are determined and notified by the Centre. The DMF’s large corpus of Rs 41,650 crore has attracted interest from every level of the government. The DMF was introduced for specific local purposes and beneficiaries but its fund has also faced centralization partly due to instances of inaction and misuse in states. The issues of under-utilization and misuse must be addressed by correcting procedural lapses, not by transferring the power to the Centre. The 2021 amendment facilitates the Centre’s hold on the important and strategic mining industry but also the mineral resources and wealth of states. There are pros and cons of centralized and decentralized governance in mining. Central oversight or guidance can be instrumental in addressing some of the problems associated with decentralization, such as vested interests, corruption, inadequate capacity, information flows and so on. A decentralized governance of natural resources, including minerals, ensures that those affected by mining and those dependent on mining for employment or revenue are involved in the decision-making and revenue stream around minerals. It also gives the local governments an opportunity to voice concerns that are local or regional in nature. However, the potential of either strategy has seldom been utilized optimally. This is not the first time that Centre-state issues are emerging in mineral regulation. This shall not be the last time either. There have been several such amendments, ordinances and rules in the past and the sector has often been a fertile ground for contention for resource federalism. Since the issue is unlikely to be settled or buried in the near future, it is imperative that the amendments do not exacerbate the conflict between the Centre and the states but help resolve the limitations in the jurisdiction of each and give effect to cooperative federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||The convalescent||There’s been no escaping pishi and bhaipo ever since the election war drums began to roll in Bengal. To her countless admirers, pishi — not so much bhaipo — remains one of the few surviving sentinels guarding the citadel of a pluralist Bengal. Those at Bengal’s doors — pishi’s detractors — think otherwise: the pair, they allege, represents nepotism and corruption that they would get rid of with a few lusty blows of their (majoritarian) broom. The depravity of politics — Bengal’s politics is not an exception — is such that it often forces viewers to turn their gaze elsewhere: towards, say, a far more luminous pishi-bhaipo pairing. Leela Majumdar, a cousin of Sukumar Ray, was Satyajit Ray’s pishi. Among the many accomplishments of this illustrious aunt-nephew was the resuscitation of Sandesh, the children’s magazine that has continued to enchant readers across generations. Yet, April is a rather cruel month to reminisce about this peerless pishi and her inimitable bhaipo. Ray died this month in 1992; Majumdar, too, passed away in April, fifteen years after her nephew’s death. The sombre timber of our times — a time of disease and death — perhaps makes it imperative for us to turn the pages of two short stories written by Majumdar and Ray, respectively, that offer insights into themes that remain strikingly contemporary. “Pilkhana” — one of the short stories that make up Majumdar’s magical Shob Bhuture — features an eleven-year-old child who, much like Covid-afflicted Indians, has been shut out from her loved ones on account of a contagious illness. Confined to a dingy room in an ancient, crumbling mansion, even as Durga Puja is being celebrated outside, the child discovers companionship, fortitude and, ultimately, liberation in Haider — a spectral mahout — and his herd of ghostly pachyderms. Sadananda, the protagonist of Ray’s short story, “Sadanander Khude Jagat”, is lonely and unwell too. He is bullied by his friends for the joy he takes in phenomena that others find unremarkable — such as the slow, teasing flight of the seed of shimul, or the lives and antics of ants. He also suffers periodic bouts of fever as well as visitations from a grim physician bearing bitter medicine. Yet, Sadananda and that nameless child in “Pilkhana” manage to endure their sickly, joyless lives. And that is because these gifted children — in other words, their creators — turn their illnesses into an emancipatory experience that helps them to reflect on, from an early age, the vagaries, cruelties, injustices but also kindness that make the world simultaneously revolting and alluring. Sadananda, for instance, learns that his mother has blood on her hands: she swatted one of his ant friends to death without thinking much about her deed. The child prisoner of Majumdar’s story is taught about the importance of empathy by those gentle ghosts with trunks. Literature, of course, has its share of ailing and infirm children. In Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Story of a Mother”, Death sneaks up to snatch a child away from a mother who, sleepless for days after caring for the infant, closes her eyes for a wee second; Our Mutual Friend, Charles Dickens’s last finished novel, captures poignantly the searing vignettes of life in a hospital full of sick and dying children. Interestingly, in spite of the improvements in paediatric care and the falling infant mortality rates around the world, illness continues to be a dominant literary theme: at least one-third of submissions by young writers for the Branford Boase Award, which recognizes precocious literary talent, had, in one particular year, an ill child as a protagonist. Even though ailing children have been central to literary plots, they have seldom been armed, as is the case with Sadananda, with agency. This element of agency — an ability to ponder their own lives and those of others — is what makes the fictive children of Ray and Majumdar speak to us in this dark hour. In his book, The Courage to Exist: A Philosophy of Life and Death in the Age of Coronavirus, the philosopher, Ramin Jahanbegloo, has underscored the importance of listening to and contemplating what these voices — old and young, real and imagined, within and without — have to say to the human collective. And they offer a lot to think about. For the list of sordid spectacles that embellish New India is long and as inscrutable as the mounting evidence of the body politic of the nation writhing in an excruciating agony that it shares with the corporeal bodies of its citizens. There is an elected government which, having sleepwalked through the first wave of a pandemic, now finds itself drowning in the second on account of criminal lapses. There are the government’s defenders, impeccable but graceless men, women and institutions, unmoved by the sight of innumerable funeral pyres, their light, ironically, the harbinger of the gathering darkness. There is ceaseless tragic news: of the burden of disease and death getting heavier with each passing day; of a country heaving and gasping together, as if in a feeble nod to an eerie orchestra, for oxygen; of a newspaper in Rajkot devoting nearly seven pages of its twenty-page edition to obituaries, respecting those who breathe no longer. Can there be Forgiveness after such Knowledge? Did Ray and Majumdar answer this question? Perhaps. The ants that make up Sadananda’s tiny world raise the banner of disaffection, inflicting a blow — a bite — that makes their young patron’s oppressor beat a hasty retreat. Majumdar makes the phantom elephants shed their gentility too; with a bit of a push, they tear down the walls of that dreadful penitentiary, freeing the child. Do Bengal and India care enough about these clues of deliverance? uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: BCCL launches app for employees||Dhanbad: Director (Personnel) of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), P.V.K.R.M. Rao on Tuesday launched a mobile/web app for addressing complaints of the staff at the residential quarters as well as officers of the company. Rao said that the app, a joint initiative of the administration and systems departments will gradually be made applicable for all other departments of BCCL also. The employees can upload any complaint with their regard to their residential quarters using the app. The complaints would be addressed in a time bound manner, Rao said. (Praduman Choubey)   Chatra: A group of armed men, whom sources identified as extremists, set five trucks on fire late Monday night at the Mandar-Laranga Road in Tandwa. Reports confirmed that the miscreants were extremists of the Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee(TSPC). Sources said a group of 25 to 30 extremists waited on the road for trucks to come and stopped five of them to pull their drivers and cleaners out, after which they set the vehicles on fire with diesel. Before leaving the scene, one of the gutted trucks was overturned. The trucks, all belonging to the Ma Ambey coal company, were carrying coal to Piparwar railway siding. On April 15, members of the same outfit had set ablaze two coal carrying trucks. The incidents are being perceived as attempts to pressurise businessmen to give money to the outfit. Police said a probe was launched into the incident. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: The District Legal Services Authority (DALSA) have come forward for Bokaro residents, arranging medicines and consultation for them amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, and circulated numbers among the public for calling when they need. The members have set up a war room with the help of district authorities at the District Civil Court premises which will act like a Quick Response Team, said the Principal District and Sessions Judge cum Chairman of the authority, Pradeep Srivastava. It will have officials designated by the Deputy Commissioner, doctors nominated by civil surgeons, paralegal volunteers, retainer advocates and paramedical staff with necessary medicines and oximeters. Secretary of the team Manoranjan Kumar informed that needy people can get information about medicines, medical oxygen cylinders and oximeters from the war rooms by giving a phone call to the numbers 9934323658, 8207535649, 8002514775, 6200753409, 9955448319, 9430379652 and 9939104090. (Our Correspondent) Dhanbad: Activists of the Dhanbad unit of Marwari Yuva Manch on Tuesday organised a blood donation camp at Ratanji Road in the Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad, to resolve the blood crisis in the district. As many as 26 units of blood were donated during the campaign on the day. Srikant Agarwal, convener of the organisation said, “In the prevailing situation, when the blood banks of the district are facing a crisis as vaccinated people cannot donate, we organised the donation camp today to help the centres.” Notably, a person who has taken the Covid-19 jab, cannot donate his or her blood for up to 28 days. (Praduman Choubey Bokaro: Deputy Superintendent of Bokaro Sadar Hospital Dr. Renu Bharti was on Tuesday removed from her post by Deputy Commissioner of Bokaro Rajesh Singh, on grounds of negligence in treatment of Covid-19 patients. District tuberculosis officer Dr. N.P. Singh will take over the post in the hospital, confirmed Civil Surgeon Dr. A.K. Pathak. The order said Bharti can be deputed or posted somewhere else on Covid duty by the civil surgeon as per his wish. It is mentioned that Bharti was showcaused by the DC on Saturday and was asked to justify her stand within 24 hours. She was also asked why an FIR should not be launched against her under relevant sections of the Disaster Act 2005, and why her medical license should not be cancelled Singh said, “Bharti was found ignorant towards Covid-19 patients. She was not coming to duty on time. In a joint inspection of Civil Surgeon-cum-Chief  Medical Officer, A K Pathak and SDO it comes to light that Bharti was not seriously operating 30 bed Covid ward in the Sadar Hospital. Covid patients and their families have complained about negligence.” (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nurses resume work at Ranchi Sadar Hospital ||Nurses and other healthcare workers resumed work at the Sadar Hospital here on Tuesday following an FIR against a doctor and a community health centre (CHC) officer for not discharging their duties at one of the largest Covid care facilities in the state capital. As per details shared by officials from Sadar Hospital, an FIR was lodged by the district administration under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act against Dr Kirti Tripathi of Pithoria and Purnima Baik, a nurse at a CHC in Namkum, on Monday night after the absence of nurses and doctors left several Covid patients unattended in the hospital. “Most of the nurses have resumed work today (Tuesday). The situation is now under control in the hospital,” said Ranchi’s acting civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar. An official from the Ranchi district administration said that legal action would be taken in future against such healthcare workers who refuse to discharge their duties during this time of crisis. However, he requested not to be named. There are 200 general beds and 60 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in Sadar Hospital. The government had roped in more than 100 nurses from CHCs to attend to Covid patients in the hospital as the facility did not have sufficient nurses on its rolls. However, the outsourced nurses from CHCs went on a strike on Sunday demanding payment of an additional Rs 15,000 per month, promised to them and pending for three months among other financial benefits, doctors said. Some nurses refused to administer medicines and injections to patients on Monday citing different excuses. The Civil Surgeon had to intervene and get injections administered to many Covid patients till the wee hours of Tuesday with the help of medical staff other than the nurses. “I stayed in the hospital till late in the night to ensure that patients get the medicines and prescribed injections. We were in a helpless position, but the situation is under control now as nurses have started returning to work,” said Dr Kumar. Vinay Kumar, a Covid patient who told The Telegraph Online that nurses refused to administer Remdesivir injection to him, on Tuesday said that he was given  the injection by a nursing staff late on Monday after his family and friends contacted the Civil Surgeon and requested him to intervene. However, the shortage of beds continued to haunt patients on Tuesday as well. Almost all beds in Covid wards of Sadar Hospital were occupied  and only critically-ill patients, in need of oxygen support, were prioritised, doctors said. The active caseload in Ranchi has reached close to 17,000, mounting extra pressure on the limited number of Covid beds in the district. The government is also planning to come up with new Covid care centres in order to ensure availability of beds for patients in need.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sends four tankers with oxygen to gasping Delhi||Chief minister Hemant Soren flagged off four tankers, each carrying 58 tonne liquid medical oxygen, to Delhi on Tuesday to help the national capital tide over a serious crisis that has led to a staggering number of deaths among critical Covid-19 patients in various hospitals. The tankers, flagged off from Ranchi in an online function, left for Delhi from the Linde India gas plant at Jamshedpur. Health minister Banna Gupta, local MLAs and officials of the district administration were present at the plant site as the tankers rolled out. “We received an SoS letter from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently seeking oxygen support. Thereafter, we wrote to the Centre for formal permission and today (Tuesday) we are finally sending tankers to Delhi. In this time of crisis, we are glad that Jharkhand is doing its bit to help other states to tackle the growing pandemic in the country,” Hemant said. Jharkhand, he said, has always been at the forefront of the country’s economic development by virtue of the heavy presence of mines and minerals.  “Now, oxygen produced here will also help others battling Covid-19. Many Jharkhandis live in Delhi, and it is everyone’s collective responsibility to rise above geographical and political lines to fight this crisis,” he said. Hemant has clarified that Jharkhand produces surplus oxygen and the crisis in the state was due to issues of logistics and supply. Amid the growing number of  Covid-19 cases in the state, the JMM-Congress alliance government has already stepped up efforts to ensure seamless supply of oxygen to hospitals. Hemant revealed that the state government was also working out plans to set up oxygen plants or refilling stations in the districts on priority. Notably, Linde India has recently entered into a partnership with Tata Group for securing 24 cryogenic containers for carrying medical oxygen from international sources. Officials of Linde India, who were present on the occasion, explained that industries used oxygen for combustion, oxidation, cutting and chemical reactions. To make industrial oxygen suitable for administering to humans, it needs to be free from impurities. Among the others present at the function were deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and local MLAs Sanjeev Sardar and Mangal Kalindi. The chief minister interacted with the deputy commissioner and the two MLAs, seeking their suggestions on tackling the Covid pandemic. Kalindi stressed on the need for more ventilators and beds for Covid patients in hospitals in Jugsalai, his constituency. "Several Covid patients are succumbing in the absence of ventilators," he said. Hemant appealed to people to stay vigilant and follow Covid safety norms. "Although the state government is trying hard to upgrade medical infrastructure to deal with the surging cases, everyone must continue taking extreme precautions so that it doesn't reach a stage when he/she needs to be put on ventilators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad indoor stadium is now a Covid testing centre||The Dhanbad District Administration on Tuesday launched an additional Covid test centre at the district indoor stadium to ease the rush and difficulties faced by commoners at the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH). This facility is aimed at catering to the needs of prospective patients of the upcoming 100-bed Covid care centre of the Sadar Hospital and will conduct RT-PCR as well as TrueNat tests. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the huge rush at SNMMCH leads to the chances of a non-positive patient getting infected by the virus during the process. “The new covid testing facility at Dhanbad District Indoor Stadium will be of great help  for both the serious as well as asymptomatic patients, or those with mild symptoms admitted at the dedicated Covid care center of Sadar Hospital,” he added. The Deputy Commissioner meanwhile visited the catheterization lab at the SNMMCH, and also inspected the construction work of the 60-bed Covid ICU facility at the hospital. Thereafter, he carried out an inspection at the upcoming 100-bed general Covid facility at the hospital. In a related development the Dhanbad District administration allowed Park Clinic, a private hospital in Hirapur, to dedicate 14 of its beds for Covid-19 treatment. With  the permission for treatment of Covid patients in Park Clinic, the number of private hospitals offering Covid treatment in Dhanbad has increased to 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||All parties want lockdown extended in Jharkhand||Congress, a member of the ruling alliance, asked chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday to extend the ongoing seven-day lockdown by another week  in view of the steady rise in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in Jharkhand. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It is said that the virus has a 14-day life-cycle and it is important to break the chain by early detection and curbing its spread. The state government had already taken a judicious step by imposing a balanced lockdown on April 22 to break the chain, But, cases are still raising. The party demands that the lockdown be extended by another week.” The current phase of the lockdown, which the state government has christened as "health safety week", will end on Thursday, April 29. So far, the state government has allowed key sectors such as agriculture, essential items, mining, among others, to operate keep the economic cycle running. Leader of the ruling alliance JMM and Opposition BJP also conceded that there was need for further extension of the lockdown, but both felt the shutodwn this time must be total. BJP’s Pradeep Sinha said, “The way the state government has imposed a lockdown doesn’t seem to be working as it has virtually kept everything opened, including wine shops. All that it did was close down recreational areas and educational centres. There is a need for a stringent lockdown to break the chain,  and during this time, the government must ramp up vaccination and improve medical facilities.” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee agreed that a complete lockdown was the need of the hour. “We had demanded this during the all- party meet with the CM last time,” he said. Notably, between April 22 and now, Jharkhand recorded around 22,000 new Covid-19 cases and about 400 deaths, indicating the speed at which the virus is spreading among people. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCC)’s general secretary Rahul Maroo said the situation in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state was far from normal. He said that while trade bodies had voluntarily decided to close down operations for a week even before the government ordered a lockdown, they would take a call again on April 29. “We will wait to see what state government decides first,” he said. Sources in the state government did not rule out the possibility of extending the lockdown. “Deliberations are on. It is every likely that we may go for another extension with some more additional curbs,” said a senior officer, adding that a few states, including Delhi, had done the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city suicide prevention centre plans to reach out to the vulnerable||Distress calls at Jeevan,  Jamshedpur's suicide prevention centre, have gone up even as the steel city is witnessing  a surge in Covid-19 cases. Over 10 people, who are suffering from depression, have been dialling the numbers of Jeevan daily for counselling. Amny among them reveal  suicidal tendencies. The number of daily callers was between 2-4 at the beginning of the month when the Covid cases hadn't escalated. Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain said the number of people seeking help would further go up as the situation was far from normal. “Over 10 people suffering from depression are contacting our volunteers for counselling. We are trying our best to calm them. More people will seek counselling if the situation deteriorates further,” he added. Unemployment, uncertainty and economic problems are among the issues driving people to depression. Fearing that the situation would worsen in the days to come, Jeevan has decided to reach out to people for counselling. It has written letters to East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) Chanakya Chaudhary, requesting telephone numbers of people living in Covid hotspots of Jamshedpur. The district administration has turned Kadma and Refugee Colony into containment zones after both the areas became Covid hotspots.. Kadma market and nearby residential areas were sealed on Saturday following detection of over 80 positive cases on Thursday and Friday, The densely populated Refugee Colony locality was sealed on Sunday following detection of 90 Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Entry to the locality under Golumri police station has been restricted from all sides. According to Jain, they have requested the DC to put up banners and posters (with telephone numbers) of Jeevan in both Kadma and Refugee Colony as it would help people living in those localities contact them for counselling. “We have also requested Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) to provide telephone numbers of people living in Kadma so that we can contact them from our side. Movement of people in these two localities is restricted and they must be in tension and under depression. We want to help them in these difficult times,”the Jeevan director  said. A Jeevan volunteer said positive thoughts, sharing problems, keeping busy with activities which keep you happy, staying away from people with negative thoughts, playing with children, spending time with elders and rearing pets are some of the ways which can help people tide over depression. Jeevan volunteers are available at: 9297777500, 9297777499 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||Bus services disrupted in Dhanbad amid Covid surge, lockdown||Bus services in Dhanbad, both interstate and intrastate, have been badly affected over the past few days due to the lockdown and aggravating number of Covid-19 cases, with just 20 per cent of the 250 vehicles operating at present. Ranchi-bound buses have become non-operational, with none out of the 40 vehicles running amid a sharp drop of passengers in the route. The state capital is among the worst affected districts in Jharkhand. Buses between Bokaro and Dhanbad have been drastically reduced as well, with only 10 of them functioning out of 70. The passenger capacity has also been reduced to 50 per cent. Among the 15 Hazaribagh buses, only three are presently operational. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sumit Singh, owner of Bundela Travels, said, “The deteriorating Covid-19 situation, lockdown and the drive to carry out Covid-19 tests at various places are the main reasons for the lack of passengers. We have no choice but to reduce the number of vehicles.” Singh said operators feel that the situation was better during the complete lockdown last year, as overhead expenses were reduced. “Now, less than 40 per cent passengers are travelling in buses, while overhead charges remain high,” he complained. The operator said that they used to run extra vehicles during the last wedding season and also had bookings for the upcoming season. “But many weddings were called off due to the lockdown and bus bookings were cancelled,” Singh said. Sunil Singh, Joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus owners Association, who operates around 20 buses to Bengal, said that operators had already been facing difficulties due to the Assembly elections in the neighbouring state. “The lockdown has added to our woes,” he noted. However, the situation is slightly better for buses operating between Dhanbad and Bihar towns like Patna and Aurangabad, as more than 50 per cent of them are operational.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
27-04-2021||Jharkhand||State's Covid toll breaches 2000 mark as 124 patients succumb to the virus in 24 hours||Jharkhand reported as many as 124 Covid deaths on Monday, breaking all past records of casualties reported in a single day since the pandemic hit the tribal state back in March 2020, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. The Covid toll in the state also breached the 2000-mark on the day, NHM data further highlighted. Ranchi accounted for 52 of the 124 Covid fatalities on the day, which took the toll in the district to 641, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. At least 14 patients died in East Singhbhum, which has reported the second highest number of Covid casualties so far, taking the toll in the district to 534. As per government data, as many as 2115 people have died of Covid infection in the state so far, and more than half of them were residents of Ranchi and East Singhbhum. While the state reported more than 100 deaths for the third consecutive day on Monday, the active caseload also reached close to the 50,000 mark as at least 5541 people were found infected and 4018 patients recovered on the day. With 1686 fresh cases against 836 recoveries, the active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 16,307. On the other hand, the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 5,952 as the district reported 934 recoveries against 604 fresh cases on Monday. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported at least 400 fresh cases, while 313 people were found infected in Bokaro. As many as 49,504 Jharkhand residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Monday, the bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. As per government data, more than 2.07 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and 75.09 per cent of them have recovered. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 35,895 people and more than 15 per cent of them were found infected by Covid-19. Meanwhile, the growth rate of Covid infection further rose to 2.74 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent on Monday, while the doubling rate in the state dropped to 23.56 days against the national average of 46.71 days. The state’s Covid growth rate was 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate was over 2500 days in the month of March. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 15,155 residents on the day, achieving 18 per cent of the target. The second dose was administered to 10775 people, hardly 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
