28-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengali writer Anish Dev no more||Popular Bengali writer Anish Dev died at a city hospital on Wednesday after being infected with COVID-19, family sources said. Dev, who was on ventilation, died at the age of 70, they said. He is survived by his wife and daughter. The writer was admitted to a private hospital after suffering cardiac arrest at home a few days back and was later diagnosed with COVID-19 infection. Dev, who was on ventilation, died at around 7:10 am. Born in 1951 in the metropolis Deb started writing at the age of 18. His prominent works include futuristic thriller Teish Ghanta Shat Minute, Saper Chokh, Jibon Jakhon Phuraye Jay, Hate Kalome Computer, Bignyaner Dashdiganto among others. Deb was also known for transliteration of world science fiction into Bengali language and popularised science. He got the Vidyasagar Puraskar instituted by the West Bengal government in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College principal pens prayer seeking divine intervention to save humanity from Covid-19||Merciful God in heaven, we are facing the most grave danger to our beloved India and to humankind, the latest and very grave pandemic situation caused by the coronavirus. We pray for your kind intervention to be with us and save us. First of all, we pray for your Divine Forgiveness for humankind. In your forgiving love, forgive us all our sins. We are in fear and gloom, we are helpless. Turn our hearts to you. Calm our fear and desperation. Strengthen us and give us hope, show us light and direction. We pray for those afflicted all over the world, specially for those in India, in Bengal, in Calcutta. Heal them all Loving and Merciful God. Please protect the others. Help each of us to be responsible to  use masks and sanitisers, maintain needed distance, follow other directions and thus avoid community transmission all over. Loving God, give wisdom and guidance to the scientists doing research that they may soon develop many more effective vaccines and medicines to combat the sickness speedily and properly. Let these be easily available at an affordable price for all to use. We pray to you to save the lives of those in grave danger. Please help to ease the acute shortage of oxygen, beds, medicines and other essential materials. Bless and give courage, protection and comfort to all those directly helping and battling in this field all over the world, specially in India and in Calcutta, very specially the doctors, nurses,  medical workers and those working along with them in various responsibilities, doing their best to save us by risking their own lives. Bless and protect their families. Also bless and protect the civic and others workers and those working in crematoriums, burial grounds and the likes. Bless and protect their family members. Also bless and protect the government personnel, civic and all other workers and those associated with them, the police and administration, those running the transport, those in sale and distribution of various goods and materials and those in essential services and the likes. Also bless and protect the poor, helpless, those without food, money and shelter, those who have lost their jobs. Those Indians who are abroad, help them to be safe there and have needed food, shelter and medicine. Bless all the leaders of our country, all the government heads and administrations all over India. Guide them with your wisdom and hope so as to lead, protect and save the people of India. Bless and protect and guide each one of us Indians, especially those of us in Bengal, in Calcutta, to be responsible to do our part sincerely and properly for the good of all. Loving and Merciful God be with us all, at all times during this crisis and guide, protect and save us all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: St Xavier’s College defers online semester exams||St Xavier’s College has deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are struggling “to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, issued a notice announcing the deferment. The exams were to begin from early May. The notice said: “Given… the number of students being affected directly or indirectly, and the difficulty of many students to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations, it has been decided to defer all examinations temporarily. The dates for the examinations will be announced keeping in mind the developing situation.” The revised exam timetables will be published ensuring that the students get at least 15 days’ notice. Explaining the difficulties the students are encountering, Father Savio said several teachers had tested positive for Covid-19 and online classes could not be held according to schedule, which made it difficult to complete the syllabus on time. “In many cases, the parents or the family members of the students are down with Covid-19. Students themselves are testing positive. This has created a situation where the students are not being able to concentrate on their studies. They are under a lot of stress and appealed to college authorities for deferring the exams till the situation stabilises,” he said. According to the exam calendar uploaded on the college’s website, BCom sixth semester exams were supposed to start on May 3, BCom fourth semester exams on May 7, and arts and science sixth semester exams on May 8. An official of the college said there was widespread apprehension that the situation could be worse in May and they thought “it would be prudent to defer the exams during the month”. “More cases could mean greater health emergencies at home both for the teachers and the students. This could keep them more preoccupied with health hazards and cause further strain. Asking a student to attend examination in such a scenario would amount to being inhuman,” he said. Earlier, the college had said its offices would run with 30 per cent staff because of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Support staff members who use public transport had been asked to go to the college only when required. St Xavier’s University in New Town has postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) that was to be held on April 25. The computer-based tests were to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta. During the pandemic, it is usually on-campus exams that have been cancelled. Nicco Park to shut down from Tuesday The Nicco Park authorities have decided to shut down the amusement park in Salt Lake from Tuesday because of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, a park official said. The park will be shut at least till May 7, the official said. A large part of the park’s workforce, including ushers, ride operators and security personnel, depend on public transport to travel. The park still had some visitors and it did not want to be seen as a spreader, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City police track social media posts that promise easy medicines||The city police are tracking social media posts that promise easy medicines that are used to treat Covid-19 but are at times said to be unavailable in the market. A police officer said it was obvious that drugs that mandatorily need prescriptions for sale cannot be procured through online chats. “Such posts could only mean that either the person is in illegal possession of the drugs, which are prohibited to be sold over the counter, or it is a trap to cheat the buyer,” the officer said. Several numbers that have been in circulation from purported do-gooders have been found switched off all along, an officer in the police’s enforcement branch said. “Blackmarketeers choose buyers and get back to the really interested parties.” The enforcement branch had on Monday arrested an employee of a pharmacy in Chowringhee who was allegedly caught with a vial of remdesivir that he had plotted to sell for Rs 21,000, almost five times the actual cost of the full dose of the medicine comprising six vials. The police said on Monday they had come across the alleged involvement of a 23-year-old homemaker, Nidhi Goel, who was to collect the vial for a family that had approached the police against her for cheating. “The complainant family had come across this woman through social media. There are many phone numbers in circulation. People are being asked to call the numbers for medicines that are otherwise not meant for sale to customers directly,” said an officer. According to a government directive, remdesivir is not meant for sale directly to customers with or without prescriptions. Only hospitals can procure it directly from distributors and vendors. However, several hospitals have reported a shortage of the medicine, which seems to have prompted families of many Covid patients to look out for ways to procure it at a premium. “We have learnt about one or two cases where we have specific information that the families have spent twice or thrice the marked price to procure remdesivir,” the officer said. The arrested pharmacy employee, Biswajit Das, has been remanded in police custody. Goel will be examined again, the police said. Chief justice of Calcutta HC will retire on April 29 Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan, the chief justice of Calcutta High Court, will retire on April 29. Justice Rajesh Bindal will take over as acting chief justice, according to a notification issued by the Union law and justice ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Auto driver killed in road accident at Burrabazar||An auto driver died in a road accident in Burrabazar early on Tuesday morning when his autorickshaw collided with a private car on the MG Road and Kalakar Street crossing. Police said the incident happened close to 1am on Tuesday. The autorickshaw was empty except the driver, who was returning home. The driver identified as Gautam Manna, 54, of Joy Narayan Chandra Lane was taken to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital with multiple injuries where he was declared dead. Officers of Burrabazar police station seized the private car and arrested the driver under charges of causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief. Officers of the traffic department said the crossing where the accident took place usually remains congested during the day but was deserted early on Tuesday morning. “It is apparent that both the vehicles were moving at a high speed,” said an officer. Police officers said the majority of the motorists end up speeding on empty stretches and often fail to control the speed when a vehicle suddenly appears in front of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Several city schools do away with usual prize-day certificates||Several city schools are doing away with the usual prize-day certificates — given at the end of the year —  mostly on academic excellence. Instead they have decided to reward the students for sustained efforts, conduct during the online class, organising fests online or also how they overcame financial challenges at home to be able to attend classes. This has been an unusual year and heads of schools said students cannot be judged by the same parameters like any other year. Some schools have reworked their criteria and done away with ranks. “Prizes that were determined by marks lost significance this year because of the way the exams were structured,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls' School. At Modern High School for Girls, the seniors will be acknowledged for their organisational skills like hosting events or helping teachers with the technological knowhow. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy there are no “proficiency” prizes for the primary section. For the middle and senior students, classroom interaction and being pro-active during an online class have gained prominence. Calcutta Girls’ High School has also decided to do away with proficiency prizes. During the last academic year with a change in platform students have also learnt to do things and one needs to recognize their efforts, a head said. “We had to change the parameters because teaching and learning have been on a different platform...,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Schools that give attendance prizes to children for not just one academic year but several years together have also considered the challenges at home. “There are students who get prizes for attendance. If we noticed that because of the pandemic and a crisis at home they could not attend a particular day we have considered them for a prize,” said  Lakshmipat Singhania Academy director Meena Kak. The pandemic has also thrust difficult times in many homes and some schools felt it was important to recognize the efforts of those children. “It had been a difficult year in some homes where parents have lost jobs or there has been illnesses in families. But despite that some students have strived hard and we will give special prizes to them,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Transplant surgeries: Two men get doctor’s heart, kidney||A 34-year-old man from Tangra, who had undergone a kidney transplant 10 years ago, underwent a second transplant at the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences on Tuesday. A 30-year-old man, a resident of Howrah’s Tikiapara, underwent a heart transplant surgery at the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah. Both the organs were donated by the family of a 64-year-old doctor who had been declared brain dead at another city hospital on Monday. The man from Tangra had undergone the first kidney transplant in 2010 and was doing well with medication. But the first transplanted kidney stopped functioning when the man could not get the necessary medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic last year. “Usually, a transplanted kidney works for a period of nine to 13 years. This man’s transplanted kidney was working well, though there was a slight increase in creatinine levels. But it stopped working when he missed medication for months during the first wave of the pandemic last year. He had been on dialysis for the last few months,” said Deepak Shankar Ray, the head of the nephrology department at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “His condition is now stable. He will be kept under observation for about a week.” Unlike heart and liver transplant where the damaged organs are removed before the new organs are transplanted, damaged kidneys are not removed in a kidney transplant. “The man will now live with four kidneys. Since kidneys are very small in size they do not cause a problem even if they are not removed,” said Ray. The 30-year-old man who underwent a heart transplant was suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy. “It is a situation where the heart muscles weaken leading to enlargement and considerable reduction in the heart’s pumping action. He had recurrent heart failure. He is stable after the surgery but we will observe him closely in the ICU,” said Debasis Das, a cardiothoracic surgery and heart transplant surgeon. The doctor, whose organs were donated, was posted at the East Midnapore District Hospital where he suffered a head injury in an accident on Thursday, said an official of Apollo Gleneagles, where he was brought on Friday. The man’s corneas went to Disha eye hospital and his skin went to SSKM hospital, said an official of Apollo, where the organs were harvested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul Congress hopes to retain Jorasanko ||If there is one seat in Calcutta where the BJP flags and posters match, if not outnumber, those of Trinamul, it is Jorasanko. The seat, which votes in the last leg of the polling on Thursday, comprises around two lakh voters. A sizeable section of them is from the trading community in and around Burrabazar, a segment the BJP considers its vote bank. The BJP’s candidate from the seat is Meena Devi Purohit, the councillor from Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Ward 22 (Burrabazar) for over 20 years. Hoping to dent the traders’ vote bank, Trinamul has fielded Vivek Gupta, a former Rajya Sabha member from the party, editor of Hindi daily Sanmarg and a Marwari himself. Also in the fray is the Congress’s Ajmal Khan, the Sanjukta Morcha candidate. Purohit’s image as a Marwari homemaker who lost her husband in an accident, had worked to her advantage at the start of her political career. Having won Ward 22 so many times, the 60-year-old — who, for five years from 2000, had been deputy mayor in the Subrata Mukherjee-led Trinamul-BJP civic board — now wields a significant clout in Burrabazar. Her ward is still not free of the ills of indiscriminate garbage disposal, illegal parking and encroachments. Yet, Purohit, or Meenaji, as she is known in Burrabazar, retains her pull among the electorate. “She is one of our own. She is accessible, always available on the phone. She has not changed in all these years,” said a 54-year-old trader on Kali Krishna Tagore Street, a few metres from Purohit’s home and election office. On Monday, inside her office, a young man touched her feet for a “favour” Purohit had done him. Minutes later, when this reporter was talking to her, an old lady walked up to her and said something in her ears. This time, Purohit bent low to touch the woman’s feet. The woman blessed her and left. “I have been working for people here for the past 25 years. People who have been pitchforked from outside have to prove their worth,” Purohit told this newspaper. A “permanent solution” to the partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover and special focus on the education of girls will be on her “immediate to-do list” if elected, said Purohit. Jorasanko is part of the Calcutta North constituency, which Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamul won in 2019. But the BJP candidate, Rahul Sinha, led from the Jorasanko Assembly segment. In 2016, Smita Bakshi of Trinamul won Jorasanko, defeating the BJP’s Sinha by around 7,000 votes. Gupta, the Trinamul candidate in 2021, sounded upbeat. “I challenge Purohit to list five achievements as a long-standing councillor,” he said. Gupta said a solution to the traffic mess, employment generation for local youth within the trading hub of Burrabazar and development of Jorasanko — the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore — as a tourism hub would be his priorities if he won. Asked if it was an acknowledgement that his party was unable to do these things despite remaining in power for 10 years, he said: “The Lok Sabha vote was a wake-up call for us.” Gupta is hopeful of winning a large section of the vote share of the business community. “I am a businessman. I have been getting positive feelers from the clan,” he said. Muslim voters — in the Zakaria Street, Colootola Street, Mechhua and neighbouring areas — make up over 20 per cent of the electorate in Jorasanko. Trinamul poll managers are banking on that, alongside a chunk of votes of the old north Calcutta Bengalis. “If Gupta manages to dent the Marwari vote, we will win Jorasanko again,” said a local Trinamul leader. Ajmal Khan, the Congress candidate, said the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin and people would vote for a change this time. “One party speaks for 70 per cent (of the population), another speaks for 30 per cent. But we speak for 100 per cent,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town residents step forward to help senior citizens get registered on CoWin portal||People from different walks of life have stepped forward and responded to the New Town authorities' call to help senior citizens and those above 45 get registered on the CoWin portal so they can get the Covid shot. A group of 14 volunteers is helping potential recipients, especially seniors living alone in New Town, get registered on the portal. The motley group of volunteers includes a lawyer, schoolteachers and techies. The volunteers have already registered more than 200 people from New Town as well as places like Durgapur and Burdwan, said Samaresh Das, the chairman of the New Town News and Forum (NTFN), a residents' group. Arnab Banerji, a lawyer, said he responded to the call from the New Town authorities because "these are unprecedented times and he could not stand on the sidelines doing nothing". He said he was keeping the CoWin portal open on a window of his laptop’s internet browser while working on his cases. “Whenever someone calls me for registration, I tell the person to WhatsApp me an image of his or her identity document. I enter the details on the portal and get the person registered,” said Banerji, a resident of New Town's AA Block. He has been getting more than a dozen calls daily. Sucharita Das, a resident of DA Block who teaches at a government school, said her household chores had more than doubled because the family did not have any help but she still found time to help people register for the jab. “A lot of senior citizens want to get innoculated but are not being able to because they are not comfortable doing things online,” said Sucharita, who stays with her husband, two children and in-laws. “We have to help people in whatever way we can. This is a very small way in which we can pitch in to help everyone during these trying times.” Mitali Das, an accounting consultant, said she had seen first-hand how seniors faced problems while registering on the portal. “One of our neighbours, a senior citizen, had approached me to get herself and her husband registered,” said Mitali, who is juggling household chores and office work to help people get registered. On Sunday, the volunteers had organised a camp near Kolkata Gate to help people register on the portal. But the volunteers have decided to work online to avoid gathering as a precaution against Covid. The volunteers have also created a flyer containing their numbers and posted it on social networking sites, including Facebook. NTFN chairman Das said the flyer had gained a lot of traction and they were getting calls from abroad from sons and daughters of elderly residents of the township. “I get calls till late at night from the US, UK and other countries. They seek our help to get their parents and relatives registered.We are helping all irrespective of whether the person we are registering is a resident of New Town or not,” said Das. While one set of volunteers is working to help people register on the portal, at least six others are working to source oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients. Debashis Sen, the chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority, lauded the citizens' initiative and said it was heartening to see residents of the township respond to their call for help. The NKDA has restarted its Covid-19 helpline. Residents can call 1800 103 7652 to know the rules of home isolation and to find out about vaccine centres, testing units and the NKDA-run safe house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||State government wants to procure Covid vaccines for private hospitals ||The state government wants to procure Covid vaccines for private hospitals for the time being as several such units have expressed the fear that supply would suffer if they were to deal with the manufacturers directly as told by the Centre. At a meeting with the state government on Tuesday, officials of several private hospitals said they had approached the vaccine manufacturers for clarity on how and when to place orders, but there was not much response. The officials told government representatives that they were not sure whether the manufacturers could supply doses to all private hospitals separately. The government told the hospitals that it would write to the Centre to know whether it can procure vaccines for private hospitals, said an official of a hospital who attended the meeting. The Centre has announced that all private hospitals have to procure vaccines on their own from May 1, the day everyone above 18 becomes eligible for Covid jabs. In Bengal, however, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said people above 18 will be given the shots from May 5. Private hospitals are getting dozens of calls every day from people above 18 who want to book slots for vacci-nations, but the hospitals are not being able to give them any assurance. “We have started approaching the manufacturers but we are not getting much response. We had a meeting with senior state government officials today. The government is writing to the Centre to know if it can... procure Covid vaccines on behalf of private healthcare facilities. But it will take a few more days for more clarity to emerge,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “We, the private hospitals, can then procure the vaccines from the state government.” A health department official said the government agreed to step in to ensure that those who had received the first dose did not miss the second. “About one lakh first doses have been administered in hospitals in the metropolitan Calcutta. We will stand by private hospitals and the recipients so that the second doses can be administered in time. We will also mediate about procurement of vaccines for private hospitals from May as well as calibrate and channelise doses to hospitals,” said the official. At the meeting, officials of private hospitals told the government that they would fail to administer the scheduled second doses if supply suffered from May. A private hospital official said the vaccine manufacturers would give more im-portance to a state government’s request for doses than requests from individual hospitals. “Officials representing the government asked for an estimated number of doses that private hospitals across the state will need. We said we would require about 1 crore doses. That is likely to see us through a couple of months. We are hoping that things will settle down by then and manufacturers will be in a position to supply us without fail,” the official said. Earlier on Monday, the health department had officially communicated to all private hospitals that they would have to procure vaccines from manufacturers directly from May. But after the hospitals expressed their doubts about procuring vaccines on their own, government officials agreed to intervene. “We are hoping the state will get a reply from the Centre in two to three days. We are waiting to see what the Centre says,” said an official of a private hospital. According to an order from the Centre, the current arrangement of the state government supplying vaccine doses to private hospitals will end on April 30. Private hospitals now pay Rs 150 a vial. Each vial contains 10 doses. From May 1, the private hospitals have to shell out more. The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has announced that private hospitals have to pay Rs 600 for each dose. Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, has priced its vaccine at Rs 1,200 a dose for private hospitals. All Covid vaccination centres are anticipating an increase in rush of recipients from May as the number of eligible beneficiaries will increase manifold. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal crossed the 1-lakh mark on Tuesday and touched 1,00,615. The state recorded 16,403 new infections, 73 deaths and 10,664 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
28-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur teacher verbally abuses students and parents||An IIT Kharagpur teacher has been allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. The students’ senate, which represents all students on the IIT campus, has written to director V.K. Tewari and requested him to look into the complaint that SC, ST and OBC students are being verbally abused by an associate professor of the humanities and social science department. Tamal Nath, the registrar of the institute, said: “We received a complaint from the students on Monday. The complaint is being looked into. If it is true, we will not support such behaviour.” Some of the students said the teacher played the national anthem during the start of every class and expected the students to stand up. Asked if there is any practice of IIT Kharagpur teachers playing the national anthem in class, Nath said: ’’I am not aware about that.” Repeated calls to the teacher went unanswered. The teacher did not respond to text messages either. The teacher is said to have abused the students during a class on preparatory English, which caters to the students from reserved categories. In the purported video, a rant could be heard: “This is the minimum you can do for your country. Listen to me…. I have 20 marks for you, I will give zero to everybody. All 128. Do you want that? Tell me. Do you want that? (‘No, ma’am’, says a student in a meek voice). Shameless people. You have to only stand up for two minutes in honour of the national anthem and you cannot do it. And one bloody b******. You know, this is also on your parents. Be it like that. I am calling your parents that. Do you have any shame? Shameless creature of prep course. One smart fellow. (He) did not stand up for the national anthem and said ‘Bharat Maata ki’. Are you in school now? Bloody B******. “When will you learn sense you idiotic people, prep course? I gave you one-week time. Have you caught up with my reputation? You don’t know who I am. Right? Okay. I will tell you who I am. Let’s start. Have you all settled down?” Some of the students attributed the rant to the teacher. One of the students in the class posted a video of the abusive behaviour on a Facebook page of IIT students. It was shared multiple times. The students’ senate and the dean of students’ affairs were tagged in the video. The “prep course” the teacher was referring to is a course that the IITs across the country run to arm students from reserved categories and the people-with-disability (PWD) category so that they can study the BTech course. Proficiency in English language is part of the skills that these students should be equipped with. Students belonging to these categories who clear the cut-off of the JEE Advanced but fail to secure admission can register for this course to seek admission a year later after clearing a test. A member of the students’ senate said the teacher routinely played the national anthem in the class. “The teacher did the same during offline classes as well. During online classes, the teacher either attaches a pen drive to the personal computer to play the anthem or downloads it from YouTube and plays it. The teacher wants everybody to stand as it happens in the theatre. The language suggests how intolerant and sinister the teacher is towards the students,” said a student. Promoting “nationalistic fervour” among students of the oldest IIT has been a priority since May 2018. The institute had in May 2018 issued a circular saying: “Our sole aim is to promote development of science and technology and nationalistic fervour among students.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Pre-poll drive: Unaccounted cash of around Rs 1.45 crore seized from eight persons in central Calcutta||Allegedly unaccounted for cash totalling around Rs 1.45 crore was seized from eight persons at different locations in central Calcutta on Tuesday, 48 hours before the pockets are to go to the polls. Police said the eight persons had been detained as they could not produce documents for the money they were carrying or explain the source and purpose of the cash. The spots where the money was seized are in the Chowringhee and Jorasanko Assembly constituencies, which will vote in the last phase of the Assembly elections on April 29. The police said a total of Rs 75 lakh was seized from five persons in the Muchipara, Jorasanko and Burrabazar areas. “Four of the five persons were carrying the money in bags. The fifth had kept the currency notes hidden in undergarment. They were intercepted during pre-election drives and checkings on roads,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. Another police team intercepted a man and seized Rs 40 lakh from him in Posta. Another Rs 30 lakh was seized from two persons at the Moulali crossing. “In none of the cases, the accused could give a satisfactory reply on the source and destination of the cash. We have alerted the income tax department,” said an officer at Lalbazar. According to the election rules, anyone carrying Rs 50,000 or more should be in a position to explain with documents the source and destination of the money to the police and the income tax department. If the person fails to give any satisfactory explanation, the money is seized and handed over to the income tax department, which will start a probe in the matter. “If someone comes to claim the money with documents, he or she has to pay income tax on the seized cash and then claim the remaining amount,” said an IT official. A senior police officer said the amount seized on Tuesday was the highest in the run up to the elections. In none of the cases, the police said, it was possible to ascertain which politician or political party was going to benefit from the cash. “In almost all cases, hawala operators or people who are not known or related to the source or destination of the money are engaged to transport the cash. That ensures that if couriers are caught, the real culprits will remain behind the scene,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
28-04-2021||Business||Sensex soars 790 points to close well above 49,000||Extending its gains for the third straight session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 790 points on Wednesday, led by gains in financial stocks amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 789.70 points or 1.61 per cent higher at 49,733.84. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 211.50 points or 1.44 per cent to 14,864.55. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 8 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HCL Tech, L&T, Dr Reddy's and TCS were among the laggards. "Superior Q4 results and vaccine optimism buoyed domestic markets to trade on a positive footing for the third consecutive day ahead of the US Federal Reserve interest rate decision, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Strong buying interest was seen in banking and auto stocks with enhanced business prospects which is likely to be maintained, he added. Further, short covering ahead of derivatives expiry also contributed recent rally, analysts said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent higher at USD 65.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys. The 30-share BSE index was trading 351.06 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 49,295.20. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 95.30 points or 0.65 per cent to 14,748.35. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, SBI, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Bharti Airtel, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Reliance Industries and Maruti were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 557.63 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 48,944.14, and Nifty surged 168.05 points or 1.16 per cent to 14,653.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,454.75 crore on Tuesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought shares worth Rs 1,463.44 crore, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are some consistent trends in the market now. "One, despite the bad news on the COVID front, the market has been maintaining the upside momentum. Two, FIIs have been consistent sellers (above Rs 10,000 crore in April, so far) and DIIs have been consistent buyers. These trends are likely to continue in the short run and markets are likely to remain strong," he said. It appears that markets are looking into the post-second wave scenario which is likely to emerge in May, he noted, adding that global support to markets continues with positive economic data from the US. The FOMC comment expected later in the day is likely to reaffirm the US Fed's accommodative stance, imparting further resilience to markets. Meanwhile, Q4 results continue to be good. Axis Bank's numbers confirm the trend of leading private sector banks growing their market share. Early bird midcap results are much better than expected. Midcaps are likely to outperform in the coming days," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Bourses on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 65.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business|| Maruti Suzuki reports a 9.7 per cent fall in standalone net profit||Maruti Suzuki, the country’s largest car maker, shocked the Street on Tuesday by reporting a 9.7 per cent fall in standalone net profit at Rs 1,166 crore in the fourth quarter (January-March), belying a market’s consensus estimate of Rs 1,699 crore. The unexpected fall after two strong quarters in a Covid-battered year was blamed on a surge in commodity prices and lower non-operating income as a result of mark-to-market losses on surplus investments. Other income tumbled by almost 90 per cent to Rs 89.8 crore. The auto maker had reported a net profit of Rs 1291.7 crore in the year-ago quarter. Revenues from operations rose by 32 per cent to Rs 24,023.7 crore from Rs 18,198.7 crore. On a sequential quarter basis, it was up 2.4 per cent from Rs 23,457.8 crore. On a consolidated basis, the net profit dipped 6.1 per cent to Rs 1,241.1 crore. “With this second Covid wave, the demand for personal transport will, if anything, strengthen, not weaken. More and more people will want to have their personal transport,” Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava told reporters. He said the company was keeping a close watch on the impact of rising steel prices and government orders limiting the use of oxygen by industries which had made it difficult for the auto maker to provide a sales outlook for the current fiscal. But he was quick to add that he expected to see growth this year. Maruti has also been badly hit by the shortage of semiconductor chips which has forced car makers to slash production. Bhargava said he expected the crisis to continue for some time but refused to amplify. Maruti Suzuki sold 492,235 vehicles in the March quarter, up 28 per cent year on year. “Sales in the domestic market stood at 456,707 units, growing by 26.7 per cent. Exports were at 35,528 units, higher by 44.4 per cent. It may be recalled that in Q4 of FY20, there was a significant decline in the sales volume largely owing to Covid-19 lockdown,” the company said. For the full year, the carmaker reported sales of 1,457,861 units, lower by 6.7 per cent compared with the previous year. In FY21, the sales in the domestic market stood at 1,361,722 units, down 6.8 per cent while exports were at 96,139 units, down 5.9 per cent year on year. Full-year revenues declined 7.2 per cent on year to Rs 66,562.1 crore, while net profit declined by 25.1 per cent to Rs 4,229.7 crore due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||Axis Bank posts a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,960.4 crore for March quarter||Axis Bank on Tuesday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,960.4 crore for the March quarter against a loss of Rs 1,250 crore in the year-ago period, and warned of an immediate business impact because of the second wave of Covid. The bank’s standalone net profit came at Rs 2,677 crore for the reporting quarter. Total income stood at Rs 20,213.46 crore against Rs 20,219.57 crore a year ago. Provisions for bad loans and contingencies declined significantly to Rs 3,294,98 crore compared with Rs 7,730.02 crore same quarter in the previous financial year. During the quarter, the net interest income (NII) grew by 11 per cent to Rs 7,555 crore from Rs 6,808 crore. Bajaj Finance Bajaj Finance on Tuesday reported a 42 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,347 crore for the March quarter of 2020-21. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 948 crore in the January-March period of  2019-20. The consolidated figures include results of wholly-owned subsidiaries Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd (BHFL) and Bajaj Financial Securities Ltd (BFinsec).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||RBI tenure cap to affect more bank chiefs||Uday Kotak may not be the only private bank chief who will be forced to step down when his current tenure ends in December 2023. There are question marks over Vishwavir Ahuja, who leads RBL Bank, Shyam Srinivasan of Federal Bank and Murali Natarajan at DCB Bank —  all of whom will complete more than 12 years in office at the end of their current terms in June, September and April next year, respectively. The key question here is will they get another extension. Brokerages are also awaiting clarity with regard to Bandhan Bank and AU Small Finance Bank on whether the RBI would consider their CEO’s timeline after the entities converted into a bank or SFB or before that period. On Monday, the RBI put out directions with regard to appointment of directors and committees of the board in private sector banks, small finance banks (SFBs) and foreign banks who are wholly owned subsidiaries. A key instruction was that the post of the managing director & CEO or whole time director cannot be held by the same incumbent for more than 15 years. Observers feel Uday Kotak, the promoter and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, will be forced in December 2023 as he has completed more than 15 years at the lender. “The limit on the MD & CEO tenure has come as a negative development for Kotak Bank. We remain watchful of the continuity of some other mid-sized private bank CEOs such as RBL Bank, Federal Bank, and DCB Bank – their current MDs/CEOs have completed 10–12 year tenures and are thus eligible for an extension. The RBI recently granted a year-long extension to the CEO of DCB Bank,’’ analysts at Motilal Oswal said. N.Kamakodi, MD & CEO of City Union Bank, may continue up to May 2026, the brokerage said. Analysts at Axis Securities said that the upper limit of 15 years for MD & CEOs could result in fast-tracking the succession planning in banks like DCB Bank, Federal Bank, and RBL Bank. The RBI also said that the MD & CEO or WTD, who is also a promoter or major shareholder, cannot hold these posts for more than 12 years. However, in extraordinary circumstances, they may be allowed to continue up to 15 years at the sole discretion of the RBI. According to the banking regulator, while examining the matter of re-appointment of such MD & CEOs or WTDs within the 12 or 15 years period, the level of progress and adherence to the milestones for dilution of promoters’ shareholding in the bank will also be factored. While these directions will come into effect from October 1, 2021, the RBI said that banks with MD & CEOs or WTDs who have already completed 12 or 15 years they shall be allowed to complete their current term if it is already approved by the Reserve Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power to divest entire equity interest in Jindal Power to Worldone||Jindal Steel and Power (JSPL) on Tuesday said its board has approved the divestment of its entire equity interest in Jindal Power to Worldone, a promoter group company, for Rs 3,015 crore as part of its strategic plan to pare debt, reduce emissions and focus on its domestic steel business and significantly reduce its carbon footprint by almost half. The JSPL stock touched a 52-week high of Rs 455.95, rising 3 per cent in the morning trade on April 27 after it divested its majority stake in a subsidiary. “The equity value is an all-cash offer of Rs 3,015 crore for 96.42 per cent stake in JPL, including 3,400 MW Coal fired power plants in Chhattisgarh and other non-core assets owned by JPL,” the company said in a release. V.R. Sharma, MD of JSPL said, “This divestment is in line with our objectives to be amongst the top 10 lowest Co2 emitting steel companies of the world. “It is also a step towards our vision to reduce debt substantially and create a robust balance sheet for our investors and stakeholders. JSPL will now focus on undertaking expansion of its Angul steel plan to significantly reduce the JSPL carbon footprint by almost 50 per cent.” JSPL said Worldone was selected by way of an elaborate bidding process run by an independent third-party merchant banker, Grant Thornton Advisory, wherein the acquirer submitted the highest binding bid on acceptable terms and conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji group says SC verdict dilutes corporate governance standards||The Shapoorji Pallonji group has said that the Supreme Court verdict handed down on March 26, which snuffed out Cyrus Mistry’s challenge against what he termed as an unfair dismissal as Tata group chairman in October 2016, dilutes corporate governance standards in the country guaranteed under the Companies Act 2013 and will leave minority shareholders “remediless” against the force of brute majority in boardrooms. Last Sunday, the SP Group had filed a review petition in the apex court challenging parts of the judgment. The apex court had set aside the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order issued in December 2019 that ordered Tata Sons to reinstate Mistry as its chairman. The bench, headed by the recently retired Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, said Mistry’s removal as executive chairman of Tata Group was justified as “a person who tries to set his own house on fire for not getting what he perceives as legitimately due to him, does not deserve to continue as part of any decision making body”. The court also spiked an SP Group plea seeking alternative relief through its formal proposal for separation from Tata Sons by offering to exchange its 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons — the holding company of the $106 billion group —  for shares in the operational entities. The Mistry camp had valued the stake at Rs 1.78 trillion. In its review petition, the SP Group said the new Companies Act 2013 was legislated with the intent of furthering corporate governance and that its intention was to align with the best practices globally by offering protection to all stakeholders, particularly minority shareholders, against prejudicial and oppressive conduct by majoritarian shareholders. Pointing out that the Supreme Court is the final forum for interpretation of the statute, the SP Group said some of the observations in the March judgment erode the standards of governance expected under the Companies Act 2013. The SP group claimed that the judgment voices diametrically opposite viewpoints: at one point it says that the removal of a director “can never be oppressive or prejudicial”. It then goes on to assert that where the removal is oppressive, relief can be granted. The group also said the judgment makes the error of treating the “application of company law as a variable based on identity of the shareholder of the company”. The Court said the two parties could resolve their dispute under Article 75 of Tata Sons’ articles of association. Under Article 75, the 28 equity shareholders of Tata Sons only have to pass a special resolution directing the two Shapoorji Pallonji group entities — Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd and Sterling Investment Corporate Pvt Ltd — to transfer the shares they hold to any of its existing members. According to the SP Group, the court erroneously held that Article 75 was an exit option available to the minority shareholder. “This finding is contrary not only to the text of the Article but also to Tata Sons’ own stand in these proceedings. The Court erred in not recognising that the jurisdiction in which the court considered the matter was one aimed at resolving the matters complained of,” the Mistry family said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||RBI approval mandatory for commercial and urban cooperative banks to appoint auditors||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday  made it mandatory for commercial banks and urban cooperative banks (UCBs) to seek its approval before appointing auditors. The banking regulator also ruled that the auditors will have to be appointed for a continuous period of three years with a maximum assignment tenure of six years. More importantly, entities with an asset size in excess of Rs 15,000 crore at the end of the previous year will have to appoint at least two auditors who will have to conduct a joint audit. The joint auditors should not have common partners and cannot belong to the same network of audit firms. The new guidelines for the appointment of statutory central auditors (SCAs) and statutory auditors (SAs) of banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including housing finance companies, have been framed at a time when banks have started to recognise fresh bad loans and make appropriate provisions in their books. The Supreme Court had recently lifted a freeze on bad loan recognition that had been imposed last September until the apex court delivered a ruling on a batch of petitions from small businesses and real estate developers seeking an extension of the debt moratorium that the RBI had granted for a period of six months till August 30 last year. The new auditor guidelines will be applicable for 2021-22 and onwards. However, banks have been granted some leeway with the RBI granting them the flexibility to adopt the new guidelines from the second half of this fiscal “in order to ensure that there is no disruption”. It was not immediately clear how many banks would have to scramble to change their auditors in the middle of the fiscal because of the six year cap on audit assignments. The regulator said that NBFCs with assets of less than Rs 1,000 crore can continue with the current guidelines. One audit firm will be permitted to concurrently audit a maximum of four commercial banks (including not more than one PSU bank or one all India financial institution like Nabard, Sidbi, National Housing Bank or the Export Import Bank), eight urban cooperative banks and eight NBFCs in a financial year. Audit firms will be allowed to provide non-audit services to banks, including actuarial services, investment advisory and take up special assignments from banks. But there will have to be a time gap of at least one year between a non-audit assignment and the firm’s appointment as a statutory auditor of a bank. The auditor guidelines come just a day after the RBI tightened corporate governance standards for the banking industry and set a 15-year cap on the tenure of a chief executive of a private bank. In its statement on developmental and regulatory policies that was issued as part of the monetary policy statement on December 4 last year, the RBI had said it would come out with guidelines on appointment of statutory auditors. The NBFCs will not have to seek prior approval from the RBI while appointing an auditor but will have to inform the central bank through an annual certificate. The norms said that entities with an asset size of below Rs 15,000 crore will have to appoint only one statutory auditor. At the same time, it set thresholds for the appointment of the maximum number of auditors at a bank. If the asset size of the regulated entity is Rs 5 lakh crore, it can have a maximum of four SCA/SAs. This will go up to six if the asset size is between Rs 5,00,000 crore and up to Rs 10,00,000 crore, eight if it is above Rs 10,00,000 crore and up to Rs 20,00,000 crore, and 12 if it is above Rs 20,00,000 crore. In the case of commercial banks (excluding regional rural banks) and NBFCs, the audit committee of the board (ACB) or the local management committee (LMC) will  monitor and assess the independence of the auditors and conflict of interest position, in terms of relevant regulatory provisions, standards and best practices. The RBI said that any concerns in this regard may be flagged by the ACB or LMC to the board of the commercial bank and concerned senior supervisory manager or regional office of the central bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||India||Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla to get Y category security, says Centre||Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla has been accorded 'Y' category security across India by the CRPF in view of "potential threats" to the businessman, involved in the production of one of the Covid-19 vaccines in India, the Union government officials said on Wednesday. The Central government decision came after Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), Prakash Kumar Singh had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on April 16 requesting security for Poonawalla. According to officials, the protection has been given in view of "potential threats" to Poonawalla. Armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will be with him every time he travels to any part of the country, they said and added that the 'Y' security cover will entail a posse of about 4-5 armed commandos with him. Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines used in India's Covid-19 vaccination programme, is being manufactured by SII. The other vaccine being used in the country is Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. In this letter, Singh had stated that Poonawalla has been getting threats from various groups regarding the Covid-19 vaccine supplies. In this letter, Singh also said, "we are working shoulder to shoulder to fight against Covid-19 pandemic with the Government of India under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji." Earlier in the day, Serum Institute announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400. This followed widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it had sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. "As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," Poonawalla said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Karnataka minister draws flak after asking farmer to 'die' for asking for rice||Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti on Wednesday drew flak from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and opposition parties for reportedly asking a farmer to die when he requested enhanced supply of rice through the Public Distribution System. Katti later withdrew his statement, tendered an apology and said he never wanted anyone to die and that everyone should prosper. Ishwar, the farmer activist from Gadag in North Karnataka, rang up Katti on Wednesday and asked him how he expected people to survive on just two kg of rice a month when the lockdown has rendered thousands jobless. To Ishwar's query, the minister replied that the Centre would be giving five kg foodgrains in May and June in view of the lockdown. This did not satisfy the farmer, who then sought to know whether people should fast till that period or die. "It's better to die. It's better that you stop the business of selling rice. Don't ring me again," Katti said. The government had decided to give two kg of rice and three kg of ragi through PDS in South Karnataka,and two kg of rice and three kg of either maize or wheat in North Karnataka. The minister later clarified that he never meant anyone should die and that all 6.5 crore people in Karnataka should prosper and survive. He said the entire quota of food grains under the PDS for April, alloted by the Centre, had already been distributed. "What can I do if someone makes such a statement? We are giving the Central quota from May 1 to May 10. No one should die and no one should ask such questions." The Chief Minister's Office, in a statement, quoted Yediyurappa as saying that he disapproved of the remarks and that it does not behove a minister to tell a farmer to die when the latter demanded five kg of rice. "Arrangements are being made to give five kg of rice to the people in the area who do not need wheat," he said. Congress state chief D K Shivakumar slammed Katti's remarks and demanded that the government remove him from his post. "BJP Minister Umesh Katti has abused a citizen & asked him to 'go die' just because he asked him why Karnataka Govt has cut Rice under PDS to just 2 kgs! "CM @BSYBJP (Yediyurappa) must immediately throw him out of the cabinet for this most insensitive statement. Does this Govt have any shame?" Shivakumar tweeted. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too lambasted Katti for his statement. "The Food and Civil Supplies Minister, who is supposed to come to the aid of the starving people in this COVID-19 pandemic, has displayed his mental distortion," he tweeted. He said it was 'inhumane' on the part of the Minister to make such a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Nearly 80 lakh register on CoWIN ahead of mass vaccination drive, says official||Nearly 80 lakh people registered for Covid-19 vaccination on the government's CoWIN portal on Wednesday, as the Centre opened up the process for the upcoming mass vaccination drive, where everyone above 18 years of age can get inoculated, a government official said. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma in a tweet said there have been 79,65,720 registrations on Co-WIN on the day. “There have been 79,65,720 registrations on Co-WIN today, most of these in the last three hours (16:00-19:00) and mostly of 18-44 age group. We have seen a traffic of 55,000 hits per second. System functioning as expected,” he wrote. A tweet from the handle of the Aarogya Setu app said more than 35 lakh people had registered in the first hour. “More than 35 lakhs people registered in the first hour after launch of 18 plus registration on http://cowin.gov.in. Appointments for 18-44 will be available when State Govts and Private Vaccination Centers schedule sessions.” However, as  registration opened up, many people took to social media to complain about the technical problems they faced trying to register themselves for the third phase of the inoculation drive that is scheduled to begin from May 1. Some of them complained that the portal was not responding while others complained that it had crashed. At 4.35 pm, a tweet from Aarogya Setu said the CoWIN portal is working and that there was a minor glitch at 4 pm, which was fixed. "Cowin portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4 pm that was fixed. 18 plus can register," it said. At 4.54 pm, a tweet from the same handle stated: "Vaccination appointments for 18 plus will be possible once the state governments and private vaccination centres schedule vaccination sessions. Registration is happening on cowin.gov.in." Registration for the newly-eligible category for Covid-19 vaccination is possible through the CoWIN platform and the Aarogya Setu app. After registration, taking an appointment to get a Covid-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 44 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, officials had said. Those above 45 years of age can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they had said. As India witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow all citizens above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on the CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official had said. The inoculation process and the documents to be provided to get the jab remain the same. "Registration of citizens in the 18-44 age group will start with only online registration on CoWIN from April 28 onwards," the health ministry had said. Also, from May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus vaccines and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for the citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre. While those aged 18 to 44 years will be eligible to receive vaccination on payment from any of the private Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), they shall also be eligible to receive a jab from a government CVC in a state or a Union Territory that decides to lower the minimum cut-off age for eligibility. As provided in the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy document, all priority groups such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens aged 45 years and above shall continue to be eligible for vaccination for free from government CVCs and on payment from private CVCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||UP man tweets on oxygen SOS, booked under Epidemic Act||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked a man here under the Epidemic Act, accusing him of creating fear among the people after he went on Twitter asking for an oxygen cylinder for his 88-year-old relative. "Need oxygen cylinder, ASAP," Shashank Yadav had tweeted on Monday, and tagged Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. On Tuesday, Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani tweeted in response, "Called Shashank thrice...no response on the number shared by you in your tweet." She also said she had alerted the District Magistrate and Amethi Police to find the person and help him. When asked about the matter, Superintendent of Police Dinesh Singh said on Wednesday Yadav had tweeted for a distant relative. "When he was called, he did not pick up. We thought he might be in some problem and therefore he was not picking up the phone. So we used surveillance and tracked his location and reached his house, where he was found sleeping," Singh said. "Shashank's motive was to create sensation and fear," he added. The Amethi Police tweeted on Tuesday, "Neither the patient had Covid-19 infection nor did he require oxygen. He died due to cardiac arrest at 8 pm Monday. Making such tweets are not only condemnable but also an offence." In his tweet, Yadav also had not said that his relative was Covid-19 positive. An FIR was lodged against Yadav under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, and he was served a notice under section 41 of the CrPC (requiring appearance before police to prevent the person from committing any further offence), the SP said. Yadav was taken to a police station for questioning, but was later let off, he said. Chief Medical Officer, Ashutosh Dubey said Yadav's relative was not Covid-19 positive and was receiving treatment under a private doctor. The patient was also not taken to the nearby community health centre and did not die due to lack of oxygen, he added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently said that there is no shortage of oxygen and medicines for Covid-19 patients in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Serum Institute reduces Covishield price for states to Rs 300 per dose||Serum Institute of India (SII) -- the maker of the most used COVID-19 vaccine in the country -- on Wednesday announced a cut in price of the jab it plans to sell to states to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400. This follows widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it had sold the initial doses of Covishield to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. SII's CEO Adar Poonawalla took to Twitter to announce the "philanthropic" gesture. "As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives," he said. On Monday, the Centre had asked the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to lower the price of their Covid-19 vaccines amid criticism from various states who accused the companies of profiteering during such a major crisis. The Pune-based institute, the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, had announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine, 'Covishield', for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Centre to procure 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators with funds from PM CARES||The government will procure one lakh portable oxygen concentrators and install 500 more pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants from the PM Cares Fund, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, the decision coming at a time when the lack of medical oxygen is killing Covid patients in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and several other parts of the country. The new purchases, the PM said, would  help improve access to oxygen, especially in district headquarters and tier-2 cities. The PMO said in a statement that the oxygen concentrators and the new PSA plants will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near demand clusters. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi to discuss the measures needed to improve the supply of liquid medical oxygen for COVID-19 management. Modi has directed that these oxygen concentrators should be procured at the earliest and provided in states with high case burden, the statement said. The 500 new PSA oxygen plants sanctioned under PM Cares Fund are in addition to the earlier sanctioned 713 PSA plants under this fund, the statement added. Modi tweeted, "1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities." These 500 PSA plants will be established with the transfer of indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers. Establishing PSA plants and procurement of portable oxygen concentrators will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near the demand clusters, thereby addressing the current logistical challenges in transporting oxygen from plants to hospitals, the statement said. The demand for the life-saving gas has increased with the surge in the COVID cases with several hospitals sending out SOS for its supply. Several deaths have also been reported due to lack of oxygen supply in hospitals. The DRDO will set up as many as 500 oxygen plants within the next three months from the allocation made by the PM Cares Fund, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. The Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to rapidly meet Covid-19 related tasks across the country and overseas, Air Chief Marshal R.K. S. Bhadauria told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday in a meeting. During the review meeting, Modi stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material. Ally countries including Australia, Ireland, Singapore, China, Thailand and the UAE have also come forward to send in oxygen to the country in the time of need.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||Covid curbs in Maharashtra extended by 15 days||The existing lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra, imposed to stem the COVID-19 spread, will be extended by 15 days beyond April 30, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. The strict curbs on movement of people and a host of other activities are in force in the state since April 14 and were to end on April 30. Essential services have been exempted from the curbs. Addressing media persons after a Cabinet meeting here, Tope said though the COVID-19 situation seems to have stabilised to some extent in the state, all the ministers pitched for extending the on-going curbs. "Today, the number (of daily cases) is 60,000-plus. "There definitely is some stability. We had earlier predicted that (daily) cases may go beyond 70,000. But that has not happened." he said. "Now I hope and pray to God that this may be the peak and there will be a decline in the graph daily hereon," he said. The minister said if people observe COVID-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks and adhering to social distancing norms, the present situation can be brought under control. "But one thing is sure, all the Cabinet members said in unison that the lockdown, which will be effective till April 30, be extended. Now, it definitely will be extended by 15 days," Tope said. Prohibitory orders, banning assembly of five or more people at once place, are in force, while non-essential activities are not being allowed. At present, vegetable shops, grocery stores and milk shops are allowed to remain open only between 7 am and 11 am, while home delivery of items is permitted till 8 pm. Last week, the state government further tightened the curbs by imposing restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||SC directs UP govt to shift arrested scribe Kappan to Delhi hospital for better treatment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to shift journalist Siddique Kappan, suffering from various ailments and arrested last year on way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being gang raped, to a hospital in Delhi for better medical treatment. Keeping in mind the basic human rights of an accused, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana headed bench granted the relief and directed the state to provide medical treatment to the Kerala-based scribe. The bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna said that Kappan will be transferred back to Mathura jail after his recovery. The top court, however, granted him liberty to approach an appropriate forum challenging his arrest or for any other relief and disposed of the plea filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and his wife, seeking his release from alleged illegal detention. Taking into consideration facts of the case, we dispose of the writ petition. Even though Solicitor General Tushar Mehta very seriously opposed the contention, we are directing the state to shift the accused to RML or AIIMS hospital here or wherever treatment can be done, said the bench. Mehta, who strongly opposed the top court's suggestions, said that the bench may also pass direction to the hospital concerned to vacate one of the beds for 42-years-old Kappan, which are now fully occupied by COVID patients. The bench, however, refused to pass any such directions and told Mehta that the state government can arrange a bed for him and we leave it at that . Earlier in the day the bench asked Mehta to seek instructions from the UP government on whether Kappan can be shifted to a hospital outside the state for better treatment. Mehta, after taking instruction told the bench that it is dealing with a non-COVID patient, whose medical report is before the top court and there are 40-50 coronavirus patients with some or no co-morbidities in Mathura jail but they are not getting beds in hospitals. Since last year, I have been asking this man to approach a competent court for bail but he is adamant and not approaching it. In this petition before the court, there is not even prayer for bail or shifting for better treatment, Mehta said. Advocate Wills Mathews, appearing for KUWJ and Kappan's wife, said that he be granted interim bail in the case besides being provided with proper medicines and treatment. At the outset, the bench said it was confined to the limited issue of granting better health facilities to Kappan and asked whether he could be allowed medical treatment in Delhi. We are confined to health issues. He has health problems like BP, Diabetes and other ailments. He has precarious health conditions. You have to consider this. He is in custody of the state. You have to protect him. It is in the interest of the state also that the accused gets better treatment, the bench observed. Justice Bopanna said that notwithstanding the petition filed by the KUWJ, there is also a petition filed by Kappan's wife, which seeks his release. Can't this court direct for better treatment. You forget about the petitions. Life of a citizen is important. Tomorrow, no one should be able to blame us, that he was not given better treatment, the CJI said. Mehta said he had objections to the suggestion and was ready to constitute a medical board to ascertain his ailments and advice and only then the court should take a call on his shifting to the hospital in Delhi. The bench then told Mehta that whether there was any embargo on the court that while entertaining a habeas corpus petition, it cannot go for a lesser relief of bail. Mehta said that from Kappan's possession, police had recovered an Identity card of a newspaper, which was shut in 2018 and he has association with Popular Front of India (PFI), which in turn is associated with banned organization Students' Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The bench asked Mehta whether PFI is a banned organization to which he replied that many states have done so and as per his information Centre is also in process to ban PFI . The bench said, So, as of now it is not banned . Mehta while reading from an affidavit filed in December last year said, No. Many officer bearers of PFI were found to be associated with SIMI . On Tuesday, the top court had asked the UP government to submit medical records of Kappan after KUWJ alleged that he had been chained to a cot in the hospital after he fell in the bathroom and later tested positive for COVID-19. The state has refuted the allegations that Kappan has been chained to a cot at the hospital and said it would file a short reply on his medical records by tomorrow. Kappan's wife Raihanth Kappan recently wrote to CJI Ramana seeking his immediate release from the hospital, alleging he is "chained like an animal in a cot" there. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with the PFI. The police had said it arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura -- Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras, which has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
28-04-2021||India||No-Covid report or 2-dose vaccination mandatory for entering counting halls, rules EC||No candidates or their agents will be allowed inside counting halls without a negative coronavirus report, according to the latest result-day guidelines issued by the Election Commission. Candidates or their agents who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine can also enter the counting hall on May 2 when votes for Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu will be counted, according to the guidelines issued on Wednesday. No public gathering outside the counting venue will be allowed during the process of counting, the guideline said. "No candidates or agents will be allowed inside the counting hall without undergoing RT-PCR/RAT test or without having two doses of vaccination against Covid-19 and will have to produce negative RT-PCR report or RAT report or vaccination reports within 48 hours of start of counting," the guideline read. The Election Commission yesterday banned all victory processions on May 2 when results would be announced in Bengal and other states where polls were held and restricted to two the number of people who could accompany the winner candidates to collect certificates. The twin decisions came a day after the poll panel had been held “singularly responsible” by Madras High Court for the novel coronavirus resurgence in India. “No victory procession after the counting on 2.5.2021 shall be permissible…Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,” a letter issued by the EC in favour of chief electoral officers of all states and Union territories read. The EC also decided to increase the number of counting centres to 705 from 385 in Bengal in the wake of the coronavirus upsurge. Sources said the number of counting venues were being doubled in order to ensure social distancing among the officials. Counting starts at 8 am on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Always ready to meet Covid-related tasks, IAF tells Modi||The Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to rapidly meet Covid-19 related tasks across the country and overseas, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Bhadauria also told Modi that the Air Force is deploying big as well as medium-sized aircraft to cover all terrains, the PMO said in a statement. He briefed the prime minister about a dedicated 'Covid Air Support Cell' set up by the IAF to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies on Covid-19 related operations. Aircrew for all fleets have been augmented to ensure round-the-clock operations, Bhadauria added. Hospitals under the IAF have increased Covid-19 facilities and are also allowing civilians wherever possible, the statement said, quoting the air chief. During the review meeting, Modi stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material. He also spoke about the need to ensure that the IAF personnel engaged in Covid-19 related operations remain safe from infection and emphasised the need to ensure the safety of all Covid-19 related operations. Modi enquired about the health of IAF personnel and their families and was informed by Bhadauria that a near saturation vaccination coverage has been achieved in the IAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||SC asks UP govt if arrested Kappan can be shifted for treatment outside state||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government if Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested last year on way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being gang raped, can be shifted for better medical attention outside the state. A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to seek instructions from the state government on its suggestion and posted the plea of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and Kappan's wife for further hearing at 1 pm. Mehta, appearing for the UP government, vehemently opposed the suggestion saying several similarly placed accused are getting treatment in hospitals in the state and Kappan should not be given special treatment just because a journalistic body is a petitioner here. People with multiple organ failure are also being looked at by jail hospital in Mathura, he said. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna, said that at this moment it was confined to the limited prayer of granting better health facilities to Kappan and asked whether he can be allowed medical treatment in Delhi. "We are confined to health issue. It is in the interest of the state also that the accused gets better treatment," the bench observed. On November 16 last year, the top court had sought a response from the Uttar Pradesh government on the plea challenging the arrest of the journalist. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with the Popular Front of India, or PFI. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020 in a village in the district. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Delhi’s LG becomes effective in-charge of national capital||Delhi's lieutenant governor has become the effective in-charge of the national capital with the Centre notifying a new law making it clear the city's elected government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before any executive decision. The Union Home Ministry's notification giving effect to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 came on Tuesday night, as the city battles a ferocious Covid-19 wave and its healthcare system is stretched to breaking point. The provisions of the Act came into effect from April 27, according to the notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Three key subjects in Delhi -- public order, police and land - are already in the hands of the Central government while sectors such as health, education, agriculture, forest and transport are with the city government. The MHA notification seals the primacy given to the L-G, a nominee of the Central government, in the Act. The Delhi government will now have to take permission from the L-G before taking any action over subjects which were under its domain. According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi now means the "Lieutenant Governor". "In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act 2021 (15 of 2021), the Central Government hereby appoints the 27th April 2021 as the date on which the provisions of the said Act shall come into force," stated the notification signed by additional secretary in the MHA, Govind Mohan. The act has been notified at a time the Centre and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government are under the spotlight over the handling of the pandemic and the subsequent scarcity of oxygen, hospital beds and essential medicines. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court came down heavily on the AAP government over its "failure" to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines needed by Covid-19 patients. If the state cannot handle the situation, it will ask the Central government to take over gas refiller units as it can't let people die, the court said. When the bill was passed by Parliament last month in the Lok Sabha on March 22 and in the Rajya Sabha on March 24 -- Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had termed it a "sad day for Indian democracy". "The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the L-G, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court," the statement of objects and reasons of the bill stated. "When a bill has been passed by the legislative assembly, it shall be presented to the lieutenant governor and the lieutenant governor shall declare either that he assents to the bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he reserves the bill for the consideration of the President...," the bill said. The Centre maintained it is in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 ruling on the ambit of powers of the lieutenant governor and the Delhi government after a series of run-ins between the two. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy had said when the bill was introduced in parliament that the amendments would lead to transparency and clarity in governance in NCT of Delhi and enhance public accountability. The minister said Delhi is not a full-fledged state and does not have full power and the executive powers of the L-G of Delhi are different from the powers of governors of the state. Explaining the rationale behind the bill, he said the amendments have been brought to remove ambiguities in the existing Act and stressed that changes in the law have been sought in the spirit of what has been said in a Supreme Court judgment. The Aam Aadmi Party has said it plans to approach the Supreme Court against the legislation, describing it as an "unconstitutional" attempt to make the Delhi government "administratively impotent" by a political party made "electorally impotent" by the people of the national capital. The Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, DMK and other opposition parties also termed the bill "unconstitutional" and claimed it will fail judicial scrutiny. As the city of Delhi, the home of the Central government with inherent problems given the multiplicity of powers, opens a new chapter of governance, the number of Covid cases continues to spiral. On Tuesday, the city logged a record 381 Covid-19 deaths and 24,149 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.72 per cent, according to the city health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Covid vaccine: registration for those above 18 starts at 4 pm Wednesday||All those aged 18 and above can register themselves on the CoWIN portal or using the Aarogya Setu app to get vaccinated against COVID-19 starting 4 pm on Wednesday, the Union Health Ministry said as the government gears up to launch the third phase of vaccination drive from 1 May. "Registration for the newly eligible category for COVID-19 vaccination opens today at 4 pm on cowin.gov.in and Aarogya Setu app," the ministry tweeted. After registration, taking an appointment to get a COVID-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 44 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, officials had said. Those above 45 years can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they said. As India witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official had said. The inoculation process and documents to be provided to get the jab remains the same. "Registration of citizens in 18-44 age group will start with only online registration on COWIN from April 28 onwards," the ministry had said. Also, from May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus vaccine and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre. While those aged 18 to 44 years will be eligible to receive vaccination on payment from any of the private COVID vaccination centres (CVCs), citizens below 45 years shall also be eligible to receive a jab from a government CVC in a state or Union Territory which decides to lower the minimum cut off age for eligibility. As provided in the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy document, all priority groups, such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above aged 45 years or more (as on 01.01.2022), shall continue to be eligible for vaccination free of cost from government CVCs, or on payment from private CVCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||India records highest one-day surge with almost 3.61 lakh fresh Covid cases||India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 1,48,17,371, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have risen to 29,78,709, comprising 16.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.33 per cent, it said. The death toll stands at 2,01,187, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, one-crore mark on December 19 and 1.5 crore on April 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 28,27,03,789 samples have been tested up to April 27 with 17,23,912 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 3,293 new fatalities include 895 from Maharashtra, 381 from Delhi, 264 from Uttar Pradesh, 246 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Karnataka, 170 from Gujarat, 131 from Jharkhand, 121 from Rajasthan and 100 from Punjab. The total 2,01,187 deaths reported so far in the country include 66,179 from Maharashtra, 15,009 from Delhi, 14,807 from Karnataka, 13,728 from Tamil Nadu, 11,678 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,082 from West Bengal, 8,630 from Punjab, 7,800 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,782 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Early morning fire at private hospital in Thane claims 4 patients ||Four patients died after a fire broke out at a private hospital near Thane in Maharashtra in the wee hours of Wednesday, a civic official said. The patients died while being shifted to other hospitals after the blaze and not due to burns, the official said. They may have inhaled smoke after the fire, he added. The incident comes five days after 15 coronavirus patients died in a blaze in the intensive care unit of a private hospital at Virar in the adjoining Palghar district. "Wednesday's fire broke out at the Prime Criticare Hospital at Kausa-Mumbra locality at 3.40 am," the official said, adding that there were no coronavirus patients in the hospital. "Three fire engines and five ambulances were rushed to the spot. The blaze has been extinguished," the official said. "Twenty patients including six in the intensive care unit of the hospital were evacuated," he said. Maharashtra minister and local MLA Jitendra Awhad told reporters at the scene that the fire destroyed the first floor of the hospital. "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been informed of the tragedy. The family of each deceased will be given a compensation of Rs. five lakh and those injured will get Rs one lakh each," he said. "A high-level enquiry committee has been constituted to look into the cause of the fire. It will comprise officials from the Thane Municipal Corporation and also police and medical personnel," he added. Twenty two COVID-19 patients on ventilator or oxygen support suffocated to death when their oxygen supply stopped suddenly due to a malfunction in the main storage at a civic hospital in Nashik last week. A fire broke out in Mumbai's Dreams Mall, which housed a Covid-designated hospital, in the intervening night of March 25-26. The fire, which raged for over 40 hours, claimed nine lives, including those of patients on ventilator support. Ten infants died in a fire at a special newborn care unit of the Bhandara district hospital in the state on January 9. Seventeen infants, aged one to three months, were in the ward at the time of the tragedy. In October last year, two patients died while being shifted after a fire broke out at a private hospital in Mumbai's Mulund suburb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Massive earthquake hits Assam, tremors felt in North Bengal   ||Seven back- to-back earthquakes jolted Assam and some other northeastern states on Wednesday morning, causing extensive damage to buildings and forcing people to scamper out of their homes. The first of the shocks of 6.4 magnitude with its epicentre at 43 km west of Tezpur, the district headquarters of Sonitpur district in Assam, was felt at 7.51 am, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) Deputy Director Sanjay O'neil Shaw said. The effect was felt in almost the entire Northeastern region and even parts of West Bengal. It was followed in quick succession by lesser intensity tremors of 4.7, 4, and two 3.6 magnitudes at 8.03 am, 8.13 am, 8.25 am and 8.44 am. Another earthquake of 3.2 magnitude hit the state's Nagaon district at 10.05 am. A while later, another jolt of 3.4 magnitude hit Tezpur at 10.39 am. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and enquired about the damage caused by the quakes. "Spoke to Assam CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal Ji regarding the earthquake in parts of the state. Assured all possible help from the Centre. I pray for the well-being of the people of Assam," he tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also spoke to Sonowal and assured him that the Centre stands firmly with the people of Assam. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "To my sisters and brothers in Assam who are now dealing with the double blow of an earthquake and the rampaging second wave of COVID, I send you my love and prayers." Sonowal urged everyone to stay alert and said that he is taking updates from all the districts. Tremors were felt in the entire region, including neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and northern parts of West Bengal.  People ran out of their homes and other places in panic, obliterating social distancing and other COVID guidelines amid a raging pandemic. No casualty was reported, but many people suffered minor injuries while running out in panic as the first quake struck. There were reports of widespread damage to buildings and other structures from across Assam, mostly in the central and western towns of Tezpur, Nagaon, Guwahati, Mangaldoi, Dhekiajuli and Morigaon. In Guwahati, the chief minister's block at the 'Janata Bhawan' complex, the state secretariat, witnessed some damages, sources said. The luxury Taj Vivanta in Guwahati also witnessed massive damages with several glass panes, ceilings and walls falling apart, but there was no injury to any employees or guests, hotel spokesperson Indranee Phukan told PTI. Healthcare facilities such as Dispur Hospital, Apollo Clinic, Down Town Hospital and Excelcare Hospital also saw damages, hampering services amid the surge in COVID-19 cases. A multi-storied building in Nagaon tilted on the adjacent structure, triggering panic. Dozens of homes, apartment buildings and shopping malls across the state also developed cracks. Many vehicles were damaged after concrete blocks fell on them due to the jolts. Dhekiajuli MLA Ashok Singhal tweeted pictures of land developing cracks and water seeping out of them, though these could not be immediately verified. In Shillong, the tremor woke up people and many ran outside their homes in panic. Although there was no immediate report of any damage caused in Meghalaya, the tremor was one of the strongest in the last few years, an official said. The last one of such intensity was in March-April 2016, he said. Strong tremors were also felt across Arunachal Pradesh. A few buildings developed cracks in state capital Itanagar, and the East Kemeng district, officials said. "An earthquake hit this morning in Assam & tremors felt in Arunachal & NE. My prayers for everyone's safety. May all uensure their safety and of their loved ones. Thanks to PM @narendramodi Ji, HM @AmitShah Ji and @DrJitendraSingh Ji for promptly responding to the situation," Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted. In West Bengal, strong tremors were felt in Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Coochbehar and parts of Darjeeling district but no major damage was reported, local authorities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Teachers among rising Covid casualties in the country||Teachers compelled to discharge their responsibilities from schools and complete assignments not related to their work are among the rising Covid casualties in the country. Sachin Sharma, a contractual schoolteacher from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, died of Covid-19 on Sunday, a week after he was discharged from election duty near Baraut for the ongoing panchayat polls. “He was confined to home except for election duty. Since he came back from election duty, he took ill,” said Sachin’s wife Nitu Sharma. Nitu and his parents are now Covid-positive and are confined to separate rooms. Sachin’s four school-going children are helping with the household chores. Like Sachin, 36 contractual teachers have died in the past 10 days after they completed the panchayat election duty in Uttar Pradesh, said Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangha. Elections are being held for 58,176 panchayats in Uttar Pradesh in four phases and will end on Thursday. The tragedy is by no means limited to Uttar Pradesh or contractual teachers. Sarvesh Kumar Aman, a physical education teacher in the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Dehradun, breathed his last on April 16 after being infected by Covid. Aman had last gone to the school on April 12, the day he took ill, and could not recover. Aman is survived by his wife and two children. “He might have got the infection from the school. He did not go anywhere else,” a family member said. Several schoolteachers employed in the central government-run Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) and Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) schools have died in the past one month after getting infected by Covid. P.V. Chhikara, a teacher in KVS Bhatinda and general secretary of the KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh, said he personally knew about the deaths of at least 14 Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers in three regions of Delhi, Varanasi and Dehradun. The KVS has 25 regions in the country. Other than the irreparable loss of lives, financial apathy also plagues the families. The monthly income of Sachin, the Uttar Pradesh contractual teacher who died, was Rs 10,000 for 11 months in a year. His earning as a Siksha Mitra (contractual teacher) was the sole source of income for the family. Nitu, Sachin’s wife, said: “My children are small. There is no other source of earning. The government should come forward to help us.” Tribhuvan, the Siksha Mitra association leader, said the contractual teachers were as such getting “too little” remuneration and were used for all kinds of government assignments linked to elections and the census apart from regular schoolwork. The Uttar Pradesh government has a policy of providing compensation of Rs 50 lakh to officials deputed on election duty who die in a terror attack, explosion, firing or violence during booth rigging. However, death due to Covid is not included in the list for providing this benefit. States like Rajasthan and Bihar have already included Covid deaths for payment of compensation of Rs 30 lakh. “For compensation, the Rajasthan and Bihar governments have included coronavirus as a cause of death of officials on election duty. We are demanding the policy here. Till the policy is changed, all the teachers who have died on election duty should be paid Rs 50 lakh each and a member of their family should get a job,” Tribhuvan said. An email sent to state election commissioner Manoj Kumar seeking the reasons for scheduling the panchayat elections when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is surging across the country and whether any compensation would be given to the teachers failed to elicit any comment. Nearly 40,000 teachers of the KVS were coming to schools to take online classes from the school premises till last week. The teachers are also given admission duty and other official responsibilities. The physical visit to schools exposed the teachers to infections and death, said P.V. Chhikara, the KV Pragatisheel Shikshak Sangh leader. On April 23, the KVS authorities allowed the teachers to take online classes from home without leaving the station. But the teachers given admission duty will have to go to the schools. A majority of the schools do not have staff quarters. The teachers stay outside and those on admission duty have to travel to the campus. “We have urged the KVS authorities to postpone the ongoing admission process. There have been deaths of several teachers due to Covid. The admission can be started in June after the vacation,” Chhikara said. He demanded that the teachers should be allowed to work from home at their native places. The situation in the NVS schools is worse, according to the teachers. As many as 650 NVS schools provide residential schooling to poor and talented students. The summer vacation officially started last week. Till then, the teachers were going to school from their staff quarters to take online classes. Even though vacation has started, the teachers have to stay on campus at almost half of the NVS schools where students of Class XII are still staying in hostels. “Several hundred students have been infected by Covid. Many teachers have died in the last one month due to Covid. The teachers and staff have written to the NVS authorities to close schools and allow online classes from home. But there is no decision. We are staying on campus risking our health,” said a teacher. Another NVS teacher said they do not get pension, unlike the KVS and state government school teachers. Separate emails sent to KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey and NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg last week to understand their perspective on the difficulties faced by teachers did not elicit a response till Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||India likely to face extreme Covid vaccine shortage from May 1, warn experts ||India is likely to face extreme shortages of Covid-19 vaccines if all adults eligible for vaccination begin queuing up for the jabs from May 1, health and industry experts have said. The Centre’s revised vaccination policy has more than doubled the population of potential vaccine beneficiaries without immediate provisions for the extra doses needed, the experts said. “It is scary… where are the doses India would require at this scale?” asked a top vaccine industry executive. “There’ll be a bit of madness for some time, then things will settle down,” added the industry executive who requested anonymity. The April 19 decision to widen the vaccination net  from the current 45 years or older to all adults has, experts said, increased the number of the eligible beneficiaries from around 350 million to 900 million. India currently has access to about 70 million doses per month of the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and about 20 million doses per month of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, according to health officials and industry analysts. “The phase of vaccinations starting May 1 will increase demand significantly without a clear pathway to increasing the supply,” Krishna Udayakumar, associate professor and founding director of the Duke Global Health Institute in the US, told The Telegraph. India has invited vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Moderna to introduce their vaccines in India and said private hospitals are free to procure such vaccines. “This has raised hope that such international manufacturers would speed up delivery to India, though we don’t see this yet,” Udayakumar said. The entry of Russia’s Sputnik V — a third vaccine India has approved — and the anticipated release of AstraZeneca’s vaccine stocks by the US for use in other countries could ease the shortage, but experts are unclear of the timelines and doses available to India. What the Centre has described as a “liberalised and flexible” vaccination policy is a reversal of a stand asserted by health officials and the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan earlier this month. “So long as supply of vaccines is limited, there is no option but to prioritise,” Vardhan had said on April 7 in a statement that had described as “deplorable” demands by some states to offer vaccines to people 18 years or older. Health policy experts view the Centre’s reversal of stand as a move to shift the responsibility of vaccinating all adults from the Centre to the states — without the doses required to facilitate the process. “This appears to have been a political move,” in response to the demand from some states and health experts to open up vaccination to all adults, one industry executive said. “The demands likely came from a poor understanding of reality.” The Union health ministry on Tuesday said the Centre had provided over 156 million vaccine doses to states, releasing a table showing every state with some unused doses. An additional eight million doses would reach the states within three days. But in several states — including Maharashtra and Bengal — aspiring vaccine recipients, some seeking the their first doses, and some seeking second doses, have been turned away by vaccination centres because of shortages. The health ministry said Maharashtra had over 923,000 doses unused on Tuesday, while Bengal had over 397,000 unused doses. But a health expert in Delhi said a stock of unused vaccines in a state need not mean every vaccination centre has enough to vaccinate everyone who turns up. Experts predict the shortages will intensify in the coming weeks. Under the new policy, the Centre would procure 50 per cent of the doses and distribute them to states, while states and private hospitals would be free to procure the balance 50 per cent doses on their own from manufacturers. Both the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have indicated that in the early weeks they would have only limited stocks to distribute to private hospitals where Covishield would be priced at Rs 600 and Covaxin at Rs 1,200. The Centre earlier this month announced financial support to the vaccine makers to help them ramp up their production capacity. “We cannot increase supply immediately,” an executive representing one of the two companies said. “This will take time, some weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
28-04-2021||India||Covid: India's diplomatic outreach bares its unpreparedness to deal with surge||The diplomatic outreach by India over the past week to get countries to help shore up the overwhelmed Indian medical infrastructure has revealed how ill-prepared the country was to deal with the Covid surge. As countries are lining up assistance by way of oxygen, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, personal protective equipment and testing kits, what they are essentially doing is dipping into the stockpiles they have created over the past year to deal with a surge. Australia is one such country which is planning to use its stockpile to rush ventilators to India. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has announced that his government would send 500 non-invasive ventilators to India. A day ahead of the Australian cabinet meeting on Tuesday to discuss assistance to India, federal health minister Greg Hunt was quoted by ABC as stating that New Delhi has requested physical supply of oxygen. The Australian government will reach out to the states to see if any of the oxygen supplies can be donated, he said, adding that the federal government can give non-invasive ventilators in the national stockpile after keeping a reserve. According to the news report, “the Commonwealth (had) ramped up purchases of ventilators in preparation for a worst-case Covid-19 scenario last year”. Likewise, Ireland is sending 700 oxygen concentrators to India from the stocks it had purchased last year for use in a field hospital atmosphere as part of the efforts to deal with the pandemic in the country. Other smaller countries chipping in include: ⚫Singapore: 500 BiPAPs (non-invasive ventilators), 250 oxygen concentrators, four cryogenic oxygen containers and other medical supplies. ⚫Saudi Arabia: 80MT of liquid oxygen. ⚫Hong Kong: 800 oxygen concentrators. ⚫Thailand: Four cryogenic oxygen tanks. ⚫UAE: Six cryogenic oxygen containers. It has also emerged that India, which is facing a vaccine shortage in the midst of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19, has not asked Washington  for some of the ready-to-use vaccines that the US has in its stockpile. This was disclosed on Monday by senior officials of the Biden administration in a background briefing in Washington on the pandemic situation in India. The briefing followed a flurry of contacts between the two countries, including a telephone conversation between President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier on Monday. According to officials, what India has requested is raw materials for the production of AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine at the Serum Institute of India. In view of the situation in India, the US has decided to divert its own order of supplies to the Serum Institute for manufacturing the vaccine. Although it was not specified as such, India could get some of the 60 million doses of AstraZeneca that is under production in the US but not authorised for use in the country. The US plans to share these with other countries over the next two months as they become available. Biden told a media conference on Tuesday that he intended to send vaccines to India and had discussed this with Modi.  But the President did not provide a timeline. Under attack for what is widely perceived as a belated response to the situation in India, particularly the refusal to ease restrictions on the export of raw materials needed for the manufacture of vaccines, Biden administration officials maintained that the Defence Production Act (DPA) is not the cause for the vaccine shortages as is being made out by some quarters in India. “There’s just more global manufacturing happening everywhere in the world than suppliers can currently support,” an official said. The DPA’s priority ratings requires American companies to prioritise US government contracts ahead of other contracts that they have in place for US manufacturing. “But what it does not mean is an export ban or a de facto ban or an embargo or any restrictions on sales to any other outside clients or customers anywhere.  Companies are able to export however they need,” an official said. Through the briefing, it was clear that the US was extending support to India on the vaccine front essentially because it finds itself in a comfortable position at home on this count. This is in sharp contrast to the way in which the Modi government sought brownie points with its Vaccine Maitri initiative — donating vaccines to nearly 50 countries — when it had stocks to cover only about 10 per cent of the population at home after declaring in January-end that it had defeated the coronavirus even though thousands of new cases were being reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Priyanka asks Yogi to curb the spread of coronavirus ||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday asked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to concentrate on curbing the spread of coronavirus and providing relief to the patients instead of threatening to arrest people and seize their properties. In a letter to the chief minister, Priyanka pointed to the spread of virus in the villages which could trigger a far greater tragedy as even the urban health infrastructure had failed to cope. She contested the chief minister’s claim that there was no shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, asserting that there were tell-tale signs of crisis in the entire state. She also expressed concern at the unavailability of ambulances, slow vaccination drive and loot at the crematoriums. In her letter, she demanded: “Announcement of financial package for welfare of frontline health workers, reopening of dismantled Covid centres, supply of oxygen on war-footing, re-engagement of retired medical professionals, transparent data on deaths and availability of resources, enhancement of testing facilities, use of anganwadi and Asha workers for distribution of medicine and corona(virus) kit in villages, oxygen storage in every district, financial assistance to poor and intense vaccination drive.” Priyanka also posted an emotional message for the citizens on Facebook, expressing solidarity with those who lost their relatives and friends or those who were struggling to get treatment. She said: “The government has failed us all. Even those of us who oppose and fight them could not have foreseen a complete abdication of leadership and governance at a time as devastating as this. “In our hearts, we too are still hoping that they will rise up and take steps that are imperative to save lives. But even though those given the sacred task of governing this nation have let our country down at this time of great crisis, we must not lose hope.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Centre went into celebration mode instead of preparing for second wave: Sachin Pilot||The Congress believes the Narendra Modi government completely failed in understanding the nature of the pandemic, planning for the future and, worse, in providing a leadership role when the crisis spun out of control, leaving millions to fend for themselves. In an interview with The Telegraph, Congress leader Sachin Pilot said: “It is obvious there was no planning, no road map for future. The central government went into celebration mode instead of preparing for the second wave that experts had predicted. Three-four months were wasted before the second wave hit hard in March-April, the critical time that the government should have used in planning and preparedness and logistics. Nothing manifests that failure more than the oxygen crisis.” Pilot said: “We see panic everywhere; tragic scenes of people crying for oxygen, patients dying outside hospitals, are seen in so many states. We cannot allow India to become a battlefield for oxygen and remdesivir. That is unfortunately happening, we are seeing black marketing, profiteering, peddling of fake medicines, hoarding. And now the Centre says health is a state subject. Instead of taking everybody along, in reassuring the nation showing sincerity of purpose, the Prime Minister is running away from leadership role.” He pointed out how the Centre took charge under the Disaster Management Act, deciding every minute detail — from imposing lockdown to vaccination scheduling — and is now blaming the states. “Was there any consultation with the states, discussing ways to counter the second wave? When the crisis acquired dreadful dimensions and a full-blown national emergency hit us, what is the purpose of saying health is a state subject? Why is the Prime Minister not leading from the front? Why has the army not been drafted into crisis management? Why has there been no clear-cut action plan for vaccination, distribution of resources and logistics of oxygen supply?” he asked. Suggesting a well-defined formula for allocation of oxygen, medicine and vaccines, Pilot said: “The government should have nationwide data in hand and the parameters for distribution of resources should be defined. There are allegations of discrimination by states because there is no transparent formula for allocations. A clear framework with three-four parameters like number of active cases, positivity rate, mortality rate, number of beds required, need for ventilators and oxygen. There should be a basis for distribution. At present, there is no transparency; states which face greater emergency are not getting priority.” The former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan added: “States which manufacture oxygen may not need it as much as those that don’t. What is happening now is that states are inclined to fortify borders as opposed to facilitate passage of oxygen containers. This is not how things should work in a federal structure.” He said even on the vaccine pricing front, the Centre abdicated its responsibility. “We cannot leave it to companies to decide on the pricing of life-saving vaccines, keeping margins and profits as criteria. How can the Centre negotiate a price for itself and let the company deal with states differently? What was the motive? As a country, we are in desperate need of vaccination…. Unless two-thirds of our country is vaccinated in the next few weeks and months, we will not be able to break the chain of the virus. It was the Centre’s responsibility to lay out the road map and make arrangements for vaccines.” He added: “Everyone is of the opinion that there should be uniform pricing but I wish to go a step further — the pricing itself cannot be left just to the manufacturing companies. If the government can put price caps on things like airfare between two cities, have MRP on so many products, then why can’t it decide on life-saving vaccines? There is definitely a failure of a clear road map and in terms of adequate forward planning, logistical arrangements and not prioritising health and safety before religious and political congregations. In hindsight, allowing the export of oxygen and vaccines has proven costly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid: Don’t make noise over dead, says Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday there was no point in counting the number of people who had died of Covid-19 because that would not bring the dead back, amid concern that several states were under reporting the number of infections and deaths from the virus. “Those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” Khattar said, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether the official number of deaths was correct. While crematoriums and burial grounds are overflowing in many states, the official death count does not reflect that. The Opposition Congress hit out at Khattar, with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying: “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler.” He continued: “There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency.” Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi condemned the chief minister’s statement as “shameful”. Khattar said: “We will do everything possible so that lives are saved. Whether the deaths are less or more, there is no point getting into this debate… We are setting the systems in place.” The BJP leader admitted that the government had not prepared for the surge in which countless lives have been lost for the lack of something as basic as oxygen. “Who knew this pandemic will come, neither you knew nor we,” Khattar said. But the second surge should have been no surprise, given that other countries in the world had already gone through it. India had a year to prepare for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Sobs rise over the roar of  mass pyres||Under the high tin roof, 50 funeral pyres burned fiercely on Tuesday and the hot air filled with smoke, fine ash and muted sobs. On the floor nearby and in scores of parked vehicles lay more bodies, awaiting their turn, which family members were told would come 16 to 20 hours later. The crematoriums in Delhi, struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead, are witness to an unimaginable tragedy. “I have not seen such a bad situation ever before in my life. People are going with the bodies of their loved ones from pillar to post,” Vineeta Massey, the owner of Massey Funerals, said. According to the official count, 3,601 people have died this month, 2,267 of them in the last seven days alone. In February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117. As if the trauma of losing a loved one suddenly was not enough, families are not even able to give them a proper send-off. They are driving from crematorium to crematorium with the bodies — in hearses or personal cars — desperately seeking space to bid a final goodbye to a beloved parent, child, sibling or grandparent. Among the dead are also people who died of reasons other than Covid but have been swept up in the collective national tragedy. Aman Arora, a young entrepreneur from Ashok Nagar in west Delhi, said his father M.L. Arora suffered a heart attack and died on Monday afternoon. “We rushed him to many private hospitals when he started feeling discomfort in his chest but he was not even checked by the medical staff there. They demanded that we produce a Covid-negative report. He eventually passed away,” Aman said. On Monday afternoon, Aman was told by the staff at the Subhash Nagar crematorium to wait till Tuesday morning to perform the last rites. When Aman realised there was no point in pleading, he arranged for a refrigerator to prevent his father’s body from decaying. “What could I have done when there was no space? We kept the body in a rented fridge and have come early today (Tuesday),” said Aman, waiting for his turn as many other people milled around silently as bodies lay on the floor. Outside, ambulances and cars honked and competed for parking space, but inside all one could hear was the crackling of dry wood from the burning pyres — all 50 of them roaring simultaneously. A few sobs rose over the sound of the fires. The unemotional intonations of instructions by crematorium staff could also be heard, such as this one: “Apna dead body uthao aur udhar line mein ja ke khade ho jao (Pick up your dead body and go stand in line).” A woman in her 40s was so stunned she could not make out what was “nabhi” (navel) or “chhati” (chest) when a staff member asked her to place sandalwood sticks on the body of her father who had died of Covid. The body was still packed in a white sack, which had been placed on the pyre without opening. Holding the sandalwood sticks in trembling hands, she circled the body before being helped by someone. “I didn’t even see the face of my father,” wailed the woman, who was alone. Manmeet Singh, a 40-year-old assistant professor, had also brought his father Gurpal Singh’s body in his car to the Subhash Nagar crematorium on Monday afternoon. The staff politely told him his father could not be cremated because the pyre chambers were full and the CNG crematorium could only accommodate two bodies at one time. It takes about 90 minutes to dispose of one body in a CNG chamber and there were 24 bodies waiting in a queue for a slot. Manmeet left for the MCD crematorium in Pashchim Vihar about 6km away and found space with the help of an MCD inspector. “If you can’t provide oxygen to the patients in hospitals, then at least provide some space in the cremation ground so that people leave the world comfortably,” Manmeet said. The ground at the crematorium was full of filth and covered with leftovers of the previous cremation. It was muddy, rotten fruits, plastic bags, sacks, buckets and mugs littered the ground. But none of that mattered to the relatives. What mattered was getting enough space to light a pyre. According to rules, a senior official at the Delhi health department said, if someone dies of Covid-19 in hospital, the district administration has to arrange a hearse van and the hospital is supposed to deploy staff for the cremation or burial. But the crush of dead has made this impossible. So relatives are simply taking their loved ones in their personal vehicles. “If family members have to move with the bodies, there are chances of them getting infected,” another government official said. Ajeet, a staff member at the MCD crematorium, said they have created more than 100 extra makeshift chambers in an adjacent space. “I can’t move my arms, I am dead tired. The whole day we arrange for cremation and then in the night we have to take care of the pyres, so that the fire consumes the bodies properly,” Ajeet said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to explain differential pricing of vaccines||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to explain by Thursday the reason for the differential pricing of vaccines in the country. “Different manufacturers are coming out with different prices. What is the central government doing about it? ....There are powers under …of Patents Act. This is a pandemic and national crisis. If this is not the time to issue such powers, what is the time?” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat asked the Centre. Under Section 47 and 66 of The Patent Act, 1970, the Union government has the power to assume the patent rights for any product/equipment besides revoking in public interest the patent rights of the actual holders if they are found indulging in “mischievous” or acts “prejudicial” to the public. The bench while directing the Centre to explain its position on the vaccine pricing policy also asked the Union government and States to file their respective affidavits by Thursday on the steps taken to boost the infrastructural facilities to provide vaccines, oxygen, antivirals and all Covid related steps to mitigate the hardships of people. It posted the matter for further hearing to Friday. Serum Institute of India is offering to sell its vaccine Covishield at Rs 400 per dose to state governments and Rs 600 to private hospitals. Its price for the Centre is Rs 150 per dose. Bharat Biotech has offered to sell Covaxin at Rs 600 per dose to state governments and Rs 1,200 to private hospitals. Its price for the Centre is Rs 150. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the Bengal government, told the court that for the past 73 years there has been a uniform vaccine price for the Centre and States but this time there is different pricing for the Centre, states and private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid crisis: Veterans for army help in vaccination||Military veterans have suggested that the Narendra Modi government should rope in the armed forces to assist with the massive vaccination drive starting from May 1 amid a huge surge in coronavirus infections that are overwhelming hospitals across the country. Vaccinations will be opened to all above 18 years from May 1. Lieutenant General (retired) H.S. Panag said in a tweet on Tuesday: “The way forward is mass vaccination. Govt should arrange the vaccine and task the Armed Forces to coordinate and execute it.” Echoing him, a retired colonel said the Centre needed to take the help of armed forces in the planning of the vaccination programme. “In the wake of the massive corona(virus) outbreak leading to deaths across the country, the vaccines represent the light at the end of the tunnel and their rapid roll out will help regain normality. The armed forces should be roped in to aid vaccine jab rollout,” he said. He said the government should utilise the armed forces’ deep resources, medical facilities and manpower. Colonel Ashok Singh pointed out that India was currently facing a shortage of vaccines. “The armed forces are in a better position to carry out the vaccine jab rollout. But where are the vaccines?” he asked. “People are dying for want of bed in hospitals. There is no vaccine and no oxygen.” The Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield, has priced the vaccine at Rs 400 per dose for states and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. “No vaccine, no oxygen, no ventilator and no hospital bed. You are only confirming the obvious. ...The point I have made is that even if the vaccine is available, our inefficient system will take a very long time. The Armed Forces can speed it up,” said Panag in response to a tweet by Mohan Peshin, a surgeon, who highlighted the scarcity of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Opposition Congress appeals to defer Pipili bypoll||Opposition Congress on Tuesday demanded postponement of the May 16 bypoll in Pipili Assembly seat in Odisha in the wake of the resurgence of Covid-19 pandemic across the country. A delegation of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee led by its working vice-president Pradeep Majhi submitted a memorandum at the office of the state chief electoral officer addressed to the Election Commission. “We are optimistic that our appeal will be heard and the polling to be postponed," Majhi told reporters. The Congress leader said that allowing polling on May 16 is as good as putting the lives of the people in danger as health experts have warned that the Covid-19 infection will reach its peak in the second week of May. The leaders are becoming super spreaders (of coronavirus) as they reach out to the masses. Therefore, the campaign is now restricted. What is wrong if we put polling on hold till the situation becomes normal? Majhi said. The Congress has already lost one of its candidates — Ajit Mangaraj to Covid-19 on April 14 leading to the deferment of the polling date to May 16. When the Covid-19 situation in Odisha has assumed alarming proportions, why is the Election Commission determined to conduct the by-poll? Are the votes so important for the Election Commission? We demand that the by-poll be postponed till the pandemic is brought under control, Majhi said at a press conference here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine to be free for all adults in Odisha ||The Odisha government has announced that Covid-19 vaccination would be free of cost in the state. All residents above 18 can get the vaccine free of cost. Making this announcement on Sunday, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Around 2 crore people of Odisha will be benefitted. The state will spend nearly Rs 2,000 crore on account of the vaccination programme. The people don’t have to spend a single penny towards vaccination. I request all people to abide by the Covid guidelines.” People between the age group of 18 and 45 will be administered Covid vaccines from May 1. “The 4.5 crore people of the state are my family members. I want my people to stay safe and my Odisha to remain safe. The life of each member of the family is precious for me,” Naveen said, adding that if people abide by Covid guidelines like social distancing and use of masks the state will not need to resort to measures like shutdowns and lockdowns. On Monday, the Odisha government said the people who had received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at private hospitals can take the second jab at government hospitals free of cost. The registration for the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination will commence from April 28. “People need to register their names. Those who have registered will get the message about the time and the session sites on their mobile,” said director, health and family welfare, Bijay Panigrahi. Meanwhile, the number of deaths continues to increase and inched closer to 2,000 mark with reported death of nine more persons in the last 24 hours. The death toll stands at 1,997. The tally of infected persons also continues to rise with the state on Monday reporting 6,599 cases. Even the district collector of Dhenkhanal, Bhumesh Chandra Behera, has tested positive and has been admitted to the ICU. Former Kandhamal MP Sugrib Singh (58) passed away on Monday at a private hospital after undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He was elected to Lok Sabha on a BJD ticket in 2004.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Builders of Bengal: Kazi Nazrul Islam ||Kazi Nazrul Islam, known as Nazrul, was a leading Bengali poet remembered for his fiery words, restless, radical spirit and strident criticism of the British empire. He composed and set to music a large body of songs, called Nazrulgeeti, still a vital part of Bengali culture. When he was only 43, an illness deprived him of both his speech and memory, a condition he lived with till his death three decades later. He abhorred bigotry in every form. Nazrul was born into a Bengali Muslim Kazi family in Churulia in Burdwan district. Initially he received a religious education and worked as a muezzin at a local mosque in his early youth. He was part of a Letor Dal, a group that performed Leto, a kind of folk music. He worked for the British Indian Army from 1917 to 1920, rising from corporal to havildar, and was posted in the Karachi Cantonment. During this period, he read the great writers, from Tagore to Hafez. Nazrul had studied Bengali, Sanskrit, Arabic and Persian earlier and had also learnt Hindustani classical music, though he did not have a formal degree in education. After his army stint, he came to Calcutta and became a journalist, which he would remain for many years. Mukti was the title of Nazrul’s first published poem (1919), brought out by Bangiya Mussalman Sahitya Samiti. From 1922, he edited Dhumketu, a bi-weekly magazine. Nazrul worked closely with other young Muslim writers. Tagore remained a major influence on him, though Nazrul’s style was vastly different — rhetorical, declamatory, impassioned and unconcerned about formal niceties. His most famous work, the poem Bidrohi (The rebel), was published in 1922. His first anthology of poems was also published. He was charged with sedition and imprisoned by the British in 1923 for a few months. He was as critical of the Khilafat movement for its “religious fundamentalism” as he was of the Indian National Congress for its religious orthodoxies and soft position on the British. He fell in love with Pramila Debi, a resident of Cumilla (now in Bangladesh), and married her in 1924. The marriage was controversial because of religious difference. For some time he lived in Krishnanagar with his wife and young son, Bulbul. He brought to Bengali music many different styles: from classical to folk. Nazrul reintroduced the ghazal in Bengali songs and used Arabic and Persian words significantly. At the same time, he wrote Shyamasangeet, songs devoted to Kali, which still remain very popular. He co-directed the 1934 film Dhruva, composed music for it and played the character of Narada in it. He composed music for other films such as Mukti, Vidyapati and Tagore’s Gora. He suffered several tragedies in his personal life. He had four sons. The two elder sons died when they were very young. His wife suffered paralysis at a young age and would die before him. His illness was diagnosed as Pick’s disease, an irreversible neurodegenerative disorder, by a leading surgeon in Vienna, where his friends had sent him by raising money. Only his third son survived him. He spent many years in a Ranchi psychiatric hospital. In 1972, the new nation of Bangladesh brought Nazrul to Dhaka as a resident with consent from India and conferred on him the status of national poet. In 1976, he was made a Bangladeshi citizen His sons were named Krishna Mohammad, Arindam Khaled (Bulbul), Kazi Sabyasachi and Kazi Aniruddha. The names are a clue to his beliefs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Vote to  revive  glory||Name: Debasish Biswas Occupation: University teacher Age: 56 Education: PhD in economics, LLB Annual income: Rs 10 lakh Size of family: Wife and 20-year-old son Assembly seat: Raiganj, North Dinajpur Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? Yes, there is the all-important issue of reviving the lost glory of Bengal through proper governance. The rule of law has to be reinstated. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? Of course I will. After the mindless, well-orchestrated torching of railway coaches and ticket counters in December 2019 in different parts of Bengal in the name of anti-CAA protests, I have become apprehensive about the future of the state. The brazen declaration of leaders of the ruling dispensation that illegal collections must be shared with the party has only reinforced the conviction of people like us to stick to our earlier choice. Three things Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? One, Setting up new universities. Two, setting up infrastructure for dialysis in Raiganj. Three, introduction of e-governance, though partially. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you? One, unleashing a reign of terror at educational institutions. Raiganj University has been the worst affected. Two, absolute institutionalisation of corruption in all spheres of administration. Three, unabashed appeasement of a section of religious minority leaders. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She is serving the neo-elites who have amassed wealth unscrupulously. People like (deposit mobilisation company owners) Sudipta Sen, Goutam Kundu and Binoy Mishra had all been operating with the blessings of those close to her. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? Her every step seems fishy. “Pishi-culture” is just a part of it. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you? One, the introduction of GST in 2017 has made our country more investment friendly. Two, the biggest socio-political movement — the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Three, fighting Covid-19 boldly and making vaccines available for all of us. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, the introduction of Rs 2,000 currency notes after demonetisation. Two, lack of initiatives to curb petrol prices. Three, non-availability of free LPG for all poor families. Is Modi working for his cronies? Most of his programmes are for the common people. The Ujjwala Yojana, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and the PM Mudra Yojana to name a few, are for the poorer sections of the society.... Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is changing for the better no doubt. The goons who ruled the roost on the campuses of educational institutions are less aggressive these days. The new education policy (of the Centre) is going to be a ray of hope for upcoming generations. Even after the Covid-19 tsunami, our economy has bounced back. Last but not the least, the chief minister has started chanting Hindu mantras in public. I am feeling good. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? There have been many changes in the Left. It shows their political bankruptcy when they have to clutch at the straw of mild radical Muslim fanaticism. They are playing second fiddle to the ruling party (in Bengal). Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Definitely, a big yes. It is possible for the wonderful residents of Raiganj. I have seen common people fighting natural calamities like floods with profound conviction and togetherness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Caught in a war that pits every community against another ||With the BJP entrenched in Bengal, the real picture of the state has undergone a radical transformation. War zones and battle lines have been marked out, and even the Bengal Renaissance is up for grabs. What possibly could be the future of Bengal when both the contenders try to win over Tagore and Vivekananda? Eminent social scientist Ranabir Samaddar focuses on the battle and Bengal’s change as well as future. That was of course the age of innocence. Social faultlines were clearly marked, and the task of social transformation seemed fairly straight, though not simple. We felt that revolutionary will along with a correct class analysis of Indian society and a correct analysis of the Indian State will take us along the path of revolution. Now, evidently, we know that the revolutionary will was simply not enough, and our analysis, though it had quite a few strong points, failed on many counts. Today, the rise of the corporate class, the specific nature of social transformation of India, the growth of the organised sector and the masses of unorganised workers, primitive accumulation, nature of the evolution of caste as a factor in politics and economy, the emergence of cities as nodal points of logistics, and many other things tell us of a society and a country that we could not foresee in the mid-sixties and late-sixties. Yet, it is also true, that the BJP replacing the Congress as the main party of the Right is not an artificial outcome. The social map of the emergence of the BJP in Bengal tells us of the faultlines on the basis of which the party has acquired mass following. We must not also ignore the specific political and administrative tools deployed by the BJP here. They tell us of a different model of a general power that has emerged all over India. However, on one count, which is most important to me, is the fact that the sixties were certainly a time of war and our present-day reality is also experiencing a war of a different kind. The actors only have changed. Drawing a straight genealogy beginning with the Hindu Mahasabha and the Jana Sangh gives us some clue to the BJP’s current acceptability, but if we stress that too much we shall miss the specifics of this time. Take the refugee colonies. With the advance of globalisation and neo-liberalism, urban economy and politics have transformed noticeably. Land ownership in these erstwhile colonies, urban development, growth of the service sector, etc., have made a significant section of the population of these areas susceptible to neo-rich ideologies openly espoused by the Right. The dream of the Hindu Rashtra gains strength with the advance of this neoliberalism. The old unity of nationalism and liberalism, as was evident in Rabindranath’s Gora, does not work anymore. Monetarism, neoliberalism and globalisation have combined to turn the quest into a kind of nationalism that survives on hatred. In many cases refugees, particularly their later generations, became the flag bearers of hatred and revenge. The refugee as the flag bearer of the religious Right is not something new. Do not forget Israel. Usually they turn against minorities. It is a big challenge to emancipative politics as to how to combat hatred that has made many sections of the population subjects of a distinct kind of politics. One thing is sure: synthetic secularism will not be able to mount this struggle. The refugee colonies are a big testimony. But why blame the refugee colonies only? This you will find in so-called settled areas too. There were quite a few slogans in the past. They were battle cries of the insurgents. You can recall slogans like “Death to class enemies”, or “Long live the revolution” or “The decade of seventies will be the decade of liberation”. The slogan of this time, you mention, is also a war cry. It too aims at mobilising the followers for war — a war against supposed internal enemies, enemies of the nation, the enemies of the people. But we must not be surprised. As I said, Bengal is once again in the throes of a social war, almost transforming into a civil war. Each community is sought to be pitted against another, thus Hindus against Muslims, Indians against the immigrants, citizens against those who are considered as aliens, Matuas against Namasudras, Namasudras against other Dalits, Dalits against Muslims, indigenous people against settlers, and not to forget now, that a gender war has also been unleashed in Bengal. Your question is interesting. Therefore allow me to take it to a different direction. The question offers a different window to the question of legacy. Significantly, the famed Bengal Renaissance is once again a site of contest. The Bengal Renaissance by itself carries no authentic truth. The interesting point is why and when did we think that the Bengal Renaissance carries a truth — a story of progress. As you know, the highly educated Bengalis scoffed at the populists when the populists and their administration claimed that the nineteenth century was the historical basis of a new Bengal they want to build. So Tagore’s songs were sung at traffic junctions to keep the impatient pedestrians from getting down on the roads violating traffic signals. Likewise, the birthdays of Swami Vivekananda and other luminaries of the nineteenth century began to be observed. New figures, hitherto ignored, were added to the hall of fame. The nineteenth century and the Bengal Renaissance became, at least in the populist project, the foundation of an “eternal Bengal” that is home to all, and protects all. Now you may have Hindu devotees of Tagore, though to be truthful, Hindu leaders in Tagore’s lifetime did not like him so much as he was a Brahmo and belonged to a Brahmin family of lower order. More importantly, they did not like his views on Hindu-Muslim unity, stories on women in Bengal, etc. He was too much of a modernist for the Hindu babus of his time. But who cares for history? Today the Renaissance is a legacy that the Right must get hold of. To be nationalist in Bengal, the Renaissance must be shown as belonging to “us”. For the revival of Bengal’s glory, as the Right puts it, the claim to the nineteenth century must be made and secured. The stakes are really high. The populists will not leave an inch in this battle over Bengal Renaissance. Realistically speaking, I do not envisage the contentious time we are passing through will end very soon. The elections will be over in one way or another, but be sure, Bengal will see an exacerbation of contentions along lines of caste, wealth, language, religion. The contradiction between neoliberal authoritarian power, on the one hand trying to reorient the polity along an extreme religious-nationalist line, and the populist forces ensconced in the states and localities, on the other hand, defending the unorganised sections of labouring classes against the depredations of globalisation and pursuing policies of protection will sharpen further. We shall see a further rise in social conflicts. The social war is on; indeed, it has turn almost into a civil war. Perhaps on the occasion of the next Lok Sabha elections we may witness the next phase of the war, or even earlier. The radical change is not that a party of the Right has gained a stronghold here, but that contradictions have sharpened, the situation is radicalised. This new Bengal is like France in Europe. Marx had said somewhere, France is the land where politics is carried to its extreme. The challenge is, can the populists as the weaker party in the war that I am speaking of here survive in politics, make detours, maintain flexibility, but not surrender and carry on the battle? Possibly, we shall see a head-to-head confrontation in the near future. Given the all-India disposition of the Opposition forces, any head-to-head confrontation may have adverse consequences for the populists. It is a tough, protracted war that is intensifying everyday, particularly in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Kin’s Covid tag stirs poll pot||Political parties in parts of Bengal have started lodging complaints against rivals with Covid-positive kin in a bid to keep them off poll activities ahead of the final phase. In Birbhum, the BJP lodged a complaint against Trinamul leader Sibnath Hazra, accusing him of having participated in campaigns despite his wife and daughter being infected with the virus. Trinamul lodged a complaint against BJP’s Sainthia candidate Piya Saha, asking to stop her campaign as her husband tested positive. The block development officer and assistant returning officer of Sainthia Assembly constituency, Swati Dutta Mukherjee, sent a notice to Trinamul leader Hazra, asking him to get tested and stay isolated till his report arrives. Hazra accused the administration of bias. He also lodged a complaint with Dutta Mukherjee, saying she did not send a similar letter to Saha. BDO Dutta Mukherjee said she had sent a similar letter to the BJP candidate as well. Saha said she has been self-isolating for two days and was not planning to go out during polling on Thursday. She added she was yet to get tested in the absence of symptoms. Amid an exponential surge in the second wave of the pandemic, many south Bengal districts have started cracking down on those flouting safety norms, with hundreds of cases against political parties and organisers of social events like weddings and individuals. In Murshidabad and Birbhum, where elections are due on Thursday, police have initiated cases against around a hundred political leaders for crowds in campaigns. Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum’s poll panel-appointed police chief, said around 60 cases were initiated in the district, most of them against political parties. “We have started cases under the Disaster Management Act against organisers of political rallies. Cases against individuals have also been started,” said Tripathi. In Hooghly, police filed around 160 cases, including against the organiser of a wedding ceremony, for violating Covid-19 norms. “We have already started a case against a wedding gathering in Serampore…,” said Gaurav Sharma, the Chandernagore police commissioner. In East Midnapore, 326 persons were arrested in the past 24 hours for violating Covid-19 safety norms such as not wearing masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC bans victory processions on counting day||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday banned all victory processions on May 2 when results would be announced in Bengal and other states where polls were held and restricted to two the number of people who could accompany the winner candidates to collect certificates. The twin decisions came a day after the poll panel had been held “singularly responsible” by Madras High Court for the novel coronavirus resurgence in India. “No victory procession after the counting on 2.5.2021 shall be permissible…Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,” a letter issued by the EC in favour of chief electoral officers of all states and Union territories read. The EC has also decided to increase the number of counting centres to 705 from 385 in Bengal in the wake of the coronavirus upsurge. The decision was taken during a video conference meeting of Bengal CEO Ariz Aftab, district magistrates and other polling officials on Monday. Sources said the number of counting venues were being doubled in order to ensure social distancing among the officials. “The CEO has asked us to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. Masks and sanitizers are must at the counting centres. To ensure social distancing, the number of centres are also being increased,” an official in the commission told The Telegraph. The new decisions, a source said, were taken as a section of polling officials was reluctant to report to counting duty in the backdrop of sudden rise in Covid-19 cases among officials and central force jawans. On Tuesday, Abdullah Naser (40), an employee of the CEO office at Calcutta, died and he was reportedly suffering from Covid-19. The turnout in the CEO’s office has dropped by 10 per cent in the wake of the uptick in the caseload. Two Election Commission observers in Murshidabad contracted the disease on Tuesday. “The commission had replaced the observers, who had tested positive for Covid, for poll duty. But many are contracting coronavirus after joining their duties. Replacing them is becoming difficult,” a source said. “We still have the last phase of the polls and the counting due. We poll workers face the risk of contraction,” this person added. The BJP lauded the EC’s ban on victory processions. BJP national chief J.P. Nadda sent out a direction to all BJP state units to strictly adhere to the norms. “I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karyakartas (workers) of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in the hour of crisis,” Nadda tweeted. Although the Trinamul Congress welcomed the EC’s decision, party spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy reminded that his party had taken a “political decision” to refrain from victory processions in 2011 itself. “If (the EC) can actually implement the ban they’ve announced, then good… (But) let the EC first ensure peace during the counting. Why are they talking about what happens later?” Roy added. Calcutta High Court asked the EC to ensure that the ban on processions was strictly adhered to. The interim order was passed by the division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which is hearing multiple litigations related to the issue of polls during the pandemic. The division bench has also sought a report from the state government on the status of beds and other medical facilities available at hospitals across Bengal. The government has to submit the report on May 2. Around 450 police personnel from Darjeeling district sat on NH12 in Malda town on Tuesday evening as they did not find accommodation and food. They had arrived in Malda to join duties during the eighth and final phase of the Assembly polls on April 29. After disembarking from buses near Pallishree Club, they squatted on the highway with luggage as none from district police was present to guide them. As a result, traffic came to a halt on the highway. Malda district administration officials arrived and shifted the police personnel to different places. “The police personnel did not block the road. All necessary arrangements have been made for them,” said Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission puts TMC’s Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance||The Election Commission of India issued an order to keep Trinamul Congress’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance from Tuesday 5pm to Friday 7am. Eleven seats in Birbhum are among the 35 to go for polling on Thursday, the last day of the eight-phase Bengal polls. “I am directed to state that in view of serious complaints and feedback received from various sources and as per the report of DEO (district election officer) and SP Birbhum, the commission has directed that Shri Anubrata Mondal, district president of AITC, Birbhum, should be kept under strict surveillance of Executive Magistrate and CAPF, round the clock from 5.00pm of April 27 till April 30, 2021, for ensuring free and fair elections as we had done during Assembly election in 2016 and the Lok Sabha election in 2019,” read a statement by Rakesh Kumar, a secretary of the EC, issued on Tuesday. A deputy magistrate, four central force personnel and a videographer will be with Mondal to monitor every activity of his. After the order was issued, Mondal said it had become a “predictable routine”. “I am used to it now. I am not worried about surveillance. I will do my work and they (the poll commission) will keep a watch,” he said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who anticipated the possibility of a re-run of the EC’s surveillance this time too, had told Mondal publicly on Saturday that he should move court if it happened this time. Mamata said it was “illegal” to keep any person under surveillance repeatedly and had asked Mondal — addressing him by his nickname Keshto — to seek protection from the court. Asked if he would move court following Mamata’s advice, Mondal said: “I will discuss it with her.” One of Mondal’s close aides said the leader was unwell and it was not certain if he would tour the district this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Special security for Nandigram on May 2||The Election Commission of India has deployed a company of central forces for Nandigram — the Assembly seat with the biggest prestige battle between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — to avoid any untoward incident during or after counting of votes on May 2. The district police have also set up five police camps in Nandigram alone considering its charged atmosphere. “Nandigram is highly sensitive and we have deployed enough security to avoid trouble after counting. If needed, more forces will be deployed,” said Sunil Yadav, the East Midnapore SP. Sources said areas such as Balrampur, Osmanchawk and Bhimkata were most vulnerable. Sources in East Midnapore said there are six counting centres in the district where six companies of central forces will be deployed. Seven companies of central forces will be deployed in the district ahead of counting. “There are areas near Nandigram that are also considered sensitive. Central forces will be deployed in Haldia, Khejuri, Bhagabanpur and Contai. But one company will be deployed in Nandigram alone,” said an official. Nandigram has been tense since March 10, when Mamata sustained an injury in her leg the day she filed her nomination. The situation turned volatile amid Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP conspired to injure her, countered by the BJP’s claims that it was an accident and she was holding the BJP responsible for sympathy. Ahead of polls in Nandigram on April 1, repeated clashes took place between Trinamul and BJP supporters. A Trinamul supporter, Rabin Manna, was injured in a clash and died later. Sheikh Sufiyan, Mamata’s election agent, said they did not have a problem with central forces, but they should be “neutral”. BJP leaders said central forces had played a key role in holding the polls peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||In Dooars, moonlight tea leaf plucking sets in||Majherdabri has become the first estate in the Dooars to pluck tea leaves in the moonlight which, according to the planter, is the right occasion to produce high quality brew in terms of flavour and fragrance. Around 100 workers plucked tea leaves on the full moon night on Monday in the plantation near Alipurduar. “It has been practiced in a number of tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills. But ours is the first estate in the Dooars to pluck tea leaves on a full moon night. The tea leaves which were plucked last night have been processed separately and we believe the produce would fetch us good prices like in the hills. This is because the tea produced thus would be superior in quality, both in terms of flavour and fragrance,” said Chinmoy Dhar, the garden manager. Majherdabri is known for making CTC tea. After sunset, Dhar said, evaporation stops on the surfaces of the tea leaf. “Besides, tea leaves are believed to gather large amounts of calcium, magnesium and some other vital nutrients from the soil during full moon,” said the manager. “We can smell the fragrance of any flower after the sunset because there is no evaporation. The same happens in the case of tea leaves also. That is why the tea processed from the leaves plucked on full moonlight is superior in flavour as it retains the nutrients and water content in higher percentage,” explained Dhar. The moon light plucking at Majherdabri started around 6pm on Monday. While some workers carried “mashal” or countrymade torches, others moved over an area of around 100 hectares and plucked 1,000 kilos of tea leaves in three hours. Around 9pm, the leaves were gathered and sent to the factory for processing. According to sources, 200-220 kilos of tea are likely to be made from those leaves. “It is a rare and exclusive activity which has been carried out in some hill tea gardens, including Makaibari. Those teas, which were of orthodox variety, were indeed of exquisite quality. But the Majherdabri management has tried moonlight plucking for CTC tea. We need to sip the brew to find out whether the quality is superior to the CTC tea that the garden generally produces,” said R.A. Sharma, a veteran in the north Bengal tea industry. Asked about the scientific basis of the claims made by the planters, tea researchers said they were yet to conduct a comprehensive study on moonlight plucking. “Whatever they have said about evaporation is correct. After the sunset, the tea leaf get swollen as the water content increases. Whether other vital nutrients are present in higher proportions can be affirmed only through proper tests and research,” said S. Vaishya, an advisor to the Tea Research Association at Nagrakata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Will vote to reply to bullet that killed son’||Fifty-year-old Afsar Ali had vowed never to vote after a bullet killed his son Samiul Haque, 21, on April 10 when they were standing in queue in front of Amtali MSK (booth 5/126) in Jorpatki village under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat of Cooch Behar to exercise their franchise. But the “compassionate words” of an elderly woman in a wheelchair changed his mind. On Monday, the Cooch Behar district administration said repoll would be held in the Jorpatki booth, where firing by central forces on April 10 had left four youths dead, in the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls on April 29, as directed by the Election Commission. His grief still raw, Afsar said he would vote, only because “Mamata Banerjee asked us to reply to bullets with ballots”. “I had initially thought I wouldn’t vote but eventually decided that my vote will be my reply to those who fired at Samiul and other three boys of our village Jorpatki and to those who said there would be more incidents like Sitalkuchi,” said Afsar. After the firing, Mamata had rushed to Siliguri the same evening and planned to visit Mathabhanga subdivisional headquarters, under which Jorpatki village falls, to meet the bereaved families. She had to postpone her visit as the EC announced a 72-hour-ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar district. On April 14, when the ban lifted, Mamata rushed to Mathabhanga. No BJP leader turned up at Mathabhanga or reached out to the bereaved families. Many leaders of the BJP claimed Trinamul was not sympathetic to the family of Ananda Barman, who also died in a mob firing that same day in another booth of Sitalkuchi. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh had said “jaygay jaygay Sitalkuchi hobe” (Sitalkuchi will happen in other places), for which the EC barred him from campaign for 24 hours. Young Rahila Begum, who lost her husband Maniruzzaman Mian, is also determined to cast her vote on April 29. “My vote will be against the atrocities of the central armed forces. They killed my husband for no reason. I will also vote with the hope that those who fired at villagers will be punished,” said Rahila. On Tuesday, district administration officials reached the village with a dhaaki (drummer) and in an e-rickshaw, to announce the repoll date. “Necessary arrangements will be made to ensure that the election stays peaceful, free and fair,” said a source in the district administration. Local Trinamul leaders, when asked about the repolling, said they expected a higher turnout. There are around 960 voters in the booth. “People remember what happened to the youths. Ramazan is on and many are fasting, but there is vigour among people to speak up against atrocities by casting their votes. They also want to vote for peace,” said Alizar Rehman, a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh nod for medical visa holders to return||The Bangladesh deputy high commission here on Tuesday issued no-objection certificates to around 300 countrymen, who had arrived in India on medical visas, so that they could return home. But in the absence of any clear decision on Bangladeshis in India with long-term visas, thousands remained stuck. On Sunday, the deputy high commission had announced suspension of movement of foreigners and Bangladeshi nationals through all land borders between the two countries for two weeks from April 26 to May 9 in view of the surging Covid cases. It also announced suspension of visa service during the period. In a circular issued in this regard, the deputy high commission said Bangladeshi nationals whose visa was close to expiry would be allowed to return on submission of a Covid negative report and on obtaining NOCs from it. However, the deputy high commission eventually made an exemption on Tuesday as they began issuing NOCs for people who had arrived for medical treatment. Hundreds turned up at the deputy high commission since  Monday early morning to obtain the NOCs to cross the land ports. Mofakkharul Iqbal, press secretary of deputy high commission, said: “It had been decided that the people whose visa would be expiring soon would be issued the NOC for return. Nevertheless, we made some exemptions today on humanitarian grounds for people who came for treatment in India. Many of them are undergoing dialysis and other life saving medical care. For such patients, we offered the exemptions because their survival is also important to us.” But Iqbal failed to offer any good news for others eager to return home. “We are not encouraging the students and businessmen to return now. There is no such order to allow them now,” he told The Telegraph. The denial of movement has put a large number of Bangladeshi nationals, who are in India on long term education visas or those who regularly visit the country for business purposes, in trouble. Sources said more than 1,000 people had been crossing the border everyday to enter India via Petrapole in North 24-Parganas or Gede in Nadia before the land ports were sealed. Farid Hossain, an exporter from Dhaka, who was stranded at Petrapole because of the suspension of movement, told The Telegraph: “It’s a very shocking decision. The deputy high commission should have alerted us in advance”. “It is good that they are considering the cases of my countrymen who came for medical treatment. But how can they ignore the need of others to return home. The sudden decision not only stalled my business but also put me in a vulnerable situation amid a surge in Covid cases in Bengal,” Farid Hossain said, adding he had been compelled to book accommodation at a hotel in Bongaon for the next two weeks. Mahiuddin Mollah, 60, a Bangladeshi national from Char Bhadrasan of Faridpur, who got an NOC on Tuesday, said: “I am thankful to the authorities of my country as they saved the life of my wife who underwent a surgery in Vellore last week. But the authority should also allow others to return because of the pandemic.” A university student in Calcutta who failed to return on Monday said: “The deputy high commission put us in an uncertain situation. It is quite unsure whether they would withdraw the order after two weeks or not. It will be difficult for me even to stay here since I will run out of money soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court rap for illegal structures by the Teesta ||A single bench at the Jalpaiguri Circuit Bench of Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered the demolition of all illegal constructions, including eateries, that have come up on the banks of the Teesta river in Jalpaiguri to prevent crowding. Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, who had taken suo motu cognisance of crowding in eateries on the banks, particularly because of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, held a hearing on Tuesday. The assistant solicitor general of the central government and the additional public prosecutor of the circuit bench were present. In his order, Justice Bharadwaj stated there were encroachments along the right bank of the river and on its bed. The area is close to the residences of judges, and among encroachments are a number of restaurants and pubs. “The court stated that every evening, more than 500 people assemble in these places for refreshment. This is also affecting the biodiversity of the river were as many as 72 different species of birds can be sighted. Covid-19 safety protocols are not being maintained and such gatherings can cause serious health hazards,” said a source. In his order, the judge said the state should take appropriate steps and the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri should demolish illegal constructions on the Teesta riverbed and near the residential building of the judges. “The order has to be followed within 24 hours and tomorrow (Wednesday), the DM and the SP and other state government officials have been asked to file their reports before court,” said Aditishankar Chakraborty, the additional public prosecutor of the circuit bench. DM Moumita Godara said they had received the order and would take appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal stresses on more Covid beds||A sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling district, particularly in Siliguri sub-division, and in the Dooars has prompted the administration to increase beds for Covid patients in the district. According to sources in the administration, it has been decided that around 500 new beds would be readied in Siliguri and in the hills within a week. “It has been decided to allot 65 beds at the Darjeeling district hospital and 18 beds at the Kurseong sub-divisional hospital for Covid patients. Also, 30 more beds will be added at the Covid hospital in Triveni near Kalimpong,” said an official of the state health department. At present, there are 345 beds at the Darjeeling hospital, 120 beds at the Kurseong sub-divisional hospital and 150 beds at the facility in Triveni. In another development, authorities of 22 private nursing homes in Siliguri have assured the district health department that they will provide extra beds for Covid patients within a week. “In total, there are 136 beds in 22 nursing homes across Siliguri. The authorities of these clinics have assured that they will increase the total capacity to 443 beds,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb. He mentioned that the indoor stadium of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation will be handed over to the chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, on Wednesday where 70 beds would be kept ready —  six of which will have oxygen supply. A similar healthcare facility, operational at Hatighisa in Naxalbari block, will also be upgraded, said Deb. “We will soon set up a second safe home in Siliguri. The district administration is planning to convert some government guesthouses as safe homes for treatment of Covid patients,” he added. The minister informed that two helplines — 8016277748 and 9883206017 — to extend support to Covid patients and their families will be launched tomorrow. “The helplines will be operational from 8am to 8pm. Family members of patients can seek guidance and help through the helplines and also call for ambulance and other services,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Litmus test for once-powerful duo||Once-powerful Trinamul leaders and former ministers Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury and Sabitri Mitra, candidates of Englishbazar and Manikchak in Malda, are using the 2021 polls to try and reclaim their position in the party with the district getting extra attention from Mamata Banerjee because of its demography. “They were prominent Trinamul faces but these past four-five years, particularly after both lost the 2016 Assembly polls, they got sidelined,” said a party insider. Mitra, who has many  health issues, stayed away from party’s events. Choudhury was apparently upset with the rise of Nihar Ranjan Ghosh, who had defeated him as an Independent but later joined Trinamul. Choudhury also lost the chair of the civic chief of the Englishbazar municipality to Ghosh. But as Assembly polls drew near, the party brought both the leaders to the forefront as part of Mamata’s strategy to put up a united fight in the district. Choudhury was made the chairman of the district committee headed by Mausam Noor (the district president).  Mitra was made the block president in Manikchak. Also, as the Trinamul supremo announced the candidates, it was found that Choudhury had been fielded from Englishbazar, his old seat. Sitting MLA Ghosh was asked to contest from Chanchal. Mitra was fielded from Manikchak, her old turf. “These decisions have bolstered the confidence of both these senior leaders as they felt the party supremo still has confidence in them. Earlier, we had never seen them campaign so extensively. This time they tried to reach out to every household, interacted elaborately with people and were benevolent in their approach, which was also rare,” said a district Trinamul leader. In Malda, both Mitra and Ghosh are also known for regularly getting involved into squabbles on trifle issues with each other. Even Mamata has time and again reprimanded them in open for such acts. “I always tried to deliver the responsibilities given to me by Didi. I worked hard day and night for Malda residents. I am familiar with them and this time, people will stand by me as we have to thwart BJP that has been trying to divide people in this district on religious lines,” said Choudhury, who is in his early 60s. Unlike earlier years when they had to contest against Congress and the Left, their principal contenders are from the BJP that has played the polarisation card and disseminated the Hindutva narrative. Malda is a district with around 55 per cent Muslim population, whose votes decide the results in around seven of 12 Assembly seats. Choudhury’s key contender is yet another Choudhury — Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury of the BJP — who had contested from Malda South Lok Sabha seat in 2019 and secured a lead of over 94,000 votes in the Englishbazar Assembly segment. For Mitra, the contest is no less tough. In the Manikchak Assembly segment, BJP was ahead by 34,000 votes in 2019. Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad who recently did a turncoat and walked into the BJP, is pitted against her. But the retired primary schoolteacher sounded confident. “It is the time to prove that Sabitri Mitra, the politician, is not yet finished. It is a struggle to uphold amity and peace in Malda,” she said. An observer said both were tough seats, among the five on which the BJP had been focussing since 2019 after winning the Malda north Lok Sabha seat. “It would be interesting to see if these two old Mamata loyalists succeed in making a comeback.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Land Rovers, homestays to skip booking||Land Rover operators and homestay owners have decided not to accept tourist bookings for sometime in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping the country and in the absence of a government-announced lockdown. The Land Rovers take tourists to Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal situated at around 11,900-feet, from Maneybhanjyang, a small town on the fringes of Singalila National Park. Other taxis are reluctant to travel to Sandakphu given the difficult terrain. Chandan Pradhan, the secretary of the Singalila Land Rover Owners’ Welfare Association, said on Tuesday: “Our members decided not to take tourists to Sandakphu from today given the surge in Covid19 cases in our region. These days, we do not know who is carrying the virus.” A total of 80 Land Rovers are registered with the association. Tourists visiting Darjeeling from the rest of Bengal do not have to produce Covid19 negative test results unlike travellers to Sikkim. In Bengal, only air passengers arriving from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana have to produce reports of RTPCR tests conducted within 72 hours of taking flights. However, in neighbouring Sikkim, all tourists entering the state have to produce the RTPCR report and register on the state government’s portal. Even residents of Sikkim entering the state from outside need to have the test results or else, they have to go in for 10 days of quarantine. “We will start plying Land Rovers for tourists only after the situation gets better,” said Pradhan. The Singalila National Park is open to tourists till June 15 every year. After a three-month closure, the park is again opened to visitors from September 15 onwards. Not just the Land Rovers’ operators, many homestay owners have also decided not to take bookings for some time. There are 337 registered homestays in Kalimpong, which is the highest for a district in Bengal. This is fol¬lowed by South 24Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63 registered homestays. “We cannot expose our fa¬milies, villagers to outsiders,” said a homestay owner. A hotelier in Darjeeling said tourist flow had come down in the hills over the past few days. “We just have some business clients, who have to visit town for official work. Those bookings are just for a night or two,” said a hote¬lier. Darjeeling district registered the highest spike in Covid19 cases on Tuesday with 424 people being tested positive. They included 191 in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation area, 21 in Darjeeling municipality and 41 in other hill areas like Sukhiapokhri, Bijanbari, Takdah and Mirik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||North East||Covid: Night curfew in Assam from 8pm to 5am till May 1||Assam on Tuesday imposed night curfew across the state from 8pm to 5am till May 1 as part of  its measures to contain Covid-19 cases growing rapidly since the beginning of April. Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said the decision to impose night curfew has been prompted by “rapid increase” in the number of active Covid-19 cases and for the “well-being and safety of the people”. The overall situation was reviewed following the detection of 3,137 cases out of 73,181 tests carried out on Monday, the positivity rate mounting to 4.29 per cent. Kamrup (Metro) district clocked the most cases at 1,153 with 15 deaths. That the state government would tighten the Covid safety protocol was evident when cases in Kamrup (Metro) crossed 1,000. The education department on Monday advised the deputy commissioner to shut down all educational institutions, including hostels for 15 days for now. Education and health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma then said  deputy commissioners of the remaining 33 districts were authorised to “close down all educational institutions (govt & non-govt) from pre-primary to university levels along with hostels & coaching institutions for 15 days, as and when cumulative #COVID19 cases in last 10 days exceed 300”. Total active cases as on Monday stood at 17,764, up from 15,470 with a positivity rate of 5.48 per cent on Sunday. A positivity rate above five per cent is a cause of worry. However, the government has exempted the movement of government officials and those involved in emergency services, in need of medical help and journalists, including those on election duty but on production of valid identity card. The Congress had moved the Election Commission seeking a direction to the Assam government  to exempt  contesting candidates, their election agents and representatives/party workers who will be engaged on strong  room duty. “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement/transportation of essential/non-essential goods. No separate permission/e-pass will be required for such movements,” the curfew order said. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment have also been exempted along with those going for Covid-19 vaccination. Apart from preventive measures, the government on Tuesday also announced the scaling up of infrastructure to tackle the  growing  load of active cases. Health minister Sarma tweeted that a 1,000-bed Covid Care Centre at the Royal Global University in Guwahati will soon become functional. He also announced the arrival of  4 lakh fresh doses of #CovishieldVaccine & 1 lakh #Covaxin, something which has become a cause of worry with the growing rush of people trying to get vaccinated. “ Assam has 25,000 vials of Remdesivir in stock which can be used by the NE states. 8 oxygen plants operational in Assam. One plant in Bhutan will be operational with cooperation from Bhutanese govt and MEA, which will provide 50MT per day. We will fight Covid-19 together and win, Sarma tweeted. Neighbouring Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya too have stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic. Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh during a video conference with all the deputy commissioners on the Covid situation  on Tuesday directed them to “prepare for a possible situation” in the next two months, submit a  detailed reports on their activities, preparations and inadequacies to the Principal Secretary (Health), Government of Manipur with a copy to the Chief Minister’s Office. He also asked the DCs  to shift home isolation patients to Covid Care Centres if affected families do not  have required amenities like separate toilets and rooms for home isolation, to  expedite formation of Covid awareness cum enforcement committees in the Assembly constituencies and do the needful to re-activate Covid Care Centres at the earliest. Singh also stressed on the need to cross-check Covid negative reports for those entering the state from different entry points and to intensify vaccination, raise more awareness and penalise SoP violators. On the other hand, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu attended a virtual meeting of all state BJP members to review the Covid-19 situation and to assess its preparedness level. He  said the state government has utilised the first wave of pandemic to strengthen health infrastructure across the state and therefore is well prepared to meet the challenges of the second wave of coronavirus. Khandu requested all respective district covid management cells of the BJP party to conduct surprise checks at the entry gates to the state to see if Covid protocols were followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
28-04-2021||North East||Cop held from Tinsukia district over abduction of ONGC employees||A police constable has been arrested from Tinsukia district of Assam in connection with the abduction of ONGC employees. Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta in a series of tweets on Monday evening said Basanta Buragohain, a constable of the 25 AP (ONGC) Battalion, was arrested for “actively participating” in the abduction of the three ONGC employees from a rig site at Lakwa in Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district on April 21. The constable was “part of the entire conspiracy” along with two other “bad characters” apart from the Ulfa (I) leaders, he said. Buragohain had not reported for duty since April 21, the day of the abduction, fuelling suspicion about his role in the case. Two of the three ONGC employees — Alakesh Saikia ( Jorhat) and Mohini Mohan Gogoi (Sivasagar) — were rescued from Mon district bordering Myanmar on Thursday night in a joint operation by the army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland police personnel. “Investigation indicates involvement of only 1 police personnel so far but anyone found directly or indirectly involved in this case will be seriously dealt with as per law. All relevant facts are bound to come out on debriefing of the apprehended Basanta Buragohain,” Mahanta tweeted. Efforts are on to trace out and rescue the third victim — Ritil Saikia of Golaghat district — from Ulfa (I) custody, he added. Mahanta’s first tweet on Monday had said three persons have been arrested for being “directly involved” with the abduction case in addition to some others linked with the banned outfit. The other two arrested accused are Biraj Chetia of Dibrugarh, who had purchased the motorcycle used in the abduction, and Rahul Mohan of Sivasagar district for “rendering logistical support” in ferrying the motorcycle to the site and providing other assistance. Buragohain hails from Chapakhowa in Tinsukia district but was posted in Lakwa. The number of people arrested in the case has gone up to 17, including 14 arrested earlier from in and around Lakwa by Sivasagar police for their links with the proscribed Ulfa (I). The abducted trio were whisked away in an ambulance stationed at the rig site towards the Nagaland border. The vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle “close” to the Assam-Nagaland border. Security has been tightened at Oil India Limited and ONGC sites in Upper Assam following the incident, moreso after Ulfa (I) in a statement on Friday blamed the ONGC for all the developments while threatening the energy major of dire consequences in thefuture. The outfit also said it had handed over the three abducted ONGC employees to villagers of Tokoksinghu in Mon district after they were confronted by security personnel, adding that around 500 personnel of the army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland police had launched the search operation at 10pm on Thursday and continued till 2.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
28-04-2021||Opinion||By the people: India's Good Samaritans in the Covid fight||Myopia, complacency and apathy on the part of an elected government have brought India to its knees against a deadly contagion. Hearteningly, the aam aadmi — India’s faceless, forever besieged, but unfailingly generous fraternity — has stood up to be counted at a time when the Centre has committed monumental follies. Ceaseless grim tidings of the pain of bereavement, acute shortages in oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, the implosion of a nation and its healthcare system have been accompanied by snippets of unprecedented acts of kindness. Not all of India’s Good Samaritans are, unlike the Centre, blessed with infinite funds and resources. Yet, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh did not hesitate to donate Rs 2 lakh — he had saved the sum for his daughter’s wedding — so that oxygen — all of India is gasping for it — can be bought for Covid-19 patients. Another elderly, infirm man from Kerala — a beedi-roller by profession — donated his life’s savings so that people can receive vaccines. Meanwhile, an unsung army of citizens continues to wage an unending battle — organizing hospital beds, arranging food and medical supplies, and providing comfort, with social media amplifying their efforts. These and many other acts of unadulterated altruism must be recognized in this hour of grief and helplessness. For they renew hope not just in humanity’s ability to remain empathetic as a species but also in the ability of Indians to rise above the divisions — the politicians can certainly claim credit for creating these chasms — during a mortal crisis. Ordinary Indians have redeemed the nation even though they have been failed by the very government that they elected to serve them. This spirit of sacrifice and cooperation needs to be emulated by politicians. It is doubtful whether Narendra Modi’s government would be receptive to the idea. Any suggestion of cooperation with political opponents is usually met with scorn by this regime. But the Opposition seems to be making the right noises. Sonia Gandhi and H.D. Deve Gowda, two of India’s senior-most leaders, have underscored the need for building consensus across the political spectrum. Such a collaboration, if it were to come to pass, would certainly augment India’s abilities to unitedly defend itself against an invisible speck. But is the Centre — it has fattened itself on delusion and hubris — ready to eat crow and join in?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||Left unsaid: Modi's address on Covid situation||Sir — As rightly stated by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, in the radio address, the resurgence of the pandemic has shaken the country. But what he has left unsaid, too, is worth stating — the country’s political leadership has failed to do the right thing at the right time to contain the disease. Political leaders, especially those belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party, made light of the pandemic and declared prematurely that it had been conquered, discounting the possibility of further surges. Modi himself remarked that he was elated at the sight of large crowds at his election rallies in Bengal. While the new variants of the virus may have contributed to the rapid spread of the disease, strict observance of preventive protocol by the leaders and the general citizenry would have averted the exponential increase in cases. The Madras High Court has held the Election Commission singularly responsible for the second Covid wave and denounced it for not giving due importance to public health and stopping huge poll rallies. The prospect of an alarming increase in cases and casualties in the weeks to come is frightening. Hospitals are already overwhelmed and there is a shortage in oxygen supply. Patients in intensive care are dying in hundreds. As the death toll rises, cremation sites are running out of space. It is some comfort that foreign countries have extended support, including the supply of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and raw materials for vaccines. It is now imperative that we break the chain of transmission and improve health facilities. As for blanket lockdowns and curbs, their impact on the underprivileged population has to be borne in mind. The government should not take any unilateral measure without providing for their subsistence. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The front-page report on the latest Mann ki Baat address revealed volumes about the prime minister’s priorities. In his 4,732-words long speech, he mentioned the word, ‘oxygen’, only once. This, when the nation is reeling from the lack of oxygen. His decision to allow the pharmaceutical companies to set prices for the vaccines could lead to a disaster. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Play fair Sir — The Indian Premier League has been a great distraction from the pandemic, but is this what India truly needs at the moment? Several sportspersons have recently spoken up about this. After Adam Gilchrist questioned the necessity of holding the IPL at such a time, India’s premier marksman, Abhinav Bindra, has now expressed concern and encouraged the stakeholders to take responsible steps towards alleviating this crisis. Since it is unlikely that the games will be stopped, the IPL organizers would do well to donate the major part of the profits to Covid relief funds. Shamik Gupta,Calcutta Time for change Sir — Several private companies — especially ones in IT — have switched to alternative-working options, including staggered working hours and work-from-home system for almost all its employees owing to the coronavirus outbreak and the restrictions imposed in different states. This has been a welcome move since the pandemic is affecting public health and safety. This option should be further explored not only for times of crisis but also to combat air pollution and everyday traffic, which are common problems in an urban ecosystem. A people-friendly policy should now be framed to offer the work-from-home option even at government offices. Several government departments now use online programmes, such as eOffice, rather than actual paperwork. The government would thus go a long way to improve the productivity and efficiency of its employees if it successfully implemented a work-from-home strategy for all. Varun Dambal,Bangalore Sir — Even as the pandemic is raging and a part of the population has the privilege of working from home, several government sectors — bankers, for instance — are having to commute to work regularly. This becomes particularly risky since most people on public transport still refuse to adhere to safety protocols. Will the government think of a solution? Sweta Dasgupta,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||All quiet on Covid-19 second wave||Silence is desirable, silencing is best. The present Indian government has always loved this principle and now, as the country tries to fight a second wave of Covid-19 infections without enough oxygen, medicines, hospital beds and vaccines, silencing is the Narendra Modi-led government’s chief strategy. It has ordered Twitter to remove tweets critical of its handling of the crisis under the Information Technology Act, 2000 which blocks public access to information that would harm the integrity and sovereignty of India. Even at this hour of calamity, Mr Modi’s government is using the law to stifle critical questions and is busy identifying, by implication, the Bharatiya Janata Party with the country. Its ire against social media platforms is ironic; the BJP employs them systematically for attack and propaganda. A further irony is the revival of Mr Modi’s own tweet of seven years ago, where he could not bear the nation’s suffering and said that India needed a strong government. His strong government is now overseeing the nation suffering ungovernably. A strong government manifests its strength in many ways, including silencing. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, who had claimed there was no shortage of oxygen in his state when numerous hospitals are being forced to turn away Covid patients or discharge them for lack of oxygen supplies, has now ordered that any hospital that declares or complains of shortage will be penalized. Hiding the truth is all important, and it must be done with strident lies, derision and blame, often directed at the Opposition. In the Delhi High Court, where the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government charged the Centre with inaction regarding the uninterrupted and adequate supply of oxygen, the solicitor-general, Tushar Mehta, said that it should try not to be a cry-baby. The contempt and condescension in this expression may be the Centre’s way of expressing strength without action; remaining unperturbed amid the countrywide suffering, terror and largely preventable grief and loss may be its way of teaching the nation to be strong in adversity. No cry-babies allowed. And if that does not work, there are always prisons. The journalist, Siddique Kappan, suffering from Covid-19 after being arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act when travelling to Hathras, was discovered chained to his hospital bed. A strong government chooses its actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||The Chinese card in Afghanistan||The parallels with the early 1990s in Afghanistan are obvious. They’re also lazy and mask a more complex challenge for India and the world. With the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, announcing the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan by September 11 and Nato declaring that it will follow suit, some things are clear. The Taliban is almost certain to escalate violence against the democratically-elected government in Kabul, and it’s entirely possible that its assaults would help the militant group grab power. That cannot be good news for many in Afghanistan — especially its women and non-Pashtun communities. It’s also a particularly worrying scenario for India, which has for the most part steadfastly refused to engage in dialogue with the Taliban, a group that has long relied on financial and logistical support from Pakistan’s military. But while the situation bears close similarities to Afghanistan 30 years ago, there’s one key difference that could help or hurt New Delhi: the role of China. The withdrawal of the Soviet Union from Afghanistan in 1989 left the government of Mohammad Najibullah vulnerable in Kabul. A civil war ensued, the government collapsed in 1992, and in the chaos that followed, the Taliban emerged as the most powerful player, taking Kabul. The militant group was virulently opposed to India, Iran and Russia. And even though the group emerged from the mujahideen that the US helped create in Afghanistan, relations between the Taliban and Washington plummeted through the 1990s, especially after the militants gave shelter to Osama bin Laden. Pakistan emerged as the nation with the most influence in Afghanistan, since it held the Taliban’s puppet — and purse — strings. Three decades later, Russia and Iran have also built ties with the Taliban, and it’s unclear whether the government of President Ashraf Ghani is destined to collapse the way Najibullah’s did. But the biggest difference lies in the surprising player that today wields the greatest clout in Afghanistan, even if it does so quietly. In fact, China is the only nation that commands influence over all the factions battling for the future of Afghanistan. Beijing is now the largest foreign investor there, making it a critical partner for the Ghani government as it tries to build an economy amid a never-ending war. That includes a $3 billion lease for a giant copper mine in Aynak, some 32 miles southeast of Kabul. China had originally omitted Afghanistan from its Belt and Road Initiative, a grand network of railroads, ports and highways connecting Southeast Asia and South Asia to Europe and Africa. But it has since pivoted, with plans now for branches that will extend out from the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the marquee project of the BRI, into Afghanistan. At the same time, China has been cementing its relations with the Taliban and its friends like the Haqqani network. It has hosted Taliban leaders, including in 2019, when it helped broker a deal between the militant group and America. Like the Afghan government, the Taliban needs investments, infrastructure and jobs in the parts of the country it controls. China offers them these in return for a working relationship in which the Taliban ignores Beijing’s human rights abuses against its Muslim Uighur minority in Xinjiang. China’s growing interest in Afghanistan can also be gleaned from its intelligence operations in that country. Last December, Afghan officials intercepted a Chinese spy ring that was coordinating with the Haqqani network to track and target Uighur separatists in Afghanistan. Crucially, Beijing’s influence isn’t restricted to the key players within Afghanistan. It is also the principal economic benefactor of both Pakistan and Iran, Afghanistan’s two largest neighbours. China has been by far the biggest foreign investor in Pakistan for a while. And earlier this year, it announced a $400 million investment in Iran, while also continuing to purchase Tehran’s oil despite US sanctions. That clout will prove useful in Afghanistan too. Neither Islamabad nor Tehran can afford to upset Beijing, which can count on them to use their contacts and influence to put pressure on the Taliban and other militias to stay in line. In effect, China — unlike the Soviet Union in the 1980s and the US since 2001 — might not need a large physical presence in Afghanistan to wield similar influence because unlike those other powers, it isn’t seen as the enemy by any major player in the country. Intuitively, a longer Chinese shadow over Afghanistan isn’t great for India. But look carefully and you’ll find key areas where the interests of New Delhi and Beijing align. Like India, China wants Afghanistan to serve as a gateway to the landlocked Central Asian republics. Like India, China too will not want a civil war or terrorism in Afghanistan, as that will disrupt its economic operations there and call into question its BRI projects in that country. In 2018, India and China had taken baby steps towards cooperating on Afghanistan, jointly training officials from that country. Subsequent border tensions brought that partnership to a screeching halt. It’s in India’s interests to revive that dialogue. For four decades, Afghanistan has been a proxy theatre for brutal global and regional power struggles with America, Russia, Pakistan, Iran, China and India all jostling for control. Now there’s an opportunity for Afghanistan to bring the two bitter rivals together. New Delhi and Beijing must seize the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||Breaking the thermometer||It’s best to state this simply: Narendra Modi needs to go. Amit Shah needs to go. Ajay Mohan Bisht aka Yogi Adityanath needs to go. The bunch of integrity-free incompetents Mr Modi has gathered around him as his ministers all need to go. In order for the country to launch the mammoth operation of recovery and repair needed for our survival, the departure of these people from positions of power needs to happen immediately — tomorrow is too late, yesterday would have been better. When Mr Modi took oath as prime minister in May 2014, he did so adorned with the many different capes and scarves of hope draped on him by various worshippers and admirers. Waving away the sceptics and objectors who had old-fashioned attachments to secularism, human rights and economic justice, the believers revelled in the proud strutting of their messiah. Remember the proclamations of the core followers and the newly converted, many coming from the man himself. Modi doesn’t eat or let anyone eat (he’s not corrupt and doesn’t allow anyone else to be corrupt). He may drive over some pesky minorities but he’ll steer us to genuine progress. Human rights and ecological protections are barriers to ease of doing business and turning India into an economic powerhouse; real human rights will be experienced by the millions he raises out of poverty. In the first days of Modi-rule, you constantly heard gushing praise: he may not be educated but he’s got a phenomenal ability to grasp things; whatever you say, boss, but Gujarati efficiency is something else; his stamina is just amazing; he hardly sleeps and that’s put a fire under the seats of the bureaucrats — the babus are now punctual, the files are moving so fast; here is a man with a vision and focus; look how warmly and directly he connects with world figures; he can deal with Pakistan and China from a position of strength; they recognize they can’t mess with him like they could with the weaklings previously in charge. Over seven years, even as Mr Modi has preened in name-embroidered suits and plumed headgear, the virtually projected garments have fallen off him, one by one. Even as his ‘brand expansion’ has grown to mind-boggling levels, his promises have crashed and burned. Under this regime, corruption has been rocketed into another dimension, so much so that the word itself becomes inadequate to describe the massive network of interlocking institutional lying and criminal law-bending. Over seven years, lunatic servility to oligarchic interests along with other monumental cock-ups has played havoc with our economy. Under Mr Modi’s leadership, we have been made a laughing stock by Pakistan with the famed Balakot bombing raid on a clump of trees and the capture of our pilot; and we have been repeatedly humiliated by China. And, now, finally, despite having had a year to shore up the basic defences against the biggest natural calamity faced by independent India, we are on our knees, physically and mentally. The full roster of this regime’s intentional and unintentional misgovernance will become horrific lore in the annals of history. In any democracy worth the name, just one of these two botch-ups — the demonetization fiasco and the floundering response to Chinese aggression and the ensuing cover-up — would have led to the fall of a government. That this did not happen is due to a much greater malfeasance. If Mr Modi and Mr Shah have had efficiency, stamina and detailed focus towards anything, it is in the deliberate and relentless hollowing out of democracy itself. It is now beyond doubt that the messiah and his chief acolyte came to power in 2014 with one aim and one aim only: to turn India into an autocratic Hindu rashtra, bolstering and, in turn, bolstered by few big business houses. For the imperatives of international optics and internal misdirection, this was to be executed while maintaining the fake image of a functioning democracy. In a stadium owned by a dictator you may have the ritual of a game between two teams, but in reality only the dictator’s team can win. Mr Modi and Mr Shah have worked towards a hostile takeover of the stadium of Indian Democracy from the day they assumed power in 2014. To aid in this project, you had the obsessive attention to image-management via the co-opting of large sections of the media, then you had robbery in broad daylight in the shape of the electoral bonds, and then you had the unprecedented, brazen weaponization of the investigative agencies in the open service of the ruling party. All this was crowned by the mysteriously consistent reluctance of the Supreme Court in checking various actions of the Union Government or its agencies. The deliberate spreading of distrust and hatred among people of different religions, the banana republic hijacking and the lockdown of Kashmir, the grotesque NRC/CAA ‘laws’, the Ayodhya Ram Mandir ‘judgment’, the Bhima-Koregaon arrests, which many convincingly argue are mala fide, were all dependent on this creeping, toxic fungus-like encompassing of the institutions of the State. What the fungus was not expecting was a deadly attack from a virus. I read somewhere that the recent blocking of critical Twitter accounts by the government means that it realizes it has failed to discharge its duties. To which one could say that this government never intended to discharge what millions of us regard as its duties. It simply took the pandemic as an extremely useful tool gifted to it by the gods, a tool it could use to further its agenda — to stifle dissent, to topple Opposition state governments, to ‘win’ elections. Now, when things are spiralling tragically out of control, the government’s main concern — yet again — seems to be about managing perceptions. The French have a saying, ‘Breaking the thermometer to bring down the fever.’ We are where we are today because of this trail of broken thermometers. And because of this, if nothing else, Mr Modi and Mr Shah need to go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man dies at gate of Sadar hospital, committee set up to probe matter||Bokaro: The district health department on Wednesday set up a high level inquiry committee in connection with the death of a 36-year-old man who died battling for life on the floor of the main entrance at Sadar Hospital on Monday night. Virendra Singh, the brother of the deceased, Surendra Singh, alleged that due to the negligence of the hospital and lack of timely treatment, his brother lost his life. Due to a shortage of beds in the hospital, oxygen was given to Singh while he lying on the floor outside the hospital. However, neither a doctor nor a nurse came forward to administer any treatment. Civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak said, “We have set up a three-member inquiry committee, which will investigate the incident related to death of Singh lying on floor at Sadar Hospital premises, and will submit report within three days, following which necessary action will be taken.” Chief minister Hemant Soren has expressed concern over the incident. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: CPM district secretary Ganesh Citu on Wednesday carried an oxygen cylinder on his shoulders to the Hazaribagh medical college’s Covid ward as the hospital is facing a staff crunch during the second wave of the pandemic. The patient for whom Citu carried the cyclinder was admitted in the morning but received the cylinder in the afternoon. Barhi SDM Dr Tarachand urged residents to join the hospital as volunteers as doctors and frontline health workers are testing positive for the virus. “Be a part of our team at this toughest period,” he said. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: NTPC has allocated Rs.53 lakh to develop a 15 bed ICU facility at the community health centre in Tandwa besides the installation of a pipeline for supply of oxygen. NTPC's decision comes after deputy commissioner Divanshu Jha and its executive director Asim Kumar Goswami signed a MoU for this purpose. Goswami said this facility will be a milestone in fighting the virus and providing best healthcare facilities to people during this tough period. The district administration has decided to increase oxygen supported beds at the Covid ward of the polytechnic college. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Director (Personnel) of BCCL, P.V.K.R.M. Rao on Wednesday carried out an inspection of BCCL Nursing institute at Central Hospital of Dhanbad and provided hand gloves, masks and sanitisers to around 100 nursing students of the institute. Rao informed  that the BCCL management has purchased a total of 50 jumbo size D type oxygen cylinders which were installed at the Covid treatment centre of the Central Hospital. The BCCL Health Department organised a Covid vaccination camp at Koyla Bhavan on Wednesday for company employees and their family members during which 76 individuals were vaccinated. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi residents complain against open cremations of Covid victims||Residents of Ghagra locality have asked district and civic authorities to limit the number of open cremations of Covid victims citing risk of infection  and asked them to set up at least  at least two electric crematoriums in Ranchi. Dheeraj Kumar, the treasurer of the Advocates’ Association of Jharkhand High Court, said in a letter to the deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner on Wednesday that at least 50,000 residents were living in the Ghagra locality of Namkum and were being impacted by the daily cremations. “Due to excessive burning of bodies of Covid patients in the Ghagra cremation site, the rate of infection has increased in the locality and a lot and people have started dying due to Covid,” he claimed in the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to chief minister Hemant Soren. In the letter, Kumar accused Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) staff and people attending the last rites of throwing medical waste in the open,thereby risking the wellbeing of local residents. The Ranchi district administration fixed  Ghagra site in Namkum for cremation of Covid victims after the electric crematorium at Harmu Mukti Dham broke down due to overuse. On an average, at least 60 bodies of Covid victims are cremated every day at Ghagra as the pandemic has wreaked havoc in Ranchi, leading to an unprecedented rise in cases and casualties. Kumar's letter addressed to senior officials on Wednesday is the first complaint against open cremation of bodies of Covid victims in Ranchi. Kumar  has asked the administration to look for a location away from human habitation to cremate bodies of Covid patients. “Shift the place of cremation, otherwise there is danger to the Namkum bridge due to continuous exposure to heat and fire,” the letter stated. “The burning of bodies during night should also be stopped, and there should be a proper mechanism in place to ensure that all the medical waste is disposed of safely and away from the human population,” it further stated. In the past one week, Ranchi has reported at least 306 Covid fatalities and almost all these bodies were cremated at the Ghagra site. Despite fewer casualties reported during the first wave of the pandemic last year, many Ranchi residents had protested against cremation of Covid  victims close to their localities, fearing transmission of virus. Earlier this month, the health department directed deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts of Jharkhand to ensure respectful and timely cremation of Covid victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Lockdown blow to civic projects as migrant labourers leave ||The rapid increase in Covid cases and statewide lockdown has impacted the ongoing development projects of Dhanbad as migrant labourers engaged in them have returned to their native places at Bokaro, Ranchi and Bihar. An eight lane road widening project worth Rs 411 crore and construction work of a park at Liloristhan in Katras have been impacted with lack of skilled labourers. The highway project, a brain child of former mayor Dhanbad Chandrashekhar Agarwal, is aimed at diverting the traffic on the By pass road and thereby decreasing the load on existing internal roads of Dhanbad. M.K. Verma, project in charge of the eight lane project being executed with the help of the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, said,“Though around 23% of the project has already been completed but the work has been affected in one half of project from Kako Math to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk since about a week as some skilled labourers working on the project  have left to their places since the imposition of lockdown.” ‘The work on another half of the project between Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk to Gol Building, however, is going on unaffected” said Verma. The work on the eight lane project, being carried out through two different contractors - Tribeni Construction Limited for one half from Kakto Math in Katras to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk and another part of 8.30 km being executed through Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd – was suspended for more than five months between June to November last year due to a probe carried out by the state government. The second wave of the pandemic has also affected the Rs 316 crore water supply infrastructure development work of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. Executive engineer of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, Indresh Shukla said, “Though the project is going on at a moderate pace but we also could not accelerate the pace due to lack of labourers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Rain and thunderstorm to kill heat wave in Jharkhand ||Most places across Jharkhand which has been experiencing extreme heat with day's reading hovering over an oppressive 40 degree Celsius for the last few days can hope for a respite. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued an alert of rain and thunderstorm activity in northern, southern and central Jharkhand for three days from Thursday. "Jharkhand is under the influence of two weather systems. A north-south trough runs from east Bihar to south coastal Odisha at 1.5 km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar and adjoining eastern Uttar Pradesh extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. The twin systems would trigger widespread thundershowers across Jharkhand for three days from Thursday, "said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather was prevalent over Jharkhand for the last few days. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas have been witnessing over 42°C, three notches above normal for the last two days. Weathermen said a moderate heat wave condition was prevailing in some pockets of southern Jharkhand. Palamau headquarters, Daltonganj, was also witnessing extreme temperatures of around 42°C for the past two days. Statistics revealed that most places across Jharkhand including Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Pakur, Dumka, Deoghar, Koderma, Simdega and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum have been registering 40 °C and above for the last two days. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and its adjoining areas was hovering around 38-39°C for the last 48 hours. IMD's Patna Met Centre and the regional office at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand for three to four days from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal hunting festival 'Sendra' cancelled for second time ||The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity, a frontal outfit of tribals, on Wednesday cancelled Bishu Shikar or Sendra for the second consecutive year in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Sendra was scheduled to be held at Dalma wildlife sanctuary on May 24. However, in keeping with the tradition, tribals will only perform puja. DBSS chief priest, Rakesh Hembrom said it would not be a wise idea to go ahead with the hunting festival when Jharkhand and the entire country is in the grip of the virus. “We would only perform puja at Fadlugora village on the foothills of the Dalma hills. We are unanimous in our decision to cancel the festival,” he added. According to him, their tribal brethrens from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha will not be coming for Sendra in view of the pandemic. “Moreover, the Dalma wildlife sanctuary is also closed due to the surge in Covid cases. A few of us will just perform customary puja in the name of Sendra,” Hembrom added. Apart from Jharkhand, tribals from Bengal and Odisha assemble at the sanctuary to hunt animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding cancellations wreak havoc on small traders ||Marriage cancellations due to rise in Covid cases and state wide regulations have impacted cosmetic and puja paraphernalia retailers’ business in Dhanbad. The marriage season scheduled between April 19 and July 15 was expected to bring the sales up for over 2000 shop owners, who were already reeling from losses from last year’s lockdown. The huge stock procured by them is lying unsold because of the cancellations. Cosmetic jewellery shop owners have expressed that their stocks will be rendered useless in a couple of months as trends and designs are always evolving. Rinku Kumar Goswami, a cosmetic retailer of Hirapur Hatia, said, “More than 20 thousand marriages were scheduled in Dhanbad during the four month long lagan season from April to July but 80% of these marriages have been cancelled owing to the aggravated Covid situation as well as imposition of lockdown.” “We had suffered worse days during the last year due to the imposition of lockdown as almost no marriages were held during the last year  and we were expecting to somehow compensate for losses of last year but it seems that this season may be worse,” said Goswami. “Since the situation was quite good in December 2020 and January 2021 and everything was limping back towards normalcy but nobody expected the situation to again deteriorate so fast and thus we have also made some brisk buying expecting some sale,” explained Goswami. Echoing Rinku’s sentiments, Manoj Goswami , a puja paraphernalia shop owner of Hirapur Hatia Market in Dhanbad said, “I have been operating my shop here since last 30 years but never witnessed such a dull season and the impact is more because it is preceded with another dull season of last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends ongoing lockdown till May 6||The Jharkhand government has extend ed the ongoing lockdown by another week till May 6 along with more restrictions on the movement of people and operation of markets. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who made the announcement on Wednesday while inaugurating a 40- bed Covid hospital on Ratu Road, said, “Considering the Covid-19 situation, we have decided to extend the 'health safety week' by another week. So, the lockdown will now continue till May 6. A detailed order about the dos and donts will follow later in the day. But broadly it has been decided to cut down timings of markets.” Until now shops and other trade establishments that did not come under the purview of the lockdown were allowed to function till 8pm, except medical services and pharmacies. A few key sectors like agriculture, mining, construction etc were also allowed to function during Phase 1 of the health safety week. All religious places were allowed to stay open but entry of devotees was banned. “Now, everything except some basic essential services will be functional only till 2pm. We will provide a one-hour window till 3pm for movement of people to their homes,” he explained. Movement of people associated with essential services—mainly healtcare and medical — will be allowed provided people carry legitimate prescriptions or other documents, sources said. They clarified that all kinds of shops, selling grocery, vegetables and liquor, will also be closed after 2pm. Hemant convened a meeting of the state disaster management authority around noon on Wednesday after which it was decided to extend the ongoing health safety week scheduled to end on Thursday. Notably, all major parties and the Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industries were in favour of extending the lockdown in the wake of spiralling Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On Tuesday, the Congress, a member of the ruling alliance government, had formally demanded the extension of the lockdown while the JMM, the leader of the coalition, and the Opposition BJP both supported a more stringent lockdown to tackle the crisis. The active Covid-19 caseload breached the 50,000-mark for the first time in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the state reported at least 131 recoveries – the highest reported in a day since the pandemic hit Jharkhand in March last year. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6020 fresh cases against 4247 recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 51,252 on Tuesday. The Covid toll also jumped to 2246 on the day, the bulletin revealed. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh cases and casualties on Tuesday. As per the NHM bulletin, the district reported 61 of the 131 casualties and 1574 of the 6000-odd cases on the day, which took the toll here to 702 and the active caseload up at 17,060.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||State's active caseload breaches 50,000 mark as over 6,000 patients test positive for Covid||The active Covid-19 caseload breached the 50,000-mark for the first time in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the state reported at least 131 recoveries – the highest reported in a day since the pandemic hit Jharkhand in March last year. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6020 fresh cases against 4247 recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 51,252 on Tuesday. The Covid toll also jumped to 2246 on the day, the bulletin revealed. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh cases and casualties on Tuesday. As per the NHM bulletin, the district reported 61 of the 131 casualties and 1574 of the 6000-odd cases on the day, which took the toll here to 702 and the active caseload up at 17,060. As per government data, East Singhbhum reported 992 cases against 706 recoveries and 14 casualties on the day. Tuesday’s developments took the active caseload in the district to 6,424 and the Covid toll to 548. Among other districts, Ramgarh reported a spike of 301 cases while at least 275 people were found infected in Bokaro. As many as 584 Hazaribag residents tested positive for the viral infection of the day and at least six Covid patients died there. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 32,061 residents and around 20 per cent of them were found infected. As per government records, over 2.13 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 74.93 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid infection reached 2.68 per cent on the day against the national average of 1.46 per cent, while the doubling rate rose to 26.21 days against the national average of 47.81 days, NHM stated in its bulletin. With more than 100 casualties reported daily for the past four day, the Covid mortality rate in the state also jumped closer to the national average on Tuesday. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.05 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. While cases soared and rise in daily casualties continued to haunt Jharkhand residents, the vaccination programme against Covid-19 also did not get a positive response on Tuesday. As per government data, as many as 12,921 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine on the day in Jharkhand, while at least 8980 beneficiaries got the second dose as well. The state achieved 21 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccine and hardly 3 per cent for the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
28-04-2021||Jharkhand||Scooter ride from ICU for Covid test||At a time when hospitals across the country are gasping for oxygen cylinders, vaccines and antiviral, a video has come to light that apparently shows a medical centre in Jharkhand has run out of even stretchers. The video which was shared widely on social media on Monday evening purportedly shows two brothers wheeling out their father admitted in the ICU of Medinirai Medical College and Hospital in Palamau district of Jharkhand on a scooter for a Covid test in the absence of stretchers or trolleys to shift the patient into an ambulance. “The patient, Ram Prasad, 55, was admitted on Sunday in the ICU of the hospital. He was supposed to be taken for Covid test on Monday at the testing centre which is nearly 250 metres from the block housing the ICU. “The patient’s relatives had been waiting since morning to take him for the Covid test. But their patience ran out in the evening as they failed to get a stretcher or trolley. One of them brought their scooter inside the ward and made the patient sit between the two persons and then took him for Covid test on the vehicle,” said a hospital staff. Sources said the two brothers were anxious to get their father’s Covid test done as it was mandatory for starting the treatment. “They were anxious as without the Covid test report, necessary treatment of the patient could not be started. This made them rush their father to the testing centre after failing to get a stretcher or trolley man to shift him,” said the staff. The Medinirai Medical College and Hospital was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 with an intake capacity of 100 students. Hospital superintendent Dr N.K. Singh assured of a proper investigation into the incident. “We are crippled with manpower shortage as several grade IV staff have tested positive for Covid-19. We will examine the CCTV footage of the incident and also find out the trolleyman deputed during that period. Suitable action will be taken against guilty staff,” said Dr Singh. State health minister Banna Gupta, however, was furious after watching the video. “I saw the video on Tuesday afternoon. Let me tell you it is very shameful and unacceptable. Merely passing the buck to grade IV staff would not do. The higher-ups need to answer how this happened. I have asked for an inquiry into the entire thing,” said Gupta. Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan, however, tried to downplay the incident. “We saw the video. After a preliminary probe, it was found that there were stretchers and ward boys present. But due to the absence of security guard, the persons managed to bring the scooter inside the hospital and took the patient for a Covid test. It is not a big issue as it is being made out to be,” said Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-69
