29-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling and police jostle for space at EVM collection centre||At a time Covid-19 cases are on an alarming rise across the city and its fringes, thousands of polling and police personnel jostled for space at Netaji Indoor Stadium to collect EVMs before being sent to polling stations in packed buses on Wednesday. In the afternoon, the inside of the stadium was a scary picture. Polling personnel stood cheek by jowl to collect the EVMs and other polling material including masks, sanitisers and gloves. Many who had gathered inside were not wearing masks, several had them hanging on their chins or from their ears and no distancing was maintained. There were big crowds both inside and outside the stadium. Inside, counters had been set up from where the EVMs and polling material were being distributed. There were also counters where the polling personnel had to register before collecting the items. There were serpentine queues leading to the registration counters and polling personnel were seen standing close to one another. Many were also seen laying out newspapers and having lunch huddled in groups. Some others had tucked their masks into their pockets to have lunch or tea and biscuits. No facilities to conduct temperature checks were seen at the entry points to the stadium. The main gate served as both the entry and exit point from the centre. No easily-visible facilities to wash or sanitise hands had been installed on the premises. After the polling personnel collected the EVMs and material, they stood in a long queue for buses that would ferry them to their respective polling stations. Nearly all the buses that left the stadium were crammed, leaving no chance for them to maintain distance. A presiding officer headed to a booth in Beleghata said that many of them were scared for themselves and for their families. “This is a very, very scary situation. The way it was crowded inside, leaving no space at all to maintain any social distancing, has put us at great risk. We are now boarding the buses with a prayer on our lips,” the officer said. Another polling official was seen recording the crowded scenes on his mobile phone. “It is very likely that I will get Covid as the situation here is unprecedented and grim. I want to show my family members how we collected the items. I have already asked my wife to go to my in-laws’ place and stay there for a few days because I don’t want to take a risk,” said the official headed to a booth in Shyampukur. EVMs and polling material for seven Assembly constituencies in Calcutta North, including Maniktala, Beleghata, Entally, Chowringhee, Jorasanko and others, were distributed at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Government allots 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines for private hospitals for second jab||The Bengal government has decided to allot one lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals in the city so the second jab could be given to those who had taken their first at the private units. Officials said the 1 lakh-odd people who have taken their first dose at private hospitals will have their second shot due from May 1. As the private hospitals were supposed to return all vaccine doses post-April 30, following a directive by the Centre, there were confusions and anxiety whether these one lakh people would get their second dose. “We are aware of the anxiety over the issue. We have decided to allot the required number of doses to the private hospitals post-April 30 so they can administer the second jab,” said a senior government official. Sources in the health department also said the government would allot the doses free of cost and the hospitals could collect a service charge from recipients. “Majority of the private hospitals are carrying out vaccination for people over 45 years of age at Rs 250 a dose. Of which, the hospitals were paying Rs 150 for each dose and collecting Rs 100 as service charge. This time, the hospitals will be given the doses for free. So, they will only be allowed to collect the service charge,” an official said. Sources said the decision was taken after the state came to know that the doses to be returned by private hospitals after April 30 would go to the respective state governments. “So, we will have enough doses to supply to the private hospitals. And the private hospitals will not be charged for the doses as the state government has promised to provide vaccines for free,” a source said. The state government will fix a venue for each private hospital where the second dose can be administered. “For example, AMRI Salt Lake can be given a facility at the Salt Lake stadium,” the source said. The government has also decided to write to the Centre expressing its wish to buy a few crore doses to carry out a free vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||CoWin portal crashes ‘under load’||“No Vaccination Centre is available for booking” – flashed on the screen of hundreds of Calcuttans aged between 18 and 44 years who were hoping to book their Covid-19 jab slots through the Centre’s Co-WIN portal. Registration on Co-WIN of people of ages between 18 and 44 opened at 4pm on Wednesday and they will be eligible for the doses from May 1 (May 5 in Bengal). Many complained that the website crashed and they could not register at all and many said it took them several attempts to get through because of delay in getting the One Time Password on their phones. Those who could finally register said they were greeted with the message “No Vaccination Centre is available for booking” on the screen. A state health department official said they had received a number of complaints about not being able to register on the portal. “We have spoken to the Centre several times on the issue. They are trying to fix it. A large number of people tried to log into the system at the same time. That could be a reason for the problem,” he said. “I failed to enter the system twice as it was taking more than 10 minutes to get the OTP. After I finally registered, I could not locate any date or vaccination centre. One of my friends in Delhi managed to get options for hospitals and dates,” said a 23-year-old techie in Calcutta. A tweet from Aarogya Setu at 4.35pm – an app from where people could link to Co-WIN – confirmed a glitch in the Co-WIN portal around 4pm, when the registration for people between 18 and 44 opened. “Cowin Portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4PM that was fixed. 18 plus can register,” the tweet read. The Centre’s announcements that people between 18 and 44 can be vaccinated from May 1 had raised hopes in many who have to step out for work risking infection. Sabah Rahman, a teacher who lives in Gariahat, had registered for herself, her husband and siblings but could not schedule a slot for any of them. “I could not see any available date till July. The calendar is not scrolling down beyond that,” said the Gariahat resident. Rahman’s 83-year-old father-in-law and 74-year-old mother-in-law are fully vaccinated against Covid. The Co-WIN portal allows a registered user to check availability of slots at various vaccination centres by searching through the PIN or the district. Sampurna Mukherjee, a student, said she could register and spot the names of some vaccination centres in Howrah but could not find any slot for the 18-44 age group. Several private hospitals said despite the central government’s announcement to start the vaccination drive for people aged between 18 and 44 years from May 1, they were unable to commit any dates for at least the next few days. Rupak Barua, group CEO , AMRI Hospitals, said: “We are not taking any booking till May 5. Once clarity emerges about the availability of vaccines, we will update accordingly.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said: “We are telling people to wait or go to a government hospital because we are not sure when we will receive doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Uncertainty fuels second-jab rush||Several private hospitals in the city stopped offering slots for administering the first dose of a Covid vaccine on Thursday and Friday and some even failed to confirm appointments for the second dose as they are booked to the limit. Covid vaccination centres are witnessing a sudden rush as many fear they won’t be able to get vaccinated in May. The Centre has said all private healthcare facilities have to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers from May. Private clinical establishments fear they may not get enough doses next month. This uncertainty has led to people queuing up at hospitals for the jab. What has added to the uncertainty, and contributed to the queue, is the health department’s advice to hospitals to give priority to second dose recipients. “We are not accepting any bookings for the first dose on Thursday and Friday. We will vaccinate second dose recipients,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital. “There are many who are scheduled to get their second dose in May and they are calling us to know the status. We are telling them to contact us in the first week of May. We are also telling them that it will depend on whether we receive doses,” said Mitra. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, said the hospital would administer Covid vaccines only to second dose recipients on Thursday and Friday. “About 95 per cent of the recipients at our hospital on Wednesday were second dose recipients. We will only vaccinate second dose recipients on Thursday and Friday. If there are some doses left after administering all second doses, we will give them to first dose recipients,” said Roy. The picture was identical at Belle Vue Clinic, which administered 640 doses on Wednesday. Only 20 of these were first doses. There were very long queues outside almost all Covid vaccination centres in the city. Hundreds had queued up outside SSKM Hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC)-run Covid vaccination centres, too, had very long queues outside. Angry and agitated people, forced to stand for hours for the jab, were shouting outside a CMC clinic in Kasba. Ananda Lal, a retired professor of English, said his wife had set out at 7am on Wednesday. All vaccination centres she went to had hundreds already in the queue. “We were supposed to get the second dose of Covaxin on April 13. The majority of vaccination centres are not administering Covaxin. The few that are still administering it are running out of doses in a couple of hours,” said Lal. “It is distressing to see such a situation in the 21st century. It is not possible for those in the queue to maintain a 6ft distance from each other if there are hundreds in the queue. Some of those in the queue could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus and others could get infected. Imagine the plight of people who are frail and who are in their 70s and 80s,” said Lal, 65. Munmun Purohit, 53, who went to Belle Vue Clinic for her second dose, said the vaccination site was packed with people and it was not possible to maintain physical distancing. “The government has mismanaged the logistics. They are not being able to provide enough doses. Now that I have got my second dose, I am feeling that I have won a war,” she said. Officials managing vaccination centres said the steep rise in Covid numbers and the uncertainty over availability of vaccines in May had led to the rush. “The demand has far surpassed the supply and that is causing the chaos,” said an official. Case count Bengal on Wednesday recorded 17,207 new infections, 77 deaths and 11,933 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.05 lakh. Of the 77 deaths, 22 were reported from Calcutta and 16 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,821 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,778. The recovery rate fell to 85.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Cossipore, where development vow is pitted against polarisation cry||An Assembly constituency that marks the northern end of Calcutta is a mirror to the city’s diversity. Ratan Babu Road merges seamlessly into Rustomjee Parsee Road. An affluent Bengali neighbourhood leads to a large slum adjoining a mosque. Cossipore-Belgachhia has around 2.3 lakh voters, comprising Bengali and Hindi-speaking communities and people from different faiths who have lived peacefully for years. In the run-up to the elections, the area has been witnessing attempts to create an environment of communal polarisation. On April 23, a clash had broken out between residents and BJP supporters allegedly led by Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and Cossipore-Belgachhia’s BJP candidate Shibaji Singha Roy. The BJP IT cell head, Amit Malviya, had tweeted on the incident, saying Singha Roy and Singh “were attacked by members of Mamata Banerjee’s vote bank”. The Trinamul candidate from Cossipore-Belgachhia, Atin Ghosh, a former deputy mayor of Calcutta and a veteran leader of the ruling party in north Calcutta, wants to counter the polarisation narrative with an agenda of development. In the second week of April, Ghosh had released an election manifesto for his constituency and said it was a “promise in writing” of the things he would deliver if elected. Individual candidates releasing manifestos ahead of an election is not common. Some of the deliverables in the manifesto are converting open drains on either side of BT Road, between the Tallah bridge and Sinthee More, into underground ones and building footbridges at Chiria More, Sinthee More and at the intersection of Dum Dum Road and Raja Manindra Road. “Communal polarisation will not work here. I know because I have visited every single house in the constituency during the campaigning. None of my opponents has done that,” Ghosh told this newspaper. Other than Singha Roy, Ghosh’s opponents include the CPM’s Pratip Dasgupta. Trinamul’s Mala Saha had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls. She had defeated the Left Front’s Kaninika Bose by 25,810 votes. Cossipore-Belgachhia is part of the Calcutta North Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul’s Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who had won from Calcutta North, was ahead of the BJP’s Rahul Sinha in the Cossipore-Belgachhia segment by 13,592 votes. “Atin Ghosh has rich administrative experience. He has been a member of the mayoral council for a decade. He has been a councillor (from Ward 11) since 1985. His opponents don’t have a fraction of his credibility,” said a north Calcutta councillor and part of Ghosh’s election team. A resident of Ratan Babu Road in Ward 1 of the CMC said Ghosh was a clear favourite to win the seat. “But he needs to do more work, like focussing on the pathetic condition of North Suburban Hospital,” said the senior citizen who used to work as a manager in an automobile servicing unit. “A pipe supplying treated water to our ward had a leak three months ago. It was fixed recently, after multiple appeals to local leaders.” Cossipore and Belgachhia were CPM bastions before Trinamul wrested them. The CPM’s Dasgupta, a former Calcutta unit secretary of the DYFI, attributed the rise in the BJP’s vote share in 2019 to “an extremely polarised atmosphere”. This time, he said, the battle was far from over. “During the lockdown, we stood by the underprivileged sections 24X7. People have realised who their true well wishers are,” he said. Singha Roy, the BJP candidate, refused to accept Ghosh as a “heavyweight”. “People are fed up with Trinamul’s syndicate culture. There are no jobs for youth. They have destroyed the industrial belt along the Hooghly in Cossipore. Modiji’s Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is the only way forward,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Two riders killed in accident on VIP Road||Two men were killed after a government bus rammed into a couple of two-wheelers near the Haldiram’s intersection on VIP Road near Chinar Park on Wednesday. The bus as well as the two-wheelers were heading towards Ultadanga from the airport, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “The bus was travelling at high speed and it first hit a bike and then a scooter,” the officer said. Both the two-wheelers were flung towards the left side of the road upon impact and all the riders fell on the road. Baranagar resident Nayanaditya Kundu was riding the bike and Biyas Ghosh was on the pillion seat. The scooter also had two riders — Arjunpur resident Pintu Saha and his friend Kishan Roy was riding pillion. Kundu and Roy suffered head injuries and lost consciousness before they were taken to the Barasat sub-divisional hospital where they were declared dead. “Both the men had lost a lot of blood and were not conscious when they were brought in,” a doctor of the hospital said. All the riders were wearing helmets but Kundu’s had come off on the impact, a police officer said. Ghosh who also suffered injuries was taken to the Charnock Hospital off VIP Road near Chinar Park where she received treatment for her injuries. “She has received multiple stitches,” said an official of the Charnock Hospital. Babu Saha, an autorickshaw driver who was waiting for passengers on the service lane of VIP Road when the accident occurred, said the bus had been speeding and the driver had made no attempt to brake before it hit the two-wheelers. Police later intercepted the bus and arested the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College brings forward last day of classes||St Xavier’s College has brought forward the last day of classes for arts and science students to May 10 from May 20 “in order to give some breathing space to the students in the present Covid-situation”. A notice issued by Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, on Wednesday said: “Because of the same consideration the Last Class Day for B.Ed semester 2 is being brought forward to 10th May instead of 29th May.” The notice was issued a day after the college deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are “struggling to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”. Details of the semesters for which the last day of classes has been brought forward have been given in the notice. Father Savio told Metro that the last day was being brought forward so the students did not have to remain preoccupied with attending classes at a time when many of them were encountering health emergencies in the family following a surge in Covid-19 cases. “Family members or parents of the students are testing positive. The students themselves are down with Covid-19 in some cases and are under a lot of strain. At a time like this, we don’t want to keep them preoccupied with attending classes and intend to give breathers to take care of other priorities,” he said. On an average, students are required to attend four or five online classes every day. The students also need additional time in this strenuous phase to prepare for the exams that were to begin from early May but have now been deferred, said Father Savio. “The alternative exam schedule will be announced soon,” he said. Does an early end to classes mean that courses would remain incomplete? An official of the college said the courses would be covered to a sufficient extent despite bringing forward the last day. “Ending classes early will also give some relief to the teachers, many of whom have tested positive for Covid-19 or have family members who have contracted the virus. They, too, are going through a lot of stress and need a breather,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||South Point School launches Covid helpline||South Point school has started a “Covid helpline” where parents or staff can raise a medical requirement on the school app, which the school will post for all the 25,000-odd users of the app to help mobilise resources during this crisis. The requirement could be on information regarding availability of hospital beds, ambulances, oxygen, medicines, blood/plasma donors, nursing care services, food supply and isolation/quarantine centres, the school said in a notice issued to all parents and staff on Wednesday. “The second wave of the Covid pandemic has hit the country very hard and has stretched all health resources thin....Simply depending on the government system in such a dire situation is perhaps not enough...South Point, a large educational institution, with thousands of families directly or indirectly connected to it, would like to be of assistance in these trying times...” said the notice from the school. The school has a student strength of 12,000 and 700 odd staff, all of who use the school app. “We should leverage our strength, which is our numbers, and allow our parents and teachers to use the platform and get the message across,” said trustee Krishna Damani. The “Covid helpline”, a new option on the school app, where the school will post all requests for help or information. The users who need any help or information will have to raise a ticket through the help desk, with their full name and mobile number, which will then be posted on the school app. The people who can help can then directly contact the person who has generated the request. The back office of the school will work on processing requests for 13 to 14 hours and the school said they would try to post requests within an hour of receiving them. However, requests coming between 9pm and 8am will be posted on the next day around 9am, the school said in the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur: Supreme Court panel takes up abuse complaint||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has taken suo-motu cognisance of the alleged “use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks” by an IIT Kharagpur teacher during an online class and asked the institute to submit an action-taken report within 15 days. The class on preparatory English was attended by students from underprivileged categories. A notice sent to the IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, by the commission’s director, administration, Ajit Kumar Sahu says: “Her (the teacher’s) remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community.” Repeated calls and text messages to the director and the accused teacher did not elicit any response. Registrar Tamal Nath had said on Tuesday: “We received a complaint from the students on Monday. The complaint is being looked into. If it is true, we will not support such behaviour.” On Wednesday, he said: “The process of investigation is on.” An associate professor of the humanities and social science department has been allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. In a purported video she allegedly called the students “bloody b*******”. The commission has intervened because there were Scheduled Castes students in the class, Sahu told Metro. “The chairman of the commission, Vijay Sampla, went through the video circulated on social media and he felt disturbed after listening to the way the learned teacher was verbally abusing the students. He asked me to take suo-motu cognisance of the unparliamentary language and casteist remarks. Accordingly, a notice has been sent to the institute on Tuesday,” he said. The notice has been also copied to the chief secretary of Bengal; director-general of police, Bengal; and the secretary in the Union ministry of education. The notice says the commission has decided to “investigate/inquire into the matter” in pursuance of the power conferred upon it under Article 338 of the Constitution. “You are hereby requested to submit the action taken within 15 days of the receipt of the notice either by fax/post/email in person in the following format,” the notice says. The format mentions filing of an FIR, slapping of relevant sections on the accused and arrest of the accused, among other things. Sahu said the commission said the institute could think of lodging a police complaint under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. after probing the complaint. “Under this act, no one can make casteist remarks. If they don’t do this, they have to inform the commission why this has not been done. If required the commission can lodge a police complaint,” Sahu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
29-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher on F&O expiry||Market benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher as monthly derivatives expired on Thursday amid a largely positive trend in global equities. After gyrating 840 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index finished 32.10 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 49,765.94. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 30.35 points or 0.20 per cent to 14,894.90. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, HDFC, HCL Tech and L&T were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded mostly in positive territory amid high volatility on futures and options (F&O) expiry. Notably, benchmark Nifty breached 15,000 levels during initial hours, but it could not sustain to those levels, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Metal stocks were in focus on account of sustained price increase in ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Further, Reliance Industries remained in focus for second consecutive day ahead of 4QFY21 results. Barring metals, financials and pharma, most of the key sectoral indices were in red, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Bourses in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.36 per cent higher at USD 67.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 600 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points in early trade on Thursday, driven by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Infosys amid a positive trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index reclaimed the 50,000-level and was trading 606.19 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 50,340.03 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 169.30 points or 1.14 per cent to 15,033.85. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Nestle India, HCL Tech and Sun Pharma were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex surged 789.70 points or 1.61 per cent to finish at 49,733.84, and Nifty jumped 211.50 points or 1.44 per cent to 14,864.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 766.02 crore on Wednesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought shares worth Rs 436.20 crore, according to provisional exchange data. V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services said, "the resilience of the market amidst the gloomy pandemic-related news has taken most market players by surprise." Nifty has gained more than 500 points during the last five trading sessions. "The favourable global market scenario is playing an important role in this vaccine-powered hope trade. The US Federal Reserve meet, as expected, has kept rates and the bond-buying program unchanged, reiterating the accommodative stance. Sustained bond-buying has the risk of higher asset price inflation in the market. "The localised lockdowns and curfews have not impacted industrial activity much but there is a downside risk to GDP growth and earnings estimates, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Bourses on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.33 per cent higher at USD 67 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Blackstone announces USD 5-million aid to help India fight the pandemic||The Wall Street-headquartered alternative investment management giant Blackstone, which has over USD 20 billion in live-investments in the country, on Wednesday announced a USD 5-million (close to Rs 40 crore) aid to help India to fight the raging coronavirus pandemic.  The announcement by Stephen A Schwarzman, the founder and chairman of the fund, comes on the heels of close to 40 major American companies committing millions of dollars to help the country fight the pandemic which has been topping the infection list globally for a week with daily caseload remaining above 3.25 lakh mark for almost a week now.  In a show of solidarity on Tuesday, heads of around 40 top American companies came together to create a global task force to mobilise resources to help fight the battle against the pandemic under the initiative of the US-India Business Council of the US Chambers of Commerce, and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and Business Roundtable.  A day before this, chief of Google and its parent Alphabet Sundar Pichai announced a Rs 135 crore assistance to the country, which was soon followed up by the Satya Nadella-headed Microsoft who did not quantify the funding.  Their commitments follow Sun Microsystems' co-founder Vinod Khosla on Saturday promising to help with a plane load of oxygen, and e-commerce major Amazon donating oxygen concentrators and other equipment to several hospitals.  American vaccine maker Gilead also announced a Rs 20-crore worth of 4.5 lakh Remdesivir vials to the country through its India clinical trials partner Klinera on Tuesday.  We are committing USD 5 million (around Rs 40 crore) to support India's coronavirus relief and vaccination efforts, Schwarzman told PTI from his New York headquarters this morning.  The assistance will be focused on providing and expanding healthcare services to the marginalised communities in rural and urban areas to tide over the impact of the pandemic, supporting frontline healthcare workers with PPEs and other essential supplies, he said.  The Blackstone chief executive also said a part of the money will also be used to address the severe shortage of oxygen concentrators and ventilators; and to assist vaccine education programmes as there is lot of vaccination hesistancy here, apart from assuring equitable distribution of vaccines as they become available.  India is facing an alarming crisis from the pandemic and I am profoundly concerned about its human impact. Blackstone has deep roots in India having entered the country way back in 2006.  We need to corral our resources to support India's relief and vaccination efforts at this critical time. The international community is grateful to the frontline workers who are putting in tremendous efforts on behalf of all Indians, Schwarzman added.  India is one of Blackstone's most successful investment destination with the market that has been giving it the highest returns. It has over USD 20 billion in live-investments in the country which is valued at over USD 40 billion now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||State Bank to raise $2bn in bonds this fiscal||State Bank, the country’s largest lender, said its central board in its meeting on Wednesday has approved raising up to $2 billion (around Rs 14,880 crore) through bonds this fiscal. The executive committee  has approved long term fund raising in single/multiple tranches through a public offer and /or private placement of senior unsecured notes in US dollar or any other convertible currency during 2021-22, SBI said. SBI shares closed at Rs 363.30 apiece on the BSE, up 2.95 per cent from the previous close. PowerGrid Infrastructure Investment Trust on Wednesday raised a little over Rs 3,480 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial public offer, which opens for subscription on Thursday. Meanwhile, infrastructure investment trust IndiGrid’s public issue of non-convertible debt securities has been subscribed nearly 10 times within hours of opening on Wednesday. The issue base size was of Rs 100 crore with a green shoe option of Rs 900 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Morepen board approves raising over Rs 433 crore||Drug firm Morepen Laboratories on Wednesday said its board has approved raising over Rs 433 crore through the issue of shares to Switzerland’s private venture capital firm Corinth Investment Holdings and Liquid Holdings, a promoter group of the company, on a preferential basis. “The board of directors of the company considered and approved the issue and allotment of up to 10.85 crore equity shares on a preferential basis,” Morepen Laboratories said in a regulatory filing. In a separate filing, Morepen Laboratories said the Morepen Group has sealed a total investment of $100 million (about Rs 750 crore) from Corinth Group. Morepen Laboratories’ board has approved the issuance of up to 5 crore equity shares to Liquid Holdings, an entity belonging to the promoter group of the company, at a price of Rs 38 per equity shares, for an aggregate amount of up to Rs 190 crore. Morepen Laboratories’ board also approved the issue of up to 5.85 crore equity shares to Corinth Investment Holdings AG, a Switzerland based entity, that belongs to the public category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp and Harley-Davidson announce pricing of 2021 line-up of bikes in India||Hero MotoCorp and Harley-Davidson on Wednesday announced the pricing of its 2021 line-up of bikes in India. The price list under the new partnership, where Hero will market and retail the bikes in India, shows a significant revision compared with the old models sold by Harley Davidson till September 2020. Popular Harley models in India such as the Iron 883, which would sport a price tag of Rs 9.38 lakh at Harley dealerships, is now priced at Rs 10.1 lakh, a price hike of 7 per cent. Similarly, Fat Boy, which was priced at Rs 18.25 lakh now has a price tag of Rs 20.9 lakh, a 14.5 per cent jump. Forty-Eight, which sold for Rs 10.61 lakh, now has a price tag of Rs 11.75 lakh. The Road King will now cost Rs 26.99 lakh, up from Rs 25.83 lakh. When asked about the hike, Calcutta Harley dealer Adarsh Tulshan said: “There has been a huge rise in input costs. The last price list of Harley was for 2019 models. These are upgraded 2021 models.” Sources in the industry, however, denied any price hike. “This is the first time that Hero is announcing prices. A lot of factors need to be taken into account while arriving at the 2021 prices like rising input costs, long value chain since the bikes are being imported, devaluation of the rupee and yet the prices remain very competitive,” said a source. As many as 13 models have been launched by Harley-Davidson and Hero, which also includes the Pan America 1250 Adventure Touring motorcycle, which was globally revealed on February 22, 2021, and carries a price tag of Rs 16.9 lakh. Tulshan is happy with the Pan America price. He said: “There have been a lot of enquiries for Pan America and I think the pricing is absolutely fantastic, particularly compared to BMW Motorrad’s R1250 GS that is priced at Rs 20.45 lakh.” Ravi Avalur, head of the premium segment business unit of Hero MotoCorp, said, “We are excited to open the bookings for the 2021 range.” Theo Keetell, vice-president-marketing, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, said: “Harley-Davidson enters 2021 focused on motorcycling as an emotional experience. The pursuit of adventure on the open road is the foundation of our heritage and the vision of our future.” The line-up is now strengthened with the introduction of the Pan America Adventure Tourer. The 2021 model range appeals to a broader consumer segment and will ensure Harley-Davidson’s leadership in the leisure motorcycling segment||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Auto industry steps up efforts to provide relief for Covid affected||The auto industry has stepped up efforts to provide relief for those affected by the pandemic. Maruti Suzuki will shut down its factories in Haryana to make oxygen available for medical needs, while Suzuki too will shut its factory in Gujarat. Hyundai is setting up oxygen generating plants even as Hero MotoCorp is ramping up health infrastructure at Haridwar. As part of the car manufacturing process, Maruti Suzuki uses a small amount of oxygen in its factories, while a relatively much larger quantity is  used by the component manufacturers. “In the current situation, we believe that all available oxygen should be used to save lives. Accordingly, Maruti Suzuki has decided to advance its maintenance shutdown, originally scheduled for June to May 1-9. Production in all factories will be closed during this period,” said a spokesperson. Hyundai Motor India Foundation (HMIF), the philanthropic arm of Hyundai Motor India, on Wednesday offered infrastructural assistance to Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. HMIF will roll out a multi-faceted relief package of Rs 20 crore that is focused on the crisis at hand. Hyundai will set up oxygen generating plants in hospitals and provide support staff to various hospitals and meet their operational cost for the next three months. Hero MotoCorp is partnering with the Ramakrishna Mission Sevashrama, Kankhal at Haridwar to strengthen their healthcare system. It will also help the Mission to deploy an immediate health preparedness plan to stop the spread of the coronavirus in the Haridwar region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Part pay in units of mutual funds for top executives of asset management companies: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India has said that the top executives of asset management companies should receive 20 per cent of their salary in the form of units of the mutual funds over which they exercise oversight to ensure that they have some skin in the game. The market regulator on Wednesday announced a remuneration framework that seeks to align the interests of the key officials of AMCs with the unit holders of the mutual fund schemes — many of whom have been groaning about piffling returns in a Covid-battered year. The key employees include the chief executive officer, chief investment officer, chief risk officer, chief information security officer, and chief operation officer. It also covers fund managers, compliance officer, sales head, investor relations officers, heads of other departments and dealers of the of the AMC. It also includes direct reportees to the CEO (excluding personal assistant/secretary), fund management team and research team apart from other employees as identified  by AMCs and trustees. “A minimum of 20 per cent of the salary/ perks/ bonus/non-cash compensation (gross annual CTC) net of income tax and any statutory contributions (PF and NPS) of the key employees of the AMCs shall be paid in the form of units of mutual fund schemes in which they have a role/ oversight,” the Sebi circular said. The regulator added that the compensation paid in the form of units needs to be proportionate to the asset under management of the schemes. Exchange traded funds, index funds, overnight and existing close ended schemes have been excluded. The compensation will have to be paid proportionately over 12 months on the date of payment of such salary/perks/ bonus/non-cash compensation. If the compensation is paid in the form of employee stock options, the date of exercising such option will be considered as the date of payment. The mutual fund units issued to these officials will be locked-in for a minimum of three years or tenure of the scheme, whichever is less. Sebi has cut some slack for dedicated fund managers who take investment decisions for a single scheme or a single category of schemes. In their case, they will be permitted to receive 50 per cent of their fund-aligned compensation in the form of the units of the scheme or category that they manage. The remaining 50 per cent can be issued by way of units in those schemes whose risk value is equivalent or higher than the scheme they manage. No redemption of these units will be allowed within the lock-in period in case of resignation or retirement before attaining the age of superannuation. However, in case of retirement on attaining the superannuation age, the units can be released from the lock-in and the key employee will be free to redeem the units. However, AMCs may allow its key officials to borrow funds from the entity against such units to meet medical emergencies or on humanitarian grounds. The units issued to these officials will be subject to clawback provisions in the event of a violation of Code of Conduct, fraud, or gross negligence as determined by the regulator. Upon clawback, the units shall be redeemed and the amount credited to the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||RBI committee on asset reconstruction companies invites views and suggestions from stakeholders||The RBI committee on asset reconstruction companies (ARCs), which will review the existing legal and regulatory framework applicable to these entities, has invited views and suggestions from stakeholders. The suggestions can be given to the committee till May 31, 2021. On April 19, the central bank had set up a committee to undertake a comprehensive review of the working of asset reconstruction companies in the financial sector ecosystem and recommend suitable measures to enable them to meet the growing requirements. This panel was set up under the chairmanship of Sudarshan Sen, former executive director, RBI. According to the terms of reference of the committee, it will review the existing legal and regulatory framework applicable to ARCs and recommend measures to improve the efficacy of these companies. It will also review the role of ARCs in the resolution of stressed assets, including under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), and give suggestions for improving liquidity in and trading of security receipts (SRs). Besides, it has been asked to review the business models of the ARCs. The panel is scheduled to submit its report within three months from the date of its first meeting. According to an RBI bulletin, the growth of the ARC industry in India has not been consistent over time and not always synchronous with the trends in non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). After the enactment of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act in 2002, regulatory guidelines for ARCs were issued in 2003, to enable the sector to develop and facilitate the smooth functioning of ARCs. Since then, while ARCs have grown in number and size, their potential for resolving stressed assets is yet to be realised fully. According to an article in the RBI April bulletin, the growth of the ARC industry in India has not been consistent over time and not always been synchronous with the trends in non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). The article said that despite the increase in the number of ARCs since they were first allowed, the growth in their asset under management (AUM) has been largely trendless except for a major spurt in 2013-14. “When compared with the volume of NPAs of banks and NBFCs, the AUM of ARCs has been on a declining trend, except during the period of high growth in AUM around 2013-14. Going forward, the introduction of a new asset reconstruction company for addressing the NPAs of public sector banks may also shape the operations of the existing ARCs. There is a definite scope for the entry of a well-capitalised and well-designed entity in the Indian ARC industry; such an entity will strengthen the asset resolution mechanism further,” the article said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Zomato files draft papers with Sebi for Rs 8,250-crore IPO||Online food ordering platform Zomato has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for a Rs 8,250-crore initial public offering (IPO). The share float comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 7,500 crore and offer for sale worth Rs 750 crore by Info Edge (India) Ltd. At present, Info Edge holds 18.55 per cent in Zomato, while the Alibaba group owns 16.53 per cent of the restaurant aggregator via Alipay and Antfin. On Tuesday, Info Edge had said that it will sell stake worth Rs 750 crore in the Zomato IPO. Zomato’s much awaited IPO comes at a time the country is passing through a second wave of the Covid pandemic. This has led to a rise in demand for its services. In a note earlier this year, analysts at Bernstein had said that India’s food services market is large and expected to reach $74 billion by 2023-24. “Organised food service is growing faster and expected to reach a 52 per cent market share by 2023-24. We expect online penetration to expand to 16 per cent by 2023-24 and the market size to reach $12 billion growing at 43 per cent CAGR,” the brokerage had said. Response to the Zomato offering will be keenly watched as there are others such as Mobikwik, Delhivery and online insurance portal Policy Bazaar which are also set to come out with IPOs. It also comes at a time the country’s start-up universe is seeing strong fund raising. Around 10 start-ups made it to the unicorn (whose valuation is above $1 billion) in the first four months of this year. In February, Zomato had raised $250 million (over Rs 1,800 crore) in funding from Tiger Global, Kora Management and others, valuing the online food ordering platform at $5.4 billion. Zomato said proceeds from the fresh issue would be used towards funding organic and inorganic growth initiatives and general corporate purposes. The company pointed out that it will continue to invest in three core areas for the growth of its business. These include customer and user acquisition, delivery infrastructure and technology infrastructure. The company added that it has made these investments in the past and they will continue to be critical for the growth of its business in the future. According to Zomato, it has in the past also made significant investments in marketing and promotions towards customer acquisition and retention. These investments include acquisition and retention costs through which it offers discounts to acquire new customers and users and retain existing ones. It also spends on customer, user and restaurant partner appeasement in the form of refunds. Further, it also incurs marketing and branding costs. Here, Zomato said that it will continue to look at acquisitions to grow its presence in India. The company is not new to the inorganic route as it had acquired Uber Eats India assets in 2019-20. Similarly, in 2017-18, it had bought Carthero Technologies Pvt Ltd which enabled it to directly provide logistic services for online orders placed on the Zomato platform. Zomato posted a consolidated income of Rs 2,742.73 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020 and during this period, its losses rose to around Rs 2,367 crore. Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd, Morgan Stanley India Company Pvt Ltd and Credit Suisse Securities (India) Pvt Ltd are the global co-ordinator and book running lead managers to the issue. BofA Securities India Ltd and Citigroup Global Markets India Pvt Ltd have been appointed as merchant bankers to the public issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 790 points, led by gains in financial stocks||Positive global cues and optimism over the country’s vaccination drive on Wednesday saw the Sensex rallying 790 points, led by gains in financial stocks. The positive close came ahead of the interest rate decision by the US Federal Reserve and the first address by US President Joe Biden to the US Congress. “World shares inched up close to record highs as traders waited to see if the US Federal Reserve utters the dreaded word — tapering of its mass stimulus programme —post its two-day meeting on Wednesday. The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle the markets for now,” Deepak Jasani of HDFC Securities said. Analysts added that back home, though the results season has not yielded any major negative surprises, the focus will be on the Covid-19 cases and the vaccination drive. They, however, cautioned that shares may see intermittent corrections. The slow progress of the vaccination is another worry. The 30-share Sensex hit an intra-day high of 49801.48. It gave up some of these gains to end 789.70 points, or 1.61 per cent, higher at 49733.84. “World shares inched up close to record highs as traders waited to see if the US Federal Reserve utters the dreaded word — tapering of its mass stimulus programme —post its two-day meeting on Wednesday. The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle the markets for now,” Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said. The broader NSE Nifty surged 211.50 points, or 1.44 per cent, to 14864.55. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 8 per cent. Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said that superior fourth-quarter results and vaccine optimism buoyed domestic markets to trade on a positive footing for the third consecutive day ahead of the US Fed interest rate decision. He added that strong buying interest was seen in banking and auto stocks with enhanced business prospects which is likely to be maintained. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul ended lower. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Covid: S&P warns of downside risks for Indian economy||Global credit rating agency Standard and Poor’s (S&P) on Wednesday warned of downside risks for the Indian economy if the second wave of the pandemic persists. A long-drawn outbreak will impede India’s economic recovery and may force the credit rating agency to revise its 11 per cent growth forecast for 2021-22 if wider containment measures are re-imposed. The report says lenders’ asset quality remains strained and will hold back profitability this fiscal and banks will continue to face a high level of systemic risk. “In addition to the substantial loss of life and significant humanitarian concerns, S&P Global Ratings believes the outbreak poses downside risks to GDP and heightens the possibility of business disruptions,” the rating agency said in a note. S&P has a long-term credit rating of ‘BBB-’ on India, just one notch above junk. The country already faces a permanent loss of output versus its pre-pandemic path, suggesting a long-term production deficit equivalent to about 10 per cent of GDP, according to S&P. “Economic recovery right up until March 2021 has partly alleviated non-performing loan stress,” it noted. The government’s measures such as emergency credit guarantees for small to midsized enterprises have helped too. Under the state’s partial guarantee programme, the government promises to cover up to 20 per cent of the loss incurred by banks on certain bonds issued by finance firms. S&P said strong economic growth will be critical to sustain the government’s aggressive fiscal stance, and to stabilise its high debt stock relative to GDP. The pace of the post-crisis recovery will have important implications for sovereign credit rating, it added. ADB projection Asian Development Bank (ADB) has said the economy is projected to grow at 11 per cent in the current financial year on the back of the strong vaccination programme, but cautioned that the second wave of Covid is worrying. Another risk is the further tightening of global financial conditions, which would put pressure on India's market interest rates and, therefore, affect economic normalisation, the report added. IHS Markit view IHS Markit has said they expect the Indian economy to grow at 9.6 per cent in 2021-22. Maharashtra’s lockdown, it said, represents a significant dampener on growth as the state accounts for 16 per cent of national GDP. “There is scope for further reductions in economic growth as wider restrictions would mean income and job losses for workers alongside significant output and revenue losses for firms,” wrote Deepa Kumar, deputy head, Asia-Pacific, IHS Markit, in a co-authored note with Hanna Luchnikava-Schorsch, principal economist for Asia Pacific, and Angus Lam, senior economist. Brickwork revision Domestic rating agency Brickwork Ratings has revised downwards the country’s FY22 GDP growth projection to 9 per cent from an earlier estimate of 11 per cent. Until the virus is contained and a substantial proportion of the population has been vaccinated, the sectors that are impacted by social distancing norms and those adversely affected by supply disruptions, labour shortage and demand reduction will trail and may take longer to return to sustained growth path, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||India||Exit polls: Bengal on knife-edge, landslide win for Stalin in Tamil Nadu, Pinarayi will hold fort in Kerala ||West Bengal, the biggest and most politically crucial state going to the poll, will be a thrilling cliffhanger but the opinion polls differ on who will seize the crown. The India Today-Axis My India poll forecasts that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee might fall short on the numbers to form a government, but the ABP-C Voter poll gives her a clear win. Republic TV-CNX reckons the BJP will squeak past the winning post. In Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu the poll predictions are more along expected lines with the polls handing Assam to the BJP and the LDF winning over the UDF in Kerala. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK is expected to take power after decimating the ruling AIADMK, the polls say. The ABP-C Voter poll predicts the Congress will make big gains in Assam even though it is likely to fall short of the numbers. In Bengal, to form a government the TMC needs 148 seats and the India Today-Axis My India poll reckons the BJP will be ahead by a short lead with 134-160 seats compared to the TMC's 130-156. Predicting that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee would come out ahead, the ABP News-C Voter gave the TMC and allies 152 to164 seats, the Left 14 to 25 and the BJP 109 to 121 seats. The Republic TV-CNX poll gave the TMC and allies 128 to 138, the Left 11 to 21 and the BJP 138 to 148. However, India Today calculated that around 64 seats in Bengal would be too close to call, so the race remains wide open. In Assam, the polls concur that the BJP will seize the crown but differ strongly on the numbers. The India Today-Axis My India poll predicts that the BJP would pull in 75-85 seats which would be close to its performance in the 2016 legislative assembly elections. By contrast, ABP-C Voter believes the NDA will pick up 58-71 seats. Making impressive inroads, the poll projects the Congress-led UPA will bag in the range of 53 to 66 seats. Other parties and independent candidates are expected to win somewhere around 0 to 5 seats in the upcoming polls. The magic figure in the battle for Assam is 64. In Kerala, the India Today-Axis poll showed a huge sweep with the LDF winning 104-120 of the 140 legislative seats. The Republic TV-CNX Kerala exit poll pointed to a similar outcome with 72 to 80 seats for the LDF and 58 to 64 seats for Congress. The poll projected 1-to-5 seats for the BJP. The Malayala Manorama-VNX poll, however, predicts a much closer fight. Personal triumph for Pinarayi No party or alliance has won two terms in a row in Kerala and if the LDF wins, as predicted, it will be seen as a huge personal triumph for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his handling of the pandemic and also of the Kerala floods in 2018. The BJP is expected to win between 0-3 seats according to most polls but could hold on to the 12 per cent vote share which it had got in the last state elections. 46% root for Stalin as CM In Tamil Nadu, the exit polls point to a landslide victory for the DMK and allies, much as had been expected. The India Today-Axis My India gives the DMK a huge victory with between 175-185 votes out of 234 assembly seats. Similarly, Republic TV- CNX gave the DMK a top of 168 seats and said there had been a massive 9 per cent swing towards it. Such a victory would be a personal triumph for DMK leader M. K. Stalin. This is the first Tamil Nadu election without the two state giants M. Karunanidhi, who died in 2018, and J. Jayalalithaa, who lost her life in 2016. This time, 46 per cent of the people polled said they wanted Stalin as the next chief minister. Commentators offered the explanation that the AIADMK had no giant leader unlike in the past. BJP upper hand in Assam In Assam the polls show that the BJP will win big in Upper, Central and North Assam. The Congress, by contrast, has done well in the Barak Valley and Lower Assam. The India Today-Axis My India poll also showed that most voters were happy with the Chief Minister Sarbhanda Sonowal. That could present a dilemma for the BJP because the Deputy Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has indicated that he wants to be the next chief minister and will not take any other role. He has also signalled that he doesn’t want to shift to the Centre. The huge surprise of the evening came from the India Today-Axis My India poll which showed a big win in Puducherry for former chief minister N. Rangaswamy, leader of the NR Congress and the BJP with which it is allied. India Today-Axis predicted the NR Congress-BJP would win between 20-24 seats out of 30. For the Congress, the exit polls offer a bleak picture because it is expected to perform poorly in Kerala and it doesn’t appear to be near winning Assam. It looks likely to be defeated badly in Puducherry. The fact that Rahul Gandhi is an MP from Kerala’s Wayanad district doesn’t appear to have helped it in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Bharat biotech cuts Covaxin price to Rs 400 per dose for states||Bharat Biotech on Thursday announced a cut in price of its COVID-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' it plans to sell to the states to Rs 400 per dose from the earlier Rs 600. This follows a widespread criticism of its pricing policy as it sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. "Recognising the enormous challenges in the public healthcare system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of 400/ dose", Bharat Biotech said in its announcement. The company is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time, it added. "We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded project development... and clinical trials," Bharat Biotech said. Serum Institute of India (SII) had on Wednesday slashed the price of its COVID-19 vaccine 'Covishield' to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400 for state governments, which was described as a “philanthropic gesture” by its CEO Adar Poonawalla. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute, had said in a tweet on Wednesday. The Narendra Modi government had this month said that starting May 1, states could inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45 or people in this age group could pay and get vaccinated at private hospitals, abandoning its own responsibility to immunise all Indians. States and private hospitals would have to procure their own vaccines at prices that would be fixed by the vaccine makers, it said. While the vaccination of those over 45 for which the Centre is buying the doses would continue at government outlets, it would cease at private hospitals from May 1. The announcement has already caused chaos, with people whose second dose was scheduled at private clinics in May rushing to get it early for fear that they might not get it at all. The result has been long queues at overcrowded vaccination centres, raising the risk of catching the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Manmohan Singh discharged from AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was on Thursday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here. He was admitted to the facility after testing positive for COVID-19. Sources close to the Congress leader said he was doing fine. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 19 after he had fever and tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Singh has received his two vaccine doses of Covaxin - the first on March 4 and the second on April 3. He was moved to the hospital as "a matter of precaution". Before his hospitalisation, Dr Singh wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to offer some advice on handling a pandemic that has gained in intensity and scope. The number of dead has crossed the two-lakh mark. Leaders cutting across party lines had wished the former Prime Minister a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for coronavirus||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The 69-year-old Congress leader had isolated himself on Wednesday after his wife Sunita had tested positive. "My Covid-19 test report too came positive today. I have no symptoms, and I am feeling fine. I will continue working while in isolation, following Covid-19 protocols," the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished good health and speedy recovery to the chief minister and his wife. "Praying for the good health and fast recovery of Rajasthan CM Shri @ashokgehlot51 Ji and his wife, Smt. Sunita Ji," Modi tweeted. Governor Kalraj Mishra, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken, PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, state Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia, Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria and others also wished for Gehlot's speedy recovery. Meanwhile, former Barmer MP Manvendra Singh, his wife and daughter also tested positive for coronavirus. Manvendra Singh is the son of former Union minister Jaswant Singh, who passed away last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Delhi HC questions Centre about unequal distribution of oxygen||Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre why various states, including Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, were being allocated more oxygen than they demanded while the national capital was not getting even the quantity necessary for treating Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli made it clear that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required and that too at the cost of any state or Union Territory. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said while the national capital’s requirement was 700 metric tonnes per day, it was allocated 480mt and 490mt and the Centre had not increased the quantity. Mehra and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, who is amicus curiae in the case, informed the court that according to the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1,500mt oxygen per day and was allocated 1,661mt. Madhya Pradesh demanded 445mt and it was allocated 543mt and that the situation was similar for several other states. The court said if the information provided was to be accepted, it would appear that the central government needed to explain this aspect and granted it a day to respond. The Centre has to either show some justification for this or “make amends” now that the situation has been brought to its attention, the high court said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the government will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, if that is the case. “There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalising,” he said. During the hearing, when the court asked a senior central government officer as to why Delhi’s supply was out of line while Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were given more oxygen, Mehta said the population of Madhya Pradesh was more than the national capital. Mehta then told the officer: “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.” This was objected to by the judges who said: “Don’t give it an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. Don’t project like this. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.” The Delhi government counsel also said there are currently 16,272 non-ICU beds and 4,866 ICU beds and they are in the process of adding more beds. The existing oxygen demand in hospitals is 704mt per day and after further augmentation, the daily oxygen demand will be around 1,000mt, he said, adding that his grievance was the allocation of 480-490mt oxygen was far less than Delhi’s requirement. The solicitor-general said more tankers are being imported to transport oxygen and it was a matter of few days and once the logistical issues get settled, the Centre will ensure whatever maximum supply is possible will be given. He further said: “We should not panic. The situation is dynamic and everything keeps on changing.” To this, the bench said panic is because of lack of resources. “It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say, panic is on ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem.” When the bench pointed out that 25 per cent more oxygen was supplied to Madhya Pradesh than its demand, Mehta said there must be some reason why it was given more oxygen and urged the court not to go into pan-India allocation. The court is hearing the matter on the oxygen crisis and other issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic which the national capital is currently grappling with. The hearing started at 11.30am and is continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||Blocked hashtag calling for Modi's resignation by mistake, says Facebook||Social media giant Facebook on Thursday said it had temporarily blocked a hashtag calling for the Prime Minister's resignation "by mistake" and that it wasn't done on government orders. The development comes amid reports that social media companies are being asked to remove posts that are critical of the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it," a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement. According to reports, a hashtag calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefly blocked on Facebook on Wednesday. Users searching the hashtag were given a message that said such posts were "temporarily hidden here" because "some content in those posts goes against our Community Standards". India is registering a record number of COVID-19 cases daily that has put extreme pressure on the healthcare infrastructure of the country. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a severe shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media timelines are filled with SOS calls with people looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors and ventilators. Organisations across the spectrum have come forward to support the fight against the COVID pandemic. Recently, Twitter and other social media platforms removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to remove content that was critical of the handling of the current medical crisis or spreading fake news around the pandemic. Reports citing Lumen database, an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, suggested that more than 50 posts - including those by a Member of Parliament, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request. Government sources had said the social media platforms were asked to remove the posts and URLs (uniform resource locators) to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic" and disruption of public order due to the said posts. They had added that the order was issued in view of the misuse of social media platforms by certain users to spread fake or misleading information and create panic about the pandemic in the society "by using unrelated, old and out of the context images or visuals, communally sensitive posts and misinformation about COVID-19 protocols".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
29-04-2021||India||India records highest one-day surge with over 3.79 lakh fresh Covid cases||India saw a record single day rise of 3,79,257 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,83,76,524, while active cases crossed the 30-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 2,04,832 with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 30,84,814 comprising 16.79 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.10 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,50, 86,878. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,44,71,979 samples have been tested up to April 28 with 17,68,190 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,645 new fatalities include 1,035 from Maharashtra, 368 from Delhi, 279 from Chhattisgarh, 265 from Uttar Pradesh, 229 from Karnataka, 174 from Gujarat, 149 from Jharkhand, 142 from Punjab, 120 from Rajasthan, 108 from Uttarakhand and 105 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 2,04,832 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,214 from Maharashtra, 15,377 from Delhi, 15,036 from Karnataka, 13,826 from Tamil Nadu, 11,943 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,159 from West Bengal, 8,772 from Punjab and 8,061 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Genome sequencing: Govt deviates from target set by national research consortium||The Union health ministry has asked each state to send 150 Covid-positive samples fortnightly for genome sequencing, deviating from the original target set by a national research consortium to genome-sequence 5 per cent of positive cases from all states. The move has baffled many health researchers who say the new guidelines have lowered the genome-sequencing target at a time the emerging coronavirus variants need intense scrutiny. The health ministry’s guidelines seek 15 samples each from five labs and five hospitals in every state every two weeks. Some health and medical researchers are concerned that a uniform flow of 300 sequences a month from each state would not provide sufficient data to determine how the “variants of interest” might be affecting the patterns of infections or the epidemic there. “The fewer samples we sequence, the less we know what the variants are exactly doing in India,” said a senior researcher in one of the 10 labs that make up the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), established by the Centre in January this year. The 10 central government labs that make up the consortium have sequenced over 20,000 samples from across India and found that some variants are dominating certain geographic regions — one named B.1.617 in Maharashtra, for instance, and another called B.1.618 in Bengal. The fast-spreading UK variant, B.1.117, appears to be dominating samples sequenced from Punjab, Delhi and Haryana; B.1.617 accounts for 35 to 40 per cent of the samples from Maharashtra; while B.1.618 makes up roughly 20 per cent of the samples in Bengal. But efforts to draw inferences whether and how this growth in variants might be impacting infections or the disease itself require large-scale sequencing along with critical information about the patients from whom the samples were taken. The original target of sequencing 5 per cent of positive samples would have required over 20,000 samples from Maharashtra and over 7,000 samples from Delhi sequenced over the past week. “The new guidelines asking for 150 samples every fortnight from each state go against Insacog’s vision,” a senior scientist involved with the consortium told The Telegraph. Health researchers are also worried about what one of them described as “either inadequate or invisible efforts” to connect the variants with the patterns of the epidemic in different states — primarily by correlating genome sequence data with patients’ data. The health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, the nodal lab for Insacog, also operates a nationwide disease surveillance network and is expected to maintain information about Covid-positive patients acquired from its state units. But senior Insacog researchers say they have no information whether the NCDC has analysed the sequencing data in conjunction with the details of patients from whom the samples were taken to determine the possible impacts of the variants on the epidemic. “What’s the purpose of even limited sequencing (if there is) little effort to correlate the variants with the patients’ data?” said an Insacog researcher. “We should be periodically informing local governments about circulating variants and their implications, if any.” Efforts to correlate the variants with patients’ data, scientists say, are intended to find out whether the variants are influencing transmission patterns or disease severity, whether they are causing re-infection, if any, and whether they’re causing infections in vaccinated people. Queries sent by this newspaper to the health ministry and the NCDC seeking responses to the concerns among Insacog researchers have not elicited any response. Health authorities in the UK had between October and December last year correlated variants with infection patterns in Britain to calculate the B.1.117’s increased transmissibility. In India, the epidemic — measured by a seven-day average of daily new cases — has grown 20-fold in Maharashtra, 77-fold in Bengal and 174-fold in Delhi since mid-February. “What role have the variants played? Shouldn’t the policy makers know this?” asked another researcher. Two senior government health researchers who requested not to be named told this newspaper that whatever variants might be at play, the actions for the public remain the same — physical distancing, masking, avoiding crowds, and getting vaccinated. One of the researchers said that such Covid-appropriate behaviour needed to be reinforced “rather than spreading an air of fear or panic”. “Panic does not prevent infection, protective measures against SARS-CoV-2 do,” the researcher said, adding that panic “closes our mind to synthesising information”. A senior Insacog researcher, however, said the states and the public could use variant-related information to protect themselves. The states may use data on variants to bolster preparedness, the researcher said. After sequencing efforts revealed that the fast-spreading UK variant made up nearly 30 per cent of the samples in Kerala last week, the state government had initiated fresh action to add beds, procure oxygen and get people to use double masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Cong slams move to bring Central Vista under essential services||The Congress on Wednesday questioned the morality of the Narendra Modi government obsessing with its pet project, Central Vista, when the Centre cannot provide oxygen and hospital beds to countless citizens. Rahul Gandhi led the attack with a tweet in response to a decision to bring the ongoing construction under essential services: “Central Vista — not essential. Central Government with a vision — essential.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul have objected to the project under which a new Parliament building, offices for ministries and a residence for the Prime Minister will be built. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told a media conference on Wednesday: “Is this project essential? When we are going to seek aid from the world in this distress caused by Covid-19, shouldn’t we cut down expenditure on our own vanity projects?” Shrinate contrasted the government’s interest in the project with the state of medical infrastructure in the country. “How come the Central Vista becomes essential in this time of distress when patients are dying for want of oxygen, not getting admission in hospitals? This government could not build the sanctioned 162 oxygen plants for Rs 200 crore in one year and Rs 20,000 crore is being spent on this,” she said. Shrinate added: “Rulers are remembered for their work, not for the buildings they made. The Prime Minister failed in corona management but his priority to have a new Parliament building remains unchanged. This is not only a question of sensitivity; even morally it cannot be justified.” The lockdown in Delhi allows only construction projects that keep workers on the site itself. But an exception has been made for Central Vista and passes have been issued for 180 vehicles to be used in the project, including those ferrying workers from their homes, under the essential services category. The government had requested this favour from Delhi police because the work has to be completed by November this year. Work is underway in three shifts. The Congress iterated that the Covid situation had turned grim because of the government’s failures. Shrinate recalled how the Centre ignored repeated warnings on the second wave and referred to insensitive and crass statements by BJP chief ministers, including threats issued by Yogi Adityanath. She pointed out that even BJP workers had begun to publicly express their frustration. Shrinate alleged that the Prime Minister was addressing election rallies when lakhs of new cases were being reported every day. She said there was no way that health minister Harsh Vardhan could continue in office and insisted that the Prime Minister, too, had lost the moral right to remain in office. Delhi state is reporting one death from Covid-19 every four minutes, according to Reuters. The last 24 hours brought 360,960 new cases for the world’s largest single-day total, taking India’s tally of infections to nearly 18 million. It was also the deadliest day so far, with 3,293 fatalities carrying the toll to 201,187.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||French newspaper blames Modi’s arrogance for Covid resurgence||Foreign newspapers are not exactly quaking in their boots after the Indian foreign policy establishment sought to lecture an Australian newspaper that had said “Modi leads India into a viral apocalypse”. Le Monde, the French newspaper, on Wednesday chipped away at the hitherto Teflon-coated image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The French newspaper blamed his “arrogance and demagogy” as much as the “unpredictability of the virus” for the second deadly wave of the pandemic in India. “The spectacle of lines of ambulances at the gates of overwhelmed hospitals, of sick people’s relatives begging in vain to obtain oxygen and of mass cremations does not lie. From cities to rural areas, from the rich to the poor, the carnage does not spare anyone. Declining until February, the curve of new infection is nearly vertical,” Le Monde said in its editorial. “Such a backfiring cannot be explained solely by the unpredictability of a virus and its variants. Narendra Modi’s lack of prediction, arrogance and demagogy are clearly among the causes of a situation that now seems out of control and requires international mobilisation. The Prime Minister, after paralysing and traumatising his country in 2020 by decreeing a brutal confinement, abandoning millions of migrant workers, completely lowered his guard at the beginning of 2021,” the editorial added. “Preferring nationalist harangues to the advice of health experts, more inclined to self-celebration than to protect populations, Mr Modi only aggravated the situation,” the newspaper said, referring to the election campaign and also the Kumbh Mela which turned the Ganga’s waters into a “giant hotbed of contagion”. The editorial tore apart Modi’s much publicised vaccine strategy, contending that the vaccine diplomacy was subservient to his ambitions, ignoring the reality of the country’s production capacities. On Monday, the Indian high commission in Australia had sent a rejoinder to The Australian newspaper for an article criticising the Indian leadership’s handling of the pandemic. During Indira Gandhi’s Emergency, Indian missions used to issue counters to negative news in foreign publications. The mission had described article in The Australian as “baseless, malicious and slanderous”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||In a Delhi apartment, waiting to catch Covid ||Crematoriums are so full of bodies, it’s as if a war just happened. Fires burn around the clock. Many places are holding mass cremations, dozens at a time, and at night, in certain areas of New Delhi, the sky glows. Sickness and death are everywhere. Dozens of houses in my neighbourhood have sick people. One of my colleagues is sick. One of my son’s teachers is sick. The neighbour two doors down, to the right of us: sick. Two doors to the left: sick. “I have no idea how I got it,” said a good friend who is now in hospital. “You catch just a whiff of this…” and then his voice trailed off, too sick to finish. He barely got a bed. And the medicine his doctors say he needs is nowhere to be found in India. I’m sitting in my apartment waiting to catch the disease. That’s what it feels like right now in New Delhi with the world’s worst coronavirus crisis advancing around us. It is out there, I am in here, and I feel like it’s only a matter of time before I, too, get sick. New Delhi is suffering a calamitous surge. The infections have spread so fast that hospitals have been completely swamped. People are turned away by the thousands. Medicine is running out. So is lifesaving oxygen. The sick have been left stranded in interminable lines at hospital gates or at home, literally gasping for air. Although New Delhi is locked down, the disease is still rampaging. Doctors across this city and some of Delhi’s top politicians are issuing desperate SOS calls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media and on TV, begging for oxygen, medicine, help. Experts had always warned that Covid-19 could wreak real havoc in India. What we’re witnessing is so different from last year, during India’s first wave. Then, it was the fear of the unknown. Now we know. We know the totality of the disease, the scale, the speed. We know the terrifying force of this second wave, hitting everyone at the same time. What we had been fearing during last year’s first wave, and which never really materialised, is now happening in front of our eyes: a breakdown, a collapse, a realisation that so many people will die. As a foreign correspondent for nearly 20 years, I’ve covered combat zones, been kidnapped in Iraq and been thrown in jail in more than a few places. This is unsettling in a different way. There’s no way of knowing if my two kids, wife or I will be among those who get a mild case and then bounce back to good health, or if we will get really sick. And if we do get really sick, where will we go? ICUs are full. Gates to many hospitals have been closed. A new variant known here as “the double mutant” may be doing a lot of the damage. The science is still early but from what we know, this variant contains one mutation that may make the virus more contagious and another that may make it partially resistant to vaccines. Doctors are pretty scared. Some we have spoken to said they had been vaccinated twice and still got seriously ill, a very bad sign. So what can you do? I try to stay positive, believing that is one of the best immunity boosters, but I find myself drifting in a daze through the rooms of our apartment, listlessly opening cans of food and making meals for my kids, feeling like my mind and body are turning to mush. I’m afraid to check my phone and get another message about a friend who has deteriorated. Or worse. I’m sure millions of people have felt this way, but I’ve started imagining symptoms: Is my throat sore? What about that background headache? Is it worse today? My part of town, South Delhi, is now hushed. Like many other places, we had a strict lockdown last year. But now doctors here are warning us that the virus is more contagious, and the chances of getting help are so much worse than they were during the first wave. So many of us are scared to step outside, like there’s some toxic gas we’re all afraid to breathe. I almost teared up the other night when the news showed an Indian Air Force jet load up with oxygen tanks from Singapore to bring to needy parts of the country. The government was essentially airlifting air. However difficult and dangerous it feels in Delhi for all of us, it’s probably going to get worse. Epidemiologists say the numbers will keep climbing, to 500,000 reported cases a day nationwide and as many as one million Indians dead from Covid-19 by August. It didn’t have to be like this. India was doing well up until a few weeks ago, at least on the surface. It locked down, absorbed the first wave, then opened up. It maintained a low death rate (at least by official statistics). By winter, life in many respects had returned to something near normal. I was out reporting in January and February, driving through towns in central India. No one — and I mean no one, including police officers — was wearing a mask. It was like the country had said to itself, while the second wave was looming: Don’t worry, we got this. Few people feel that way now. Modi remains popular among his base but more people are blaming him for failing to prepare India for this surge and for holding packed political rallies in recent weeks where few precautions were enforced — possible super-spreader events. “Social distancing norms have gone for a complete toss,” said one Delhi newscaster the other day, during a broadcast of one of Modi’s rallies. Indians are also upset with the sluggish pace of the vaccination campaign. In India, as elsewhere, the wealthy can pad the blow of many crises. But this time it’s different. A well-connected friend activated his entire network to help someone close to him, a young man with a bad case of Covid. My friend’s friend died. No amount of pull could get him into a hospital. There were just too many other sick people. “I tried everything in my power to get this guy a bed, and we couldn’t,” my friend said. “It’s chaos.” His feelings were raw. “This is a catastrophe. This is murder.” I take few risks except to get food for my family that can’t be delivered. I wear two masks and cut wide berths around as many people as I can. But most days pass with the four of us marooned inside. We try to play games, we try not to talk about who just got sick or who’s racing around this besieged city looking for help they probably won’t find. Sometimes we just sit quietly in the living room, looking out at the ficus and palm trees. Through the open window, on long, still, hot afternoons, we can hear two things: Ambulances. And birdsong. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Covid: Kerala to buy 1 crore vaccine doses||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to purchase one crore doses of Covid vaccines following the Centre’s decision not to supply free vaccines to states. The state cabinet’s decision would help ease the severe shortage of vaccines that the state has been experiencing owing to the inadequate supply by the Centre. The state cabinet decided to purchase 70 lakh doses of Covishield, the Oxford-AztraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine made by Bharat Biotech. The state with a population of 3.5 crore has already vaccinated over 71 lakh people of whom close to 60 lakh have received both doses. Efforts are on to procure 10 lakh doses in the beginning of May considering the spike in demand as the 18-44 age group would become eligible for jabs. While private hospitals are allowed to charge for the doses they administer, the state government had announced it would continue to provide free vaccines at all state-run hospitals and vaccination centres. This followed a controversial vaccine regime announced by the Union government under which vaccine makers would have to provide 50 per cent of their supplies to the Central Drugs Laboratory, leaving the remaining to be sold to state governments and private hospitals. State government sources said negotiations were on to get a steady supply of vaccines from both companies to ensure the inoculation programme doesn’t suffer due to shortage. An estimated Rs 1,300 crore would be required to provide free vaccination at government facilities. In a controversial pricing strategy, Serum Institute of India had announced that Covishield would be sold for Rs 150 per dose to the Centre, Rs 400 to state governments and Rs 600 to private hospitals. While Bharat Biotech has made available its Covaxin at Rs 150 per dose to the central government, state governments would have to pay Rs 600 for the same dose while it would cost Rs 1,200 for private hospitals. Amid widespread accusations of profiteering, the Centre had on Monday urged the two companies to cut their costs. The Kerala government had faced criticism for allowing people to crowd at vaccination centres. Unruly scenes of even senior citizens being made to stand in long queues for hours, only to be told to come another day, have put the government under pressure. But the state government had squarely blamed the Union government for the vaccine shortage. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Tuesday confirmed that people were not getting slots on CoWin application due to the vaccine shortage. As of Tuesday evening, the state had only 3,68,840 doses of vaccine left with it. Vijayan had clarified that vaccine slots can be opened only based on the stock available in the state. “That is why we had asked for 50 lakh doses,” he had said. A large number of senior citizens are waiting for their second dose in the state that had initially received free vaccines from the Centre. Vijayan had recently written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking free vaccines after the Centre announced that states must buy their stocks by directly negotiating with vaccine makers. All the state ministers decided to contribute their one month’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund for purchasing vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Covid: Serum Institute cuts vaccine price for states by Rs 100 per dose||The Serum Institute of India has cut its offer price for states from Rs 400 per dose of vaccine to Rs 300, projecting it as a “philanthropic gesture” amid outrage at what is being seen as profiteering from a pandemic that is devastating the country. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute, said in a tweet on Wednesday. Different prices for the same vaccine — Rs 150 per dose for the Centre, Rs 400 for the states and Rs 600 for private hospitals — had earned the world’s largest vaccine maker bad publicity. Bharat Biotech, the other vaccine maker, has announced far higher prices for the states and private hospitals — Rs 600 and Rs 1,200, respectively — than the Rs 150 per dose for the Centre. The Congress has alleged that the vaccine makers are profiteering and will make Rs 1.11 lakh crore. A PIL in Bombay High Court has sought a directive to the vaccine makers to sell at a uniform rate of Rs 150 per dose. Filed by advocate Fayzan Khan and three law students, it argues the vaccine is an essential commodity and its management and distribution cannot be left to private companies. The Narendra Modi government had this month said that starting May 1, states could inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45 or people in this age group could pay and get vaccinated at private hospitals, abandoning its own responsibility to immunise all Indians. States and private hospitals would have to procure their own vaccines at prices that would be fixed by the vaccine makers, it said. While the vaccination of those over 45 for which the Centre is buying the doses would continue at government outlets, it would cease at private hospitals from May 1. The announcement has already caused chaos, with people whose second dose was scheduled at private clinics in May rushing to get it early for fear that they might not get it at all. The result has been long queues at overcrowded vaccination centres, raising the risk of catching the virus. Experts foresee more trouble from May 1 when the 18-45 age group becomes eligible to seek the vaccine because supply will fall far short of demand. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday cited the vaccine shortage to say the state would not open vaccination for the 18-45 age group on May 1. The state said it needed 12 crore vials to inoculate around 5.7 crore people in this bracket. Serum has told the state government it will be able to supply the vaccines only after May 20, sources said. More than 19 states are reported to have started negotiations with Serum for supplies. Analysts at Jefferies, a brokerage firm, have said in a report that vaccine supply bottlenecks are expected to continue till the end of June and that India would have quantities to vaccinate only 56 per cent of its population by the end of this year. Universal vaccination is seen as the only measure that can halt the pandemic rampaging through India. Less than 2 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated so far. The Centre has been criticised for failing to place advance orders that would have ensured a steady supply, shifting the responsibility of immunisation to the states and then allowing vaccine makers to charge a higher price from the states. Even after Wednesday’s price cut, Serum’s price for the states remains double of what it is offering the Centre. Poonawalla had justified the different prices claiming that the price for the Centre had been set under a contract signed last year when the efficacy of the vaccine had not been clearly established. The Centre too will be charged the same rate as the states after Serum completes supplies of about 100 million doses under the bulk contract, he had added. Serum has not spelt out when that will happen. The vaccine maker has not reduced the price of Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||JNU vice-chancellor rejects plea to set up Covid care unit on campus||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor has not agreed to a request from teachers to set up a Covid care centre and an isolation facility on the campus, sparking allegations of insensitivity. Around 600 faculty members live on the campus with their families. Besides, there are students in hostels and non-faculty members. More than 100 campus residents have contracted the virus during the second wave so far, according to sources. New Delhi is by far the worst affected city in the country and is reeling from an acute hospital bed and oxygen crisis. The JNU Teachers Association had proposed that the guest houses and parts of hostel buildings on the campus be converted into Covid care and isolation centres. However, vice-chancellor Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar did not agree to the suggestion and accused the teachers’ organisation of spreading panic, according to JNUTA members. The Telegraph sent an email to VC Kumar asking about his alleged refusal to set up a Covid care centre, but received no response. JNUTA secretary Prof. Moushumi Basu said a senior professor on Tuesday needed oxygen support but the small health centre on the campus only had about 10 minutes of oxygen reserve. The professor had to be shifted to a hospital outside. “Our proposal is that once a Covid care centre is set up, several hospitals will come forward to help. Covid patients on the campus can be provided treatment here only. Now we are dependent on outside hospitals. Getting a bed is so difficult,” Basu said. The Delhi government has asked residents’ welfare associations to set up Covid care centres in apartments. The JNUTA, as a representative body of residents of the university, had proposed to the Delhi government the possibility of setting up Covid care facilities on the campus. However, the approval of the VC is required and he has not agreed, the JNUTA said. “It is insensitive on the part of the VC to sit silently while people are suffering. IIT Delhi has created its own Covid care centre already. Delhi University has announced that it will start a facility with help from an outside agency. But here, the health centre has no infrastructure to treat Covid cases,” Basu said. IIT Delhi last week appointed a Covid care team comprising doctors who are family members of faculty and non-faculty employees. The team of 30 doctors provides telephone consultation to campus residents. The IIT has also converted a guest house into an isolation centre. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College under Delhi University on Tuesday started an isolation centre. A senior official said the DU was willing to hand over its sports stadium and a guest house to any government agency to set up a Covid care centre for its staff. Rajesh Jha, former Executive Council member of the DU, said teachers had last year written to the authorities to start a Covid care facility with beds and oxygen support, but nothing was done. He said 17 faculty members had died of Covid in the last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Supreme Court directs UP govt to shift Kappan to a hospital in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to shift jailed journalist Siddique Kappan to any government hospital in Delhi from Mathura for better treatment, days after his wife had written to the Chief Justice of India alleging that her husband had been chained to his bed “like an animal”. Wednesday’s hearing witnessed sharp exchanges between a bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. While the lawyer cited the hospital bed crisis in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, the court said it would intervene as it had been informed Kappan was unwell. Justice Ramana said it was a humanitarian issue and the court had a bounden duty to protect the life of even those jailed for alleged offences. Kappan’s wife Raihanath’s letter filed by lawyer Wills Mathew had stated that the journalist “is chained like an animal” to the bed at KM Medical College Hospital in Mathura and he could neither take food nor visit the toilet. “If immediate corrective steps are not taken, it will result in his untimely death,” the letter had stated. The Delhi-based journalist who contributed to a Malayalam news portal was arrested on the way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 last year to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl. The Supreme Court said that once Kappan is treated and certified to be fine, he would be taken back to the Mathura jail and would be free to apply for bail before the local court. Mehta told the bench, also including Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna, that it should pass an order telling “…any Delhi hospital where all beds are full with Covid patients to vacate a bed by asking any Covid-affected patient to go out so as to admit a non-Covid patient like Kappan for treatment”. Kappan, admitted to the Mathura hospital after he fell unconscious in jail and tested positive for the coronavirus last Tuesday had now tested negative, the court was told. Mehta said that as solicitor-general he could not request a hospital to vacate a Covid bed to accommodate a 42-year-old non-Covid patient. Justice Ramana cut him short, saying: “Mr Mehta, you sort it out with the government. Leave it here. Let him be transferred back to jail after the doctor certifies him to have recovered.” The court was dealing with a habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, of which Kappan is the Delhi unit general secretary, on October 6 last year seeking the release of the journalist. Mehta told the court the journalist was Covid-negative although he had diabetes and blood pressure problems. CJI Ramana said: “Why should we not intervene now when it is submitted that his health is not proper? He wants better treatment and we are on that. Let him be treated in a hospital in Delhi and then let him go to Mathura jail.” “In Mathura there are Covid-positive people who are not getting beds. Same situation here in Delhi,” Mehta said.  The Uttar Pradesh government denies any hospital crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||SC indefinitely extends the period of limitation for filing petitions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday extended indefinitely “until further orders” the period of limitation for filing petitions, applications, suits, appeals and all other proceedings before judicial and quasi-judicial forums, citing the Covid resurgence. Under the limitation law, petitions, suits and the like have to be filed within a prescribed period, failing which a litigant loses the right to air his or her grievance before the court or tribunal concerned. “The extraordinary situation caused by the sudden and second outburst of Covid-19... requires extraordinary measures to minimise the hardship of litigant-public in all the states,” Wednesday’s order said. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna passed the order while dealing with an application moved by the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association. The apex court had passed a similar order on March 23 last year but ended the extension of limitation on March 8 this year on the ground that the country was returning to normalcy, with all the courts and tribunals having resumed functioning, physically or in virtual mode. “We, therefore, restore the order dated 23rd March, 2020, and... direct that the period(s) of limitation, as prescribed under any general or special laws in respect of all judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings, whether condonable or not, shall stand extended till further orders,” Wednesday’s order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
29-04-2021||India||Covid: WHO asks India to address 'critical gaps' in medical supplies and hospital capacities ||The World Health Organisation on Wednesday asked India to address “critical gaps” in medical supplies and hospital capacities amid the country’s still rising second Covid-19 wave and what some health experts say is evidence of poor preparedness. The WHO also said it is important to assign levels of urgency to patients to optimise the available resources such as intensive care unit beds. “We need to act with speed, expand hospital capacities and equip them with medical supplies, most needed to save lives,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the regional director of WHO South-East Asia, said. India on Wednesday recorded over 360,000 new Covid cases and 3,293 deaths. The fresh cases have raised the count of active patients to more than 2.97 million, nearly three times larger than the peak counts during mid-September last year. Public health experts view the current shortages of hospital beds, oxygen and even medicines reported from across the country as an abundance of evidence that the country neither anticipated nor prepared itself for a second wave. The WHO said it is procuring mobile field hospitals with capacities of 20 to 30 beds that could be set up in the most affected areas and is chartering flights to bring in 4,000 oxygen concentrators — bedside oxygen generating machines. India’s defence research agency on Wednesday said it would set up 500 oxygen plants in hospitals across the country in three months while the Prime Minister’s Office said PM Narendra Modi had sanctioned the procurement of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators. Health experts say the steps, while much-needed, only underline the poor preparedness. “One lakh oxygen concentrators is a good number — but this is a belated step,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a global network of doctors and health specialists. “What good are the oxygen beds without oxygen?” Another senior physician and public health expert who requested anonymity said it had become clear during the early months of the pandemic from evidence worldwide that oxygen would be critical in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. A critical care medicine expert told The Telegraph that oxygen “is used like a drug” in varying levels of doses, or litres per minute, depending on the severity of the disease in a patient. The oxygen shortages suggest that there was “no planning at all” for the current size of the epidemic. “Shortages of essential medicines such as steroids could be a big challenge in the coming weeks,” said Oommen John, a doctor and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
29-04-2021||India||Odisha aspirant keeps up CA exam study despite being Covid-positive||Several netizens have praised the dedication and hard work of a Covid patient studying for his Chartered Accountant (CA) examination from the hospital bed in Berhampur, Odisha, after the Ganjam district collector shared a photograph of the student on his Twitter handle. “Success is not coincidence. You need dedication. I visited Covid hospital and found this guy doing study of CA exam. Your dedication makes you forget your pain. After that Success is only formality,” tweeted Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. The collector told The Telegraph: “After I posted the photos, I also faced some criticism on why beds have not been allotted to other patients. He was admitted when his condition was not well. He has shown signs of improvement and would be discharged from the hospital on Thursday. But all should appreciate the determination of the guy. It also proves that we have been able to provide a good ambience to the people.” Kulange said he had spent some time with the student and inquired about his health and studies. The collector was on a visit to the Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati (MKCG) Medical College and Hospital following complaints about shortage of oxygen and medicines in the medical centre. Wearing PPE kits, Kulange along with other officials inspected the medical college on Wednesday. The CA student, 27-year-old Abhijit Barik, told this newspaper: “This is my final-year CA exam. I was in Guntur in Andhra Pradesh and preparing for the examination. After I fell sick, I came to my brother’s house in Berhampur on April 20. Later I tested positive for Covid and was admitted to the hospital on April 22. As I was feeling better, I started reading. There are only 10 patients in the ward. My exam was scheduled to begin on May 21 but it was postponed at the last moment.” Barik added: “The collector asked me about the medical facilities available at the MKCG. He asked me if I had any specific complaints. But here I found the doctors are very cooperative and the medical staff provides treatment.” A Twitter user replied to Kulange’s post: “It really shows how a CA student believes in hardwork and never ever gives up attitude.. salute you bro. All the best for your exam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Exit polls predict Mamata  win in tight race||Exit polls coming at the end of the eighth phase of polling on Thursday in Bengal predicted Mamata Banerjee’s return to Nabanna for a third term albeit with much reduced seats. Most  polls predicted BJP coming in second with over 100 seats, while the Left and the Congress, in alliance with the rookie Indian Secular Front, appeared not to have made much of an impact with the Bengal voters. The ABP C Voter exit poll prediction indicated that the voting pattern in Bengal had not changed much since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul Congress, according to ABP C Voter, is projected to win 152-164 seats in the state with a vote share of 42 per cent, a sharp decline from the 211 seats that the party had won in 2916. The major difference between then and now has been the spectacular rise of the BJP in state’s electoral politics since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the party won 18 seats. On the other hand, the BJP is expected to win 109 to 121 seats with a 39 per cent vote share in the state and emerge as the main Opposition party in the state. For several decades in Bengal politics, the main Opposition party had not crossed the 100-seats mark. For example, in 2006, Trinamul Congress emerged as the main Opposition with only 29 seats and bagged another in a bypoll. In 2016, the Congress and Left Front contesting the polls together had managed 77 seats between them. The Sanyukta Morcha, that includes the Left, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, is projected to bag 14 to 25 seats in Bengal with a 15 per cent vote share. For the 292 seats in Bengal where polls were held (election for two seats will be held on May 16), 85,000 voters were quizzed on their voting preferences. The ABP-CNX exit poll projected 157-185 seats for the Trinamul and 96-125 seats for the BJP. The Congress-Left-ISF alliance is likely to get 8-16 seats. The NDTV exit polls too predicted Mamata’s return to power with 149 seats, just one above the majority mark, while the BJP is expected to get 116 seats. The exit poll gave 16 seats to the Congress-Left-ISF alliance. The Times Now C Voter exit poll too gave a clear majority to Trinamul with 158 seats, and 115 to the BJP, while the Sanyukta Morcha to get 19 seats. On the other hand, the Republic CNX exit poll indicated at a hung Assembly with 138-148 seats to the BJP and 128-138 seats for the Trinamul. The Sanyukta Morcha, according to Republic CNX, is likely to get 11-21 seats. The Jan KI Baat exit poll predicted a comfortable majority for the BJP with 174 seats, followed by 112 for Trinamul and six for the Left-Congress alliance. "The exit polls give a trend... Nobody can say decisively. Trend is clear. We are winning," Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra told a television news channel. "I won't get into numbers. Exit polls won't be reflected when the actual votes are counted on May 2. We will form the government in Bengal,"  said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president. CPM leader and Chanditala nominee Mohamad Salim refused to comment on the exit polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Stray incidents of violence reported during last phase of Bengal polls||A voter turnout of 76.07 per cent was recorded in the eighth and final phase of the West Bengal assembly elections, the Election Commission said on Thursday. The turnout figure is provisional as it was recorded at 5 pm when voting was still on. The commission said that "peaceful" polling was concluded across 11,860 polling stations in 35 assembly seats in the last phase of the elections. Repolling in Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra polling station in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency was also held on Thursday. Polling was suspended at the centre in Cooch Behar district on April 10 after five people were killed as central forces allegedly opened fire after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles". In the eighth phase of the West Bengal polls, 11,860 Ballot Units (BUs), 11,860 Control Units (CUs) and 11,860 VVPATs were used. "Non-functioning rate of EVMs and VVPATs during the poll was comparable to what was experienced in the last few polls," the commission said in a statement. One control unit, at least one ballot unit and one paper trail machine makes for one electronic voting machine. During the West Bengal elections, seizure of Rs 339.45 crore has been reported till Thursday. The seizure figures, which includes seizure of cash, liquor, narcotics and freebies, is 7.65 times of the total seizure of Rs 44.33 crores in the 2016 assembly polls, the commission said. Earlier in the day, one person was killed and two others injured as a car hit them in Murshidabad district, triggering tension in the area, a police officer said. The CPI(M) alleged that its member Kader Mondal (42) was killed, and two others -- Asim Al Mamoon (43) and Lal Chand Mondal (42) -- sustained injuries after TMC candidate Jafikul Islam ran his car over them. Islam, the TMC's Domkal seat candidate, rubbished the allegation, claiming that he was nowhere near the site of the incident. Chief Election Officer (CEO) Aariz Aftab has sought a report from district authorities in the matter. In the city's Beliaghata area, clashes broke out between two groups of people, following which the police restored to mild lathicharge to disperse them. Two persons, who identified themselves as BJP activists, alleged that they were roughed up by TMC workers during the melee. In Jorasanko constituency of central Calcutta, crude bombs were hurled outside Mahajati Sadan, the police said. BJP candidate Meena Devi Purohit alleged that the bombs were thrown at her vehicle while she was touring different polling booths. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the situation. In Nanoor constituency of violence-prone Birbhum district, BJP candidate Tarakeshwar Saha reportedly suffered injuries after his vehicle was ransacked. Saha accused TMC cadres of attacking him, but the allegation was dubbed as "baseless" by local leaders of the state's ruling party. In Maniktala constituency of Calcutta, BJP candidate Kalyan Choubey was gheraoed by a group of people during his visit to the polling booths. Choubey said "TMC-backed anti-socials" tried to create disturbances "so that they could rig the polls". TMC candidate Sadhan Pande, however, alleged agents of his party were beaten up by the BJP cadres in several booths. Long queues were seen outside most polling booths since early morning, raising concern over the spread of COVID-19, even as the Election Commission gave assurance that all precautionary measures are in place. Bengal registered its highest single-day spike of 17,207 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, while 77 more people succumbed to the disease. Over 84.77 lakh voters will decide the political fate of 283 candidates in this phase. Security measures have been heightened in view of the violence in the previous phases, an EC official said. The poll panel has deployed 641 companies of central forces in the final phase to ensure fair voting, he said. It has also placed TMC's Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance till 7 am on Friday, as the CEO received "several complaints against him". The voting exercise will continue till 6.30 pm. The eight-phase elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly began on March 27. Votes will be counted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Mamata needs to hold on to Murshidabad to keep Congress at bay||For Mamata Banerjee to create a "Congress-mukt" Bengal, it is imperative she establishes her hegemony in Murshidabad, the land of the nawabs. And the 2021 Assembly polls provides her with that opportunity when 11 seats in the district votes on Thursday. In 2011, the year of "poribartan", Murshidabad, with a 68 per cent Muslim population, sided mostly with the Congress. Mamata could win only one seat. Mamata handed over the reins of Murshidabad district to her then trusted aide, Suvendu Adhikari, in 2015. Dissension within the Khan Chowdhury family had made it easier for Mamata to make inroads in neighbouring Malda. Incidentally, the rise of the BJP in Malda also coincides with the weakening of the Congress and the CPM in the district. Murshidabad, the capital of Bengal during the days of the nawab, is the district with the highest Muslim population in Bengal. It is the last bastion of the Congress. Murshidabad and neighbouring Malda is where the Congress has some presence even now in 2021, 44 years since it was ousted from the administration headquarters of Writers’ Buildings and 23 years since Mamata Banerjee left the party. The Congress in Bengal has been bleeding since 1998, losing local satraps one after another to the Trinamul Congress. Yet the party remained alive, breathing. That oxygen support came from Murshidabad. The threat to the last Congress citadel became imminent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the three years from 2016, when Congress had won 18 of the 22 Assembly seats in the district, the Suvendu effect had come into play. Trinamul wrested the Murshidabad and Jangipur Lok Sabha seats, and left the Congress trailing in 17 Assembly segments of the district. Between 2016 and now, Murshidabad legislators Apurba Sarkar, Abu Taher Khan, Shaoni Singha Roy, Ashis Marjit, Akhruzzaman, Rabiul Alam Chowdhury were among the Congress winners who joined Trinamul. Mohammad Sohrab, the former Congress legislature party leader, also joined Trinamul after losing the Assembly elections in 2016 from Jangipur. Needless to say, Congress lost the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat to the Trinamul as well, while Abu Taher Khan, who had come from the Congress, won the Murshidabad Lok Sabha seat. Their departure, especially those from the Muslim community is significant, as the Muslims in the district were divided between the Congress and the Left partners, CPM and RSP, till 2016. “That many of our MLAs who left were Muslims has given rise to a perception of an anti-Muslim bias within the Congress. It is also a fact that since Abdus Sattar and ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury, we have not been able to project a single Muslim leader in state politics,” said a Congress leader from South Bengal. In the predominantly Muslim district, the threat of the NRC-CAA has further consolidated voters on the basis of communities with Muslims looking at Mamata as the saviour, instead of the weakened Congress. This time, Mamata herself camped in Murshidabad for three days ahead of the seventh phase of voting. Her presence was discomforting enough for state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to shoot of f complaints to the Election Commission. For Murshidabad, Mamata had to step in as she owes the district’s turning the Trinamul way to Suvendu Adhikari, her bitter rival now in the BJP. Since his departure, she hadn’t had time to groom anyone else to take charge of the district. In the Trinamul scheme of things, Mukul Roy, when he was Trinamul’s general secretary, had played a similar game of poaching. Politicians who joined Trinamul, like Saumitra Khan, left the party along with Roy. Since most of the current contenders on Trinamul tickets in Murshidabad were brought in to Trinamul by Adhikari junior, Mamata can never fully trust them. Within the Congress-Left-Indian Secular Front alliance too there are signs of trouble as state Congress chief and Berhampore MP  Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury refused to leave any seats for the ISF. Voting will be held on Thursday in as many as 35 seats on Thursday, bringing the curtains down on the arduous eight-phase assembly elections in Bengal. Elections to 11 of the Assembly seats in Murshidabad district were held on April 26. The remaining 11 seats will go to polls on Thursday , along with parts of North Calcutta, Malda and Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Letter shows central-state rift in BJP||The friction between the BJP’s state and central leaders kept under wraps over the past few months has been exposed by Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh’s denial of having issued a letter that barred party functionaries from speaking to the media till the last phase of the Assembly polls got over on Thursday. The letter dated April 25 and signed by state BJP vice-president and election office in-charge Pratap Banerjee has been circulating in the WhatsApp group of party leaders. “This is to notify all concerned that the Hon’ble State President Shri Dilip Ghosh has instructed all senior BJP Leaders, Office-Bearers of Morcha’s & Cells not to make any statements on any Print or Electronic Media till 29th April 2021,” read the letter which mentioned that only official spokespersons were allowed to comment on behalf of the BJP during this period. Ghosh has called the letter a fake one. “I’ve not issued any such diktat. I’ve seen the letter though. A lot of fake letters are doing the rounds these days. This could be one of them,” the Midnapore MP said. As the denial has triggered several questions on why the letter found its way in the WhatsApp group of BJP office-bearers, multiple sources told this correspondent that Amit Malviya, the party’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal, was behind the diktat. “The letter has been issued in Dilipda’s name and he didn’t even have any idea that something like this was being prepared. This indicates again that a lot of things are happening in Bengal without the knowledge of local leaders,” a source said. Several other sources said such interference by leaders deputed from Delhi in the state unit’s day-to-day affairs was demoralising workers, especially before the last phase of the polls. “All of us have received this letter on the party’s official WhatsApp group. If the letter was fake, why would it be shared officially?” asked a BJP office-bearer. A state Yuva Morcha (BJP’s youth wing) leader said Ghosh was livid when he had come to know about the letter and even blasted a member of the party’s media cell inquiring why such an order had been issued in his name without his consent. “Then, he came to know that it was Malviya’s decision. So, he immediately decided to distance himself from the letter,” the young leader said. According to a Morcha office-bearer, the fight between the leaders deputed from Delhi and local functionaries was under wraps because of the polls. “There have been several such cases, but B.L. Santosh, the national general secretary (organisation) of the party, managed them. This one, however, could not be kept under wraps,” said a source. The reason behind the gag order, according to sources, is the backlash facing the Union government in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. “Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have been pilloried for continuing their poll campaigns in Bengal even as patients died gasping for oxygen in Delhi. The gag order was issued to ensure that no state leader spoke on the issue as it could damage the BJP in the polls,” another source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Drives to collect blood and plasma||The rush to register for vaccination has started but social workers from Darjeeling hills and plains have launched campaigns to urge people to donate blood before being jabbed and provide plasma if one has recovered from Covid-19 infection. Mukesh Sharma, secretary of Kalimpong District Voluntary Blood Donor Forum, fears of a crisis in blood banks in the months to come if people do not donate blood before being inoculated with the vaccine. “We have started a campaign in Kalimpong requesting people to donate blood before taking the vaccine. This is because one cannot donate blood for some days after receiving the jab,” said Sharma. P.D. Bhutia, general physician, said it is being advised that people should donate blood only 28 days after the second dose of the vaccine. According to the Centre’s guidelines, the second dose of Covaxin should be taken between 28 to 42 days, while the second jab duration for Covishield should be between 28 to 56 days. This means those who take the jabs will not be able to donate blood for over two months. The Centre plans to vaccinate everyone aged above 18 years from May 1. Most blood banks depend on blood donation camps which is bound to dry up at a time when the pandemic is surging. “Even in normal times, less than 1 per cent of the area’s population donate blood. The Kalimpong district hospital requires about 100 to 120 units of blood per month,” said Sharma stating that the restriction on blood donation could pose problems for patients during the vaccination drive. In Siliguri of Darjeeling district, social workers have launched a  drive to seek plasma donors. Abhijit Dey, member of Covidwin Sahayata Siliguri, said their group had started seeking plasma donors in Siliguri from Tuesday. “We started the drive one day ago and have been approached by four people to help them with plasma. However, we have not yet got a donor,” said Dey. The group is looking for patients who have recovered from Covid-19 during the last 90 days so that plasma can be extracted from their blood as it would contain antibodies to the virus. “Plasma therapy has worked for some. It is part of a rescue therapy and not a permanent solution. Some people are coming forward for plasma donation in Siliguri,” said Dr. Bhutia. Dey and his organisation want to bring seekers and donors on a common platform. “We are also helping patients with oxygen and ambulances. During the first wave, we were into distributing mask and sanitisers but this time the need is different,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Erosion victims find shelter in toilet ||For Jaydeb Mandal of Golap Mandal Para village under Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency of Malda, the toilet is a place to stay. In his early thirties, Jaydeb, who will vote on Thursday, has been living for the past two years with his wife and 60-year-old father in a community toilet built by the Farakka Barrage Authority (FBA) that controls the flow of the Ganga. A classic victim of the Ganga’s erosion, Jaydeb used to own a piece of land and had a modest house in the same village even a few years back, and could eke out a livelihood on the proceeds of the sale of their agricultural produce. “But because of Ganga’s erosion, we started losing our agricultural land, but by bit. Gradually, the entire land of around 2 bighas was swallowed by the mighty waters. I and my father started working as a daily labourer in other people's fields,” said Jaydeb, sitting a cot inside the toilet. But the worst blow, he said, came two years back when the river gobbled up their house. Like hundreds of others, they moved to a safer place with whatever belongings they could save when their house collapsed. Initially, Jaydeb could not find any accommodation to move in with his family. After some days, he spotted the toilet built next to a Sishu Siksha Kendra. “The Ganga hadn’t spared the Kendra building but somehow its toilet remained intact. As it wasn’t in use anymore, I shifted my family to it,” said the youth, who also changed his occupation from farmer to fisherman. The toilet, with around 50 square feet of floor area, has two booths where he started living with his family. “A few months back, my father managed to convince a neighbour to let him stay in the verandah of his house at night. So every night, my father goes there to sleep,” said Jaydeb. Residents of the village, under the Pardeonapur-Shobhapur panchayat in Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency, said that over a hundred families had faced similar consequences because of erosion. “Forget us common folk, even Swadhin Sarkar, the sitting MLA (of the BJP) had lost his ancestral house because of the erosion. Every year, the Ganga gobbles up several acres of land, and people become both landless and homeless. Elections keep on coming but the fate of people like us hardly changes over the years,” said Bishu Mandal, another resident of the village and also an erosion victim. Jaydeb, these days, only prays that the Ganga does not erode their area any more. The river flows only a few metres away from the toilet. “I do not want to lose my shelter. If the toilet is eroded by the river, we will be homeless again,” he said. On whether local panchayat representatives had approached him so that he gets a house from the government, the youth answered in the negative “No one has turned up in my place so far even though they know I live in a toilet. We badly need a house,” he said. But he and his family will definitely vote this time, he said. “Casting our franchise is our duty. But I don’t anticipate that things will change for me (if I vote). We will have to struggle to earn our living like always,” he said. Sarkar, the local BJP MLA, when asked about erosion victims such as Jaydeb, was quick to pass the buck to the state government. “The responsibility lies with the state government and the zilla parishad. There is no reason why an erosion victim will not get a house. Earlier, a number of such families have been rehabilitated. It is a pity that a couple has to stay in a toilet. Once the elections are over, I would surely look into it,” Sarkar said. Hemanta Sharma, the Malda district coordinator of Trinamul, said that several erosion victims had been rehabilitated by the state schemes. “Once the elections are over, I will see to it that the local panchayat looks into why a genuine victim has been overlooked,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Mirik homestays brave the second wave of Covid||Homestay owners in Mirik, a tiny town in Darjeeling hills, are trying to run their accommodations despite the second wave in Covid-19 cases. Mirik subdivision — the smallest in the hills — has around 70 homestays. On Thursday, homestay owners of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, who have floated the Darjeeling-Kalimpong Himalayan Tourism Confederation, a joint forum of homestay owners, will hold a meeting in Kurseong to work out standard operating procedures on running accommodations amid the pandemic. At a time homestay owners in other locations, including the Dooars, and hotel and resort owners, are worried about the consequences of the rise in Covid cases, homestay owners in Mirik are steadily running their properties while ensuring the staff and visitors adhere to safety protocols. Kalyan Rai, the working president of Mirik Rambhang Homestay Owners’ Association, said there was no point in shutting their accommodations when there are no transport curbs. He said in 2020, lakhs of people associated with tourism, including homestay owners, suffered severe losses amid the first wave of the pandemic and the lockdown. “We are trying to run our services in this new normal. Many of our members have good bookings for May, some are booked till October. Why should we discourage visitors, as long as we and our guests adhere to all safety protocols?” said Kalyan. During the past couple of years, around 12,000 homestay accommodations in the hills and foothills have become new tourist attractions. Since the onset of the pandemic, many tourists prefer homestays, which are standalone properties in isolated places, over hotels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Widow of TMC candidate complains against EC||The wife of Kajal Sinha, deceased Trinamul candidate from Khardah, has lodged a police complaint against the Election Commission and its Bengal-in-charge Sudeep Jain, holding them responsible for her husband’s death from Covid. Nandita Sinha’s complaint comes two days after Madras High Court castigated the commission for allowing campaign rallies, held it “singularly” responsible for India’s Covid resurgence, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. Nandita’s complaint, dated April 27 but registered on Wednesday, urges the officer-in-charge of Khardah police and the Barrackpore police commissioner to take immediate steps against Jain, a deputy election commissioner, and other commission officials responsible for “acts/omissions” that led to 59-year-old Kajal’s death on Sunday morning. “I… am writing to you today with a bleeding heart and unparalleled pain, to inform you about the negligent actions/ inactions on the part of the Election Commission of India… which has led to my husband’s untimely demise,” says the complaint, lodged under penal code sections 269, 270, 304 (Part II) and 120B. Sections 269 and 270 deal with negligent and malignant acts, respectively, that are likely to spread life-threatening infections; Section 304 with culpable homicide not amounting to murder; and 120B with criminal conspiracy. Jain, 51, had been in charge of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal too. When he was appointed Bengal-in-charge again for this election, Trinamul had formally sought his removal, accusing the 1994-batch IAS officer from the Tamil Nadu cadre of a pro-BJP bias. But the commission had defended Jain, endorsing the 2019 decisions attributed to him by Trinamul. “He (Kajal) contracted the coronavirus on April 20, 2021, and succumbed to it on April 25, 2021, while being compelled to carry out his public duties and election campaign as a candidate due to the self-serving blind motives of the ECI,” Nandita’s complaint says. On Monday, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of Madras High Court had asked commission officials if they were “(living) on another planet”. The high court’s observations were hailed widely by the medial fraternity and ordinary citizens on social media but came under attack from the Bengal BJP, which aggressively defended the commission, alleged a “conspiracy” and accused the bench of echoing Trinamul. The BJP claimed the high court’s observations had “tainted” India’s judiciary and demanded an investigation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has steadfastly questioned the commission’s motives, accusing it of colluding with the BJP and functioning at Union home minister Amit Shah’s behest. She has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the poll panel and Shah of allowing the second wave of Covid to reach devastating proportions in their desperation to win the Bengal election. Nandita’s complaint mentions the death of three other Bengal candidates from Covid and censures the commission for “malignantly” continuing with the unprecedented eight-phase polls in the state amid a surging pandemic, causing widespread deaths. The commission had refused to budge in the face of Trinamul requests to club the final three phases. Nandita noted that the commission had the widest possible powers over elections, including the authority to pass directions wherever any unforeseen situation emerged during any polls. “However, the ECI has deliberately ignored to act and completely disregarded its obligations to public health and safety,” she wrote. Shortly after the complaint became public on Wednesday, Trinamul accused the commission, BJP and the central government of having the “blood of Covid-19 patients on their hands”. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said Modi and Shah had together addressed at least 50 rallies in Bengal in April alone despite the skyrocketing Covid infections. “With the commission refusing to club the final three phases, over 1.4 crore people can be expected to be exposed to the virus in the last two phases (Monday and Thursday) alone,” the Dum Dum MP said. The BJP defended the commission again and described Nandita’s complaint as a “gimmick”. “A lot of people have died, in Bengal and elsewhere… not Kajal Sinha alone,” said Barrackpore MP and Trinamul turncoat Arjun Singh of the BJP. “The Election Commission does not have the infrastructure to carry out this or that order by the courts. This is a political gimmick, nothing else.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Illegal structures on right banks of Teesta river razed||The district administration and police in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday acted on the order issued on Tuesday by a single bench of the circuit bench of Calcutta High Court to clear illegal structures on the right banks of the Teesta rover near Jubilee Park of Jalpaiguri town. The court, while issuing the order, had expressed concerns of crowding on the banks, particularly in view of the mounting cases of Covid-19. In the morning, a team of police officers, along with officials from the district administration reached the spot close to the residences of Calcutta High Court Judges. They were accompanied by other policemen, workers and excavators. At Jubilee Park area, a resort, some cottages, houses and shops that had mushroomed on the riverbank were demolished. Though none of the affected residents protested, some have demanded rehabilitation. “I used to run a small stationery shop that was demolished. I am clueless as how to run my family. The administration help us in our rehabilitation,” said Malati Roy, one of those to be affected by the demolition. On Tuesday, Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj of Calcutta High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the crowding of people at the Teesta river bank. In his hearing, he observed that every evening, over 500 people assemble in the location, and that such gatherings were precarious when Covid-19 cases were on the rise. He had instructed the administration and the police to clear illegal structures within 24 hours and submit reports to him on Wednesday. Subir Kumar Saha, the additional government pleader, on Wednesday submitted the reports filed by the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri before the single bench. Justice Bharadwaj, after hearing the case, said that state authorities had initiated steps to maintain Covid protocol. He also ordered the registrar of the circuit bench to send all the records of the case to the registrar general of Calcutta High Court, who in turn, would place the records before the Chief Justice, said sources. The development earned appreciation from a number of Jalpaiguri residents. Rajesh Dutta, a resident of the town, said it was needed to clear the area. “Hundreds would turn up at the site every day…which was not only a health hazard amid Covid-19 but also polluted the riverbank,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccine: Queues start at 3am||High demand and low supply of vaccines, along with an increasing rush for Covid-19 tests, have come as a major challenge for Bengal’s health infrastructure amid the second wave of Covid-19. Sources said at every hospital in south Bengal districts, people, including senior citizens, are queuing up for vaccines from as early as 3am or 4am, fearing they will miss out on the jab if they come at 10am when counters open, or later. Health department sources said that as of Wednesday morning, around 1.02 crore vaccine doses had been administered in Bengal, the fifth on the list of states with most doses already administered. Health officials said those coming in for their second doses are also facing problems now, even though many hospitals have stopped providing the first dose altogether. On Wednesday, over 250 people queued up at the Bolpur Subdivisional Hospital from the wee hours, seeking vaccines for first and second doses. However, the infrastructure at the hospital could only handle the vaccination of 150 persons as many staff members had tested positive for Covid-19. “After the second wave of the pandemic acquired lethal proportions, demand for vaccines shot up. Plus, at least four of our staff members got infected. It is a challenge for us to vaccinate all the people in the lines,” said a health official at the Bolpur hospital. The scenes were similar  at hospitals in Hooghly, Murshidabad and East Burdwan, as many elderly persons had to return without getting vaccinated despite hours of waiting. Ujjwal Mondal, 62, a resident of Khagra in Murshidabad, had to return home for three days after queuing up for seven hours each day for his second dose. He finally got the vaccine on Tuesday after queuing up from 4am at the Behrampore Sadar Hospital. “I was in queue from 4am. I got a coupon at 8am. My serial number was 241. So I went home, but returned at 1.30pm....I got the injection later in the afternoon,” said Mondal who had taken the first dose of the vaccine 52 days ago. Health officials said such harassment was the result of low supply in the face of ever-increasing demand. “We try to keep stocks for emergencies, but the demand is so high now, that everything is falling short,” said a senior health official in Murshidabad. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy lambasted the BJP-led Centre for the pan-India crisis. “The crisis is a result of low supply and improper planning of the Centre… it could have and should have been better handled,” he said. On Wednesday, Bengal reported 17,207 new cases detected in a day, 77 deaths and active cases crossing 1.05 lakh. Vaccines apart, health officials have also been struggling to test a far higher number of people at the same time. “Exactly a month ago, 26,545 tests were needed to be conducted in a day in Bengal. Today, 54,936 tests had to be conducted. That should tell you how much the pressure has increased (on us),” said a health department official. He said when the capacity of an RT-PCR unit is to test 300 samples in a shift, at least 1,200 samples come in now. “It is impossible for technicians to test four times the capacity. We are trying to get more rapid tests done,” he said. Prior to this, if a person was found negative in a rapid test, a sample would be sent for an RT-PCR test for confirmation. “But now, we are going by whatever the rapid tests say, except in seriously symptomatic cases,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP faces ‘twin odds’ in Malda||The BJP that has been promoting the “double engine” narrative in Bengal is now fighting against “twin odds” in Malda in the concluding lap of the Assembly elections. First, two BJP candidates — Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, fielded from Englishbazar, has been detected with Covid-19, while Gopal Chadra Saha contesting from Maldaha was shot at by miscreants on April 18 and is recuperating at home — have had to pull out of the campaign trail in the last leg. Second, the candidates in five seats — Baishnabnagar, Sujapur, Englishbazar, Maldaha and Manikchak — out of the six segments where elections would be held in the district on Thursday will have to compete with dissidents contesting as Independents. “We are majorly hamstrung because of these two developments and our poll prospects are suspect,” said a senior district BJP leader. Malda is a district that has a minority population of around 55 per cent and 12 Assembly seats. Elections were held in half of the seats on April 26. Since the commencement of the poll campaign, the BJP has played the polarisation card in Malda consistently to consolidate Hindu votes in constituencies like Englishbazar and Maldaha with a high concentration of Hindus. “The absence of the candidates from the campaign and also on the poll day would be a loss,” said Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the Malda district BJP president. “But ours is an organised party and our supporters vote looking at the symbol,” he added, putting up a brave face even as reports from the ground level are different. The absence of the candidates from the campaign trail, however, is not the only woe facing the BJP that had high expectations from the district. Unlike earlier years, a number of disgruntled BJP leaders have filed nominations as Independents in five seats. “Only the Mothabari seat has no BJP dissident... There is always an apprehension of vote split and we have to ensure that our supporters vote for the official candidates and not dissidents,” said a district BJP leader. He said two former BJP leaders had filed nominations in Manikchak in protest against the party’s decision to field Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda zilla parishad who had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP earlier this year. “He is contesting against veteran Trinamul leader Sabitri Mitra. If these dissidents draw votes, the contest would be tougher for our candidate,” the leader said. That the dissidents are hell-bent on defeating the BJP was evident during their campaign as they went all out attacking the party’s state and central leadership. “We want to teach the BJP a lesson here for embracing a turncoat who had tormented innocent BJP workers when he was in Trinamul,” said Anil Chandra Mandal, a dissident BJP leader who is contesting as Independent in Manikchak. Other dissident candidates like Harendranath Sarkar of Baishnabnagar and Aditya Prakash Dasgupta, a veteran RSS activist who is contesting in Englishbazar, spoke on similar lines. “Old-timers were neglected. The BJP leadership is so adamant on a win now that they have not cared for principles and ideals which we used to boast of earlier,” said Dasgupta. The district BJP chief, however, said the dissidents would not have any impact on the hustings. Total constituencies: 35 Districts: 4 — Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Calcutta Number of booths: 11,860 Central forces: 641 companies Key contests: Bolpur, Jorasanko, Shyampukur, Maniktala and Behrampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues safe counting norms, TMC flags posers||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines to ensure Covid-19 protocols are obeyed at the 705 counting centres in Bengal, to which Trinamul responded by saying the four-page directive had several “contradictions” needing immediate redress. Counting of votes of the Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly elections will be held on Sunday, May 2. The EC, following a recent prod from the Madras High Court, has been trying to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols in the last phase of polls in Bengal on Thursday, and Sunday’s counting process. For this, the poll panel issued a set of guidelines signed by Sumit Mukherjee, a senior principal secretary of the EC, which said that candidates and counting agents would be allowed inside the counting centres only if they produce a negative RT-PCR or RAT test report or have taken both doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus. “No candidates/agents will be allowed inside the counting hall without undergoing RT-PCR/RAT test or without having 2 doses of vaccination against Covid-19 and will have to produce Negative RT-PCR report or RAT report or Vaccination reports within 48 hours of start of counting…”the list of instructions issued by the poll body read. To this, Trinamul quickly reacted by flagging several inconsistencies in the poll panel’s directive. “…the time mandated for providing such a negative report has been stated as ‘within 48 hours of start of counting’, which effectively means by 4 May 2021. Please clarify your intentions,” a letter written by Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien to the commission, read. Speaking to The Telegraph, Election Commission sources said there was “nothing confusing” about its guidelines. The commission has specified that the RT-PCR or RAT test report cannot be older than 48 hours from May 2, a source said. Trinamul, in the same letter, also asked for a clarification on the time frame and procedure of replacement of a counting agent who tests positive in the RT-PCR or RAT test. The EC’s set of guidelines mandated candidates to submit the list of counting agents by 5pm on April 29 and kept a provision for their replacement, in case they are found Covid-positive. Multiple officials at the Bengal chief electoral office have said that following recent observations of the Madras High Court related to the EC’s role in allowing rallies, among others, amid the second wave of the pandemic, it had become an immense challenge for the poll panel to adhere to Covid-19 safety norms during counting. District electoral officers (DEOs) have been assigned the charge of nodal officer at each counting centre. It will be the responsibility of each DEO to arrange the RT-PCR or RAT tests of candidates and agents. According to guidelines, agents will be made to sit in an arrangement so that between two counting agents, one will be wearing PPE. Sufficient number of PPEs will have to be arranged for this, the poll commission  said. Along with these, there were usual instructions on the use of masks and sanitisation. On Tuesday, the EC had disallowed any victory procession after counting. On Wednesday, it barred any kind of “public gathering outside the counting venue” when counting is on. The commission’s guidelines released on Wednesday came after several rounds of discussions, but Trinamul’s queries have to be addressed soon, said a source at the chief electoral office. “If the issues aren’t taken care of, the inconsistencies will be taken to the court and the Election Commission’s prudence will be questioned yet again,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission team loses sight of Anubrata Mondal ||The Election Commission of India’s team deployed to keep round-the-clock watch on Birbhum’s Trinamul Congress chief Anubrata Mondal struggled to keep up with the leader for two-and-a-half hours on Wednesday when he travelled extensively in the district and gave instructions to party workers with regard to the polls to 11 Assembly seats on Thursday. Only after Mondal visited Trinamul leaders and workers at Nanoor, Labhpur, Sainthia and Mallarpur was the surveillance team headed by an executive magistrate able to track him down to the Tarapith temple. Apart from the executive magistrate, the surveillance team comprised a videographer and four central force jawans. The videographer’s job was to record every move of Mondal. The EC had kept Mondal under surveillance in the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The surveillance team was waiting outside in a car when Mondal left his home in Bolpur around 11.30am on Wednesday. As soon as Mondal started out, the team followed him. “He was on the way to Nanoor. But suddenly, his car took a bypass that the officials could not follow,” said a close aide to Mondal. Mondal first met Trinamul workers in the four key areas before reaching the Tarapith temple to offer prayers. Sources said after he had reached Tarapith, the executive magistrate asked him to wait till the surveillance team reached. Although the commission’s officials claimed Mondal had not been able to do anything special, Trinamul insiders said he had given last-minute advice to the party’s election managers at the grassroots, which was of crucial importance the day before the polls. “Keshtoda did exactly what he had planned, outside the EC’s vigil. His tours the district the day before the polls and it has become routine that the commission’s team struggles to keep up with him or understand his methods,” said a Trinamul leader. In the evening, the commission served him a showcause, alleging he had escaped the surveillance. “He had been under strict surveillance since yesterday (Tuesday) evening. Today (Wednesday), he skipped the surveillance for some time. However, we tracked him over the phone and were informed about his location. The executive magistrate warned him in writing not to avoid the surveillance in future,” said Birbhum district magistrate Devi Prasad Karanam who also functions as the district election officer under the EC. Mondal, however, said it was the duty of the commission to keep him under surveillance, in which the panel had failed. “If the team failed to find me, then it is their fault. What can I do? I waited for the team at Tarapith and called up the district magistrate, asking him about the team. He said they were on the way,” said Mondal. Senior officials said the surveillance team and the magistrate were not adequately aware of how Mondal functioned and what he had done the last two times he was kept under watch by the EC. “In 2016 and 2019, when Mondal was kept under similar surveillance, he had moved around the district for hours. But then, the teams did not lose sight of him altogether for hours, at least. This time, the team failed to do what it was sent to,” said a senior official. Mondal alleged that police had asked many active Trinamul leaders to visit police stations, forcing them to stay there. “I have no problem with surveillance…. But I had never seen such a biased poll panel before this,” he said. “At their (the commission’s) behest, the police are summoning our leaders, but nothing is done about the BJP’s goons despite repeated complaints,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘State needs BJP to arrest this advanced decay’||If you compare the West Bengal of today to the West Bengal of the early 1960s, you will perceive the downward slide that the state has seen so far. This has happened because of continuous povertarian, anti-development, anti-industry, anti-prosperity rule first by the Left Front government and then by the Trinamul Congress (TMC), led by Mamata Banerjee whom I call a medhabi chhatri or diligent pupil of the Leftists. During this process, there has been an exodus and closure of industries, climaxed by the driving out of the Nano factory from Singur. The second aspect is infiltration — Bangladeshi infiltration and right now Rohingya infiltration — that has imposed a burden on this state. Our state has been the receptacle of Hindus who have been driven out of East Bengal because of religious persecution. Now, we are getting the persecutors here and our governments have welcomed them with open arms because they vote in a block. Third, because of Leftism pervading the entire body politic and the minds of the people, our value system has been warped. We have lost the common sense concept of good and bad. On the other hand, we have concepts of good and bad based on what is good for the party, what is approved by the party. The CPM pushed it down our throats and thereafter, it became a part of our DNA. The TMC has simply followed it. I call Mamata Banerjee medhabi chaatri because she figured that if the Leftists could stay in power for 35 years this way, then so could she. All she had to do is copy them; she didn’t have to do any original thinking. Now we have come to a stage that no industrialist will touch this state with a 10-foot pole. Yet manufacturing is what can create a large number of jobs. The service industry has enormous potential but manufacturing has to form the core. That is why manufacturing is necessary and Bengal was the hub of manufacturing. The communists have systematically driven them out. But even at this stage, this advanced stage of decay, if proper political will is employed the state can turn around. Only the BJP can do this because the party’s political idiom is diametrically opposite to this povertarianism, opposed to the anti-prosperity stance, opposed to Bangladeshi infiltration and, of course, minority appeasement. This is why the state needs the BJP; there is no alternative. People are people, they have not lost track of their innate sense of good and bad. In spite of the communists teaching them the contrary. Which is why the communists have gone out of favour. That Mamata Banerjee is a communist in some other garb people will take some time to understand. But eventually they will understand. There is a very famous saying attributed to Victor Hugo, “No one can stop the passage of something whose time has come.” The time for the BJP has come. Mamata, the communists, the “secularists” can do nothing against it. People have seen all these things, people have seen through them, now the time has come for the BJP, the only ones who can save this state. Many say that the BJP has no roots in this state but that is wrong, its founder was from this state. Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, which eventually metamorphosed into the BJP. The only thing is in the interregnum the BJP did not have an existence in the state because Mookerjee could not anoint a proper successor. It is difficult to say how many seats we will win but I’m fairly sure — and my belief has hardened into conviction based on Mamata’s body language in Nandigram on polling day — that we will get the predicted 200 seats. It is difficult to say how long it will take the BJP to get Bengal out of the financial mess, but I will say that we will have to do it within five years or perish. At least we will have to show tangible results and for that we will have to do surgical operations. Some very, very drastic measures will be necessary. There is jute, there is tea, there is coal, there is steel and there is still an engineering industry, though a pale shadow of what it used to be. Among agricultural products there is potato, which the state can export. Apart from that there is manpower; this state has exported quite a lot of manpower to all the states in the fields of IT, management, performing arts. All these are things that the state can monetise. As for those who accuse the BJP of polarising the people, let me say that extreme polarisation has already been caused by Mamata’s antics. Ever since she has come to power there have been as many as five major communal riots — at Dhulagarh, Kaliachak, Naliakhali, Hazinagar and Baduria —and several minor ones. And Gujarat, the state that is continuously bad mouthed by the “seculars”, has not seen a single communal riot since 2002 because the state has administered law and order without fear and favour and not pandered to certain sections of the population, which give birth to criminals. (As told to The Telegraph)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: ‘A TMC govt  will suit the ethos  of Bengal’||There’s a host of reasons why Bengal needs the Trinamul Congress (TMC). First, the TMC is a Bengal-centric party; it originated in Bengal and remains confined only to Bengal. So the party is quite capable of looking after the needs and aspirations of the people of Bengal. The TMC is a relatively new party, having been set up only 23 years ago. In this time, it has borne the brunt of the actions of a very violent CPM. Many party workers have lost their lives, many more have been forced out of their homes and so on and so forth. This is common knowledge. Also, the TMC was the party that led the fight against land acquisition in both Singur and Nandigram. The Trinamul Congress has a leader whose face is known throughout Bengal and throughout India; the TMC has the advantage of an established leadership, unlike other parties. And the need of the hour today is leadership that can fight against the authoritarian, communal regime currently at the Centre. Keep in mind that the TMC was the first party to protest against demonetisation — a unilateral decision taken by the Centre; it also protested the hasty implementation of the GST. It has supported the farmers’ movement against the anti-farmer legislation brought in by the central government. The TMC has also protested against the riots fomented by the BJP in different parts of the country, and against the communal policies of the central government. It was at the forefront of the fight against the divisive Citizenship Amendment Act, which the TMC has said it will not allow to be implemented in Bengal. Bengal needs a TMC government to suit the ethos of the state and its traditional exceptionalist politics. The TMC has ruled in this state for the last 10 years without excessive use of the police force and police firing. It has brought peace to the Darjeeling hills and to the erstwhile Maoist-dominated Jungle Mahal. In view of what is currently happening in Chhattisgarh, this deserves a lot of credit. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC government has initiated a multitude of extremely pro-people programmes. Take, for example, Kanyashree Prakalpa, which is for girls between 14 and 18 years of age; it has benefited 69 lakh girls. Under Sabooj Sathi, free cycles have been distributed to school students; it has benefited 84 lakh students. This year, the TMC government has given Rs 10,000 each to nine lakh students of Class XII to enable them to buy smartphones so they can attend online classes during the pandemic. The Khadya Sathi Scheme is benefiting eight-and-a-half crore people with cheap — and now free — rations. The Swasthya Sathi will be benefiting the whole population of the state. The TMC government is granting a pension to all Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) people above 60 years of age, it is giving allowances to imams and muezzins of mosques and also to Brahmin purohits. The TMC government has maintained communal peace in the state where there have been no riots. Bengal needs the TMC government for a progressive, democratic setup to further the development of the state peacefully and to take steps for enhancing employment. The TMC has stood like a rock against the pro-capitalist policies of the central government, which is selling all public sector and government assets. Bengal needs the TMC as a beacon of light in the face of communal, capitalist and authoritarian politics unleashed by the BJP throughout the country. All over India, elections have been done in one day, at the most in three days. Here, for some unknown reason, they conducted elections in eight phases. Nearly 2 lakh central forces have come here. They have come from different states and they are travelling all over the state. They are spreading the coronavirus. For the Prime Minister’s meetings, workers are coming from Gujarat and so on. That too is spreading the corona. We had requested that the last three phases be completed in one day but that did not happen. As a result, people are being infected. This is entirely the fault of the Election Commission and they have done it at the behest of the ruling party at the Centre, particularly Modi and Shah. This has been a unique election. In the sense that in my whole life, in almost 60 years of elections, I have never seen so much pressure being brought on a state. The pressure of the central forces, the use of central agencies like the CBI, ED, and the income tax department before the elections, the high pressure campaign by the Prime Minister spending the nation’s money, the amount of money BJP used in every constituency — this is unique. Even during national elections, I have never seen Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah visit so many times. The number of outsiders coming to the state, I have never seen this. This has become a fight between Bengalis and outsiders and I think the Bengalis will win. We have been an exceptional state, we practise exceptionalism right from Netaji Subhas’s days, I think we will be an exception this time too. (As told to The Telegraph)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: If none recognises, Shersabadia will speak for itself||On January 21, Abdul Wahab, who teaches English at Samsi College in Chanchal in Malda district, received an award for Kafer Kobityar Poshalu (A picnic with infidel poetry), his collection of poems written in Shersabadia. It was a rare honour. Not only because it was discerning, but also because hardly any books have been written in Shersabadia. Which is surprising, considering about an estimated 50 lakh people — or more — speak it in Bengal. Shersabadia is a Bengali dialect spoken extensively in the Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur districts of Bengal. But it remains obscure because the people who speak it also remain obscure, though they constitute almost 1/20th of the population of Bengal. This collective linguistic identity has hardly ever been recognised and this is now being addressed from within the community. A significant section of Shersabadias — the people and the language share the same name — is Muslim, but Hindu communities such as that of the Chain Mandal and the group that now identifies as Kishan Sampraday are also a part of it. They are obscure for historical reasons. A conscious, organised effort to get the dialect the recognition it deserves began only two years ago. Wahab, who in January received the literary award from BASE — Bengal Academia of Social Empowerment, a collective of academicians, scholars and professionals, working, among other things, for the social and cultural development of Bengali Muslims  — is a moving force behind a movement that aims at establishing Shersabadia on the cultural map of Bengal. The Shersabadia Bikash Parishad has been established in Malda town for the development of the dialect . Wahab attempts to explain why Shersabadia, though so widely spoken, is not known beyond its speakers. Its origin lies in the conquest of Bengal by Sher Shah Suri, the commander of Mughal emperor Babar’s army, and the history of its decline seems to foreshadow that of mainstream Bengali. Sher Shah was appointed the governor of Bihar. In 1538, when Humayun was emperor, he conquered the capital of Bengal, Gaur. The next year, he defeated Humayun in Chausa in Bihar. Bihar and Bengal came under his rule then. He divided his kingdom into several divisions called Sarkars, and each Sarkar into several smaller units called Parghanas. Shersabad was one of the Parghanas. The people who lived in Shersabad — the fertile doab region between the Ganges and the Mahananda, north of the Rahr region and south of the Barendra region — came to be known as Shersabadias. The community is spread over Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur in Bengal, adjoining areas in Bihar and Jharkhand, Rajshahi and other places in Bangladesh, and in Nepal. The language shows regional variations. The total number of people speaking Shersabadia, including in the places outside Bengal, is about 3 crore. The earliest reference, however, says Wahab, came in early 20th century, when G.A. Grierson mentioned it in the Linguistic Survey of India (1898-1928). The next time it was mentioned properly was by linguist Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar in his book The Science of Language (1989). It has not been discussed in the landmark linguistic studies on Bengali, says Wahab. Class and caste played a major role in keeping Shersabadia on the margins. The Shersabadias were originally peasants. From the time of Sher Shah through the Mughal era to the era of the Nawabs of Bengal, the community prospered. Gaur, from where king Shashanka, the Palas and the Sens ruled, from the 7th to the 13th century, and Murshidabad, the capital of the Nawabs later, were located in the area where they ruled. The Muslim Shersabadia community were mostly converts: lower caste Hindus who had converted to Islam to escape oppression by the Sen rulers who would also not spare Buddhists. The Muslim Shersabadias have been given OBC status,  too, a few years earlier. The description Shersabadia had stuck more to the Muslim section. The Hindu Shersabadia speaking groups were often named after their caste. The language can be traced to the earlier times as well, feels Wahab. “Shersabadia resembles the language of Charyapada,” says Wahab, who belongs to the community. Charyapada is a collection of mystical poems and songs, written between the 8th and 12th centuries, which show Buddhist influence, and is supposed to be the origin of Bengali. But with the advent of the British, and the defeat of the Nawabs and a new capital founded in Calcutta, history took another course. The shift of the capital city — as all Bengalis know, not only Shersabadias — also means the shift of financial capital. Peasants, in any case, were being oppressed by British rule. The Shersabadias, in addition, would suffer two huge blows — the Partition of Bengal, 1905, when parts of the Shersabadia settlement areas went to Bihar; and the Partition of India, when parts of the region went to East Pakistan, now Bangladesh. These hit hard, fracturing the already fragile Shersabadia cultural identity. Some from the community went away to East Pakistan, but many remained. The community had also been branded “criminal”, but was decriminalised later. “In fact, in a way, we were not ‘colonised’ enough,” says Wahab. Colonial education did not reach the community. “The language was unconnected with education.” It remained like it was, always, more or less, and without even a script. It still does not have one. Meanwhile, in the 18th and 19th centuries, Bengali was standardised. The formal version, which would produce several highly accomplished literary works in the years to come,  was very different from a dialect. “It was an exercise conducted in the city,” says Wahab. Sanskrit was a major influence on it. “Shersabadia is part of the Bengali language family, but quite distinct both in structure and sound,” says Wahab. The final syllable in a word is elongated and accented, a feature that is used with great effect. “Since Shersabadia was only spoken, it had no formal literature.” A language does not grow without a literature. Literary works in Shersabadia are very recent. Like Wahab, others are also writing poetry in Shersabadia. “Books are still few in Shersabadia,” says Wahab. But online, there are several videos on Shersabadia history, culture and songs, presented by animated young men. Abdus Samad is another noted activist for Shersabadia, as is Rezaul Karim. “Shersabadia as a dialect is comparable to Kamtapuri in north Bengal a few years ago. Kamtapuri became officially recognised after the political movement,” says Wahab. But the Shersabadia movement will not tread that path. “Ours is a linguistic, cultural movement, affiliated to no political party, with no political agenda,” stresses Wahab. “The problem has to be addressed intellectually,” says Wahab. Poetry is essential. The title of his book, which was awarded, takes its name from a poem that says art is above morality. Obviously, above electoral politics, too, and narrow sectarianism. Abid Hassan, a documentary filmmaker and BASE member, agrees. He also feels that the Shersabadiya community and the dialect remain invisible because of the lack of a political agenda. “We are trying to create a script,” he says. But as Wahab points out, all struggles are political in a fundamental way because they are struggles for existence, for a people, for a language. Tthont kaamraaichhey kaalo daihya, Jitthi kohe tthik tthik. Haami taakaai tomaar ghaanta,  Dhhoirya thaaki jaanlar shink. Tumi aaisbya kobe koho tthik. A black ant has bitten my lips  And a lizard sounds “yes, yes”. I am looking at the path of your retreat While catching the iron bars of my window. When will you return? Please tell me now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||North East||Earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale rocks Assam||An earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale rocked Assam on Wednesday morning, damaging over 200 buildings and injuring 10 people, prompting the Centre to offer assistance to the state government already grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. Though Assam has experienced two massive and devastating quakes on August 15, 1950, and on July 29, 1960, the tremors on Wednesday were among the most severe and scary since the seventies, according to most people The Telegraph spoke to. The epicentre of the quake that hit the state at 7.51am was located at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district with a focal depth of 17km. The epicentre is closer to the plate boundary and located around 80km northeast of Guwahati; 132km north of Shillong and 180km west of Jorhat. Tremors were also felt across the Northeast and some parts of Bihar, Bengal and Bangladesh. A total of 10 aftershocks were experienced — six within two-and-a-half hours of the main shock and subsequently four more till 5.40pm. “Preliminary analysis shows that the events are located near the Kopili fault closer to the Himalayan Frontal Thrust (HFT). The area is seismically very active falling in the highest seismic hazard zone V associated with collisional tectonics where Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian plate,” the National Centre for Seismology under the ministry of earth sciences said. Damage to buildings was also reported from within 100km of the epicentre in Sonitpur, Nagaon and Guwahati, prompting the Assam State Disaster Management Authority to launch a rapid visual screening of the damage. ASDMA sources said a team is assisting Assam Engineering College professor Jayanta Pathak, a structural engineer, to conduct the assessment. “We are expecting a preliminary report by Thursday,” a source said. Preliminary reports suggest most of the 200 damaged buildings are in Guwahati followed by Nagaon and Sonitpur districts. They have mostly developed cracks. These too will be assessed for their fitness. “Repair of two of the affected buildings in Nagaon, including the deputy commissioner’s bungalow, will be tricky,” the source said. Two persons died due to shock/heart attack around the time the earthquake struck. Of the 10 people injured, six are from Darrang district, two from Sonitpur district while one each are from Kamrup (metro) and Nagaon districts. On the other hand, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal directed the deputy commissioners to carry out a field survey of the damage and submit a report for detailed review and also to extend necessary help and support to the affected people. After a visit to Dhekiajuli and adjacent areas near the epicentre to take stock of the damage, Sonowal said the earthquake had jolted Assam while it is fighting against the surge in Covid-19 cases. Till Tuesday, there were 19,923 active cases, most detected this month. The quake not only shook the foundation of many buildings but also left their residents shaken as was evident from a tweet by health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “The massive 6.7 tremor in Assam has left people shell-shocked but luckily no casualties reported so far. Damages to buildings, properties & roads in certain areas reported besides water gushing out of fields witnessed. No reason to panic,” Sarma tweeted. To most residents of Guwahati, it was an experience like never before. “I have never experienced anything like this in the past. The five-storeyed building I live in has also developed cracks. It was very scary and unnerving,” said Paresh Malakar, a Guwahati-based educationist and social activist in his sixties. Similar sentiments were expressed by Allen Brooks, former member of the Assam State Commission for Minorities. “I used to hear about the 1950 earthquake from my granny. The boundary wall of our home in Dibrugarh was destroyed in that quake. My grandfather had used bamboo to support the wall from collapsing. But this morning was a jolt from the blue, something the 1960s generation has not experienced before. There is an eerie feeling in the air, of death lurking all around since the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic. Thankfully, there is no massive damage,” Brooks, also in his sixties, said in Guwahati. The 1950 quake (8.4 on the Richter scale) not only changed the course of the Brahmaputra but also raised the river bed besides killing over 1,500 people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the central leaders to get in touch with chief minister Sonowal immediately after the tremors and assured all necessary help from the Centre. Modi called Sonowal again in the afternoon to discuss the quake in detail. Sonowal briefed the Prime Minister about the information received from different parts of the state regarding damages caused by the earthquake. Union ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman and DoNER minister Jitendra Singh also called on Sonowal and assured help. Earthquakes have become more frequent in the Northeast, especially in Mizoram, Assam, Nagaland and Tripura. Mizoram, in fact, witnessed over 100 quakes in a span of three months since June last year. A.C. Lyngdoh, director, Central Seismological Observatory, Shillong, urged the people to remain alert and vigilant and to adhere to the dos and don’ts issued by the administration from time to time. The ASDMA has released three toll-free helpline numbers (1079, 1070 and 1077) for people needing assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
29-04-2021||Opinion||Helping hands: Global support for India's second wave||One good deed creates another. India had reached out a helping hand to the international community during the Covid-19 pandemic on numerous occasions with as many as 150 nations benefiting from New Delhi’s outreach with Covid vaccines and other medical supplies. The world, in a reciprocal gesture, has now reached out to India as it is being battered by a second wave of the virus. Australia has promised to send a retinue of non-invasive ventilators, as has Singapore. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates have decided to pitch in to mitigate the unprecedented crisis in oxygen in this country. The United Kingdom has pledged to send vital medical equipment while the United States of America — after, allegedly, a bit of dithering — has responded by promising emergency medical care units, oxygen supplies, vaccine-related items and therapeutics. France and Russia are among the other nations in this list of donors. The international assistance reiterates two different kinds of reality. India’s diplomatic leverage — this is reassuring — remains considerable; it is the smoothness of New Delhi’s bilateral ties that has helped this kind of support to materialize. But India’s cry for help also bares another, less edifying, aspect: the country continues to be far from self-sufficient when it comes to managing a crisis of this scale. This sobering fact should be reason enough to direct public attention towards something else. Narendra Modi had assured India that his government was viewing the pandemic as an opportunity to augment atmanirbharta. India’s present dependence on donors — it is unlikely to be a balm on national aspirations for a seat on the international high table — provides ample evidence of the distance that separates the country from self-reliance. It is quite clear that the window of opportunity that had been gained when Covid cases were tapering has not been utilized by Mr Modi’s administration to shore up the local economy, affiliated services and the administration so that they could be prepared to meet this grim challenge. Being vocal for local is not enough; it requires meaningful support, investment and capacity building, none of which has taken place yet. In fact, atmanirbharta, while being a laudable idea, could be an anachronistic ideal. In an increasingly interconnected global economy, it is difficult to insulate the indigenous industries from their dependence on global suppliers. India’s request to the US to expedite the supply of raw material for the AstraZeneca vaccine is a case in point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Unfair decision: India's vaccination policy||Sir — Given the shortages in the availability of vaccines, the advice of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to get oneself inoculated makes little sense (“Steep price”, April 27). The changes made in the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccination policy to widen the coverage by including citizens aged below 45 and above 18 years within its ambit will, in effect, worsen the inequality among states as well as different economic groups. The policy, along with deregulating the prices of the vaccines, puts the onus of getting vaccinated on the individual. This will place additional pressure on the people as well as the states which are already ill-equipped to handle the situation. The Modi government has, time and again, reiterated that it wants to move towards ‘one nation, one tax’ and similar centralizing measures. In this context, one must ask, why is it that the country cannot have a centralized vaccination policy for all its citizens? The Union government appears to have washed its hands off its responsibilities at this time of grave crisis. The Centre’s liberalization of vaccine sales and deregulation of prices, without augmenting supply, indicates that it did not think this through. The Central government had a year to prepare and strengthen its healthcare services in the event of a second wave of coronavirus infections. It has failed to deliver on every possible aspect. The steep pricing of the vaccines — Covaxin has been priced at Rs 600 for state hospitals and Rs 1,200 for private hospitals — will only increase inequity in the vaccination programme. It is a tragedy that the citizens of India, a country deemed to be one of the largest producers and exporters of vaccines in the world, are facing this immense fiasco in the midst of a pandemic. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is unfortunate that we did not learn any lessons from the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that swept through the nation last year. In the past few weeks, thousands of lives were lost as a result of government apathy and a general disregard for Covid-19 protocols among the masses. It was hoped that the government would ensure that the vaccination drive, which will involve inoculating millions of people, goes as seamlessly as possible. At the very least, the Centre must try to keep the vaccine prices as low as possible. Inequity in pricing will result in many forgoing the vaccination. The prices that are currently being set for people under the age of 45 and above 18 are simply too high for many to afford. The government must step up at this hour of need and do all it can to provide basic healthcare to the millions in need. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — There is no doubt that India’s new vaccine pricing policy is blatantly discriminatory. The scheme goes against the policy of free and universal vaccination pursued by India for decades. The differential pricing among the Centre, states and private enterprises is arbitrary and is likely to leave large sections of the people, especially those belonging to the underprivileged sections of the population, out of vaccine coverage. The declaration of Bharat Biotech that it will supply Covaxin to the Centre at Rs 150, at Rs 600 to the states and at Rs 1,200 to private hospitals is alarming. There is no justification for the pricing of the same product to be so starkly varied among the three. There is also a shifting of responsibility by the Centre to the states without giving the latter the necessary agency and wherewithal to discharge that responsibility. It is particularly insensitive to make the state governments, which are in a dire financial condition, pay a higher price for the vaccine. Strangely enough, at this time, the Bharatiya Janata Party thought that it was fit to promise free vaccines while campaigning in poll-bound Bengal. The same promise was earlier made in Bihar during the assembly elections last year, which, unsurprisingly, remains unfulfilled. It is unfortunate that the Centre continues to make false promises in the midst of a calamity. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Centre has botched up the Covid-19 care infrastructure and the vaccination drive beyond repair. The citizens of India have been left to fend for themselves and their loved ones. Kiran Singh,New Delhi Desperate times Sir — As India reels under a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports have emerged that wealthy Indians who are able to afford exorbitant airfare or private jets are fleeing the country to places with lower rates of infection. With India’s healthcare infrastructure collapsing, people are not just struggling for basic healthcare, but are also scrambling to find space to cremate the dead. These are certainly desperate times for all, but this surge, once again, draws attention to the stark inequalities present in Indian society. The privileged may have the option of leaving the country at this time, but most are forced to helplessly watch as their loved ones suffer and die. The government must be held accountable for its lapses. Abhra Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Up in arms: EC and Covid surge||The acute tragedy caused by the second wave of Covid-19 infections was reflected in the admonition of the Madras High Court to the Election Commission. The court held the EC ‘singularly’ responsible for the present calamity. The Calcutta High Court had told the EC earlier that its job was not confined to issuing circulars and holding meetings; it had to ensure the implementation of its guidelines during elections held in a pandemic. The Madras High Court’s criticism assumes that, as an independent, Constitutional body, the EC was tasked with ensuring people’s health — for citizens must survive, the high court reportedly said, in order to enjoy the rights guaranteed by democracy. Allowing campaign rallies to continue unchecked demonstrated its irresponsibility: the court said that its officers could be booked for murder. Safe polling during a pandemic can be done — the last presidential elections in the United States of America demonstrated that. The EC is expected to remain unaffected by any pressure except the need to secure the citizens’ health: only that can make elections free and fair. The effects of the Covid tragedy were painfully visible; the high court reportedly asked if the EC were on another planet. The plan of an eight-phased election in one state was questionable in any case; anyone could have predicted the disastrous rise in infections there. Accusations of the EC’s compliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s wishes may be baseless, but it is more than a little strange that it is the BJP that has sprung to the EC’s defence after the Madras High Court’s remarks. The BJP president, J.P. Nadda, said that people in an institution, any institution, should keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words. Is the government an institution? Or is it just the judiciary? Perhaps Mr Nadda would like to clarify the matter by claiming myopia as the right of all BJP leaders? Anything is possible. That was borne out by the West Bengal BJP spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya, who declared that the Madras High Court’s remarks had ‘tainted’ the judiciary and were proof of a ‘conspiracy’ with the ruling party in Bengal that should be investigated. Is it healthy for the EC to have such passionate defenders among politicians who are willing to invoke malicious fantasies to uphold its honour?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Mukti Bahini: A force for freedom||The Mukti Bahini played a key role in the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. However, its role tends to be overshadowed by the much bigger contribution of the Indian armed forces in the final stages of the war that changed the geopolitics and geography of the subcontinent, thanks to the visionary leadership of the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, and the outstanding military leadership of General (later Field Marshal) Sam Manekshaw and the other two service chiefs and commanders at various levels. Beginning as the Mukti Fauj, the Mukti Bahini was born soon after the crackdown by the Pakistan army on March 25, 1971. It gradually grew into a large organization of armed and trained men owing allegiance to the provisional government of Bangladesh. The terror let loose by the Pakistan army motivated many young people to join the Mukti Bahini. By the end of April, the number of volunteers rose to nearly 2.5 lakhs. The Mukti Bahini was organized in two distinct groups — the Niyomito Bahini (regular army) and the Gano Bahini (the people’s army). The Niyomito Bahini had under it the Swadhin Bangla Regiment and the Mukti Fauj (sector troops). The Gano Bahini was subdivided into three parts — Suicide Squads, Scorpion Squads and Toofan Bahini (storm troops). The Swadhin Bangla Regiment was the backbone of the Mukti Bahini, comprising personnel belonging to regular army regiments, the East Bengal Regiment and the East Pakistan Rifles. By September, the number of battalions went up to eight, with recruits taken from the guerrilla cadre of the Gano Bahini. By the end of November, the eight EBR battalions were fully prepared to take to the field in both offensive and defensive roles. EBR and EPR personnel, who could not be absorbed into the regular army battalions, were grouped under units in the Mukti Fauj. A total of 45 companies (nearly 9,600 men) were trained and equipped with small arms like rifles and carbines. More firepower was added with the induction of 80 deserters from Pakistan artillery units equipped with weapons like howitzers and 105 mm guns. The eight battalions of the EBR and the artillery batteries virtually added a division strength, which was divided into three brigades named ‘Z’, ‘K’ and ‘S’ forces after their respective commanders, Major Ziaur Rahman, Major Khaled Musharraf and Major Shafiullah. A 500-strong Mukti Bahini Naval Force was also raised with the help of the Bengali personnel who had deserted the Pakistan navy. By October end, the Mukti Bahini Air Force also came into existence with a Dakota aircraft, two helicopters and an Otter aircraft. The Mukti Fauj  was divided into 11 operational sectors, most of them along the periphery of the Indo-Bangladesh border. Each sector was allotted, on an average, 2,000-3,000 sector troops and 6,000-7,000 guerrillas of the Gano Bahini. The operational policies were formulated by India’s Eastern Command and the headquarters of Bangladesh Forces and their implementation was entrusted to the sector commanders. Inputs from the Border Security Force and the intelligence sources, headed by R.N. Kao, made the task of the military commanders easier. Although the Mukti Fauj and the EBR battalions fought pitched battles with the Pakistan army, it was the Gano Bahini branch of the Mukti Bahini consisting of guerrillas that inflicted the greatest damage deep inside East Bengal. It was this guerrilla force that kept the Pakistan army on tenterhooks. The total strength of the Mukti Bahini by the end of November 1971 was roughly 70,000, a little over two full divisions of regular soldiers and 50,000 irregulars and guerrillas trained by India. There was also the Mujib Bahini, another independent force of 10,000, made up of students owing allegiance to the student wing of the Awami League. This was a highly motivated force loyal to the ideology of secularism, socialism and democracy propagated by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The Mujib Bahini often clashed with the Mukti Bahini, but by the end of October, Kao and D.P. Dhar, trusted aides of Indira Gandhi, managed to iron out the differences between the Bahinis. From May to November, the Mukti Bahini operated independently deep inside East Pakistan, destroying hundreds of bridges, railway network, factories, tea gardens and many other installations and infrastructure. It became a ‘force multiplier’ for the Indian army once war was officially declared on December 3. At a time when India and Bangladesh are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War, the contributions and sacrifices of Mukti Bahini soldiers should not be forgotten even as we pay rich tributes to the gallant personnel of India’s defence forces as well as to the brilliant political and military leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Looking back||The long-drawn assembly election in West Bengal is finally drawing to a close. Following the eighth round of voting on April 29, there will be a bout of patient waiting, not to mention feverish speculation, until counting day on May 2 when the country will know if this bitterly contested election has resulted in a verdict for continuity or change. Although the campaigning for the final two rounds of voting were marred by the understandable preoccupation with the Covid-19 pandemic, it would be fair to say that the overall debate went beyond the immediate and the verdict was centred on the electorate’s collective judgment on the past and future of the state. Additionally, despite the odd carping over the lengthy timetable, it is fair to assert that West Bengal has witnessed the most free and fair election in recent decades. Until the conclusion of the seventh round, there were no reports of booth capturing and mass scale fraud voting. The deployment of Central forces in the booth premises — though never inside the polling booths — appears to have acted as a deterrent to those political activists who practise what is euphemistically called ‘booth domination.’ Even where a political party failed to deploy an agent inside the booth, there were no serious allegations of partisan behaviour by the poll officials. There were, however, a few allegations of ‘public voting’ in the case of postal ballots of a section of government employees, although in statistical terms their numbers were minuscule. In hindsight, and despite the criticisms of having inordinately extended the poll process, it would seem the Election Commission did a commendable job bringing order to the election process in a state where the unfortunate link between democracy and violence had been entrenched over a span of five decades. It would, however, be premature to suggest that the relatively smooth conduct of the 2021 assembly election in West Bengal signals a significant change in the political culture. While it is true that the sanctity of the secret ballot was upheld by the administrative and policing arrangements of the ECI, the campaigning process was not so wholesome. The tendency of political activists — occasionally aided by a partisan police force — to prevent opponents from spreading their message in areas regarded as strongholds was very marked. This ranged from preventing publicity material from being displayed to threatening and often physically assaulting supporters of rival parties. Interestingly, the absence of a level playing field was most marked in Calcutta and in some of its adjoining seats in South 24 Parganas. This culture of menacing politics has resulted in a lot of pent-up feelings and these are likely to surface after the results are announced on May 2. Regardless of which side wins, the state is almost certain to witness a bout of post-poll violence which could spiral out of control in some localities. The administration would be well advised to take pre-emptive steps. For the moment, however, the attention of the administration and the media is, quite understandably, focused on the explosion of the Covid-19 pandemic all over the country, not least in West Bengal. While the concern is legitimate, as are the fears that political gatherings could turn out to be super-spreader events, the manner in which it is playing out is also aimed at influencing the course of the polls in the final two rounds of polling, especially in Calcutta. There was, to begin with, a concerted attempt to pin the responsibility for the second wave of Covid-19 on the ECI and, by implication, the Central government. The ruling All India Trinamul Congress spared no effort to mobilize opinion to ensure that the polling in the final three phases be contracted into one phase. More than public health, the idea was to ensure that the Central forces would be inordinately stretched on the ground and unable to control each and every polling booth. This would create the necessary space for the more rough and ready election management strategies to be put into play. It is significant that the pressure of the entire liberal ecosystem of India was applied on the ECI to accommodate the opponents of the eight-phase poll. Using Covid-19 as a ploy, the ECI was subjected to intense attacks and its integrity repeatedly questioned. It is reassuring that the three Election Commissioners stood their ground and handled Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s repeated invocation of violence with considerable equanimity. An associated feature of the pressure to truncate the original schedule was the sustained pressure on middle class voters in Calcutta and urban centres in Asansol and Durgapur to abstain from voting because of the Covid-19 scare. The argument was repeatedly proffered in the media that human lives were more important than politics, and that the elections were an unnecessary intrusion in the more serious business of fighting the pandemic. The argument had two sub-texts. First, that the business of political change was unnecessary to safeguard public health — an argument that conveyed the subtle message that the continuation of the Mamata Banerjee government was justified because — as one article in a Bengali daily newspaper put it — nothing had happened in the past decade to ‘unsettle the equilibrium’. Secondly, the appeal to disregard the elections was aimed at the middle classes which were responsive to appeals for a larger economic regeneration of West Bengal. It was assumed that a low middle class turnout would tilt the scales in urban areas in favour of an incumbent whose support base was from the slums and among minority voters — sections that are traditionally inclined to vote in large numbers. In view of the anecdotal evidence that suggested a significantly big turnout for the Bharatiya Janata Party in rural Bengal, the Covid-19 threat was aimed at providing a counterweight in urban Bengal. As elections go, the assembly election of 2021 in West Bengal was extremely stretched. For all practical purposes, the campaign can be said to have started immediately after the Lok Sabha election of 2019 when it became clear that the AITC government faced a serious challenge from the BJP. Without the benefit of hindsight, it is hazardous to be sure which side has finally prevailed. However, in the end the battle was reduced to two alternative visions of Bengal — one which stressed cultural Bengaliness but without any meaningful economic agenda for the future, and an alternative that was grounded in linking the exasperation over prolonged economic stagnation with aspirational India (blended with nostalgia over past glory). As a participant in the campaign, including as a candidate, my personal observation is that the chief minister made herself very vulnerable by not focusing on her 10-year record in office and her plan for the next five years. She allowed immediate concerns — her foot injury, her anger over the styles of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, and her rage at the ECI and the Central forces — to cloud a larger narrative. On their part, the BJP’s two main campaigners did not deviate from combining a searing critique of Banerjee’s governance record with concrete promises that would accrue both immediately and in the long run. In terms of publicity, the AITC outdid the BJP by a generous distance but the Mamata-centric ‘daughter of Bengal’ wasn’t accompanied by a campaign rhetoric that bolstered rootedness, responsibility and sobriety. The chief minister seemed disoriented and this was in sharp contrast with the grandeur of Modi and the combativeness of Shah. The AITC campaign had organizational depth, but the BJP led the way in spontaneity and enthusiasm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant talks to panchayat leaders for feedback on Covid spread||Concerned over rising cases of Covid-19 in rural areas, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren held a virtual meeting with panchayat representatives on Thursday to evaluate the ground situation in villages in order to prepare an action plan. Since April, most rural districts have started to report a triple-digit spike of Covid cases on a daily basis in addition to a few deaths. Addressing over 4,000 panchayat representatives from various districts, Hemant said, “We are constantly taking feedback to know the ground situation so that we can prepare proper plans in our fight against Covid-19. Based on your inputs, we shall proceed further.” He also appealed to the panchayat representatives to become "brand ambassadors" of Covid appropriate behavior so others in the area could be motivated to abide by norms and help in curbing the transmission of the virus. He asked them to function as the eyes and ears of the local district administration for better coordination. One of the biggest issues raised by several panchayat representatives during the three-hour meeting was lack of testing facilities in remote areas. “Migrant workers are returning to their homes in villages from everywhere but there is no system of tracking and testing them. This is resulting into an outbreak of Covid in villages this time. Last year, government ensured proper testing and containment measures,” said a panchayat representative from Garhwa. His counterparts from Dumka agreed, saying most peple had no idea where to go for testing. “In many areas, people have to walk miles to get to the nearest testing lab as a result of which many don’t go. In most cases, people suffering from cough, cold, fever think that it is normal. This needs to be addressed instantly,” said a panchayat representative from Dumka. He also asked for quarantine centres to be set up at panchayat/block levels similar to last year to ensure better monitoring of suspected cases. Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch (JJM), a conglomeration of rights organisations, asked the state government to conduct a special testing drive across rural areas to identify patients and extend treatment. “We demand distribution of medical kits, quick testing and diagnosis, enforcement of home isolation norms and surveillance in a proper way on immediate basis,” the manch said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Nor'wester triggers rain across state, provides much-needed respite ||A summer saviour Nor'wester triggered by a cyclonic circulation over neighbouring Madhya Pradesh led to sharp showers in several districts, prividing much-needed respite to a sweltering Jharkhand on Thursday evening. Apart from Jamshedpur, the Nor'wester, accompanied by rain and gusty winds blowing at a speed of over 40 Kmph, lashed several districts including Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Dumka, Jamtara, Giridih, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. The local IMD centre in Jamshedpur recorded 23mm rain while Ghatshila and adjoining Seraikela witnessed 20mm of rain. Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan experienced hailstones. "The cyclonic circulation extending 1.5 km above mean sea level gave momentum to the Nor'wester which originated from the Chhotanagpur Plateau region. A trough was also hovering over Gangetic Bengal extending 1.5km above the mean sea level, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that Jharkhand will continue to experience light to moderate rain, accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning, during the next four to five days. Ranchi Met Centre's forecast suggests partly cloudy sky with thundershowers and gusty winds in north-east,  central and southern Jharkhand till  May 3. Soon after the rain and thunderstorm activity, Thursday's maximum reading in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas, which had risen to 41.4 degree Celsius, witnessed an abrupt fall, resulting in pleasant weather. "Thunderstorm and rain brought much-needed respite from the sweltering conditions," said Ananya Das, a Sakchi-resident and a teacher by profession. Thursday's storm resulted in blackouts at several places in Jamshedpur and adjoining areas due to snapping of overhead cables. Electricity poles also got damaged at a few places too. Power supply was disrupted in Chhota Govindpur and Ghorabandha, both on the outskirts of Telco, Mango and Jugsalai, all served by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL). JBVNL authorities said normal power supply was expected to resume late in the night on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad lawyer files PIL seeking Covid vaccine price control||A Dhanbad based lawyer, Mumtaz Ansari, filed a PIL on Wednesday in Jharkhand High Court seeking its intervention to direct the union government to regulate the prices of Covid vaccine and other medical equipment necessary for the treatment of the virus. Ansari in his petition, addressed to the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court, Ravi Ranjan, claimed that the central government’s decision to let manufacturers fix the price of the vaccine has in turn led to the price being fixed in an arbitrary and unjustified manner which is affecting the common man. In his petition, Ansari demanded that the price of life saving medical devices including oxygen concentrator, pulse oximeter and ventilators should also be controlled under the price control act. Covid vaccines and other medical devices are essential commodities for saving lives during the pandemic, hence the section 3 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and Disaster Management Act, 2005 should be invoked to control the prices of vaccines and medical equipment. The petition states that the vaccine manufacturing companies have arbitrarily fixed different prices for central government, state government and private hospital which is unjust and unreasonable. The petitioner quoting a web report claimed the price of Covishield fixed by its producer Serum Institute of India for private hospitals is the highest in the world. The lockdown and the April 25 resolution of Jharkhand high court directing advocates and clerks to abstain from work till May 2, Ansari pleaded to the court to allow his petition. Ansari is also associated with a voluntary organisation, Fight4Right which runs an education centre, Disha, for underprivileged children. He has earlier filed a PIL on the condition of Dhanbad government schools which was dismissed by the division bench of the court headed by Justice D.N. Patel in 2018. In a related development, Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh on Thursday sent a letter to Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner asking him to look into the complaints of exorbitant fees being by private hospitals engaged in the treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Former state BJP president Laxman Gilua succumbs to Covid||Former state BJP state president Laxman Gilua lost his battle against Covid-19 on Thursday. After struggling for the last one week, the 56-year-old senior BJP leader and former Singhbhum MP died at Tata Motors Hospital in Jamshedpur at 2.10 am. An official of the hospital said that Gilua's health continued to deteriorate, even though he was administered remdesivir on April 23. The news of his death came as a shock to the party. Senior BJP leaders including state party spokesperson Kunal Sarangi rushed to the hospital soon after getting the news. Emotions ran high when his dead body was taken to his native village Janta at Chakradharpur block of West Singhbhum. His last rites were performed as per Covid protocols. Gilua’s family members participated in the rituals wearing PPE kits. Born on December 20, 1964, Gilua was the key leader of the BJP in Kolhan division. He became the BJP block president of Chakradharpur in 1990. He won the Assembly elections in undivided Bihar in 1995 from Chakradharpur and became a member of the Bihar Assembly. Thereafter, he was also elected to the Lok Sabha in 1999 from Singhbhum. In 2014, he was elected MP again from the same seat. State BJP president  Deepak Prakash expressed his condolences.“I deeply mourn the death of the former state president and former MP. His death has created a void in the party. My prayers to God that his soul may rest in peace. His contributions to the party would not be forgotten. Gilua  was instrumental in strengthening the party," he said. Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda expressed grief over the demise of the party's  former state president. "His death has caused irreparable loss to the party," said Munda in a condolence message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Centre biased against Jharkhand, says health minister Banna Gupta ||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi-led Centre of being prejudiced against the people of Jharkhand and politicising the distribution of vaccine among states for the mass immunisation programme set to begin from May 1. “The Centre has announced vaccination for all citizens in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years from May 1, but the distribution process of vaccine is marred by political vendetta,” Gupta said addressing media persons in Ranchi. “We will not get the required vaccine doses until May 15,” he added. The health minister claimed that the state demanded 25 lakh doses each of Covaxin and Covishield for the upcoming immunisation programme, but  vaccine manufacturers refused to provide the required doses on time citing an advance booking of 12 crore doses by the Centre. “How will a developing state like Jharkhand vaccinate the 1.57 crore beneficiaries in this category if the Centre does not allow us to procure the doses that we require?” Gupta asked. The state, he said, has already set up 2229 vaccination centres for the immunisation programme, but the process of vaccination may get affected due to unavailability of sufficient doses. While residents of the state could register for vaccination through the government website and Co-Win 2.0 app in Jharkhand on Thursday, the app showed that there were no vaccination centres in Ranchi open for scheduling jabs as of now. The website only displayed vaccination centres open for beneficiaries above the age of 44 years. A visibly infuriated Gupta also slammed the Centre for its alleged "step-brotherly approach" towards Jharkhand while providing life-saving drugs for treatment of Covid patients. The state, he said, has 2,500 doses of remdesivir at present and has sought 2,000 extra doses from Assam. “We need at least 4,000 doses of remdesivir injection every day, but the Centre has provided only 20,000 doses to us in the past 10 days. Does the Centre want people of Jharkhand to die without treatment?” Gupta asked. Gupta sought the support of other states in helping Jharkhand fight the worst-ever wave of Covid-19, which has claimed several hundred lives and infected almost 1 lakh people in hardly a month. Jharkhand, he said, was providing medical oxygen to all the states irrespective of the party in power there, but the Centre was not following the same approach towards non-BJP ruled states. During the annual Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman had allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination, but the Centre was still demanding money from states for vaccines, Gupta alleged, claiming that the Centre’s policies were mounting added pressure on the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Hospital begins tele-consultations for Covid patients||The Tata Main Hospital on Wednesday introduced a phone consultation service for Covid-19 positive patients. The private hospital owned by Tata Steel provided two telephone numbers : 0657-6641015 and 0657- 6641226 for providing necessary consultation by the doctors. Officials said for consultation,  Covid-19 positive patients will have to register through TMH Vishwas app. Patients can get consultation during the allotted time slot only. Tata Steel on Wednesday informed through Twitter that it has increased supplies of liquid medical oxygen to 800 tonnes per day. "Our endeavour to fight against Covid-19 continues. We are closely working with the Government of India and the states to address the demand and save precious human lives, "the company stated. According to information available from the district health department, 13 Covid patients died including a 34-year-old youth of Sonari and two from Dhanbad district at the TMH till 5 pm on Wednesday. On Tuesday, 15 patients died in various hospitals including TMH, Sadar Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital. Out of 7,055 Covid tests 992 were found positive. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said efforts were being made to increase the number of beds for Covid patients. Referring to medical oxygen he said, "There is no dearth of oxygen in hospitals." Pal iterated that people should follow the Covid protocols and stay home unless there is an emergency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
29-04-2021||Jharkhand||State logs over 8,000 fresh Covid cases, 149 casualties in 24 hours||Close to 150 Covid casualties and over 8000 fresh cases of infection on Wednesday took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 2395 and the active caseload nearer to the 55,000 mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state on Wednesday reported 8075 fresh cases of infection against 4362 Covid recoveries. Ranchi accounted for 1771 of the fresh cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 852 cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum not only accounted for the highest cases on the day, but also reported almost half of the 149 deaths that occurred in the state. As per NHM data, at least 46 Covid patients died in Ranchi and 23 died in East Singhbhum in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in Ranchi to 748 and that in East Singhbhum to 571. Among other districts, Latehar reported 11 casualties, while seven people died in Dhanbad and three each in Bokaro and Chatra. At least six Covid patients died in Khunti, while Deoghar reported five casualties on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi jumped to 18,022, while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 6380 as the district reported 882 Covid recoveries against the over 850 cases, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the 54,816 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 70,757 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The day’s findings took the Covid tally in the state above 2.21 lakh. As per government data, only 74.16 per cent of the over 2.21 lakh people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered, while 1.08 per cent of them have died. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.61 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.46 per cent. As per government data, it would take hardly 27 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate across India was 47.94 days. While cases continued to soar, the vaccination programme did not see a warm response from citizens on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 12160, hardly 26 per cent of registered beneficiaries, were administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second jab was administered to 9722 people, around 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
