30-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: In vaccine queue from crack of dawn||Such is the rush for Covid vaccines that residents have started queuing up at hospitals from 2.30am. Such nasty arguments are breaking out over the procedure that the police have had to intervene on two occasions this week. Early on Wednesday, at 2.55am, Karunamoyee resident Biswanath De went to get himself enrolled for a jab at Matri Sadan. Given that the EE Block stretch was deserted, he assumed he would be first in the queue but to his horror, De was handed a serial number beyond 180! “I set an alarm to wake up and get here before 3am but I’m still late!” exclaimed De. He had come to the hospital twice before on different days but returned when he was being given serial numbers beyond 120. “Being after so many makes it certain that you won’t be vaccinated that day,” he said. It turned out that the man in charge of noting the names — a Hari Prasad who till then was sleeping on a cycle-cart — had been noting down names from 9pm the night before instead of at daybreak. That is why De got a number beyond 180. Chaos and confusion Sanjib, Banerjee, a resident of Dum Dum, had come to Matri Sadan Hospital with his 83-year-old mother Anita, after registering on the CoWin portal for the 3pm to 4pm time slot. “One of my neighbours, who had got the jab from this centre, advised us to go early because of the rush. We reached in the first hour but after more than 10 hours of waiting they said they were out of stock!” said Sanjib. Kuheli Banerjee, a resident of EE Block, had got her name down on the hospital’s register at 4am. “I went home and returned to join the queue at 6am. It was 3pm when I ultimately got the jab,” she said, exhausted but relieved. Atin Dutta had gone to queue up at 3am but returned without getting enrolled when he realised he would get a number beyond 180. “If there are leftover names at the end of the day, why are they not being carried over to the next day? Why do we have to queue afresh,” demanded the EE-Block resident. As patience wears thin, arguments are breaking out between officials and those in queue and on two occasions this week officers from Bidhannagar East police station had to be called in to diffuse tension at Matri Sadan. All in the same boat Other hospitals across the township are just as chaotic. At Calcutta Heart Clinic and Hospital, hopefuls are queuing up from 3.30am. They are themselves getting sheets of paper from home and writing down names of those in line, to be handed over to the staff when the service begins. At AMRI Hospitals too, people are queuing up since 4am, with the crowd peaking at around 6am. Under government facilities, the corporation has shut down 10 of its vaccination centres including the primary health care centre in Duttabad, due to erratic supply of vaccines. Only two centres are functional now — Matri Sadan and one at Narayanpur. Shortage and surge Hospital officials say they are at a loss handling the sudden surge in demand and fall in supply of vaccines. “Earlier there were days when we administered less than 20 shots as people were not willing to step forward. Now they are panicking due to the surge in Covid cases coupled with the fear that there will be even more people in queue from May 1,” said a Matri Sadan official. “Adding to our worries, we have extremely erratic supply of vaccines and are unable to predict how many people can get inoculated from beforehand,” said the official. A Calcutta Heart Clinic official said they had switched to a first come first serve basis regardless of CoWin registration. “We feel very bad about the situation and have even requested people not to turn up so early but they are panicked. We are trying not to turn anyone away but on most days we are run out of shots midway,” said Kishan Pradhan of the Calcutta Heart Clinic. The rush is such at AMRI Hospitals that they have erected a temporary structure in front to provide some shade to those waiting. “We are giving out tokens to those in line, provided they are registered on CoWin,” said an official. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on the other hand is taking no chances. “Despite CoWin registration, we are asking people to call our helplines and confirm their jab the day it is scheduled,” and official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Haj House to function as hospital||With the crisis for Covid beds reaching desperate proportions, hospitals in and around Salt Lake have responded to the health department directive to start satellite facilities. Charnock Hospital has gone one step ahead and is starting a 100-bed hospital at the government-run safe house at Haj House in New Town from May 1. “It is a public-private partnership. The government has given us the space. We are setting up the hospital. All the beds will be government acquisitioned. So admission will be via the health department’s mechanism,” said Prashant Sharma, managing director of Charnock Hospital. “Once the government refers a patient, we will admit him,” he added. The state government’s integrated Covid helpline is 1800-313444-222. Charnock is also running a satellite facility at Hotel Eastern Plaza on VIP Road. “We have 40 rooms there. We had started a satellite facility last year there as well but demand was less. People usually opt for our home isolation package unless things get serious and then they want to be hospitalised,” Sharma said, adding that they were having to refuse hundreds of patients seeking hospital admission on a daily basis. “The hotel is mostly for isolation of those who do not have space at home.” The charges at the hotel are Rs 9,500 per day while Charnock’s home isolation monitoring package comes at Rs 15,000 for seven days. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has taken 75 beds at Visitel next door which is operating since April 22. “Waiting list for ICU beds started since April 15 while for the last two days there are 20 patients in wait for even general Covid beds,” said a hospital source on Tuesday. The hospital has 100 Covid beds, to which it is adding 300 more in a staggered manner. At the satellite facility, the rates are Rs 5,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 9,000. “Patients will be referred to Visitel if they are found to be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic at the fever triage at the hospital,” the source explained. AMRI Salt Lake started its first satellite facility at Hotel The Sojourn next door with 14 rooms on April 14. Demand was so high that on April 22 they booked more rooms at Monotel in Sector V. “Not a single bed is free of the 40 we are offering,” said a hospital source on Wednesday afternoon, adding that there were plans to acquire more rooms in hotels. The procedure for admission is a visit to the hospital emergency where doctors are assessing if the patient is mild or moderately infected and is without co-morbidities. His oxygen saturation also needs to be above 95 per cent. In case any patient in these satellite centres turns critical, he or she is being hospitalised. “We are keeping a few beds in reserve for such situations,” the source said. The hotel quarantine service comes at Rs 8,000 per day for single occupancy and Rs 5,000 per person per day for double occupancy. Calcutta Heart Clinic and Hospital has also taken 19 beds at Hotel The Sojourn. “There is a crisis for beds and young people too are getting infected this time. This is a pre-hospitalisation stage where people are better monitored than at home. It is providing us a buffer zone before admission and after discharge and improving bed circulation,” said Subhankar Chatterjee, the Covid nodal officer at the hospital. The charges are Rs 5,000 per head for twin sharing and Rs 6,000 for solo occupancy. The hospital in HC Block has 67 non-ICU Covid beds of which just one was free on Wednesday evening. Plan for oxygen plant “We are planning to expand our facilities by 15-20 more beds. But for that we need to be self-sufficient in oxygen generation. An oxygen plant has been commissioned but will take about two months to be ready,” said Chatterjee. He also appealed to the government for supply of Rapid Antigen Test kit. “Results of RT PCR tests are taking 72 hours. Treatment is getting delayed. If we get the kit we can do the RAT ourselves,” he said. In the lean season, the hotels are happy to make the best of the situation. “We have offered the rooms at rock bottom prices to the hospitals. This is almost social service for us,” said Piku Bhattacharya, finance and revenue manager at Hotel The Sojourn. “Our housekeeping staff clean the rooms and the toilets daily in PPE and our kitchen provides five meals. Nurses of both hospitals are present to check on the patients and doctors are dropping by. They are taking the patients to the hospital if they need CT scan or if the oxygen saturation drops below permissible limits,” she said, adding that her staffers were providing stellar service. “Last year, when the satellite facility was started some had quit in fear. But seeing zero infections take place so far has bolstered their confidence,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Lessons from Kashmir, prayer for Calcutta||He does not vote in Calcutta. In fact his vote is thousands of miles away, in Kashmir, but he will be following the election result in Bengal with as much interest and anxiety as most voters of Bengal. He is Salt Lake’s own Kashmiri shawlwallah, Irshad Reshi, who has made the township his home for 10 years now. “I used to have a shop in BE Block. I found this place and opened here last November. The location is much more prominent,” says Reshi, the 52-year-old owner of a shop at Baisakhi crossing. He has been coming to Salt Lake along with his two brothers since 1987. “We used to take turns in coming from November to March. But residents here kept suggesting that we have a permanent outlet here as they wanted our things in summer too. Else they had to travel all the way to New Market. So we took up a place and one of us would stay back,” he recalls. The shop, he says, is a favourite with non-resident Indians who buy winterwear before they fly back. He stocks a variety of products — saris to salwar suits, coats and waistcoats. There are also bags with Kashmir’s typical ari work on faux leather, in three sizes, costing Rs 75, 200 and 300. Kashmiri mats called namda come for Rs 375. “Light semi-pashmina shawls sell the most. I keep cheap things too so that students who come for a look do not have to return empty-handed.” He used to take part in Bidhannagar Mela since the start but stopped 10 years ago when the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation took over its organisation and stall rates were hiked. The past one year has been bad. “Sabon ka maar hai, iss maar mein main bhi hoon,” he sighs, adding that if business was worth 10 rupees earlier now it is down to two rupees. After the lockdown was announced, he went home by a special train on May 27 and returned to Salt Lake in October. “The return was fruitless. People do not have cash to spare. Sector V is closed. Only government employees are buying a few things.” That is why even in Chaitra, he did not acquire fresh stock. “I am still sitting on leftover stuff.” The situation back home, where internet was shut for months together, is far more dismal. “There has been no business, no education since they abrogated Article 370. From August 2019 to February 2021, there has been no initiative. Internet (which was banned returned with 2G last March. Nothing can be done with 2G speed. And within a month, the lockdown started,” he recalls. Though 4G has been restored on paper this February, even now he says they were not getting 4G speed. Bachchon ki taalim (children’s education) is what he is most worried about. He has two daughters, aged 24 and 16. With the entire education process running online in the rest of the country, one can imagine what internet restrictions mean. His family has visited Calcutta earlier in winter when his daughters’ classes were off. “Yahan ka zubaan, rahan, sahan alag hai. But they liked it.” Speak to him and Calcutta comes across as his paradise in the rest of India. “We have travelled a lot since militancy overtook Kashmir in 1989. We have never had any problem in Calcutta. Logon se pyar mila hai. Women also are safest in Kashmir and Calcutta.” That is why he is keeping his fingers crossed for the election result in Bengal. “BJP aayega toh kharab hi hoga. Yeh jahan jatey hain, barbaad kar dete hain (It will be bad if BJP comes. Wherever they go, they mess up everything),” he sighs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: He who is Kali||At high noon on polling day. Ma Kali is walking down First Avenue, not far from Kwality More. But there is hardly anyone out in the streets or in the verandahs for the goddess to bless or to cross Samir Adak’s palm with silver. Adak is in a despondent mood. “I had no idea Salt Lake had election today,” the bohurupee, whose avatar for the day is Kali, laments. He has come all the way from Tarakeshwar, the seat of bohurupees. Though he is the first one in his family to take up the profession, there are enough in the locality to keep him company. He had earlier donned the avatars of Shiva, Durga and Loknath Baba. But it is Kali that is the most profitable. “She has the most devotees.” In the trade for 15 years, he has started coming to Salt Lake for two years now. “I come about twice a week. People here are generous. No one gives under Rs 5. Shopkeepers in the markets know me.” But it was a futile day. “On an average, I collect Rs 500-600. Today I have not managed even Rs 100,” said the 35-year-old, who has a wife to support. Being Kali means having to paint a coat of black all over the exposed parts of the skin. “Make-up takes an hour and a half,” he says. Though it is not a problem in winter, he concedes that the summers are challenging. But he makes light of the risk of going around maskless amid the pandemic. “Amar kichhu hobe na (nothing will happen to me),” he declares, adding that he did not have a choice. “I have to put the tongue on. How can I wear a mask over the tongue?” he asked, pointing to the metal sheet he had unclipped from his teeth to have this conversation. Tarakeshwar had voted on April 6. Ask him who will win, and he turns to a banner carrying a picture of Mamata Banerjee hanging on an adjacent wall and raises his right palm in a posture of benediction: “Didi-y jeetbe.” His house is five minutes away from the Tarakeshwar station. And it is by train that he travels from place to place to ply his trade. “Didi had started the Arambagh-Howrah line. I don’t have to pay on any form of public transport,” he says. One seeks blessings from the goddess, not ticket fare!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2018: BC Block becomes possibly the first neighbourhood in Salt Lake where a residents’ body takes the initiative to bring every house under CCTV surveillance. A total of 47 close-circuit cameras are installed across the block at strategic locations. 1809: Henry Derozio is born on April 18, in Calcutta to Indo-Portuguese and British parents. He grows up to become a poet and radical thinker and, as assistant headmaster of Hindu College, encourages his students to debate and question norms. Despite a short life of just 22 years, Derozio would become popular among the youth, with his followers calling themselves Young Bengal, and his ideas would influence the Bengal Renaissance. 1885: Rakhaldas Bandyopadhyay is born in Berhampore on April 12. He grows up to become an archaeologist, museum expert and professor of history but he is best remembered as the man who discovered Mohenjodaro, the principal site of the Indus Valley Civilisation. 1930: Surya Sen, a school teacher in Chittagong, leads a group of revolutionaries to raid the armoury of police and auxiliary forces on April 18 in what becomes known as the Chittagong uprising. Although ultimately unsuccessful, the incident sends ripples through society and inspires many more youths to join the freedom struggle. 1900: American physicist and seismologist Charles Richter is born April 26. He is best remembered for developing the Richter scale to quantify the strength of earthquakes. Richter first presents the scale in a 1935 paper and it quickly becomes the standard measure of earthquake intensity around the world. 1961: Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin becomes the first human to cross into outer space on April 12, when his spacecraft Vostok 3KA takes off. The flight consists of a single orbit around the Earth, skimming the upper atmosphere at 169km at its lowest point and takes 108 minutes from launch to landing. 2017: Charles Sobhraj is born on April 6 to an Indian father and Vietnamese mother. He grows up to become a conman and serial killer, targeting multiple Western tourists visiting south Asia in the 1970s. He is arrested but makes daring escapes and is quite proud of his notoriety, charging hefty sums for interviews and projects himself as a celebrity.  As on 2021, Sobhraj is in jail in Nepal. 1913: The first edition of children’s magazine Sandesh is published on Poila Baisakh, April 14. Started by writer Upendrakishore Roychowdhury, it is headed in later years by son Sukumar Ray, grandson Satyajit Ray and others. The magazine combines literature, humour and information and goes on to introduce popular characters such as Feluda, Professor Shonku and Bankubabur Bandhu. 1933: Cricketer Bapu Nadkarni is born on April 4. He is best remembered for his economical bowling, especially in the Madras Test against England in 1963-64 where he bowled a record 21 consecutive maiden overs. The figures at the end of the third day of the match read 29 overs, 26 maidens, no wickets for three runs. Later the national team’s assistant manager, Nadkarni becomes a mentor to Sunil Gavaskar. 1998: Nineteen-year-old actress Divya Bharti dies after falling from her fifth-floor apartment on April 5. Police investigation concludes the death to be accidental. Despite her short career, Bharti had starred in over 20 films, mostly Hindi and Telegu, including the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Deewana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Labony girl’s ballot battle in Bankura||Salt Lake has fielded several residents in the Assembly election. While the others are seasoned politicians, Labony Estate girl Sayantika Banerjee is a debutante. Till the other day, she was shaking a leg and delivering dialogues on the big screen with the likes of Prosenjit and Jeet. Now she is awaiting her fate in the ballot box as the Trinamul Congress candidate from Bankura. “I was a political science student but never did I imagine I would be in politics,” smiles the 34-year-old who has starred in films like Awara, Kelor Kirti, Power and Abhiman. She has campaigned before in elections but being named a candidate this time meant a far heavier workload. “Whole of India is following this election.It is a big responsibility,” she says. Her link with the districts is the open-air macha shows. “We are on the road from September to March, which is the season. Induction oven, pillow and bed sheet stay packed in the car. In fact, I had performed in a show at Mejia Book Fair in Bankura barely two weeks before my name featured on the nomination list,” she says. Since her constituency went to polls on April 1, she had little time. “I camped there from March 12, putting up in a hotel for the first two days and then renting an apartment.” But she experienced a high even before stepping on the turf. “I saw a picture of my name being painted in wall graffiti. I posted it in social media, with the message: ‘Bankura, here I come’.” Once she reached, armed with “loads of sunscreen and ORS”, her dress code changed from jeans and T-shirt to cotton kurti and handloom sari. But she says it had nothing to do with trying to look her part. “The name of the character I played was Sayantika, so I had to be myself. I am comfortable in sari and white was a natural choice in the heat. There was a dry loo blowing.” She did not focus as much on make-up as she would during the shows. “It is true that they know me as a film star, so I had to check if the eye liner was in place before I got off the car. But after that, I could not keep the distance that we maintain when we appear in shows. I had to mingle and make eye contact, so I would keep my shades up above the forehead,” she says. Requests came in “hundreds of dozens” for selfies. “I would tell them: ‘Support-o kintu korte hobe’.” The early mornings were reserved for the rural panchayat areas while in the afternoon, she campaigned in the town. “We used to lunch at the local panchayat chief’s house. The vegetables and the fish were so fresh that the food tasted amazing. It helped that I love posto as much as the people of Bankura. They pampered me further by arranging for cold water, sometimes diluted with glucose.” A helicopter ride she took for campaigning was not novel — “I rode one in my childhood and again in Malaysia during the shooting of Awara” — but this was the first time that she got on a toto. “They opened the cover and I could stand and greet people.” Sometimes, she drove the campaign jeep herself on the way to a spot. “That made me so happy,” she laughs. Sayantika also has a two-wheeler licence and rides a Bullet. “Baba had a Royal Enfield too in his service life,” says the daughter of Guru Prasad Banerjee, the governor’s chief security officer for 35 years. His bike, on which he did pilot duty and which he had modified with visor glass, fog lights etc, has been preserved at the Police Museum on his retirement. People of Salt Lake know the handsome 6.4ft man best for Guru’s Dream Gym and as consultant to several gyms across the city. “My fitness addiction comes from him. As a child, I used to go to the gym at the BF Block swimming pool, where my father consulted, to do yoga. Even now, I carried dumb bells, skipping rope, yoga mat, resistance band and kickboxing pads with me to Bankura,” she says. Though Sayantika spends most of her time in her Tollygunge flat now, she comes once a week. “My vote is still at our Labony School booth. I spent my childhood chatting perched on the housing wall. A neighbourhood uncle commented on my contesting and asked: ‘Ebar ki madam bolbo’?” She does not think contesting from Bidhannagar would have given her an edge. “I may be born and brought up here but I am as unaware of the local political issues as I was at Bankura. So I’d have had to learn from scratch either way.” Asked about fingers being pointed at the elections for the Covid surge, she admits gatherings had happened. “I had to move without a mask as people wanted to see me. My parents were very worried. But there was hardly any infection in Bankura in end-March. Rather, they were at risk from us. I used to get Covid tests done periodically. Wish the polling did not drag on over so many phases,” reflects Sayantika as she sets off for Bankura. “I will be at the counting hall from the morning,” she signs off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine camp at Uniworld||Uniworld City became the first housing complex in New Town to host a vaccination camp. The camp, held on Tuesday, got 150 people vaccinated. “We arranged for the vaccine and the nurse. They provided the doctor and the venue. Since the nurse would have to do the online documentation as well, we figured it would not be possible to administer more than 150 jabs in a day,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The Uniworld City authorities prioritised the vaccine recipients’ list according to age. The oldest to get the jab at the camp was a 94-year-old lady. “We have about 3,000 families staying at Uniworld. We had requested NKDA to hold an offsite vaccination camp for us,” said Ratan Kumar Goel, member of the Kolkata Uniworld City Apartment Owners Association board. SP Diagnostics provided the post-vaccination awareness and support in case of possible adverse reactions. “We had two doctors and two attendants in attendance,” said microbiologist Bibekananda Panda, who runs the diagnostic centre. But there is unlikely to be another such camp unless vaccine supply improves. “We have received requests from about a dozen housing complexes to hold vaccination camps on their premises. In fact, the second camp was supposed to be held at Jal Vayu Towers today. But we had to cancel it as no supply came in the morning,” said Sen on Wednesday, adding how the issue was causing enormous stress among people. In accordance with a government directive, even at the NKDA vaccination centres only second doses would be given till April 30, he said. He urged elderly residents or those unable to register themselves on the CoWin portal to take the aid of NKDA volunteers. “We have trained them. Their contact numbers will be provided on calling our helpline (18001037652),” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Dear MLA||Medical help At a time when friends, relatives, neighbours are going down to Covid like ninepins, the first thing on voters’ minds is medical help. “All one hears these days is about the scarcity of oxygen and hospital beds. I want the MLA to help us with admission to hospitals and safe houses,” says Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, an 80-year-old resident of Jal Vayu Vihar. Indira Mukherjee asks for help at  the doorstep when one is in isolation. “Provide people food, medicines, groceries, oxygen, ambulance and at least have the person removed if he passes away,” says the CD Block resident. Debashis Sen Roy hopes the new MLA stops pouring money into big budget pujas and builds an oxygen factory instead. “This is the need of the hour,” says the resident of Sector V’s Midland Park Housing Complex, hours after hearing the news of a relative’s demise. “It will save lives and provide employment.” Sharmistha Mukherjee of DB Block wants better availability of oxygen, hospital beds, blood donation camps and well-organised Covid vaccination drives. Nonagenarian Samir Kumar Dasgupta wonders if we have the infrastructure to provide vaccination to the 18-plus population. “Maybe they can use our community halls for it,” says the CF Block resident. Not just facilities, residents seek information about the same too. “The MLA should build an app or web portal to give us live updates of the bed availability at hospitals. Where all do we run with sick patients,” asks Anik Chowdhury, of New Town’s AB Block. “We badly need an ambulance in every action area of New Town too. The other night a neighbour suffered a stroke and the only ambulance that agreed to come arrived in the morning. By then the patient was no more.” Arijit Mukherjee seeks 24-hour medicine shops. “In case of an emergency at night we only have hospitals to turn to and even they refuse to give medicines without prescription,” says the CK Block resident. Covid isn’t the only concern. Chirosree Mitra seeks mental health facilities. “Every second house has a mental health patient these days and the problem has worsened during the pandemic. Awareness has risen too but we lack facilities. Land needs to be allotted to build affordable mental health hospitals,” says the consultant counsellor from AD Block. Elderly care Many felt an urgent need for a system to look after the elderly. This was especially so since many of their children live out of town and since the threat of Covid lurks so close by. “The police backs a group like this called Saanjhbaati but not everyone knows of it. Plus, more than picnics and cultural programmes, this group needs to monitor their medical health and security,” says Arijit. Approachability Residents were disgusted by the nexus of corruption, favouritism and syndicates surrounding politicians. “It’s a nuisance. And these Gaal Kaata Pintus and Hath Kaata Bholas encircling politicians give them an even worse reputation,” says Abhradeep Banerjee of GD Block. Dhruv Bagchi says an MLA should be the guy next door who can be approached for problems. “Any emergency and they should be the first port of call but more often than not, we won’t get them,” he cites from experience. “An MLA is a people’s representative but instead, they feel like it’s a ticket to an entitled lifestyle. Their sidekicks are their pets and common people feel left out,” says the BF Block resident. Samares Bandyopadhyay cites instances when henchmen around politicians pushed and shoved senior citizens aside, claiming the leaders were too busy to meet them. “Well, whose work are they doing if not ours?” asks the DL Block resident. Many residents asked for the MLA to meet them at public forums at least once in three months. Freedom from encroachment Jhumpa Ghosh observes how the slum near GD Market has swollen in size. “The other night I was returning home through that stretch and my app cab driver was having a tough time dodging all the mask-less drunkards on the way. If the window was down there could have been a risk of snatching,” she says, also questioning how another slum could have been set up in a posh locality like the backyard of City Centre. “We have come to Salt Lake to live in a beautiful neighbourhood, that had been cleaned up before the under-17 Fifa World Cup of 2017. Then why is the cleanliness not being preserved?” she demands. Justice (retd) Soumitra Sen has noticed the Eastern Drainage Canal-side attracts hawkers and asks for it to be made encroachment-free for at least 100 meters on either side. “The eateries on the fringes of the canal are one of the biggest pollutants there too,” says the CL Block resident. Anik notes that while hawkers are squatting on the streets of New Town, their block markets are yet to open completely. “If shop lessees fail to roll up shutters within a stipulated time the authorities should take the shops back and let them out to hawkers. It would be a win-win,” he reasons. Greenery projects Arijit feels the greenery in Salt Lake has been reducing of late. “Not only were many trees felled to build the Metro, but trees also fall during storms. Where, which variety and how many new trees are being planted in lieu of these?” he asks. “We need 3,000 new fruit trees that will house birds, squirrels and provide oxygen.” Mousumi Mukherjee is saddened by the sorry state that Central Park is in, post-Amphan. “The lake is covered by water hyacinths such that one can barely see the water, the rose garden neither has any roses nor looks like a garden. We have fond memories of Central Park and want it restored to its former glory,” she says. Dasgupta asks for some legislature to prevent residents from planting certain tall trees in their background as their roots damage sewerage channels underground. Animal welfare Those who dislike street dogs want a stop to their ever-increasing population and those who love them also feel the streets are no place for the the animals to be living in. Rajib Roy wants an animal welfare centre and an apolitical body that would look after animals and the environment and be given due cognisance by authorities. “As of now if someone spots a monkey dance and complains, they are not even taken seriously by the police,” he says. Arijit wants a netting or fencing made on main roads to prevent animals from straying into the roads and getting run over. “The MLA should release funds to neuter 20 to 30 street dogs a month too.” Parks and halls New Town residents are all rooting for their own parks and community halls. “Who will agree to host a meeting at his house in the middle of a pandemic?” asks Anik. “It’s not safe. We need community halls for these.” Same with parks. “At present there are several blocks sharing one park and so they get crowded. Neither is it comfortable nor advisable during Covid.” Harmony “The MLA is the guardian of his constituency. He must ensure no one is victimised because of background, religion or political affiliation,” said Sen Roy. Eighty-five-year-old Mariam Wali agrees. “The MLA should see that amity prevails among religious groups. I’ve grown up in a Bengal when my mother would send sweets on Eid to our neighbours and our own house would be flooded with sweets sent by neighbours during the Pujas. Our children should not have to grow up in fear now.” Safety and security Some were concerned about women’s safety. “In Salt Lake most people are either inside AC rooms or travelling in cars. And the few who want to walk in the evening feel unsafe as it’s so deserted. They fear snatchings or eve teasings. So better police patrolling is necessary,” says Chirosree. Ease of doing business Businessmen wanted a corrupt ion-free and business-friendly environment where formalities like trade licence can be acquired quickly. “Bengal is blessed to have electricity, water, skilled and unskilled workers so if ample jobs can be provided, our youth won’t have to migrate elsewhere for work,” said Rajat Boobna of CG Block. Freedom from mosquitoes “Covid experts are asking us to keep our windows open for ventilation but mosquitoes swarm in if we do that,” complains Chaudhuri. Many others, particular those living near canals, are suffering the same fate and wanted respite. Public toilets “When entering Salt Lake from the Beleghata connector, there isn’t a single public toilet before Karununamoyee,” said Jhumpa. “Our block has a toilet attached to GC community hall that we allow outsiders to use. Policewomen and the like depend on it but the government needs to build more.” Citizen task force “Let the MLA form a team to keep tabs on departments like ration, police and medicine shops. Let the team report directly to the CM,” says Debalay Gonchowdhury. Rajib seconds him. “This citizen’s task force should comprise apolitical residents with integrity, goodwill and a minimum number of years spent in the constituency. The team should also be empowered to act against civic offenses like spitting, the use of plastic, traffic violation etc.” Light, roads, cleanliness Mousumi says the street lights in her FE Block lane are dim and that stretches in KB-KC blocks are almost pitch dark. “The vats there overflowing,” says the school teacher. She, like several others, complains of speeding by bikes and cars late every night. Roads need repair too. “They did some patchwork on main roads before the elections but lanes inside CK Block, CD Block, that from Matri Sadan to Calcutta Heart Clinic are all potholed,” says Arijit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021:Through the lens of our readers||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta|| What mattered the most to those who exercised their franchise||Homemakers Indira Trivedi (left) and Sandhya Pal sat chatting outside Calcutta Girls’ School after casting their votes. Trivedi said that if the BJP comes to power, cooking gas cylinder prices were sure to skyrocket. “The exponential price increase is already making it a struggle to keep our kitchens running. I voted keeping in mind that if the BJP comes to power then we will have a harrowing time with the finances,” she said. Ghosh pointed out that the Centre’s policies were a double-edged sword aimed at crippling middle class’s finances. “On one hand there is price rise while on the other, they’ve been reducing interest rates on small savings schemes. We have had enough of this acche din, we want the burey din back,”she said. Sweta Sinha, 57, and her daughter Sreshtha, a student, had come to a polling booth in Tallah Park. Sweta, a homemaker, said the election schedule should have been shortened because of the surge in Covid cases. “Most certainly, yes. The huge rallies and meetings should have been avoided,” she said. Sreshtha, pursuing a master’s in sociology from Banaras Hindu University, had come home last year during the Covid-19 crisis and has not gone back since. “People, especially the young, should not cast their votes on the basis of religion,” she said. Swagata Chatterjee, who has completed her MSc in zoology from Calcutta University and is gearing up for government job exams, had come to a booth on Manmatha Dutta Road in Paikpara with her parents. “Women’s safety is one of the most important issues for me. I don’t feel unsafe while returning home late now. I don’t want that to change,” she said. Her father Rajan, a businessman, said his neighbourhood had witnessed “a lot of development”. His wife Mousumi, a government employee, said she voted for “peace and harmony” Raju Turi, who works for a private company, had come to a booth off Beleghata Main Road to cast his vote. Turi had come alone because most of his family members, including his wife, had decided not to vote out of fear that they would contract Covid. “I came despite my wife asking me not to as I feel that I need to exercise the only power I have as a citizen to oppose the two shoddily handled issues in our country — demonetisation and the handling of the current Covid-19 scenario,” he said. A Class XII student of Gyan Bharati Vidyapeeth, Rajnish Bhagat, had come to a polling station in Kankurgachhi to cast his vote. A first-time voter, Bhagat said that he believed votes should not be divided on religion and instead the government should focus on creating more jobs and livelihood opportunities for youngsters. “Most of my seniors in our neighbourhood have moved out of the state for jobs. I think that instead of crying themselves hoarse over religion, the government must try to create better job opportunities for us,” he said. Pictures by Bishwarup Dutta, Sanat Kr Sinha and Pradip Sanyal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Police help sought to maintain ‘peaceful ambience’ at vaccination centres||The Bengal health secretary on Thursday wrote to the Calcutta police commissioner and the Bengal police chief saying the “peaceful ambience” at vaccination centres “is turning tense” because of the “ignited demand for vaccination”. The letter from Narayan Swarup Nigam says the number of recipients has been increasing by the day and a demand-supply mismatch was often leading to “untoward incidents” in the city as well as in the districts. “Although the inclination of the large number of people to get themselves vaccinated is an encouraging development, it will take some time to reach a stage when supply can match steps with demand. However, the crowds at the vaccination centres are bulging every day and peaceful ambience is turning tense. Even untoward incidents began to be reported from Kolkata and from the districts as well,” Nigam has written. “I solicit intervention of your good offices to pass suitable instructions to your field officers. This department is also advising KMC and DMs/CMOHs to liaison with their police counterparts in this regard.” Metro had last Saturday reported that health officers of several boroughs of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had sought police deployment at vaccination centres fearing unrest because shortage of doses was resulting in many people leaving without getting the jab despite queuing up for hours. In the past 24 hours, at least four incidents of unrest were reported at vaccination centres in Calcutta, necessitating intervention by the police. On Thursday, the Gariahat police station had to send teams to a vaccination centre at Dover Terrace and another in Ekdalia. At both, the number of jab aspirants, many of whom had joined the queue early in the morning, has far outnumbered the number of doses, triggering discontent among those who had to leave without being vaccinated. On Wednesday, a group of people protested outside a vaccination centre in Kudghat after a guard at the facility said he had misplaced the list of the people who had enrolled. A section of the people who had turned up at MR Bangur Hospital on Wednesday for Covid jabs blocked Prince Anwar Shah Road after being told that the hospital had run out of doses. “People are queuing up outside vaccination centres from as early as 4am or even before but the centres get their supply only after 9.30am or 10am. The number of people who can be vaccinated on a given day can be estimated only after that,” said an officer of the south suburban division. Anirban Bose, a resident of Narendrapur, said it took him three attempts over as many days to get his elderly relatives vaccinated. A health department official expressed the fear that the situation might worsen after everyone above 18 years becomes eligible for a Covid shot after May 1 across the country. In Bengal, however, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said people above 18 will be vaccinated from May 5. “Although vaccination for the 18-44 age group is not expected before May 5 in Bengal, many people are getting impatient and may turn up at vaccination centres from May 1. There is already tremendous pressure on the centres already,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||City traders dealing in non-essential items volunteer to keep shops shut till Sunday||Over 15,000 traders across parts of central Calcutta will keep their shops shut till Sunday in an attempt to break the chain of transmission as the Covid-19 cases are increasing across the city. Some of these traders deal with non-essential items, including motor parts, sarees, garments, electronic goods, electrical items and bicycles and their shops are spread across parts of Bentinck Street, Central Avenue, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Ezra Street, canning Street and a part of Strand Road. Parts of Posta and Burrabazar where traders deal with essential commodities, including pulses, rice, edible oils, sugar and salt, will remain open though during this period. “A few of our members have succumbed to Covid and several others are battling with the infection. Given the rise in the number of cases and the state of the healthcare system, we decided to keep the shops closed till Sunday,” said Sushil Poddar, the president of the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations, an apex body of several traders bodies dealing with different items in Calcutta. “The confederation will review the situation on Monday and decide whether or not to extend this closure for a few more days.” A bulk of traders, who are a part of this confederation, comprise a large part of Calcutta’s central business district mainly between NS Road in the west and Ganesh Chandra Avenue in the east, where lakhs of customers come everyday for their purchases, either in bulk or in small quantities. According to rough estimates, transactions worth over several crores take place in this part of the city on days when the shops are open and transporters remain busy loading and unloading items reaching from different parts of the country. “Many visitors to this area come without face masks or keep them below their chin despite repeated warnings,” said a senior officer of Hare Street police station. “Some of the relatively narrower lanes and bylanes have traders thronging throughout the day braving the pandemic situation. A closure of a few days will be of huge relief.” A section of the traders said they had been downing their shutters on Saturdays and Sundays and all shops would remain closed on May 1. In effect, the traders would be keeping their shops closed for a day, they said. “In Posta, there has not been a single Covid positive case in the second wave so far,” said Chandan Chakrabarty of Posta Bazar Byabsayee Samity. “All shops here will remain open. The supply of essential items will be hit if shops are closed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Four more crematoriums for Covid victims in city and its fringes||Four more crematoriums in the city and on its fringes will be used for cremating people who have died from Covid-19, the state municipal affairs department has ordered. The new cremation ghats are the Siriti Smashan, Garia Mahasmashan, and the ones at Rajpur-Sonarpur and Baruipur. Till Thursday, the cremation of people dying from Covid-19 was being done at Dhapa, Nimtala and Birjunala crematoriums. A senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said they were also looking for a new burial ground. At present, people dying from Covid are buried at the Bagmari burial ground Senior officials at the CMC said increasing the number of cremation ghats had become necessary to avoid delay in cremations as the number of daily deaths was high. “...the Covid body cremation service presently being undertaken at Dhapa, Birjunala and Nimtala needs to be extended to the burning ghats at Garia Mahasashan (two chullis), Siriti Smashan, Rajpur-Sonarpur and  Barui-pur…to release the excessive workload particularly at Dhapa crematorium,” the order read. The cremation at the newly added crematoriums will be done between midnight and 5am. “After 5am, we will sanitise the pyres and cremate the non-Covid bodies...,” said a CMC official. CMC sources said there were enough hearse vans to carry the dead but the delay happened because the crematoriums were not being able to burn the bodies and a backlog was building up. An official of AMRI Hospitals said the civic body was taking between 16 and 24 hours to remove a body of a person who died from Covid in their hospitals. A month back it used to take between eight and 12 hours. “As the number of deaths has increased, they need more time to take away a body,” said the official. Up to six family members are allowed to visit the crematorium, an CMC official said. “The hospitals inform us in case of a death and we send our hearse vans to pick up the body. The family members are allowed to have a last look,” said the CMC official. Oxygen arrest The enforcement branch of Calcutta police arrested  A.Nangalia from Howrah on Thursday for alleged selling oxygen cylinders online without checking a doctor’s prescription or issuing any receipt against payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||City vaccination centres struggle to manage long queques||Covid vaccination centres in the city struggled to manage long queues as people flocked for jabs fearing doses would get scarcer after May 1. Most private hospitals administered only second doses on Thursday and asked those who had turned up for their first jab to wait till all second-dose recipients were inoculated. In many places, people who had their second doses scheduled for the first week of May had queued up on Thursday. The hospitals received many calls from people in the 18-44 age group who wanted to know whether they could book vaccination slots. They were asked to enquire after May 5. People aged between 18 and 44 will become eligible for Covid shots from May 5 in Bengal and May 1 in the rest of the country. “There was a huge rush at our hospital today. All 554 doses that were administered during the day were second jabs. The first-dose recipients who had called up were asked to call again in May,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, gave first doses only after all second-dose recipients who had turned up were vaccinated. “The first-dose recipients who came in the morning were told to come back in the afternoon. We made it clear that they would be vaccinated only if doses were left after all second-dose recipients were vaccinated,” said Arafat Faisal, the head of medical services at Fortis, Anandapur. Long queues were also seen outside the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) clinics that are functioning as Covid vaccination centres. “The current surge in Covid cases has made people keen to get vaccinated. A lot of people are queuing up to take their first doses. But we are trying to give priority to those who are coming for the second dose,” a CMC official said. A sense of uncertainty has gripped those who are scheduled to get their second doses in the first week of May. AMRI Hospitals have sent text messages to all who have their second doses scheduled at their hospital in May. “We have asked them to wait for a few days. Since we are not sure ourselves about the supply, we are requesting them to wait for a few days for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The Centre has announced that all private healthcare facilities have to directly procure vaccines from the manufacturers from May. Private hospitals in Bengal, however, have requested the state health department to continue with the current practice, as part of which the state procures doses and distributes them to the inoculation centres. The state government has written to the Centre to know whether it can procure doses for private hospitals post-May 1. “Private hospitals cannot procure doses from the manufactures every day in small quantities. And the hospitals do not have cold storage facilities to store a large number of doses. The state government should procure the doses in bulk and distribute them in small quantities to the vaccination centres daily according to the need. That is the current practice,” an official of a private hospital said. In the absence of clarity on how private hospitals will procure doses from May, many people are queuing up now in hope that they will get their jabs before any crisis erupts. “We hope some clarity will emerge in a couple of days,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Covid-19 norms rampantly flouted across constituencies||Covid-19 norms were rampantly flouted across the Assembly constituencies in the city that voted in the last leg on Thursday, in keeping with the trend of the previous phases. There was no semblance of social distancing in the queues outside some polling stations. At some other booths, voters discarded gloves everywhere instead of in the designated yellow bins. Some stations saw both norms being flouted. People at the camp offices of political parties near the poll booths sat without wearing masks, undeterred. The previous phases of elections had held up a similar sorry picture. But violation of the norms in the last phase came in the backdrop of the judiciary’s stinging admonition of the Election Commission. The Madras High Court on Monday held the EC “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, calling it the “most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. The Calcutta High Court had earlier told the EC that its job was not confined to issuing circulars and holding meetings; it had to ensure the implementation of its guidelines during elections held in the pandemic. On Thursday, a tour of the polling booths across places like Cossipore, Shyampukur, Jorasanko, Beleghata and Entally showed that little had changed on the ground. Around 9.30am, there were multiple long queues outside the polling station at a girls’ school on Cossipore Road, in the Cossipore-Belgachhia constituency. None of them maintained distancing. At the entrance to the booth, the queues almost merged into one another and people literally rubbed shoulders with each other. A handful of jawans and a  couple of woman constables of Calcutta police were stationed at the gates. They were focussed on ensuring that only a few people entered the booths at a time. At Loreto Convent, Entally, the base of the concrete stairs leading to the polling station seemed to be the designated place for dumping the gloves. Scores of discarded gloves lay strewn there when this newspaper visited the booth. An Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) worker distributing the gloves and checking the temperatures of the voters said “there was no bin to dump gloves”. “We requested polling officials multiple times to arrange for a bin. But as of now, there is none,” she said. Asked about gloves being dumped at the stairs, a jawan at the booth had a brief response: “Maintaining law and order is our responsibility”. At another polling station at Raja Manindra College in Shyambazar, one voter after another discarded the gloves on the road outside. A heap of discarded gloves was seen on one corner of the road. A senior citizen, who came out of the booth around 10.15am, removed his glove and threw it on the road. Minutes later, another woman did the same thing. This newspaper asked a polling official — who stepped out to take a call — about the violation of Covid-19 protocol and the high court’s observations. “There is a bin inside the booth. If people are not responsible, then no government can do anything,” he said. At another polling station at a girls’ school on BK Pal Avenue in Ahiritola, two violations happened simultaneously — social distancing norms went for a toss and gloves were discarded everywhere except in the bins. Asked why he wasn’t interfering, a central force jawan said it was the responsibility of the Asha workers who distributed the gloves among voters. Two camp offices, of the BJP and Trinamul, on Brabourne Road, were a few feet apart. On Thursday afternoon, most of the men at both camps did not wear masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Centre issues revised guidelines for home isolation||The Centre has issued revised guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms. Here are highlights of the guidelines: Eligibility for home isolation • A patient who is clinically assigned a mild/asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer is eligible for home isolation. According to the government guidelines, asymptomatic cases are laboratory confirmed cases not experiencing any symptoms and having oxygen saturation of more than 94 per cent • Such patients should have a facility of self-isolation at home and for quarantining the family contacts • A caregiver should be available 24X7, who will keep in touch with the hospital during the entire isolation period • Patients aged more than 60 and those with comorbid conditions should be allowed home isolation only after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer • Immunocompromised patients (transplant recipients, those suffering from HIV or are undergoing cancer therapy) are not recommended for home isolation without a proper evaluation by a medical officer. Home isolation duration • A patient in home isolation stands discharged and ends isolation at least 10 days after the onset of symptoms or the date of sampling for asymptomatic cases. Also, the patient has to be without fever for at least three days • No need for testing after the home isolation period is over. Instructions for patients • A patient in home isolation must isolate himself or herself from other family members, especially those with comorbidities • The patient must stay in a well-ventilated room • The patient must always use a triple-layer mask, discard it after every eight hours or earlier if it becomes soiled or wet. In the presence of a caregiver, both are advised to wear N95 masks. • Used masks must be disinfected with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution before they are discarded • The patient must rest and adequately hydrate himself or herself • Hands must be frequently washed with soap and water for at least 40 seconds or cleaned with alcohol-based sanitiser. • Family members must not share the patent’s personal items • Surfaces that are often touched must be cleaned with 1 per cent hypochlorite solution • Self-monitoring of the blood oxygen saturation with a pulse oximeter is strongly advised • The patient must also monitor his or her temperature, heart rate, feel (better/same/worse) and breathing (better/same/worse). The chart has to be updated every four hours daily. Any deterioration in symptoms has to be reported to the doctor immediately. Instructions for caregiver • A triple layer mask or an N95 mask a must when in the same room with the patient. The front part of the mask should not be touched. The mask must be replaced immediately if it turns wet or dirty with secretions • Hand hygiene must be maintained after contact with a patient or his/her immediate environment, before and after preparing food, before eating, in the toilet and before and after removing gloves • The caregiver must wear disposable gloves during exposure to patient/patient’s environment. Direct contact with the patient’s body fluids has to be avoided. Cigarettes, utensils, towels or bed linens must not be shared • Masks, disposable items and food packets have to be disposed of separately. Treatment in home isolation • Patients must be in touch with the treating physician and promptly report any deterioration in symptoms. Medications for comorbid conditions to continue after consulting the treating physician • Patients may gargle with warm water or inhale steam twice a day • If fever is not controlled, the treating doctor must be alerted • Patients should not attempt to procure remdesivir or administer it at home. Decision to take remdesivir or any other investigational therapy should be taken by a medical professional and administered only in a hospital set-up • If symptoms persist for more than seven days, the treating doctor has to be consulted • In case of falling oxygen saturation or shortness of breath, patients may require hospitalisation. The treating doctor has to be consulted. When to seek medical help • If a patient suffers from difficulty in breathing • If oxygen saturation drops below 94 per cent • Persistent chest pain or pressure in the chest • Mental confusion or inability to arouse||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab mess uppermost on voters’ minds||A young voter in Jorasanko had issues like women’s safety and social harmony on her mind as she was gearing up to cast her vote on Thursday. But over the past few days, one concern has tipped all other issues — a Covid-19 vaccine for her father and herself. Sreya Seal, in her 20s and an analyst at a multinational company, tried to register her name on the Co-WIN portal on Wednesday, like hundreds of other Calcuttans. The "No Vaccination Centre is available for booking" message flashed on her screen, like it did on the screens of hundreds of other Calcuttans. “The Centre had claimed there was no vaccine shortage. But it is almost certain I won’t get one when the rollout for people over 18 years starts.... This uncertainty is killing us at a time when cases are rising,” Shreya told Metro outside a polling booth on Amherst Street. She was not alone. Many voters on Thursday shared their sense of helplessness because of a lack of vaccines and their displeasure at the Centre’s handling of the Covid situation. “It is infuriating that we were sending vaccines to other countries till a few days ago and now we don’t have them for our own people. It is shameful that we are staring at a shortage despite being the largest vaccine producer,” said Raktima Deb, a resident of Surah East Road who cast her vote at a booth in Beleghata. Some senior members of her family are struggling to get the second Covid jab. “The lack of jobs in Bengal was set to determine my voting choice but now the mishandling of the Covid crisis did so,” said Raktima, a private sector employee who was accompanied by her siblings to the polling booth. The uncertainty over vaccination is the biggest talking point in the city. Most private hospitals offering jabs are booked to the limit. They stopped offering slots for the first dose on Thursday and Friday and some even failed to confirm appointments for the second dose. At government hospitals and health centres run by the civic body, people are queueing up in large numbers, often from very early hours, for the jab. The mess has led many Calcuttans to believe that the Centre has let them down by passing the vaccine buck to the states at a time cases are surging alarmingly. The feeling was evident outside polling booths. “A regime that does not deliver on promises and puts its own people at risk should not come to power in Bengal,” said Mohammed Rizwan Hussain, a trader in Rajabazar, who cast his vote at Victoria Institution. At Shyambazar, Dipak Sengupta, 72, and his wife Sabita, 69, came out of a polling booth inside Maharaja Manindra College. Despite “trying hard”, the two are yet to get a single jab of a Covid vaccine. Sengupta, who is hypertensive and suffers from spondylitis, cannot stand for long in a queue. “The least a country’s government can do is take care of its senior citizens,” he said. Chanda Rani Biswas, 81, who came out minutes later from the same booth, had “waited in vain for over two hours for a second shot” in a queue at a private hospital in Salt Lake. Dilip Kumar Dutta, 71, a voter at Calcutta Boys’ School in the Chowringhee constituency, was set to get his second jab on Friday but was far from happy. “Several of my friends have not yet received the first dose. People who have are scrambling for the second dose,” he said. “In Bengal, politicians have flown in from Delhi and held rally after rally, which helped spread the virus. To keep up with the competition, politicians from Bengal have done the same. This lack of application of mind during a health crisis, by those who are supposed to provide leadership, is quite upsetting,” said Dutta. Case count Bengal on Thursday recorded 17,403 new infections, 89 deaths and 12,885 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.1 lakh. Of the 89 deaths, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 21 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,901 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,912.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Lockdown and vaccine weighed heavily on voters across trading hubs of Calcutta||The fear of a sudden lockdown because of the ongoing surge in Covid cases and loss of business and employment as a consequence weighed heavily on voters across the trading hubs of Calcutta as they cast their vote on Thursday. Many were apprehensive of a lockdown immediately after the declaration of the election results “to make up for the mismanagement” of Covid-19 across the country. Traders after traders in Burrabazar said how a sudden lockdown, like the one imposed in March 2020, could land their already troubled business in greater jeopardy. There were some whose business had been reduced to a third of what it had been and their concerns about unrealised dues and wasted stocks were widespread. These traders were not the only ones worried about a complete shutdown to contain the disease. Younger Calcuttans were scared, too. Pramod Chirania, 50, had gone to cast his vote at a polling booth on Shivtalla Street in Burrabazar. He said his biggest worry was not who would come to power but the possibility of a sudden lockdown. Chirania deals in iron spares. “My business is a third of what it used to be. I am yet to offset the losses incurred last year because of the lockdown. Now, if a fresh lockdown is imposed, it would leave us in a greater mess,” he said. Kaushik Jhawar, who cast his vote at a booth off Kalakar Street in Burrabazar, looks after his family’s wholesale business in blankets. He said the fear of a sudden lockdown had him extremely worried. “This time last year, the lockdown was barely a month old. It came as a bolt from the blue and by the time the curbs were relaxed in phases, our business had taken a massive hit,” said the 25-year-old. The fear of a sudden lockdown stems from the fact that the health infrastructure has collapsed across the country. Many fear a desperate central government could impose a second lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, even if it amounted to putting “common people” in financial distress. Jhawar said how a planned lockdown “at least allows us to adjust pending payments and regulate procurement”. “A sudden lockdown will not allow this and that will be a double blow because we have yet to recover from last year’s lockdown-induced losses,” said Jhawar. If traders from Burrabazar are losing their sleep over fears of loss of business, many young Calcuttans have their heart in their mouth because a sudden lockdown might make them jobless for a second time in less than a year. Sudipto Dey, 30, a voter in the Chowringhee Assembly constituency, used to work at a tea manufacturing company in Dalhousie. He was among the five who lost their jobs months after the lockdown was announced in March last year. “I somehow secured a job four months later. Now there is a possibility of a second lockdown because the Union government has messed up the Covid-19 situation. I am fearing yet another job loss if a second lockdown is indeed announced,” said Dey, a resident of Biswanath Matilal Lane in Bowbazar. He was accompanied by his niece Pallabi Dey and her mother Rumki. Rumki, 40, who works in the telemarketing section of a publishing house, said she too feared for her job if a second lockdown was imposed. At Calcutta Girls’ School, in the Chowringhee constituency, Amit Ghosh turned up to vote wearing a black T-shirt that had the words “Paisa Nei (Don’t have money)” written on it. Metro asked the 43-year-old, who looks after a mobile accessory company’s sales in eastern India, whether the words on his T-shirt reflected his thought. He said: “The words encapsulate the mess that we all are in. I had suffered a 60 per cent cut on my CTC (cost to company) because of the lockdown last year. Now, if a fresh lockdown has to be imposed as a result of the mishandling of the Covid-19 situation by the Union government, I am sure I will lose my job. If the company could not sell its products, it would not earn revenue and would lay us off,” said Ghosh. “I just shudder to think what lies ahead. This government had a year’s time to prepare the infrastructure, but did nothing and invited the crisis.” The fear of a lockdown and the resultant impact troubled Samiran Ghosh, who cast his vote at Calcutta Deaf and Dumb School in Rajabazar, in the Beleghata constituency. He used to work at a private company but lost his job during the lockdown. Ghosh, who used to get a salary of Rs 10,000 as an accountant’s assistant, now delivers medicines from wholesale shops in Bagree Market to retail outlets. “I had exhausted my savings. I searched desperately for a back-office job in the city but found none…. We are suffering because of our government,” said Ghosh, who stays near Machhua with his wife and parents. Pictures by Pradip Sanyal, Bishwarup Dutta and Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
30-04-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 984 points to close below 49,000 mark||Snapping its four-session winning run, market benchmark Sensex plummeted 984 points on Friday, tracking an intense selloff in financial stocks amid a negative trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index sank 983.58 points or 1.98 per cent to finish at 48,782.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 263.80 points or 1.77 per cent to 14,631.10. HDFC twins were the top losers in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, M&M, HUL, TCS and Maruti. On the other hand, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's and Bajaj Auto were the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities fell sharply on weak global cues and heavy sell-off in financial stocks. Asian markets traded weak on emerging concerns about growth after China's factory activity expanded slower than expected in April. Barring pharma, metals and IT, most of key sectoral indices saw selling pressure. "Persistent rise in daily caseload and higher number of deaths continue to remain matter of concerns for central and state governments and therefore any possibility of further economic restrictions cannot be ruled out by the state governments. Market is expected to be volatile until we see a clear reversal in COVID-19 cases," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Bourses in Europe were trading with marginal gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.31 per cent lower at USD 67.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 400 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex plunged over 400 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index tumbled 424.70 points or 0.85 per cent to 49,341.24 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 117.65 points or 0.79 per cent to 14,777.25. HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, Titan, Kotak Bank and SBI. On the other hand, ONGC, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma and Infosys were the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex finished 32.10 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 49,765.94, and Nifty advanced 30.35 points or 0.20 per cent to 14,894.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 809.37 crore on Thursday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) sold shares worth Rs 942.35 crore, according to provisional exchange data. V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services said, spiking COVID tells us that the light at the end of the tunnel, which the market is focussed on, is a long way away. But the market is taking cues from the second wave experience of other countries where the curve flattened and fell in around two months. "This explains the resilience of the market in the midst of very negative COVID-related news. An important point to be understood is that global markets are highly correlated, and therefore, a major correction is likely to be global," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Bourses on Wall Street ended with gains in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 67.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever reports 41 per cent growth in net profits for March quarter||Hindustan Unilever (HUL) on Thursday topped analyst estimates as it reported a 41 per cent growth in net profits for the March quarter of 2021. The FMCG giant posted a standalone net profit of Rs 2,143 crore against Rs 1,519 crore a year ago. Analysts were expecting the company to report a net profit of Rs 2,000 crore. The strong numbers came as HUL saw a robust demand for its products over the same time last year when the pandemic had led to a nationwide lockdown. During the quarter, HUL saw a volume growth of 16 per cent, which was above the 14 per cent as forecast by some analysts. “Our in-quarter performance was strong on both the topline and bottomline. Despite challenging times, in 2020-21 our business ecosystem has withstood the disruption and demonstrated agility and resilience across the value chain,” said Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of HUL. He added that the recent surge in Covid cases is of serious concern. During the quarter, sales grew around 35 per cent to Rs 11,947 crore against Rs 8,885 crore in the year-ago period. HUL said during the period, health, hygiene and nutrition, which form close to 80 per cent of its business, grew in double-digits for the third consecutive quarter, even as discretionary and out-of-home categories showed a sequential improvement. Commenting on the performance of its various divisions, HUL said home care showed a growth of 15 per cent and this was enabled by a strong recovery in fabric wash. The company added that household care continued its strong performance, delivering a double-digit growth. The board of directors of HUL have proposed a final dividend of Rs 17 per share. Coupled with an interim dividend of Rs 14 per share, the total payout for 2020-21 stands at Rs 31 per share. During the year, a special dividend of Rs 9.5 per share was also paid. Shares of HUL today ended at Rs 2409.05 in the BSE, as against its last close of Rs 2407.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Shares of India’s two leading private sector steel makers hit life-time highs||Shares of India’s two leading private sector steel makers hit life-time highs on Thursday on the back of a relentless rally in international prices leading to unprecedented margins. Stocks of Tata Steel and JSW Steel were up 6.55 per cent and 9.59 per cent, respectively, on the NSE even as broader indices Nifty 50 inched up marginally by 0.2 per cent during a choppy trading session. The TSL and JSW scrips closed at Rs 1,035 and Rs 726.20 — levels never seen by investors before. While the stocks were touching  fresh highs in recent weeks, Thursday’s breakout rally appeared to have been triggered by China, the world’s largest producer and consumer of steel. On April 28, China announced a decision to withdraw export rebates on major finished steel products and cut import duty on various semi-finished, crude and scrap steel. The changes will come into effect from May 1. The rebate will now only apply to 28 per cent of China’s steel export compared with 98 per cent previously. Steel stocks surged after the development and the brokerages suggested that leading players such as Tata and JSW would benefit from the move. JP Morgan also noted that SAIL would benefit because of the integrated nature (captive iron ore mine) of the business. JP Morgan and Kotak Institutional Securities said there is potential for hot rolled coil prices to increase by Rs 6,000-7,000 a tonne during May-June. However, Credit Suisse argued that much of the uptick from Chinese tax rejig, anticipated over the last two months, are already priced in. According to India Ratings, a Fitch company, HRC prices stood at Rs 63,400 (ex-Mumbai), up by 17 per cent month-on-month and 66 per cent year-on-year. The agency noted that HRC (flat steel) spreads stood at Rs 47,000 a tonne, while rebar (long steel) spread stood at 36,000 a tonne. However, the risk to the momentum could well be the second wave of Covid which may slow down domestic consumption. But if the export market continues to be strong, large integrated players may not face strong headwinds. Moreover, shortage of industrial oxygen in the wake of the pandemic is curtailing production of secondary producers. This may help larger players to gain more market share in the short to medium term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Mutual fund industry largely welcomes Sebi pay plan||The mutual fund industry has largely welcomed market regulator Sebi’s plan to ensure that top executives have more skin in their game through a compensation plan that requires them to receive 20 per cent of their monthly salary in the form of units. Top CEOs of the industry found nothing wrong with the regulator’s move, but are worried about the implementation and implication for junior employees as 20 per cent of their salary will be locked in for three years. In a late evening circular on Wednesday, Sebi said at least 20 per cent of key employees’ salaries should be paid in the form of units of mutual fund schemes in which they have an oversight. The compensation paid in the form of units needs to be proportionate to the asset under management (AUM) of the schemes. More importantly, such mutual fund units will be locked-in for a minimum period of three years or the tenure of the scheme, whichever is less. Radhika Gupta, MD & CEO, Edelweiss AMC, tweeted that Sebi’s directions will be difficult to implement. Questioning how such decisions can be made at the beginning of the year, Gupta said that though the circular is a good idea in spirit, it will be extremely problematic in implementation. “This circular applies to not just senior employees but junior research staff, dealers and support function heads. These people don’t earn the kind of money CEOs and chief investment officers (CIOs) do. It mandates how much one saves,” she said, adding that for an employee earning a relatively less salary, it will be difficult to put away 20 per cent. “We are constraining employee cash flows… If we want to build skin in the game, a simple rule would do it: for people earning more than Rs 50 lakh, 50 (or some per cent) of your investments (not assets) should be in your own funds. Finished,” she added. There are also apprehensions over franctionalisation. While the CEOs have oversight over all the schemes and, therefore, their unit-based compensation will be spread over a wider pool, this may not be the case with other key employees who handle only some schemes. Sebi has also said that the directions will be implemented from July while fund houses generally announce salary packages at the beginning of the fiscal. This could pose another niggle for the mutual funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Rahul Bajaj steps down as chairman and non-executive director of Bajaj Auto||Rahul Bajaj on Thursday stepped down as the chairman and non-executive director of Bajaj Auto. He will be replaced by Niraj Bajaj. Rahul Bajaj has been at the helm of the two-wheeler major since 1972 and the group for five decades. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, Bajaj Auto said that Rahul Bajaj has tendered his resignation considering his age. At its meeting held on Thursday, the board of directors, as recommended by the nomination and remuneration committee, has approved his appointment as chairman emeritus for a term of five years from May 2021. Last year, Rahul Bajaj had decided to give up his executive role to become a non-executive director while holding the position of the chairman. In July 2020, he had stepped down as the non-executive chairman of Bajaj Finance. After Rahul Bajaj resigned as the chairman of Bajaj Finance after leading it for 33 years, son Sanjiv Bajaj had donned the mantle as non-executive chairman. Earlier this week, Rahul Bajaj had also resigned as the non-executive director at Bajaj Finance, effective April 30. Here too, the board has proposed his appointment as chairman emeritus of the NBFC for a term of five year beginning May 1, 2021. Eighty three-year-old Rahul Bajaj took over the group’s reins in 1965 and has since then charted it into a strong growth path. Under his leadership, the turnover of Bajaj Auto has leapt from around Rs 7 crore to over Rs 27,000 crore. Known for his outspoken and frank views, Bajaj holds an honours degree in economics from Delhi University, a degree in law from Bombay University and an MBA from the Harvard Business School. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha from 2006-2010. He has handed over the baton at Bajaj Auto to elder son Rajiv Bajaj. The 67 year old Niraj Bajaj, who will take over as the non-executive director at Bajaj Auto, had joined the company’s board in September 2006. He is also the chairman and managing director of Mukand Ltd. After studying at the Sydenham College of Commerce & Economics, Mumbai, he acquired his masters in business administration from Harvard Business School. Niraj Bajaj has represented India in table tennis for seven years between 1970 and 1977, the last four years as the team captain. He was the recipient of the Arjuna Award. Net profit up 1.66% Bajaj Auto’s standalone March-quarter net profit rose 1.66 per cent to Rs 1,332.07 crore from Rs 1,310.29 crore, marginally below analyst estimates. During the quarter, standalone revenues rose to Rs 8,596.10 crore from Rs 6,815.85 crore a year ago. Two-wheelers showed a growth of 21 per cent in volume terms at 487,731 units. Sales of commercial vehicles (CVs), however, fell 38 per cent to 46,388 units. The domestic CV business was impacted because of the reduced demand for short distance mobility. Exports put up a better show with two-wheelers logging a growth of 24 per cent in volume terms and commercial vehicles 19 per cent. The board of directors of the company on Thursday recommend a dividend of Rs 140 per share and the total payout towards dividend would amount to around Rs 4,051 crore. The company added that its overall share in motorcycles in the domestic and international market among players from India was 27.6 per cent as against 27.5 per cent in 2019-20. .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-04-2021||Business||Gold demand surges 37 per cent during January-March quarter of 2021||Gold demand has surged 37 per cent during the JanuaryMarch quarter of 2021. Against a demand of 102 tonnes of gold in the first quarter of 2020, demand has surged to 140 tonnes in the first quarter of 2021 despite prices rising by 14 per cent. While jewellery demand at 102.5 tonnes during the quarter was up 39 per cent, investment demand at 37.5 tonnes was up 34 per cent compared to the first quarter of 2020. The World Gold Council on Thursday said that the expectation about prices have changed with the current price of around Rs 47,000 more acceptable among buyers. The average domestic gold price of Rs 47,131 per 10 gram is 14 per cent higher compared to the corresponding quarter a year ago and more significantly 16 per cent lower than the Rs 56,000 per 10 gram in August 2020. “This (140 tonnes) on its own is not one of the best historical figures. We have normally seen around 190 tonnes kind of demand. But it is still a significant jump of 37 per cent over last year. This is despite the fact that the price as compared to last year is 14 per cent higher.” “Last year the buying was low as people thought that a price of around Rs 41,000 is a significant increase and people were not willing to look at anything above Rs 38,00039,000 as a sustainable price. As a result they were actually waiting to see how the prices would react. This quarter we saw a price of around Rs 47,000 range. Yet buying was up 37 per cent. This signifies that the consumers are getting used to prices,” said Somasundaram PR, managing director, India, World Gold Council. He added that a reduction in customs duty on gold, together with an appreciating rupee throughout much of the quarter has presented a significant buying opportunity for retail investors. The industry body, however has placed a cautious outlook for the second quarter. “As lockdowns are reimposed in various regions of the country in response to rising Covid19 cases, consumer confidence has dipped. This is likely to impact wedding demand during the Q2 of 2021. Digital and omni channel retail strategies developed over the last year by many players may cushion the drop unlike Q2 2020 but the current crisis is beyond just economics and logistics. Therefore sentiment may be affected till large-scale vaccination is achieved,” World Gold Council said. Global demand for the yellow metal at 815.7 tonnes was a 23 per cent drop on a year on year basis as gold backed exchange traded funds saw an outflow of 177.9 tonnes. Analysts anticipate volatility in gold prices to remain. “Market participants will keep an eye on the US Q1 GDP data and weekly jobless claims scheduled later in the day which could trigger further volatility in the market. Broader range on Comex could be between USD 17751798 and on domestic front prices could hover in the range of Rs 47,00047,550,” said Navneet Damani, vice president – commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
30-04-2021||Business||Exide announces top management rejig, elevates Subir Chakraborty as CEO||Battery major Exide Industries has announced a rejig in its top management with the elevation of Subir Chakraborty as the managing director and chief executive officer of the company for a period of 3 years from May 1, 2021 to April 30, 2024. Chakraborty will assume office in place of Exide veteran for 39 years Gautam Chatterjee, whose retirement was noted by the board of directors of the company on Thursday. Chatterjee has been appointed as “wholetime advisor” to the board of the company for a period of 3 years effective from May 1, 2021. Today’s announcement was a step forward on the 2019 decision of the board to elevate Chakraborty to the post of deputy managing director. A mechanical engineer from IIT, Madras and PGDM from IIM, Calcutta, Chakraborty had joined Exide in 1996 and has been on the board for the last 8 years. He has held senior positions in the company including heading and supervising critical functions like automotive, industrial and submarine. The board has also appointed Avik Kumar Roy, as a whole time director, designated as director industrial, for a period of 5 years from May 1, 2021 to April 30, 2026. He was earlier designated as president, industrial and is in charge of the industrial division of the battery maker. Roy had joined the company in 2019, prior to which he was vice president and business unit head of Siemens, India. The changes are subject to the approval of the shareholders. The churn was announced on a day when the company posted growth in both topline and bottomline. Net turnover of the company for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 was Rs 2939 crore, a growth of 43 per cent compared to Rs 2055 crore during the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Profit after tax for the quarter was Rs 244 crore, a growth of 45 per cent compared to Rs 168 crore for corresponding quarter ended March 31, 2020. Chatterjee said that there was growth in business was supported by both the automotive and industrial division with after market demand for automotive and UPS batteries remaining strong during the quarter. Exide scips at Rs 178.10 were up 0.74 per cent over the previous close  of BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
30-04-2021||Business||World Bank commodity price outlook report indicates 2021 will be a bull run for all commodities||The World Bank commodity price outlook report has indicated that 2021 will be a bull run for all commodities in general, after which there will be tapering down in 2022. Gold will be an exception, which will slow down in 2021. The interesting facet here is that the prices for most categories will not just be higher than 2020, when there was a tendency for them to decline, but also over 2019 which was the pre-pandemic year. “However the risk can be any slowdown in the world economy due to the pandemic as that will upset most calculations,” said Care Rating in its research report on the World Bank study. While the energy prices are expected to average more than one-third higher in 2021 followed by a smaller increase in 2022, the non-energy prices are forecast to increase 19 per cent in 2021 but a modest decline is expected in 2022 as metal price increases partially unwind. Oil prices are forecast to average $56/ bbl in 2021 and rise to $60/bbl in 2022, broadly in line with their 201719 average. Demand is expected to be firm over 2021 as the economic recovery gains momentum and vaccinations become more widely available, particularly in advanced economies. Natural gas prices are forecast to average around one-third higher in 2021 compared to 2020, with steeper increases in European prices and a small decline in Japanese contract prices. Price differentials between the three benchmarks are expected to continue to shrink as a result of the growing availability of LNG. Coal prices are expected to rise by around 30 per cent. Metal prices are projected to average 30 per cent higher in 2021 than last year before easing in 2022. Upside risks to this outlook include further stimulus programs and an intensified drive toward decarbonisation. Downside risks include a resurgence of COVID19 infections and a sooner-than-expected withdrawal of stimulus measures in China. Aluminium prices are projected to increase by about 29 per cent in 2021, before falling 7 per cent in 2022. Copper prices are projected to average 38 per cent higher in 2021 compared to last year. However, they are expected to drop 12 per cent in 2022 as new supplies materialize. Iron ore prices are projected to increase by 24 per cent in 2021 before dropping considerably in 2022 as Chinese demand stabilizes and new supply comes on stream. Silver and platinum prices are anticipated to continue to outperform gold in 2021, given the metals’ wider use in industry. Precious metals prices are forecast to fall in 2022 as investment demand recedes. However, higher inflationary expectations could push prices higher, while an unexpected resurgence in the US dollar and intensified selling of safe haven assets could put downward pressure. Gold prices fell by 4 per cent in 2021 Q1, driven by a drop in financial investment demand due to rising US real yields. Gold prices are expected to average 4 per cent lower in 2021, and ease further in 2022. Silver prices, in contrast, rose by 8 per cent in 2021Q1 to their highest level in eight years, and were 60 per cent higher than a year earlier. Silver prices are expected to rise by about 22 per cent in 2021 but decline in 2022 as silver faces similar headwinds to gold (rising yields) and substitution in industrial applications The Grain Price Index is expected to average 14 per cent higher in 2021, followed by a small gain in 2022. Tea prices declined 9 per cent in 2021 Q1 but they are almost 10 per cent higher than a year ago. Tea prices surged during the pandemic as lockdowns disrupted tea plucking in some regions, especially in India. As restrictions on labour movement eased, tea production increased, in turn pushing tea price down. Prices have been also affected by better than expected supplies from East Africa due to exceptional weather conditions. As supply recovers further, tea prices are expected to decline 7 per cent in 2021 before making a small gain in 2022, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
30-04-2021||Business||CCI approves Tata Sons’ proposal to acquire up to a 64.3 per cent stake in BigBasket||The Competition Commission of India has approved Tata Sons’ proposal to acquire up to a 64.3 per cent stake in BigBasket, a deal that will provide the diversified group a stronghold in the fastgrowing online grocery market. Food and grocery retail market constitutes the largest chunk of domestic retail trade. In March, Tata Sons had sought approval from the CII for its $1billion deal to acquire the online grocer. Under the deal, Tata Digital Limited — the group’s digital services subsidiary — will acquire a 64.3 per cent stake in Supermarket Grocery Supplies Pvt Ltd (SGS), which sells products to commercial units through business bigbasket.com. In the next stage, SGS will take full control of Innovative Retail Concepts Pvt Ltd, which sells products to consumers through bigbasket.com. Chinese retail giant Alibaba, which has a 29 per cent stake in BigBasket, will be offloading its entire stake to the Tatas through this deal. BigBasket has the largest market share among online grocers and with the Tata backing could be a bigger competitor for Amazon and Reliance Retail. A whollyowned subsidiary of Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, TDL provides technology services related to identity and access management, loyalty programmes, offers and payments.An official release said Competition Commission of India (CCI) has approved the proposed deal of Tata group acquiring up to 64.3 per cent stake in Bigbasket.The deal involves TDL buying 64.3 per cent of the total share capital of SGS (on a fully diluted basis) through a combination of primary and secondary acquisitions, in one or more series of steps. This is the first transaction."It is stated that subsequently, through a separate transaction, SGS may acquire sole control over Innovative Retail Concepts Pvt Ltd (IRC) (transaction 2). Transaction 1 and Transaction 2 are collectively referred to as the proposed combination."The proposed combination will result in the acquisition by TDL of majority stake of and control over SGS," the release said. Founded in 2011, BigBasket operates in 25 Indian cities. It competes with SoftBankbacked Grofers as well as Amazon India and Flipkart. Deals beyond a certain threshold require approval from CCI. The share of food and grocery retail in India rests at 65.9 per cent, a significant and the largest chunk of the overall retail market in the country, of market size of $560 billion, according to a 2020 report by Technopak Advisors. Of this, the reach and size of online food and grocery ecommerce rests at 0.5 per cent and $2.75 billion, respectively, as of FY20. A large part of the retail trade is still unorganised and dominated by small mompop stores or neighbourhood shops. Over the next five years, however, the online food and grocery retail market is set to touch $28 billion with a 4 per cent penetration. This number will be nearly on a par with the size of modern trade or sales though large, organised food, and grocery retailers in the same period.In contrast, in FY20, 14 per cent of all apparel retail happened online, for consumer electronics the share was even greater at 26 per cent.“Since 2012 the growth of Indian Retail has also outpaced the overall growth of India’s GDP. This was primarily driven by increase of discretionary retail and that in turn was attributed to rising income and affordability of the consuming class . This is reflected in the falling share of food and grocery retail and the rising share of discretionary retail categories between FY 12 and FY 20," Technopak said in its estimates. Tata Motors global design head Tata Motors on Thursday announced the appointment of Martin Uhlarik as the company’s new global design head. Uhlarik, who takes over his new role from Pratap Bose, was till recently the head of design for Tata Motors European Technical Centre. Uhlarik will report to Shailesh Chandra, president, passenger vehicle business unit at Tata Motors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
30-04-2021||India||Govt must think of free Covid vaccination for all, says SC||The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre should adopt a national immunisation model for vaccination of all and not leave it to private vaccine manufacturers to decide on its allocation to states. A bench headed by Justices D Y Chandrachud said, "What happens to the marginalised people and SC/ST population living in far flung areas? Should they be left to the mercy of private vaccine manufacturers and hospitals? They will not be able to pay for the vaccines,” it said. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Rabindra Bhat, said that the government must think of providing free of cost vaccination to all citizens. You should adopt a national immunization model to vaccinate people of all classes. Poor or marginalised sections will not go to the hospital and pay Rs 600 for vaccines. You should consider all these aspects, the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. It said that it cannot be left to the private manufacturers to decide how much quantity be given to which state and instead Centre should procure all the vaccines and give it to the states like done in national immunization programmes. The top court asked the Centre to respond to at least 10 questions, for instance, how it will  ensure registration of persons for vaccination, who are illiterate or don't have access to the internet, considering that registration on CoWIN app is mandatory for vaccination for persons aged 18-45 years. It asked Mehta whether the Centre or states had attempted to undertake targeted vaccination drives for crematorium workers and other coordinate groups who are providing on-ground assistance during the pandemic and weren't considered as frontline workers. The bench asked Mehta to respond to the question whether the central government had considered exercising its power under section 92 of Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency? Has the Finance Ministry made any previous grants/ sanctions to Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) in the past, like the current infusion of Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 3,000 crore respectively? If yes, what is the exact breakup, as against the total cost of development and production of the two vaccines, the bench said. It also sought to know the direct and indirect grant/aid that was provided for the research, development and manufacture of vaccines. The top court posted the matter for further hearing on May 10 and asked the Solicitor General to reply to the questions it has posed. The 10 questions Hospital admisions The Supreme Court also  asked the Centre to frame a national policy on admission of patients in hospitals after it was apprised that some of them in the NCR are seeking local address proof for admitting Covid-19 infected people, while it was hearing the suo motu case on Covid management. The Centre will have to make a uniform policy for admission of patients, the bench observed. The court said the central government should ensure that no local address proof of patients are sought by hospitals for admission, after a lawyer said that a patient was denied admission at a hospital in Noida as his Aadhaar Card had a residential address of Mumbai. The top court warned authorities, from the Centre down to police chiefs, against silencing people and their pleas for help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Modi chairs meeting of council of ministers on Covid crisis||Amid the COVID-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers on Friday, where they were briefed about the management of the pandemic and availability of oxygen and medicines, sources said. This was the first meeting of the council of ministers in the aftermath of the second wave of COVID-19 in the country. At the meeting that was held virtually, NITI Aayog member VK Paul gave a presentation on COVID-19 management. After him, Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Mansukh Mandaviya briefed their cabinet colleagues on the availability of oxygen and medicines respectively. The prime minister has held several rounds of meetings with chief ministers and top government officials to deliberate on the COVID-19 situation. He has also been holding meetings with pharmaceutical industry leaders, oxygen suppliers, the heads of the three armed forces and other dignitaries to discuss how to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||TV journalist Rohit Sardana passes away following cardiac arrest||Television journalist Rohit Sardana died in Noida of cardiac arrest on Friday, days after he tested positive for Covid-19, according to his channel Aaj Tak. He was 41. Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents. He was admitted to a private hospital here after he tested positive for coronavirus. His last rites will take place in his hometown of Kurukshetra in Haryana, according to his colleagues. "We are all shocked by the death of our colleague and friend, Rohit Sardana. This incomparable loss cannot be expressed in words. We express our condolences to his family in this hour of grief," Aaj Tak tweeted in Hindi. A similar message was posted by India Today channel in English. "The untimely loss of our dear colleague and friend Rohit Sardana has left us in shock. No words can explain the irreparable loss and void that he leaves behind. Let us join in silence to give strength to the family," India Today said in a tweet. Condoling his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "Rohit Sardana left us too soon. Full of energy, passionate about India's progress and a kind hearted soul, Rohit will be missed by many people. His untimely demise has left a huge void in the media world. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers. Om Shanti." Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also condoled the death of Sardana. News director of Aaj Tak and India Today Rahul Kanwal said his newsroom was in "deep shock" and remembered Sardana as a "sharp young anchor" who never "flinched from asking questions". "Rohit Sardana was the sharpest young anchor I have met. Superb command over Hindi, brilliant with his turn of the phrase, precise questions, clear in his thinking, loved by the masses, warm and humble off the screen, he was destined for great things. Our newsroom is in deep shock," Kanwal tweeted. "Rohit had greater conviction than most. For many, a right leaning worldview is an acquired fad, a means of cultivating popularity. Rohit's views were deeply held & strongly articulated. But he wasn't an andh bhakt & never flinched from asking questions. That's why he was special," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Facebook to roll out vaccine finder tool on mobile app in India||Facebook on Friday said it is partnering with the Indian government to roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India, which will help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The social media giant had, earlier this week, announced a USD 10 million grant for emergency response efforts for COVID-19 situation in the country. "Partnering with the Government of India, Facebook will begin rolling out its Vaccine Finder tool on the Facebook mobile app in India available in 17 languages to help people identify places nearby to get the vaccine," Facebook said in a post on the platform. In this tool, vaccine centre locations and their hours of operation have been provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 15.22 crore. Also, more than 2.45 crore people have registered themselves on the Co-WIN digital platform ahead of the Phase-3 of the COVID-19 vaccination for those above 18 years that is set to start from May 1. Facebook said its tool will also show walk-in options (for 46 years and above) and a link to register on the Co-Win website and schedule vaccination appointment. The massive rise in infections in the second wave of the pandemic has led to hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter have emerged as a lifeline, connecting those looking for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, plasma donors, and ventilators with possible donors. Facebook said it is partnering with organisations such as United Way, Swasth, Hemkunt Foundation, I Am Gurgaon, Project Mumbai and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) to deploy the funds announced to help augment critical medical supplies with over 5,000 oxygen concentrators and other life-saving equipment like ventilators, BiPAP machines and to increase hospital bed capacity. The company is also supporting NGOs and UN agencies in the country with ad credits and insights to reach the majority of people on Facebook with COVID-19 vaccine and preventive health information. The platform is also providing health resources to people from UNICEF India about when to seek emergency care and how to manage mild COVID-19 symptoms at home. "The information is accessible and prominent on Facebook's COVID-19 Information Center and in Feed. On Instagram, we are promoting this information via Guides in Explore," it noted. Twitter too has set up a COVID-19 SOS page that helps surface information from those offering or seeking immediate help during this crisis. "We have also built a series of Twitter Moments to help you get the facts from the most reliable sources, because we know not all the information you see on the service is credible. These dedicated Moments about vaccine safety, how to stay safe and more, include detailed and accredited information from organisations like the MoHFW and World Health Organization, among others," it added. Twitter is also expanding its efforts to surface credible COVID-19 information with home Timeline prompts featuring the latest information about COVID-19 vaccines in English and Hindi. This, it said, will help those looking for up-to-date, localised information about vaccine safety, vaccine eligibility and other details. Twitter said it is currently matching 'Tweep' donations at 300 per cent organisations including Oxfam India, Akshay Patra Foundation, Child Rights and You and Rise Against Hunger India. It has made a separate USD 100,000 donation to Hemkunt Foundation to support their work in donating oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||EC asks Madras HC to restrain media from reporting court observations||Days after a stinging rap from the judiciary, the Election Commission on Friday moved the Madras High Court, seeking to restrain the media from reporting oral observations of judges made on its role in conducting elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic,a plea the court refused. Comments of murder charges against ECI officials and the institution being solely responsible for the surge in Covid-19 cases had caused great damage and it had tarnished the EC's image, its counsel contended. The first bench refused to restrain the media, both electronic and print, from publishing the oral observations of the judges relating the role of EC in holding elections to four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the country during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Let us leave that (matter) at it," was the reply of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy when the matter with regard to lapses in procuring Covid-19 vaccines, providing beds and ventilators and the alleged diversion of oxygen cylinders to other states came up again on Friday. The court had taken up the matter on its own. "The post-mortem on either count may have to wait, particularly in the light of immediate measures that may be put in place," the CJ quipped when the EC senior counsel moved the court with the prayer to restrain the media from sensationalising the issue. It was a very difficult job to hold the elections during these difficult times.Based on the observations of the courts, certain people have approached the police with complaints and the latter had filed FIRs too, the EC counsel said and prayed for some sort of protection. "The courts concerned would take care of such frivolous complaints being filed against the ECI... let's not play a blame game," the CJ said. The court had taken up the matter not to issue directions by presuming itself as an expert on the subject of handling Covid-19, but the focus was to make the governments act on the basis of experts' advice. "We are the first to accept that we may not be qualified to take a call," the CJ added. Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan told the bench that till December last year, the Covid-19 curve was flattening and in January it was fine. Only thereafter, the surge was noticed in Maharashtra and Kerala. A high-level team was dispatched to Kerala to aid public health interventions for Covid management. The Centre has done whatever was needed, the ASG said. The ECI sought a direction to the press and visual media, which had reported the oral comments,to issue a clarification. It also wanted a direction to the police to not register any case on the basis of criminal complaints being filed against EC officials pursuant to the oral observations. The Madras High Court had on Monday castigated the Election Commission over the Covid-19 second wave in the country, holding it 'singularly' responsible for the spread, called it "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The EC allowing political parties to take out rallies and meetings had led to the spread of the pandemic, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Voices of citizens seeking help should not be silenced, warns SC||There should be no clampdown on citizens seeking help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet, the Supreme Court said on Friday, terming the second wave of Covid-19 cases as a national crisis. "There should be free flow of information, we should hear voices of citizens," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, and asked the Centre, states and all DGPs not to take any action against anyone posting a shortage of oxygen, beds or doctors as spreading rumour. We are in a human crisis, the bench said. “If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will treat it as contempt of the court,” the bench also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said. There should not be any presumption that (the) grievances raised on the internet by citizens are false, the court reiterated. The observations assume significance in view the recent decision of the Uttar Pradesh administration to prosecute people under the National Security Act for allegedly raising false alarms on social media. The hearing before the top court on the suo motu case for devising national policy for Covid-19 management is underway. The bench is taking up issues such as projected demand of oxygen in the country at present and near future and as to how the government intended to allocate it to critically-affected states and about the monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. Observing that even frontline doctors and healthcare workers were not getting beds for treatment, the bench said the healthcare infrastructure inherited over the past 70 years was not sufficient and the situation was grim. The apex court said hostels, temples, churches and other places be opened for converting them as Covid-19 care centres. It said the Centre should adopt a national immunisation model as poor people will not be able to pay for vaccines. "What happens to the marginalised and SC/ST population? Should they be left to the mercy of private hospitals, it asked. The court also said the government must consider a National Immunisation Programme for various vaccines and must think of providing free of cost vaccination to all citizens. "Fifty-nine crore Indians in the 18-45 age group constitute a large segment. How will the poor and marginalised people find money to get vaccinated? We cannot have this private sector model. We must follow national immunisation model which we had followed since independence,” NDTV quoted the bench as saying. It said the healthcare sector has come to a breakpoint and retired doctors or officials could be re-employed in this crisis. The top court also said that private vaccine manufacturers cannot be allowed to decide which state should get how much. "Why is the government not buying 100 per cent of doses produced at this time? Why should there be two prices for the centre and the states... what is the rationale," NDTV quoted the top court as saying. "The centre has said that they are leaving 50 per cent procurement to be done by states. Will this promote equity,” Justice Chandrachud asked. While a mass vaccination drive is set to start on Saturday to inoculate everyone above 18 years, many states have red-flagged inadequate supply of the jabs and said they won’t be able to start the process on the day. "Pricing issues are extraordinarily serious. 50 per cent of doses, which will be available free of charge, will be used for vaccinating frontline workers and those who are above 45 years of age. Remaining doses will be used for adults who are 18 and above," the Supreme Court said. It allowed the Centre to give a powerpoint presentation on Covid-19 preparation.  The bench on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in COVID-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a national plan to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Suspension of international passenger flights extended till May 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till May 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 27 countries including Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||First consignment of Covid-19 supplies arrive in India from US||The United States on Friday delivered to India its first consignment of emergency medical supplies including hundreds of much-needed oxygen cylinders and regulators to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic. The medical equipment and other supplies were brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force. "The first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the Covid-19 pandemic together," the US embassy tweeted. Another military aircraft carrying a large number of medical equipment and other materials from the US is expected to land in the national capital later in the day. In a tweet, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said healthcare partnership between India and the US can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. "A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate the gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the USA," he said. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have announced sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries which are sending assistance to India include Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. On Thursday, Russia delivered to India 20 tonnes of medical supplies mainly comprising oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines.Romania also provided India medical supplies on Friday. "Taking forward our warm & friendly relations. Thank our EU partner Romania for their support with consignment containing 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders," Bagchi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||Kejriwal requests people to not queue up outside inoculation centres||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday appealed to people in the 18-44 age group not to queue up outside COVID vaccination centres from May 1, saying Delhi hasn't yet received vaccine doses. In the next one-two days, around 3 lakh Covishield vaccines will be received and the drive for vaccinating people above 18 years will commence, he said during an online briefing. The third phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-44 age group will roll out across the country on May 1. However, Delhi and some other states have said that they would be unable to do so due to the shortage of vaccine doses. Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin in three months. "We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies," he said. He assured Delhi residents that everyone will be vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||ED takes possession of assets worth Rs 304 crore in Rose Valley case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has taken "possession" of assets worth Rs 304 crore in connection with its money laundering case in the alleged Rose Valley ponzi scam that took place in West Bengal and Odisha. "Possession has been taken of properties of the Rose Valley group of companies throughout West Bengal, Tripura and Odisha under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA)," the central probe agency said in a statement. "This includes 412 movable properties amounting to Rs 47 crore and 426 immovable properties worth Rs 257 crore," it said. The Rose Valley group of companies "had collected huge amount of money from gullible public by floating various fake and fictitious schemes and defaulted the re-payments." Probe found, it said, that several properties in West Bengal, Odisha, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and others states were "acquired in the name of various companies of group, by illegally diverting the funds collected from the common public." These assets were earlier provisionally attached by the ED under the anti-money laundering law and after getting approval from the Adjudicating Authority (under the PMLA), the agency is empowered to take possession of such properties. The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering against the firm, its Chairman Gautam Kundu and others in 2014 and later arrested him in Calcutta. Multiple charge sheets have been filed by it in this case till now even as the probe continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
30-04-2021||India||India logs record 3.86 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,498 casualties in a day||India saw 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 31,70,228 comprising 16.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.99 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 53,84,418. The case fatality rate stands at 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,63,92,086 samples have been tested up to April 29 with 19,20,107 samples being tested on Thursday. The 3,498 new fatalities include 771 from Maharashtra, 395 from Delhi, 295 from Uttar Pradesh, 270 from Karnataka, 251 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Gujarat, 158 from Rajasthan, 145 from Jharkhand, 137 from Punjab and 107 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,08,330 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,985 from Maharashtra, 15,772 from Delhi, 15,306 from Karnataka, 13,933 from Tamil Nadu, 12,238 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,248 from West Bengal, 8,909 from Punjab and 8,312 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee succumbs to Covid||Distinguished jurist and former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee, who appeared in several historic cases like Kesavananda Bharti and S R Bommai, passed away due to COVID-19 at a hospital here on Friday. The 91-year-old is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons. A recipient of the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award of the country, the renowned human rights lawyer served as the Attorney General for India from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004 during the tenure of V P Singh and Atal Bihari Vajpayee respectively. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among a host of leaders who condoled the passing away of the eminent jurist. The prime minister described him as an outstanding lawyer who was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden through law. Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana also condoled the demise of Sorabjee. "I am deeply saddened to learn about the passing of Shri Soli Jehangir Sorabjee, former Attorney General of India. In his nearly 68 year long association with the judicial world, he made immeasurable contribution in enriching the global jurisprudence of Human Rights and Fundamental Right," he said. Considered one of the best Constitutional law experts, Sorabjee wrote several books on laws and justice, press censorship and the Emergency, and vehemently fought against human and fundamental rights violations. One of his recent court battles pertaining to fundamental right violations was the Shreya Singhal case in which the Supreme Court in 2015 agreed to his submissions and struck down a provision in the Information Technology Act relating to restrictions on online freedom of speech and expression. The top court held that section 66A was unconstitutional as being violative of freedom of speech guaranteed under the Constitution, the point put forth by Sorabjee, Considered close to Vajpayee, Sorabjee had led India's fight in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) when Pakistan sought compensation from India for downing of their naval patrol aircraft Atlantic in 1999 just after the Kargil war. The ICJ at the Hague ruled in India's favour after taking note of submissions of Sorabjee and dismissed Pakistan's claim for compensation, saying it had no jurisdiction over the matter. He also appeared and worked for the Citizen's Justice Committee which represented anti-Sikh riots victims. Born in a Parsi family in 1930, Sorabjee enrolled at the bar in 1953 and was designated senior advocate by the Bombay High Court in 1971. Sorabjee appeared in many important cases including the Kesavananda Bharati matter on basic structure doctrine and the S R Bommai matter relating to invocation of President's rule in states among others. He was appointed by the United Nation as a Special Rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997 to report on the human rights situation in that country and later became a member and the Chairman of the UN-Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, from 1998 to 2004. Sorabjee was also a member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities since 1998. He has also served as member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague from 2000 to 2006. Sorabjee, who hardly filed any PIL on his own, was so overwhelmed by the terror strike in Mumbai in 2008 that he himself filed a public interest litigation in the top court seeking direction for training and equipping police force to tackle terrorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Shunned by UP village, 70-year-old ferries wife's body on bicycle||A 70-year-old man was compelled to carry the body of his wife, who died of Covid-19, for cremation on his bicycle as nobody in his village offered any help fearing they might contract the deadly virus, police said on Thursday. The heart-wrenching ordeal of the frail-looking, bearded man from Ambarpur village in the district, over 200km from state capital Lucknow, has been captured in two photographs circulating on social media. While in one photo, Tilakdhari could be seen carrying the body on his bicycle, the other one shows him sitting helplessly by the roadside with the body sprawling across his fallen bicycle. Police said Tilakdhari’s wife died of Covid at the district hospital on April 26, and her body was sent to his village in an ambulance. “But the villagers, including the elders, refused to help him perform the last rites fearing they might also contract the virus,” station house officer Madiahun Munna Lal Dhusia told PTI. “After no one came to help, the old man decided keep his wife’s body on his cycle and go for her cremation. However, it was not possible for him to carry the body on a cycle and he kept losing his balance,” the SHO said. He said the police helped him after coming to know about the incident. Police personnel reached there with an ambulance and material required for conducting the last rites and took the body to Ramghat where the cremation was performed, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: UP hospitals defy Yogi gag bid by flagging oxygen shortage ||Some hospital authorities are continuing to speak out about the oxygen shortage in Uttar Pradesh despite chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s attempt to gag them with a crackdown, which has led to a notice to a Meerut hospital threatening to cancel its licence. Vinay Sharma, superintendent of Tender Palm Hospital in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar neighbourhood, told reporters he was queuing at the gate of an oxygen refilling centre because his patients urgently needed supplies. Adityanath, who denies any oxygen shortage in the state, has been steadfastly claiming that his government supplies enough oxygen to every hospital, and has ordered a crackdown on those “spreading panic”. Subhas Yadav, superintendent of Anand Hospital in Meerut, on Thursday blamed the oxygen crisis for the death of three Covid patients at the facility in the past 24 hours. “We need 400 cylinders every 24 hours but are getting only 90. The patients died because of an oxygen shortage,” Yadav told reporters. Sharma had told reporters on Wednesday night: “I’m standing at the gate of an oxygen refilling centre. Our hospital has about 100 patients who need oxygen immediately.” A source at Tender Palm Hospital said its staff were still in the queue early on Thursday morning, and that eight patients had died between Tuesday evening and Wednesday night because of a lack of oxygen. “We got about 30 cylinders against the immediate need for 200 on Thursday morning. These will run out in 10 hours,” the hospital employee, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters at 1pm on Thursday. Four people died in the past 24 hours at Meerut’s KMC Hospital, which had on Wednesday received a notice from the district administration accusing it of falsely claiming an oxygen shortage and threatening to cancel its licence. Meerut chief medical officer Akhilesh Mohan said the hospital was “getting everything” and “action would be initiated after receiving the reply in three days”. Dr Sunil Gupta, who runs the hospital, denied the allegation. “I have not slept for the last three days as I have to arrange oxygen. I need 300 cylinders every day,” he told reporters on Wednesday. A hospital official said the facility received less than 100 cylinders a day and procured the rest from other sources. An official quoted Adityanath as saying at a meeting on Thursday that the government had supplied 600 tonnes of oxygen to hospitals and refillers on Wednesday, and reaffirming there was “no shortage of oxygen”. But hundreds were seen queuing since early Thursday morning at the gates of oxygen refilling centres in Lucknow. “We are waiting for the oxygen tanker to arrive. Only then will they start giving us oxygen cylinders,” said a middle-aged Radha Singh, whose husband is Covid-positive, at the gates of Oudh Oxygen Private Limited in the Talkatora area. A public interest plea was moved in Allahabad High Court on Wednesday seeking protection for relatives of Covid patients who appeal for oxygen or medicines on social media, and for volunteers who help them, amid reports of people being arrested for “spreading rumours about scarcities”. Saket Gokhale, a social activist, filed the letter petition following the arrest of about a dozen people on the charge of carrying oxygen cylinders or life-saving medicines without genuine reason. At least some of the accused are, however, said to be members of citizens’ volunteer groups that are responding to appeals from Covid-hit families to arrange beds, ambulances, medicines and oxygen, often by using their contacts in the administration. Gokhale’s petition says some of the relatives appealing on social media too have been arrested recently. “Filing criminal cases against families of critical patients issuing SOS calls for oxygen on social media is a gross misuse of the powers of the State and is illegal coercive action that is being taken to maintain the image of the government and to clamp down on any criticism of their handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and to present a fake picture that everything is hunky dory in the state,” the petition says. Gokhale has said that family members of Covid patients are now afraid to seek help. Sources said several of the voluntary groups had wound up their services for fear of being harassed by government agencies. “Police and even some journalists are bullying us and asking us to stop working, saying we are sending out the message that the government is ineffective,” a social worker told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: India’s research community asks Modi for data on patterns and severity of infections||India’s research community on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release data on the patterns and severity of the Covid-19 infections amid concerns that the Centre had withheld information that could guide effective responses to the epidemic. A group of over 200 scientists and medical researchers, in an online appeal to Modi, cautioned that India’s inability to adequately manage the spread of the infection had resulted largely from its epidemiological data being either not systematically collected or denied to the scientific community. The researchers have also said the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) policy had made the import of scientific equipment and reagents “extremely tedious and time-consuming” and reduced their ability to sequence coronavirus genomes for surveillance. “Adequate encouragement and support by the government are required for our country to become Atmanirbhar in the future. Such restrictions at this time only serve to impede our ability to deal with Covid-19,” they said, seeking the withdrawal of restrictions. They have asked for “systematic collection and timely release” of data on testing for better predictions of the spread of the infection, data on clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients to improve treatment strategies, and data on the immune responses to the inoculation campaign in India to validate the vaccines’ efficacy. “The current situation demands rapid and systematic data collection and release so that data-driven mitigation measures can be implemented,” the researchers said, underlining that India is now one of the “worst-affected countries” by the Covid-19 pandemic. India on Thursday recorded more than 379,000 new Covid-19 infections and 3,645 deaths, raising the total of active patients to more than 3 million and the total dead to over 200,000. The researchers have underlined that a patchwork of small epidemics in each state gives rise to those numbers and that the high-granularity testing data available with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, remains inaccessible. The ICMR database, established at the start of the epidemic last year, has testing data on all 18.3 million people who’ve tested positive so far but, the researchers said, it remains inaccessible to anyone outside the government and even to researchers in other government agencies. “We can’t do public health without data, we need multiple pairs of eyes looking at data, we need experts from academic institutions to be looking at data,” said Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinical microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who’s among the signatories to the appeal. “The trend observed worldwide is for experts from academic institutions to be involved in data analysis,” said Kang, who’s also a fellow of the Royal Society. The other researchers who have signed the appeal include biologist L.S. Shashidhara from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune; the biostatistician and current president of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Partha Majumder; infectious disease modeller Gautam Menon from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai; and Satyajit Mayor, director of the National Centre for Biological Sciences. They have sought access to clinical data and said that many scientists have been trying unsuccessfully to get information on the prevalence of underlying chronic health disorders among Covid-19 patients and blood analysis reports of hospitalised patients. A query sent by The Telegraph to the ICMR seeking a response to the concerns about the lack of access to data has remained unanswered. “The ICMR is sitting on a mountain of data that it either isn’t analysing itself or allowing others to analyse,” Menon told this newspaper. The data could help address many questions — for instance, how many people have tested positive twice over the past year, whether spikes in test positivity in a locality correlate with the start of an outbreak, and whether someone had tested positive after two vaccine doses. “We certainly know that data is being collected; we don’t know what happens with it,” said a senior medical researcher who’s among the signatories. When the Union science ministry started a forecasting exercise last year, even its researchers were unable to access data from the ICMR, the researcher said. The signatories have urged Modi to help researchers access — with appropriate safeguards to maintain patients’ confidentiality — epidemiological and clinical data to help them forecast the requirements for oxygen, medical supplies, ventilators and intensive care beds. “A network of academic researchers analysing data in parallel with the government’s own exercises would have bolstered public confidence in management and decision-making,” said Santanu Tripathi, another signatory and former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Tripathi is among researchers who have been arguing for real-world efficacy data on the Covid-19 vaccines that India is currently using in its nationwide vaccination campaign. More than 27 million people across the country have so far received the two doses of vaccines required for protection. Tripathi said it was not difficult to design a study to determine what proportion of people who’ve already received two doses were developing infections or severe disease compared with the general population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Gave aid, so taking aid: Centre’s logic for accepting foreign Covid help||Foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla on Thursday said India’s acceptance of oxygen and medicines from overseas reflected a nod to reciprocity and should not be seen in terms of its foreign aid policy. “We have given assistance, we are getting assistance,” he said. Given India’s policy decision since the tsunami of 2004 not to take foreign aid except from development partners, this has been a question the government has been facing at various forums. “This is an unprecedented situation. We are dealing with a situation that is quite exceptional. We have prioritised items that we need and are sourcing them but many countries have come forward to offer what we need,” Shringla told a news conference. “The fact is that we had been responsive to their needs when they had the requirement. Keep in mind that the US and much of Europe have had a second and even third wave. “When we supplied essential pharmaceutical products... hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol or even remdesivir at that time or vaccines under the Vaccine Maitri programme, there was appreciation that we had come to the assistance of other countries in pursuit of what our Prime Minister calls working for the common good — our concept of vasudhaivakutumbakam (the whole world is kin).” US President Joe Biden had earlier this week spoken about the help India had provided when the pandemic ravaged his country last year. Shringla said the pandemic had shown the world that countries cannot survive by looking out for themselves alone. He said India was not viewing the foreign assistance in the context of policy but was doing whatever was needed to look after its people. Shringla said the second wave of Covid had put considerable pressure on the country’s healthcare system and its capacities and resources. He added that India was mainly trying to get oxygen and critical medicines from overseas. He said India had licensed manufacturers of remdesivir but their present production capacity cannot meet the increased demand. Foreign sources for the drug had therefore been identified, not just in the US but also in Egypt and Bangladesh. Shringla said the foreign help was coming through four routes: government-to-government sourcing, offers from 40 countries to donate what India requires, procurement by Indian and international corporate groups already plugged into global supply chains, and contributions from the Indian diaspora. To facilitate easy movement, all such consignments — routed through the Indian Red Cross Society — have been exempt from customs duties and taxes. Shringla sidestepped questions on assistance offers from China and Pakistan but stressed that materials were being procured in bulk from China. “We know that a number of companies have been sourcing products from China.... Our missions and posts have been asked to facilitate (this) wherever required.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covaxin price for states reduced to Rs 400 per dose||Bharat Biotech on Thursday reduced by Rs 200 the price at which it will sell each dose of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine, to the states. The new price for each Covaxin dose will be Rs 400 instead of the Rs 600 announced earlier. The price for private hospitals will be Rs 1,200 a dose. The price cut followed widespread criticism as Bharat Biotech had sold Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose. The announcement came a day after the Serum Institute of India reduced the price of its Covid vaccine, Covishield, to Rs 300 per dose from the earlier Rs 400 for state governments. “Recognising the enormous challenges in the public healthcare system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of 400/ dose,” Bharat Biotech said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday insisted on free vaccines. The Congress is pressing the central government to ensure it funds the drive instead of burdening the cash-strapped states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Odisha plea to waive central force deployment charges||Odisha on Thursday urged the Centre to waive the charges towards deployment of Central Armed Police Forces in the Maoist-hit areas of the state. Maintaining that “left wing extremism” is a national issue and both the state and the Centre should fight it together, Odisha asked the central government to consider its demand to waive an amount of Rs 4,561.24 crore. The ministry of home affairs had asked the Odisha government to pay the amount for the deployment of central forces in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Around 15 battalions of state police have been raised, specifically to combat left wing extremism, 30,000 posts in police cadres have also been created including armed formations along with specialised training centres and other logistic facilities for their deployment. Thus, considering the face that left wing extremism is an issue of joint responsibility and the state government is doing its lots to combat the menace, Government of India may appreciate the difficulties of states like Odisha while charging for such deployment of central forces for dealing with left wing extremism.” Naveen also reminded the Prime Minister that “left wing extremism” is a national issue and a grave threat to the integrity of the nation. This challenge, he said, had to be addressed both by the state and the Centre. Besides, the government of Odisha has been proactive in spending from its scanty resources and deploying security forces despite its tight fiscal situation, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Congress doubtful of vaccine drive success for 18-44 age group||The Congress has expressed serious reservations about the success of the vaccination drive being rolled out for the citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1, arguing that the shortage of vaccines will take a long time to cover a substantial section of the population and hence defeat the purpose of the exercise. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the protracted schedule of the vaccination drive. In his letter, Baghel informed Modi that the Chhattisgarh government had placed orders for 25 lakh vaccine doses each from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to cover the 1.30 crore people between the age of 18 and 44 years. “Bharat Biotech has replied that they will try to deliver the stocks by July end. This means we will get the full requirement of 2.60 crore doses only in a year. This will defeat the purpose of vaccination,” he said. Medical professionals aren’t sure about the duration of efficacy of the vaccines and the dominant view is that both Covishield and Covaxin might be effective for around a year. Most states are not in a position to roll out the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years from May 1 as they don’t have enough stock to meet the massive demand. Baghel requested the Prime Minister to share with the states the full action plan that the Centre might have drawn for vaccinating the 18-44 age group. He also recommended an intense vaccination drive across the country, which can only be achieved if other manufacturers are allowed to step in. The Congress has been wondering why the Centre did not invoke the compulsory licensing provision to expand manufacturing as suggested by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The Maharashtra government has already indicated that the 18-plus vaccination drive will not start on May 1 while states such as Rajasthan and Punjab have said they don’t have the stock to execute the plan. These states said the vaccine manufacturers have expressed their inability to supply to the states till May 15 as they will be occupied with central orders. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday tweeted: “Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will be put to test on May 1. His claim and his government’s claim that there are sufficient stocks of vaccines with the States will be blown away. No State seems to be ready to open vaccination to the 18-44 years population. Even the CoWin app is not co-operating! If people are turned away from the vaccination centres after May 1 on the ground of ‘No vaccine’, will the Health Minister resign?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Silent on lockdown, Centre sets norms for curbs||The Centre on Thursday directed the states and Union Territories to go for intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases to check the spread of the viral disease. The ministry of home affairs, however, did not mention anything about the imposition of a lockdown anywhere in the country in the fresh guidelines issued for May in view of the pandemic. It told the states to take necessary action to ensure sufficient oxygen-supported beds, ICU beds, ventilators, ambulances, including creation of makeshift hospitals. The ministry asked the states to identify the districts where either the Covid positivity rate was more than 10 per cent or the bed occupancy was over 60 per cent in the last one week. The districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for intensive and local containment measures, the ministry said in a statement. The implementation framework for community containment and large containment areas, as advised by the health ministry, has been enclosed with the order. The home ministry asked the states to consider the containment measures, as conveyed in an advisory issued by the health ministry on April 25 for immediate implementation based on an assessment of the situation. The national directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be strictly followed throughout the country, the statement said. The home ministry order shall be effective till May 31. The home ministry said the focus will be on containment to flatten the current curve of the pandemic.  Movement of individuals shall be strictly prohibited during the night hours, except for essential activities, in areas where the number of cases is high. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival related and other gatherings and congregations have been prohibited. Marriages will be attended by up to 50 people and funerals by up to 20. Shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gymnasiums, spas, swimming pools and religious places will remain closed. Essential services and activities such as healthcare services, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, regulated movement of public transport, including all incidental services and activities needed for a smooth functioning of these activities, shall continue. Such services shall continue in both the public and the private sector. Public transport facilities such as trains, metro, buses and taxis will operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent. There shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement, including transportation of essential goods. All offices, both government and private, will function with a maximum of 50 per cent staff strength. All industrial and scientific establishments may be allowed to operate, subject to the workforce following the physical distancing norms. Referring to testing and surveillance, the guidelines said the districts will continue with the “test-track-treat-vaccinate” strategy and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
30-04-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court for food and livelihood for migrants||Three social activists on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre and the states to ensure that the country’s estimated eight crore migrant labourers get adequate source of food and livelihood as they have been most vulnerable to the second wave of the pandemic and the resultant restrictive measures. In an application seeking urgent hearing, Harsh Mander, Anjali Bharadwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar submitted that the migrant labourers currently have no source of livelihood or food as they are not covered either under the National Food Security Act or the public distribution system. “…The problems and miseries faced by migrant workers during the lockdown in 2020 have persisted over the past year due to the continued economic distress and now have got aggravated on account of fresh restrictions, curfews and lockdowns being imposed in many states to control the spread of Covid,” the application filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan said. They sought the court’s intervention to address the following issues: ⚫ Loss of livelihood and means of income on account of the restrictions and lockdowns resulting in people being unable to pay for basic needs like food and rent. ⚫ Lack of proper arrangement for safe and free travel back to hometowns and villages when lockdowns are announced. ⚫ The restrictions and curfews/lockdowns imposed by governments have caused immense distress to the economically vulnerable sections of society, especially migrant workers. Across several states, migrant workers, having lost their livelihood on account of the Covid-induced restrictions, are unable to sustain themselves and there is large-scale distress migration back to their hometowns, the social activists informed the court. No proper relief measures to mitigate the economic hardships were announced when the lockdowns were put in place by various states. It was submitted that migrant workers are mostly excluded from the public distribution system and the National Food Security Act or similar state-run programmes due to the lack of appropriate documents to prove domicile status, address and other mandatory requirements. Last year during the national lockdown, the central government had implemented some schemes to provide relief to migrant workers and other distressed persons such as the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package. However, the scheme for providing ration to migrant workers was later discontinued and thereafter no specific plans for food security and social security for migrants had been announced, the petitioners pointed out. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, announced in May 2020, the Centre had said that migrant workers left out of the purview of the public distribution system or the National Food Security Act would be provided for free 5kg of food grains per person and 1kg of pulses per family. However, the scheme was discontinued after two months. At that time the scheme, though inadequate to address the level of distress suffered by the migrant workers, had at least provided a minimal floor to prevent starvation, the activists said. “However, this time around, no scheme for food security of migrant workers has been announced despite the various lockdowns and curfews in several states disrupting the lives and livelihoods of migrant workers resulting in food insecurity and despite the economic condition being much worse than before as economically vulnerable people, especially migrant workers, exhausted their meagre savings to cope with the crisis in 2020,” the applicants said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||Migrant disinterest builds case for broader NREGA: Study||The rural job guarantee scheme and the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana provided work to less than eight per cent of the migrant workers who had returned home after last year’s lockdown, a study has found. It has argued that the highly skilled returned migrants may have been uninterested in the unskilled work provided under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), and has suggested a broadening of the scope of projects under the scheme. Published by the University of Bonn in Germany, the findings are significant at a time migrant workers have again begun returning home amid a Covid resurgence in India. The findings are part of a working paper titled “Covid 19: Emergence Spread and its Impact on the Indian Economy and Migrant Workers”, authored by Ashok Gulati and Shyama Jose from the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, Delhi, and B.B. Singh from the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation, Delhi. The MGNREGA is the government’s main job scheme in the rural areas and provides up to 100 days’ work per household per year. Last June, the Centre had launched in six states the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana, a 125-day programme to generate work for the returned migrants and speed up activities under government schemes such as housing, sanitation, water supply and renewable energy. The study was based on phone interviews with returned migrants in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. The first phase of the survey, conducted between June and August last year, found 38.6 per cent of the returned migrants were not engaged in any economic activity at their native places. A total of 34.1 per cent were self-employed in farming and 1.3 per cent were self-employed in non-agricultural work. Some 11.2 per cent were engaged in casual labour, 8.8 per cent in agricultural labour, and 4.9 per cent in public works like the rural job scheme and the Garib Kalyan. By phase two, conducted between November and December, the percentage of migrants not engaged in any economic activity had fallen to 14. The proportion of the self-employed had risen to 43.3 per cent; 7.7 per cent said they were engaged in the rural job scheme or the Garib Kalyan; while 17.2 per cent were engaged in farm labour. According to the paper, “public works such as MGNREGA and GKRY (Garib Kalyan) were limited (in) absorb(ing) the influx of reverse migrants”. In general, however, the last financial year witnessed a spurt in jobs demanded and allotted under the MGNREGA, which was hailed by some activists as a saviour in the villages amid the employment crisis generated by the pandemic-induced lockdown. Over 200 kinds of projects that do not require a great deal of skill are allowed under the rural job guarantee scheme. “There is a scope to broaden the permissible work by allowing more (kinds of) work aimed at individual asset creation such as house and tank construction, or sheds in the backyard,” said N.K. Sahu, a researcher associated with the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation. He cited how South Korea had conducted the Saemaul Undong programme in the 1960s for community development in rural areas, involving home modernisations and the establishment of cooperative ventures and cultural facilities. “The time has come for the government to plan a village revamp programme by undertaking massive local infrastructure projects. That will help create employment and development,” Sahu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||Chardham Yatra suspended because of Covid surge||The Chardham Yatra to the four Himalayan shrines in Uttarakhand, which was scheduled to begin next month, has been postponed because of the Covid-19 surge. Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Thursday said conducting the yatra amid the raging pandemic was not possible. “Considering the rising cases of corona, it has been decided to suspend the Chardham Yatra,” Rawat told reporters. However, the portals of the four Himalayan temples known as Chardham will open as scheduled, he said. Only priests will be allowed to perform daily prayers at the shrines and not devotees, the chief minister said. “Though opening on schedule, no pilgrim, neither from inside the state nor from outside, will be allowed to visit the temples,” he said. Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri are the four shrines. Kedarnath is slated to open at 5am on May 17, Badrinath at 4.15am on May 18, Yamunotri at 12.15 pm on May 14 and Gangotri on 7.30am on May 15. Covid-19 cases have been rising drastically in Uttarakhand as in various other states. They hit a new high in the state on Wednesday with 6,054 people testing positive and 108 succumbing to the virus. This is the highest single-day spike in Covid cases and fatalities recorded by the state so far. The state government had drawn much flak for organising the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar that according to many contributed to the second wave of the coronavirus. Even Uttarakhand High Court in an oral observation recently had asked the state government to publish the standard operating procedure for Chardham Yatra saying it cannot be allowed to become another Kumbh. It has also asked the state government to control the raging virus and save lives putting aside everything else. Covid had cast its shadow on the Chardham Yatra, which is considered the backbone of the hill economy, last year too, delaying opening of the temples for pilgrims by several months. The delayed opening of the temples for pilgrims coupled with restrictions such as mandatory negative RT-PCR test report, a daily cap on the number of devotees visiting shrines besides compliance with mask wearing and social distancing norms had severely affected the inflow of pilgrims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||India||IISc student found hanging in campus room||An undergraduate student at the Indian Institute of Science took his life by hanging on the IISc campus, police said on Thursday. According to police, Rohan M, 21, was found hanging in his room on Thursday morning.  He was a third year BSc student. “Rohan was a native of Bangalore. He wanted to study abroad, which did not materialise,” a police officer told PTI. Condoling the demise, the IISc said in a statement: “It is with deep sorrow that we announce the death of an undergraduate student by suicide on April 28 at IISc.” The institute said the mental health and well-being of its students and community members are of critical importance, especially given the prevailing Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal goes into shutdown mode to curb spread of Covid||The Bengal government ordered the shut down of a number of public places, including shopping complexes and malls, cinemas, bars and sports complexs, in the wake of rising Covid cases in the state. As per an order signed by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, restaurants, beauty parlours, spas, gyms and swimming pools would also be closed. While pharmacies, medical equipment shops and groceries have been  exempted from the closure order, markets will be allowed to remain open twice a day from 7am to 10am in the morning and 3pm to 5pm in the afternoon. The government has also ordered a clampdown on any gathering for social, academic, entertainment or cultural purposes. The order, the chief seceratary noted, would come  into effect and from Friday evening and continue for an indefinite period. The decision was taken following an advisory from the Union health ministry that reached Nabanna on Thursday. The restrictions come in the wake of rising Covid cases in the state amid acute paucity of hospital beds and medico-technical support for  patients. Till Thursday evening, Bengal had recorded 17, 403 fresh cases, and 89 deaths. For over two months, with the eight-phase Assembly polls on, there were no attempts to prevent large gatherings in Calcutta and the districts. While Covid cases spiked nationally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gloated over “unprecedented crowds” in an election campaign meeting in Asansol. For Sunday’s counting of votes, the Election Commission has already banned victory rallies across the state. This apart,  candidates, their agents and even media personnel would not be allowed entry to counting centres without a Covid “negative” report. On Friday, ITC helped the Medica Hospital set up a 200-bed Covid hospital at Jadavpur’s Kishore Bharati Krirangan. This apart, AMRI Hospitals is starting a 50-bed safe home at the Salt Lake Stadium which is likely to be operational from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata pep-talk to ring-fence Trinamul nominees||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an online meeting with 290 party candidates on Friday afternoon, assuring them that the Trinamul Congress would win the Assembly elections with no less than two-thirds majority, her outreach coming a day after exit polls indicated that her rerturn to Nabanna would by no means be a cakewalk. “Didi said she expected good performance in North Bengal and Jungle Mahal. She sounded confident of a win with two-third majority,” said a candidate from a south Bengal district. The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats. Elections were held in 292 seats. Congress's Shamserganj candidate Rezaul Haque and RSP's Jangipur nominee Pradip Kumar died of Covid. Voting in these two constituencies will now be held on May 16. Trinamul's Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha succumbed to Covid after voting was over in the constituency.  A fourth candidate, Sameer Ghosh, who was contesting as an Independent from Baishnabnagar, died earlier this week. Voting in the seat was held on Thursday. Counting votes for Bengal, along with Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, will be held on May 2. Despite exit poll projections to the contrary, Mamata said that the BJP would not win more than 70-80 seats. “She told us not to worry, the BJP won’t cross 70-80. We are coming to power,” the candidate said. Incidentally, North Bengal and Jungle Mahal are the two areas which had turned into the BJP’s mainstay in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Out of the 54 Assembly seats in the eight districts of North Bengal, the BJP led in 37. Likewise in Jungle Mahal and its surrounding areas in south Bengal, the BJP was ahead in 30 of the 40 Assembly seats. Most exit polls have indicated that the finish this time could be tighter than what leaders of the two primary contenders, the Trinamul Congress  and the BJP, would have us believe. Mamata, as well as Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,  have all claimed that they will come to power with more than 200 seats. While exit polls are known to go terribly wrong, most have indicated that both the Trinamul and the BJP will be well below 200. None of he polls has, however, indicated a hung Assembly. According to Trinamul sources, at Friday's meeting, Mamata warned her party candidates that the BJP would try to create confusion at the counting centres. “Didi said, the BJP controls the media, so only leads of BJP will get prominence, but the candidates should not lose hope or worry. She instructed all of us to stay at the counting centre till the last vote was counted and tallied with the VVPAT,” said a candidate. The chief minister made it clear to all party nominees that the electoral battle would not be over till the last vote was counted and all candidates would have to remain alert throughout the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Six exit polls give edge to Trinamul, three to BJP||At least six of 10 exit polls have projected a third consecutive term as chief minister for Mamata Banerjee with her party getting past the majority mark of 148. Three exit polls predicted a first-ever conquest of Bengal for the BJP while the remaining one projected a seat band with a maximum of 156 for Trinamul and 160 for the BJP. The ABP Ananda-C Voter poll that had surveyed 50 “VIP seats” gave Mamata the edge from Nandigram after categorising the contest as “close”. A poll of the exit polls, conducted by NDTV, gave Trinamul 152 seats, the BJP 130 seats, and the Sanyukta Morcha of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front 12 seats. The six surveys that forecast a Trinamul victory conveyed little change from the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, where Trinamul secured leads from 164 Assembly segments, the BJP from 121 and the Congress from the remaining 9. Bengal has 294 Assembly seats. All 10 surveys portrayed the Morcha as a distant third, with 0 to 26 seats. ABP Ananda-C Voter gave Trinamul 152-164 seats, the BJP 109-121 and the Morcha 14-25. It predicted a 42.1 per cent vote share for Trinamul, 39.2 per cent for the BJP, 15.4 per cent for the Morcha and 3.3 per cent for the rest. This too largely mirrored the vote shares of 2019, when Trinamul polled 43.69 per cent of the votes, the BJP 40.64 per cent, the Left 6.34 per cent and the Congress 5.67 per cent. In 2019, the Left and the Congress had not been in alliance. Between them, the surveys by ABP Ananda-C Voter, ETG Research, Polstrat, P-MARQ, Ipsos and Today’s Chanakya gave Trinamul between 152 and 180 seats. In 2016, Trinamul had won 211 seats. These six surveys gave the BJP a minimum of 105 seats and a maximum of 132. Axis My India projected a band of 130-156 for Trinamul and 134-160 for the BJP. The surveys that went the other way were CNX, People’s Pulse and Jan Ki Baat. CNX gave the BJP 138-148, keeping Trinamul tantalisingly close with 128-138. Given the margin of error for such surveys, the CNX projection indicates all three possibilities — a victory for either or a hung House. Jan Ki Baat gave the BJP 162-185 while predicting 104-121 for Trinamul. People’s Pulse gave the BJP 173-192, with 64-88 for Trinamul. An exit poll analyst said the variance in the predictions owed primarily to differences among the pollsters in their estimations of the extent of religious polarisation among the voters. “If one assumes that the surveys have caught the general drift, the narrowness of the gap between the two main contenders suggests that polarisation wasn’t as pervasive as the BJP would have liked,” he added. Trinamul said the surveys had underestimated the size of Mamata’s victory while the BJP said no exit poll had gone in the party’s favour since its inception. Exit polls elsewhere largely projected a BJP victory in Assam, a DMK sweep in Tamil Nadu, a Left rerun in Kerala and a win for an alliance in which the BJP is a partner in Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung jumps queue of senior citizens to get first Covid vaccine||Bimal Gurung on Thursday walked inside the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan in Darjeeling and allegedly jumped the queue of waiting senior citizens as health officials broke protocol to administer Gurung him first Covid vaccine dose though vials were reserved only for people waiting for their second dose. Gurung is 56 according to his voter card and is eligible for the ongoing vaccination but the manner in which health officials broke protocol to pamper the hill leader left many fuming. According to the Centre’s guidelines, the second dose of Covaxin should be taken between 28 and 42 days of the first dose, and the second dose for Covishield should be taken between 28 and 56 days. “Since time for the second dose is running out for many, we decided to administer only the second dose till April 30,” admitted a health official. Some at the vaccination centre questioned why Gurung got his first dose. “What stopped health officials from telling him he is not eligible for vaccination today?” asked one. Gurung could not be contacted but his Morcha faction’s second-in-command Roshan Giri said Gurung got his first jab. On the out-of-turn preferential treatment to Gurung, Giri said: “He was busy campaigning....He got time today so got vaccinated.” Gurung’s rivals were quick to ridicule him. “This shows his real character. He is only bothered about himself,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, MLA candidate of the Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction. The jab was administered to Gurung before noon. When this reporter spoke to chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, Pralay Acharya, after 5pm, he said he was unaware of the incident. “What is his age, who has given it I don’t know. Give me the data I shall take care of it…Give the data, his age and when he took the vaccine and if there is any discrepancy, I shall take care of it,” said Dr Acharya, without explaining what he would take “care of”. Some health officials are trying to verify whether a nurse who had not been assigned at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan was actually brought to administer the vaccine to Gurung. “We have been caught by surprise by the development. We are trying to verify various details,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Jorpatki residents “reply to the bullets with ballots”||Residents of Jorpatki in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi Assembly segment walked up to Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126) on Thursday to “reply to the bullets with ballots” as polling was held for the second time. “Around 84 per cent voters (814 out of 966) turned up at the booth to cast their votes, including family members of the three of the four youths who had fallen to the CISF’s bullets on April 10. The attendance indicates they were determined to reply to the injustice that was delivered to them around 20 days back…..we are confident that they have replied in the most appropriate manner through their ballots,” said Alizar Rehman, a local Trinamul leader. Since morning, over 50 CAPF personnel were sighted at Jorpatki, guarding the booth and surrounding areas. Along with them were state police personnel, led by a number of senior police officers. As the day rolled, voters came out in groups, walked up to the booth and exercised their franchise. Among them were the families of Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haque and Hamidul Mian, the three youths who lost their lives in the April 10 firing. “Family members of Nur Alam Mian, the fourth youth, are voters of 5/125 booth. That is why they didn’t turn up,” said a resident. Mamata Bibi, the mother of 28-year-old Maniruzzaman, reached the booth with her husband Amzad Hosain, two sons and Rahila Khatun, her daughter-in-law who was seen cradling her one-and-a-half month-old daughter whom they have named Mariam. As they walked to the booth, Mamata could not control her emotions and burst into tears. “It is this ominous booth that has claimed the life of my son. I can never forget it,” the old woman said. After some time, she managed to control herself and stood in the queue. Gradually, each of them went inside to cast their votes. Afsar Ali, Samiul’s father, who was equally morose as he stood in the queue, recalled the horrifying incident. “On that day, I was standing in the queue with my two sons…. I saw how my son was gunned down. Our only hope is that justice is delivered to us once the new government comes to power. So far, not a single CISF man who fired at our boys has been arrested,” he said. Candidates of different parties — Partha Pratim Roy of the Trinamul Congress, Barendranath Burman of the BJP and Sudhangshu Pramanik of the Left Front — visited the booth. Roy, who is also the district Trinamul chief of Cooch Behar, said: “Our party supremo has made it clear that we will not let the deaths of these local youths go in vain. We are confident of forming the government and all necessary legal steps would be taken against those who fired at them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader killed, finger at party worker||A BJP leader, Manabesh Das, 48, who was a booth committee president in Gangarampur of South Dinajpur, died in hospital on Thursday, two days after he was allegedly attacked by a new BJP worker and his aides. Pinaki Pramanik, who recently joined the BJP from Trinamul, has been absconding since April 27, when he allegedly attacked Das over a “trifle”. The president of BJP’s booth 60 under ward 11 of Gangarampur town, had got involved in an altercation with Pinaki. In the ensuing clash, Pramanik and his aides allegedly attacked Das and beat up Tarak Das, another local BJP leader. Both suffered serious injuries and Das was shifted to the NBMCH where he died on Thursday morning. Tarak is admitted to the Gangarampur subdivisional hospital. Police said Pinaki has absconded. “Both (Manabesh Das and Tarak Das) were attacked at a food stall. We have urged the police to take legal steps against the attackers. No matter who from which party is involved, he should face legal consequences,” said Bapi Sarkar, a BJP district general secretary in South Dinajpur. In another incident, the home of Meghnad Debnath, a BJP leader who worked as a polling agent in the elections, was torched on Wednesday around 11.45pm. Debnath, who lived in Keshrail village under Harirampur Assembly seat of South Dinajpur district, had to flee with his family. On Thursday, Sukanta Majumdar, the BJP MP of Balurghat, who visited the spot, accused Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders have realised that they will lose in South Dinajpur, that’s why they are attacking our party colleagues who toiled hard....” he said. Subhash Chaki, a district coordinator of Trinamul, denied the charges. Police have started a probe. In neighbouring North Dinajpur, three Trinamul supporters were injured by pellets. Sources said for the past few days, two groups of Trinamul supporters in the Bhadrakali of Islampur subdivision were having disputes over the possession of a tea plantation. On Thursday, they got into an altercation that soon led to a clash. Pellets were shot from one group, injuring the trio who are now admitted to the Islampur subdivisional hospital. Police have started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Didi asks TMC candidates, leaders to join her in meeting for counting day vigil||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for the first time ahead of counting in a crucial election, instructed all candidates and key leaders of her party to join her in a virtual meeting on Friday. This, said sources, is in view of the Election Commission’s new instructions for counting agents and candidates for counting Sunday amid the second wave of Covid-19. Sources said the Trinamul chief is fearful whether the tweak in rules is aimed at helping the BJP in close contests. “Our estimates suggest scores of seats with narrow margins. We all know, from Bihar’s example last year, that the BJP in cahoots with the EC is capable of turning close contests in its own favour at counting centres,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “That’s what she wants all candidates to prepare against. Awareness, alertness, and not yielding an inch till the end of the process in counting centres....” According to him, this is the first such instance of a pre-counting meeting with all candidates convened by Mamata in Trinamul’s history. The EC issued on Wednesday rules for Covid-19 safety at the 705 counting centres in Bengal, such as candidates and counting agents would be allowed inside counting centres only if they produce a negative RT-PCR or RAT report or have taken both doses of the Covid vaccine. Trinamul had immediately flagged inconsistencies in language. “…the time mandated for providing such a negative report has been stated as ‘within 48 hours of start of counting’, which effectively means by 4 May 2021,” it wrote. On Thursday, Trinamul shot another missive to Nirvachan Sadan, pointing out that while strict adherence to Covid testing was being expected of election agents, counting agents and candidates, no such provision was made for poll officials inside counting halls or 24,000-odd central force personnel to be deployed that day. Trinamul also demanded that postal ballots — in greater numbers because of the pandemic — be counted first. “The chief minister is wary of what the BJP may be up to, because of its desperation to win Bengal by hook or by crook, on counting day at counting centres. The many possibilities of malpractice by them is what she will try to keep us ready for. That is why Friday’s meeting is very important,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Serpents in Tagore’s garden||Visva-Bharati was founded in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore on many ideas. One of them was freedom and another was openness. Tagore did not believe in walls. In his play Raktakarabi (Red Oleander), the king lives in a dark chamber behind an iron wall that cannot be broken down, running an empire in which people die to create wealth for him. Walls condition the mind, keeping it from growing, he felt. Visva-Bharati, located in Santiniketan, Birbhum, was “a seat of learning” where classes were held in open air. It offered other freedoms too: the freedom of being, of thought, of knowledge, and from fear. “Tagore was a conscious advocate of a democratic community. The school, Patha Bhavana, has a formal students’ council known as Ashram Sammilani. The constitution for this council was written by the founder himself,” says Sudripta Tagore, a Tagore family descendent and former student and teacher of Visva-Bharati. He is now principal of an English-medium school in Santiniketan. “We also know about his support for the Alapini Mahila Samiti, a women’s organisation that was an integral part of the Ashram community,” he adds. One hundred years later, in its centennial year, which is also a state election year for Bengal, Tagore’s university and its institutions lie in a shambles, broken down by a brutal use of authority, almost reminiscent of the king behind the iron curtain of Raktakarabi. To be fair to that king of darkness, the stakes are far less grand, but no less hideous. Visva-Bharati, which became a central university in 1951, has declined steadily through the years. From an avant garde place, where the best minds of the world met from the fields of art, languages, music, literature, technology and sciences, it slowly turned into another demoralised, in many ways commonplace campus through the decades, because of the declining standard of academics, lack of financial and other resources, a less-than-satisfactory administration, which became a frequent feature and a problem that has intensified in recent years, the excessive intervention of arm-twisting, ruffian political agenda. The campus retains its landmarks, the Chhatim Tala, which had enchanted Tagore’s father Debendranath, who bought a lot of land around it; the exquisite stained glass Prayer Hall; and Kala Bhavana, the art department, where sculptor Ramkinkar Baij worked and taught. But after the first five decades of glory, the campus and its life and aesthetic became enveloped, at least in parts, in a mist of tedium and gloom. What has been happening, however, to the campus since the current vice-chancellor took over in November 2018 is a carnage, a systematic, total and continuous breaking down of all the structures and institutions that hold up any seat of learning, especially Visva-Bharati. Moreover, the air has taken on more than a tinge of saffron with a certain brand of politics having been invited in. Most of all, no employee can speak without the approval of authorities. Which reminds us of Taasher Desh, Tagore’s satirical dance-drama about a kingdom where every move of a citizen is dictated. In fact, reporting Visva-Bharati today is like reading Tagore upside down. Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, has been accused of so much that it is hard to enumerate all the allegations. With him at the helm, the campus began to reel from a spree of transfers and suspensions, especially of key members of students’, teachers’ and employees’ bodies, even as it began to extend invitations to representatives of Right-wing organisations. In August 2019, ABVP national secretary Sunil Ambekar and the then state tourism minister Goutam Deb became the first political leaders to be invited to Halakarshana at the Sriniketan campus. The event had been started by Tagore in 1929. There had been other quite un-Tagorean firsts already. In June 2019, the university, for the first time, had decided not to hold Pous Mela on environmental grounds. It is one of the two biggest cultural events in Santiniketan, the other being Basantotsav. The Pous Mela decision — though it was held in 2019 — alienated the local craftspeople and traders as the event contributes in a major way to the local economy. In January 2020, when Covid was yet to become the threat that it is, the university decided not to hold Basantotsav, which too keeps the local economy alive. From the latter part of 2019, a deluge of events announced the intent of Chakrabarty’s administration. In December 2019, protests had erupted on the campus against a proposed lecture by Swapan Dasgupta, who later became a BJP candidate in the Assembly elections, on the communally divisive Citizenship Amendment Act passed by the Centre. When Dasgupta finally arrived in January 2020 for the lecture, he faced protests from students at the lecture venue, where a lot of BJP leaders were present along with the vice-chancellor. Chakrabarty later shifted the programme to Sriniketan, where he and Dasgupta were gheraoed again. In January 2020, a student was evicted from the hostels for recording a speech by Chakrabarty. In the video recording, the speaker is questioning the validity of the Constitution, saying “(only) 293 people met at the Constituent Assembly and drafted the Constitution”. In January-end, all the administration’s efforts to contain protest and difference of opinion culminated in a gag order. Visva-Bharati barred all employees from interacting with the media with immediate effect and asked them to air their views, if any, through the university’s officiating public relations officer, an unthinkable act of censorship in any institution of education in a country that claims to be democratic. No one can speak today in Visva-Bharati. Strange, given it was founded by Tagore. Protests followed. In August, 2020, the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association sent a letter to Chakrabarty, accusing him of ignoring academics and destroying the democratic environment. It came in the middle of another controversy: Visva-Bharati was building a boundary wall on the Pous Mela grounds. In a hundred years, things have come full circle at Visva-Bharati, from open space to walls being set up where none is required. Since then, other events have followed: Visva-Bharati has suspended Sudipta Bhattacharyya, an economics professor and president of the Visva-Bharati Faculty Association, assistant professor of drama Rajesh K.V., also the general secretary of the Adhyapak Sabha. Bidyut Sarkar, secretary of the non-teaching employees’ association, had been transferred earlier and then suspended in July 2020. In February this year all 10 teachers of the English department were “confined” and later showcaused regarding their “absence” from the university based on their “identical undertakings” admitting to their absence. They were all attending a work-related Zoom meeting, sources said. Around eight teachers of the physics and philosophy departments — who were earlier showcaused — were chargesheeted for alleging that their English department colleagues were illegally confined for filing what varsity authorities termed “false police complaints” in the matter. All these bodies mentioned by Sudripta Tagore, which made for a community, have been undermined. “Add to that the fear of suspension, gag order and such measures against the teaching community of the institution,” he adds. At this point, Visva-Bharati begins to look a bit like a very dark version of Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland, where the Red Queen charges, apparently for no reason at all other than megalomania: “Off with their heads!” But to be fair to the Red Queen, like we were fair to the Iron King, she had no ideological leanings. The vice-chancellor has also been seen hobnobbing with the BJP candidate from Bolpur, party think-tank member Anirban Ganguly. But sources said that the saffron party, embarrassed by Chakrabarty’s rampage on the Visva-Bharati campus and its surroundings, is now trying to distance itself from him. Does Visva-Bharati have any hope? “Rabindranath Tagore called for a ‘swadeshi samaj’. He wanted to see self-reliance in agriculture, commerce and business, art, literature, etc. Tagore wanted the entire humanity to benefit from India’s spiritual awakening. The vision for a self-reliant India is also a derivative of this sentiment. The call for a self-reliant India is for the world’s benefit too,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Visva-Bharati convocation in December last year. The Prime Minister of India is the Chancellor of Visva-Bharati. And Tagore may have spoken of self-reliance, but “atmanirbhar” is Modi’s slogan. Tagore’s vision has been vandalised in Santiniketan, or appropriated to play petty power games, with or without the support of political parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Flavours of Bengal: Shankha||Shaankha is the white bangle made from conch shell that is traditionally worn by Hindu married women in Bengal. It is generally paired with pola, or bangles made of coral. A set of shaankha and pola are worn on both hands, with a loha or iron bangle between the two on the left hand. Shaankha and pola are not worn by many women these days, especially in the city, often because women find it problematic to have to demonstrate their marital status this way, as they have to with sindur. But the bride often wears them still, if only for the wedding. The shaankha-pola ceremony at the wedding takes place early in the morning and is part of the ritual called Dodhimangal. Both bangles are slipped on to the bride’s wrists by seven married women of the family. These shaankha-pola are presented to the bride by her mother. Pola is a polished smooth bangle, shaankha generally has intricate carvings on it and sometimes has gold worked into it. The shaankha comes in various thicknesses. A thick shaankha with very fine designs is a coveted thing, as is a shaankha carved out without a joint from the conch shell. Shaankha can be quite expensive. The designs can be abstract or in the pattern of leaves, lotuses or a cluster of grapes or flowers. The contrast of the white shaankha and red pola, which mirrors that of the red-bordered white sari, is a special feature of Bengali tradition. White stands for purity, red for auspiciousness. One account traces the shaankha to Bengali fishermen who used to collect conch shells as gifts for their wives. Later they began to powder the shells and make bangles out of them. They were greatly skilled. The bangles went on to become an important Bengali wedding ritual. Today shaankhas are made at factories where a huge pile of conch shells is broken. A special saw is used to cut a shell with water continuously being poured over it. Later the crude bangles are chiselled and buffed and elaborate designs are carved on them. If there are joints, they are concealed with designs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021 | Teacher’s lament: Did I raise bigots?||In her 60s, speaking in a polished, aristocratic accent, she recalls with pleasure her decades of being a teacher. Then she frowns. “I was shocked to see recent comments made by some of my former students on social media. Did I raise a bunch of bigots or is it just these past few years or past few months?” A Muslim woman born to privilege in Calcutta, she is unapologetic about wanting to be “surrounded by lovely things, little comforts and people of taste”. But she confesses she could not escape the hate narrative before and during the Bengal polls. “Before this, one took some things for granted. But now, one can’t. For example, my nephew, who’s 19, wasn’t bothered about news or news channels before, but he was very troubled by how the Tablighi Jamaat was shown on TV last year at the start of the pandemic. He said that for the first time he felt different from his non-Muslim friends. I feel angry when Mamata Banerjee is dubbed Mumtaz Begum. Why are you insulting the Mamatas and the Mumtazes of Bengal?” Sabir Ahamed, a National Research Coordinator at the Pratichi Institute, which was set up by Amartya Sen with his Nobel endowments for research in gender equity, health and education, knows well the barbs at Bengal’s chief minister are to remind the voters of her “Muslim appeasement”. But Ahamed, who has been writing in many English and Bengali newspapers on this subject that’s close to his heart, wonders where exactly the much-touted appeasement happened. “Many cite the state government’s stipend to imams, lavish iftar parties, I’ve even heard some people crib about free sugar given during Ramazan, but those are symbolic gestures. What about education, jobs, soft skills for Muslim youths?” Muslims in Bengal constitute 27 per cent of the state’s population — almost double the national average of 14 per cent. And yet, according to the staff census data of the Bengal government, only 6.08 per cent of the nearly 3.5 lakh state government employees are Muslims, Ahamed says. “The Muslim creamy layer is very, very thin. Look around you, there’s poverty and illiteracy. Only we are caught up in the discourse of appeasement when we should have been talking empowerment.” “Ask me for a silver lining, and I’ll point to the great work done by the Al-Ameen Mission,” Ahamed says, referring to the social institution run by Muslims that imparts exam-based coaching to the community’s economically deprived youngsters. “For instance, many poor Muslim girls and boys have done well in medical entrance exams because of Al-Ameen. Otherwise, where’s the level playing field?” The Jadavpur University alumnus, who before the pandemic helped run community walks to facilitate peaceful coexistence called Know Your Neighbour, said many things had changed since he was in college. Being trolled on social media just for being a Muslim is something that he’s taken aback by. There’s more, he said. “Right now, we seem to be living together separately. When I was young, my friends and I never bothered about religious identities. But now, many Hindu youngsters from elite colleges, if asked to come to Mominpur, where I stay, or Kidderpore or Park Circus, they say, let me ask my mother. The implication is that these places are unsafe. Once they come, they change their minds. In fact, the worst thing anyone has said to me about these places is that they are too crowded.” Ahamed believes many things added up to make Bengal a “fertile ground” for religious polarisation this time. “The Left addressed the issue of class but not religion. Trinamul addressed the issue of religion with symbolism. With the rise of the Rightwing, religion burst into the public discourse. Nationally too. And with the rise of social media and WhatsApp, everyone had some opinion or information to share on religion. The momentum just grew,” he said. “Hate and lies are easier to peddle,” said communications consultant Mudar Patherya when asked about this bitter election campaign on communal lines. “The truth is most Muslims are poor, they’re thinking about their next meal, not about planting a bomb. For an educated Muslim, there are two choices. To pitch in and fight this narrative (of hate) or to just get fatigued and leave. If you have money, you can have a great lifestyle anywhere in the world. But this is my country, my umbilical cord is joined to my people here — of all communities.” A passionate Calcuttan, Patherya thinks the Bengali identity is so strong that it wraps everyone who stays here, no matter what one’s ethnicity or religion. A practising Muslim who has non-Muslims in his family, and like Ahamed, a wide social circle with many non-Muslim friends and colleagues, he still believes this hatred is “artificial”, but worries that it has the “potential to be turned into a long-term DNA”. Like the retired teacher and Ahamed, Patherya steers clear of poll predictions. But he feels there are many Narendra Modis in one man. “This is a not a government that believes in pluralism, it believes in being pro-big business, it is arrogant, but some of the things that this government is doing, in the field of city gas, ethanol blending and renewable energy, is incredible. Some parts of Modi are incredible,” he says. “I also don’t buy this crony capitalism theory (of Modi’s detractors) because the market is a ruthless beast. A company must deliver shareholder value. Being a crony won’t help if you can’t deliver.” Still, the “noise of the past five months”, as he refers to this election campaign, has left him shaken. “I’ve heard Jai Shri Ram change from being a gentle, benevolent greeting to a rallying cry for hate.” The retired teacher agrees. “If they can communalise the virus, they can do anything,” she said. “I haven’t forgotten the hurt on the face of my nephew.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Final phase witnesses 80% voting  in three rural districts||The eighth and final phase of Bengal Assembly elections in which voting was held in 35 constituencies on Thursday witnessed 76.07 per cent turnout till 5pm, but the polling was less in seven north Calcutta seats. Sources in the Election Co­mmission of India said Birbhum had recorded 81.87 percent voter turnout till 5pm, followed by Malda with 80.06 percent and Murshidabad with 78.07 percent. The seven city seats recorded only 57.53 per cent polling till 5pm, which suggested that the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases kept the voters away from the booths. This captured the urban-rural divide in terms of voter turnout. “Although the polls continued for another one-and-a-half hours, it seems the average voting percentage in seven Assembly segments of north Calcutta would not be close to the average of 64 per cent witnes­sed in previous elections.… Primarily, it appears the pandemic has cast a shadow on voter turnout in Calcutta and its surrounding areas,” said a poll panel source. Although Assembly segment-wise voter turnout in Calcutta was not available till the late evening, sources in the Trinamul Congress said seats like Jorasanko, Shyampukur and Maniktala recorded lower turnout and it would help the ruling party. “Our booth-level reports from the polling agents suggest people living in high-rises in these areas did not come out to vote. This will work as an advantage for us as majority of the high-rise occupants are non-Bengali voters and they are pro-BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. A poll panel source said there was a reason behind the residents of high-rises turning out in lower numbers. “Calcutta is reporting almost 4,000 Covid-19 cases everyday and 75 per cent of the patients are being reported from high-rises. So, people living in the high rises are afraid of going out to cast their votes,” said a source. Unlike in the past, when poll percentage had occasionally dropped because of violence, Thursday didn’t witness any major incident of the kind. Police and central force ja­w­ans resorted to baton-charge in areas like Tangra and Maniktala in Calcutta to disperse gatherings while there were also reports of crude bombs exploding near Mahajati Sadan in the morning. The EC, however, said some firecrackers had been burst, which led to panic. The common factor in the rural districts was that a high polling percentage was reco­rded in minority-dominated areas. For example, Murshida­b­ad, which has the minority population of about 65 per cent, recorded 78.07 per cent till 5pm. “Trinamul thinks minority voters back it across the state to prevent the BJP from wresting power in Bengal. It appears Mamata Banerjee’s appeal to vote for Trinamul heavily during her visit to Behrampore recently wor­k­ed,” said a political observer. Violent incidents were reported from Domkal, Hariharpara and Ra­ninagar where workers of Trinamul and the Congress-Left combine clashed. The picture was no different in Malda where 80.06 per cent turnout was reported till 5pm. The contest in Malda is equally interesting as the BJP has been eyeing only four to five seats where Hindu voters are in majority. In the remaining seven-eight seats, the battle was between Trinamul and the Congress-Left combine. “Here also, the minorities apparently stood behind Trinamul to prevent the BJP. It would be a huge gain for the ruling party as it did not get a single seat from the district in the 2016 Assembly polls,” said a source. In case of Birbhum, where the polling percentage was 81.87 percent, the turnout in minority-dominated areas of Birbhum like Muraroi, Nalhati, Hasan and Nanoor was very high. Although Trinamul had an organisational advantage in the district, police sources said there was an even fight between the BJP and Trinamul for the 11 Assembly segments. “Trinamul left no stone unturned to keep its machinery running in the areas where it has a strong support base. The BJP also tried to organise its machinery in areas with its dominance,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poor turnout in three city seats raises alarm in BJP ||A strikingly poor turnout of Hindi-speaking voters in three of the seven seats — Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur — in Calcutta on Thursday raised an alarm in the state BJP, said a senior office-bearer of the party. Hindi-speaking population is considered the traditional vote bank of the BJP which had been claiming it would sweep most seats in Calcutta. According to the Election Commission of India, the seven seats recorded 57.53 per cent turnout till 5pm. “We weren’t prepared for this. The fear of contracting the novel coronavirus has prevented these people from coming out to vote. The party depends massively on the Marwari and Bihari communities in these areas. We were hopeful of bagging a chunk of the votes of these communities, but their turnout has been unexpectedly low,” a BJP worker in the Jorasanko constituency and a Marwari himself said. The Telegraph visited several booths in Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur, especially the ones located in areas with considerable Hindi-speaking population, and witnessed low turnouts. Although the BJP has never won Jorasanko seat, certain pockets of this segment are traditional BJP strongholds. “This isn’t a municipal election. To secure the seat, we need the participation of the entire community which spreads across Burrabazar and Posta. To my opinion, that wasn’t satisfactory,” the source said. The turnout was so poor at a makeshift polling station near Kalakar Street in Burrabazar under Jorasanko constituency that an ITBP jawan on election duty started joking about it. “There are three booths here. Number of agents sitting inside the booths is five times the number of voters going inside to exercise their franchise,” the jawan told this correspondent. Another central force jawan joined the conversation and said he had witnessed the lowest turnout at the particular booth near Kalakar Street during the current Assembly polls. “We were posted in another part of Calcutta during the seventh phase. Even there, the number of voters were more,” the second jawan said. A few kilometers away, the Shree Maidh Kshatriya Sabha Bhawan on Kali Krishna Tagore Street wore an equally deserted look all day. This community hall housed two booths and leaders said they were attending to a maximum of five voters in an hour. A Hindi-speaking family — two male members and a young woman — arrived around 12.30pm to exercise their franchise at the Purwachal Vidyamandir under Maniktala constituency. Each of them had their masks on and the woman was wearing gloves also. Neither did the family want to be photographed nor did they reveal their names. But they said they had come to vote only after thorough deliberation in the family. “I’ve come with my father and brother,” the young woman said. Later, a BSF jawan deputed at this polling station accompanied this correspondent to the five booths inside. No voter could be sighted at three booths. The polling station is located near Kankurgachhi, which has substantial Marwari population. State BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, said irrespective of the low voter turnout, the party would win those three seats. “In 2016, Jorasanko had witnessed a turnout of 45 per cent. This time, it is more by at least by 15 per cent. The margin might be lesser than other seats but the BJP will win Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Leaders of Congress, BJP accuse TMC’s Malda leadership of 'manipulation'||Congress and BJP leaders accused Trinamul’s Malda leadership of “manipulation” on Thursday, as voters of six of the 12 Assembly seats of the district exercised their franchise in the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls. Political observers, however, saw in these charges a hint that poll results in these six seats — where Trinamul performed miserably in 2016 — could be different this time. Isha Khan Choudhury, the sitting MLA and Congress candidate of Sujapur seat, accused Trinamul of “trying to manipulate polling in all possible ways”. In the past five decades, only the Congress won from Sujapur. Isha’s reaction prompted political observers to wonder if the Congress leader was rattled. “In earlier elections, we never saw such a reaction from the Congress. Party leaders may have sensed a change (in Trinamul’s favour) which is why they appear rattled,” said Najibar Rehman, a political observer. BJP accused Trinamul of “violence” and “scare tactics”. “They attacked our polling agent, and in many places, didn’t allow our agents at booths or scared (our) voters with threats,” said Swadhin Sarkar, the BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, contesting from the same seat. In Malda, the BJP has played the polarisation card to consolidate support and focussed in five of the 12 seats of the district, among which include two seats that polled on Thursday. A veteran in politics in Malda said that it also seemed that the Congress camp sensed that minority votes were slipping out of the party’s hands. In Malda, around 55 per cent of the population are from minority community. “There are indications that many minority voters who always voted for the Congress are shifting to Trinamul. They believe only Mamata Banerjee can help them stay safe if the NRC and CAA are implemented in the state,” he said. In 2016 Assembly elections, Congress had won four seats while an Independent who later joined Trinamul and a BJP candidate the remaining two. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, there had been a swing in votes in favour of the saffron camp and the BJP had managed to secure leads in four Assembly segments while the Congress led in the remaining two segments. “In these past two elections, Trinamul’s performance was not up to the mark. But today (Thursday), leaders of both Congress and BJP camps appeared distressed and they raised baseless charges at us. Their reaction indicates they have sensed defeat,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission fails to implement Covid protocols at booths ||The Election Commission largely failed to implement Covid protocols at hundreds of booths in the last phase of polls at 35 Assembly seats across four districts, mostly for lack of infrastructure and health workers. Sources said Covid protocols were not followed in the booths mainly in the morning when a huge number of voters turned up to vote very early to avoid the blazing April sun. Officials said it was hard to ensure social distancing and check if people were wearing masks when voters in districts started turning up by 6am. “There is only one health worker giving sanitisers and also masks to voters without one. The number of masks provided by the Election Commission is one-fourth of the total voters. It also becomes tough to monitor 500 people at a time. If we ask voters to maintain physical distancing, the queue will go up to 5km,” said a Birbhum district official. At a booth in Baruipur primary school, Bolpur Assembly segment, a group of women huddled close, with six not wearing masks. A woman without a mask simply said: “I forgot.” A policeman at the booth said it was a Herculean task to make people listen to pleas of physical distancing. At Sankoa Primary School in Murshidabad’s Nowda, around 400 women at the booth violated physical distancing and most wore no mask early in the morning. Nargis Begum, a middle-aged woman, said she came early as she was fasting because of Ramazan. “I had no idea that there would be such a crowd at 6am,” she said. On why she wasn’t wearing a mask, she said: “I sweat a lot.” Such scenes at booths came when Bengal reported 17,403 fresh infections and 89 deaths in the past 24 hours. Officials said they tried to follow Covid protocols strictly but voters had to be responsible too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: My players are performing well, says Anubrata Mondal||“The game is over and my players are performing well,” Trinamul’s Birbhum strongman Anubrata Mondal told reporters on Thursday afternoon, as his district’s 11 Assembly seats were among the 35 that polled in the eighth and final phase of elections. The Election Commission’s surveillance notwithstanding, Mondal spent a busy day speaking on the phone, issuing directives to party leaders from across the district. He kept checking with Trinamul leaders how people were voting for the party as the day progressed. In between intermittent telephonic conversations in an air-conditioned party office in Bolpur town, came his quips and guffaws. “The BJP is nowhere. I am sure that they will not get a single seat in my district. The game was with a new team but my players have played well,” Mondal said and broke into loud laughter. As Mondal spoke, a person in his office kept calling up block and panchayat level leaders to keep the Trinamul leader up to date with the latest booth-level information. “What are you saying? It is fantastic. Ask people to vote for our party in maximum numbers,” Mondal was heard telling a leader over the phone. Trinamul insiders said the recent talks of the BJP grabbing at least six seats in the district had left Mondal extremely worried. After getting information from the ground level, Mondal got in direct contact with leaders he felt might work to sabotage Trinamul’s chances. The exercise continued till almost midnight on Wednesday. “Dada (Mondal) did not go to sleep before 4am for the past one week as he was busy handling leaders who the party suspected were working at the behest of the BJP. Trinamul’s disgruntled leaders were summoned to the party office and Dada managed to turn them around,” said one of Mondal’s close aides. “The BJP had no one to work for them on poll day. So, they started to lure our men to work for them. I spoke to those leaders and managed to convince them (to stay loyal),” Mondal said. Asked how he could manage the turnaround, if it is finally revealed to be so on counting Sunday, Mondal hid a mischievous smile.  “That’s why Mamata Banerjee trusts me as a good player. I will win all the 11 seats (for Trinamul in Birbhum district).” However, Trinamul insiders said even after Mondal’s claims, the BJP would win at least two seats. For his reportedly aggressive comments and derogatory speeches, the Election Commission had kept him under strict surveillance this year too after 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Around noon on Thursday, Mondal rode pillion on a motorbike to reach his booth — a short way from his home — to cast his vote. His daughter Sukanya also reached the same booth in a different motorcycle to cast her vote. Mondal’s aides rode the bikes. The executive magistrate, who has been assigned to keep a vigil on Mondal by the poll panel, had arranged a scooter for the surveillance, and rode it with a central force jawan sitting pillion, to follow Mondal to the booth. On Wednesday, the commission’s surveillance team’s car had a tough time keeping up with Mondal. So on Thursday, they even arranged a high-speed SUV for the surveillance team. They were asked to keep a motorbike ready to follow Mondal if he entered a narrow lane. However, Mondal said that he only went to the booth and then to the party’s office on polling day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||North East||Assam CM asks authorities to tie up with Japan on early earthquake warning system||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has asked the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) to explore opportunities for a tie-up with Japan to “develop” an early warning system for earthquakes and creating awareness among the people to go for earthquake-resistant buildings. The idea was floated during a meeting with the officials of the ASDMA at Sonowal’s official residence. The meeting was held to assess the situation arising out of Wednesday’s massive earthquake and the damage caused by it. Assam falls under the highly active seismic zone. Assam continued to feel the aftershocks of Wednesday’s massive earthquake, recording altogether 20 aftershocks, eight of them since midnight, prompting the chief minister to hold a high-level stock-taking meeting where he also directed the ASDMA to collect earthquake data for the state since 1896 and examine the nature of their impact on the state to prepare an effective mitigation roadmap for the future. Though, the aftershocks since midnight were less than 3.6 on the Richter scale, the frequency with which it struck was enough to rob the sleep of most. People spoke to The Telegraph since Wednesday have been asserting that they have never experienced such tremors in the past even though quakes are routine in the region        Apart from the aftershocks, the extent of damage has also increased as reports continue to pour in from the districts. Officials said reports reaching the ASDMA reveal damage to 414 residential and 118 institutional buildings in 16 of the state’s 34 districts. Apart from buildings, 200 electric poles, two bridges, an embankment and two high-tension power lines have also been damaged, disrupting power supply and movement of people in the affected areas, the chief minister was briefed in the stock-staking meeting. Citing example of Japan in successful mitigation of earthquakes, Sonowal called for continuous efforts from all stakeholders for minimising damage caused by jolts and not look for stop-gap arrangements and ensure strict adherence to building by-laws and National Building Code by agencies like the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority MDA and PWD. The devastation caused by the earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale on Wednesday morning will only increase because reports from two districts are awaited, an official said. The epicentre of the quake that hit the state at 7.51am was Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district with a focal depth of 17km. Tremors were also felt across the Northeast and some parts of Bihar, Bengal and Bangladesh. The National Centre for Seismology under the ministry of earth sciences on Wednesday said: “Preliminary analysis shows that the events are located near the Kopili fault closer to Himalayan Frontal Thrust (HFT). The area is seismically very active falling in the highest seismic hazard zone V associated with collisional tectonics where Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian plate.” Sonowal had visited Dhekiajuli on Wednesday and directed the deputy commissioners to carry out a field survey of the damage and submit a report for detailed review and also to extend necessary help and support to the affected people. On Thursday, he directed the release of ex-gratia to the victims of earthquake at the earliest and take steps for free treatment of the injured. The number of injured has also gone up to 12 from 10 on Wednesday. “There has been no death apart from the two persons who died of shock during the tremors on Wednesday,” an official said. Directing the ASDMA to take up awareness campaigns at the school level and holding of regular mock drills there, Sonowal stressed on the importance of making children and general public aware about ways of coexisting with earthquakes, increased use of mass media for spreading awareness about the do’s and don’ts during earthquakes and other related information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
30-04-2021||Opinion||Covid: Second blow to Indian economy||In a recent report on the state of the economy, the Reserve Bank of India pointed out a number of early signs of economic recovery from the damages inflicted by the pandemic last year. These green shoots indicated the possibility of a healthy recovery. Indeed, this was the expectation of most international organizations like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Most predictions about India’s growth rate for the current year were pegged at around 12 per cent. The usual caveats were added in the RBI’s report: not having a significant second wave, pushing the vaccination drive, and ramping up preparedness in health infrastructure. These would ensure that the economic recovery would be firm and stable. However, by the time the report was in the public domain, India had been caught in the midst of an unanticipated second wave of infections and a nightmarish strain on health facilities. The Centre was caught napping, revealing that nothing had been done since the lockdown of 2020 to improve India’s readiness to fight the inevitable second wave. It is now patently evident that the next two quarters will be very difficult for the economy. It appears that this time round there will not be complete lockdowns of all non-essential economic activities. However, a large part of the services economy will be disrupted. The second wave has also created a terrifying fear that will affect consumers and producers for some time to come. This fear will engender a shortage-psychosis, starting from hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, vaccines and even food. This, in turn, will generate strong inflationary pressures as hoarding and panic-buying begin. A slowdown in output will occur too, although not perhaps as acute as the one in 2020. However, the return of confidence will take much longer this time. Little wonder then that beginning with the World Bank and the IMF most organizations are now scaling down India’s growth rate projections for 2021-22. Standard and Poor’s now has a long-term credit rating of ‘BBB’ for India — just one notch above junk. According to S&P, India’s economy has already lost 10 per cent of national income in terms of a long-term production deficit compared to its pre-pandemic level. The RBI’s caveats have come too little too late as the economy stares at supply disruptions, labour shortages and demand shrinkages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Think again: Mizoram forest fire||Sir — Yet another forest fire has broken out — this time in Mizoram. The wildfire has affected at least eight forest areas, and threatens to spread to nearby settlements. As usual, hashtags have begun to circulate on social media, urging people to ‘pray for Mizoram’. While hashtags help to bring such news to the forefront, people must understand that merely praying for a crisis to subside is of little practical help. Offering aid by volunteering or donating money to help alleviate the plight of the affected is the only way one can make a difference. Sheetal Jaiswal,Calcutta Noble deeds Sir — An elderly, physically challenged man in Kerala, who lives on pension for the differently abled and small earnings from rolling beedis, recently donated two lakh rupees from his savings bank account that had a total of Rs 2,00,850 to the chief minister’s disaster relief fund to help the state government provide free Covid-19 vaccines to the needy (“Life savings: Rs 200, 850. Donated: Rs 2 lakh”, April 25). He further expressed the desire to remain anonymous, in contrast to many financially stable people who do not miss a chance to beat the drums about their donations or the political class which makes a big deal about every government dole. The bank official who attended the donor was naturally surprised when the man requested him to transfer the money immediately so that he could sleep peacefully and asked him not to reveal his name. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has lauded this unnamed donor. He also praised Subaida, a poor woman running a tea shop, who donated Rs 5,000 and Rs 5,510 on two separate occasions for the same cause. Swami Vivekananda regretted the fact that the concept of selfless charity was disappearing from India and great men were becoming fewer by the day. In election speeches, we hear political leaders of all hues quoting Swami Vivekananda unabashedly for political gain. They would do well to take a lesson from him: “Never vaunt of your gifts to the poor or expect their gratitude, but rather be grateful to them for giving you the occasion of practising charity to them.” Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — India is indeed a country of great contrasts. On the one hand, we see top political leaders abandoning their responsibility, gesticulating in front of huge gatherings, beseeching their votes on promises of showering bonanza. All the while, the citizens are suffering from a deadly pandemic. It brings to mind the story of the Roman emperor who played the fiddle while his kingdom was burning. The contrast lies in the story of the self-effacing philanthrope who gave away his life’s savings to ensure the safety of his countrymen. Unlike the political leaders, the man with meagre resources knew his duty. Such stories make us justly proud of the legacy of the likes of the Buddha — the prince who renounced all worldly aspirations and devoted his life seeking salvation for humanity. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Flawed design: Central Vista ||In the middle of India’s worst-ever health crisis, with hospitals in the country reeling under an acute shortage of medical oxygen and beds and with the death toll climbing steadily, the Narendra Modi government has, in an astounding feat, still found the time to focus on the redevelopment of the ambitious Central Vista project. Such is the dedication of the Centre to get the job done that the project has even been termed an ‘essential service’ because, as the Central Public Works Department informed the Delhi Police, the initiative is “of time bound nature”. This zeal would be admirable if the classification of the project as an ‘essential service’ were not so puzzling. Essential services are those functions that are absolutely necessary for the welfare of citizens even during a pandemic: these include healthcare, food, fire and police protection, clean water, basic sanitation, gas and electricity, and banking. Does the Central Vista project fulfil any of these conditions pertaining to public service? Its categorization as such a service during a deadly second wave of Covid-19 defies logic. But then reason has not been the hallmark of Mr Modi’s whimsical reign. Leaders of the Opposition have been critical of the initiative, terming it yet another instance of the government’s ‘misplaced priorities’. Their reservations cannot be brushed away; a sum of Rs 20,000 crore has been sunk into the project to upgrade the area that houses, among other edifices, the Parliament complex. It is perfectly reasonable to argue that the funds should have been used to plug the gaping holes that plague India’s healthcare services. There are other, equally relevant, questions. The infection rate in the national capital is rising rapidly — Delhi reported 25,986 new cases on Wednesday. The CPWD’s request to the police to permit the ferrying of “workers to and fro from their labour camp”, thereby raising the chances of the spread of infection, is yet another manifestation of the government’s lack of empathy for public welfare. This myopia, of course, can only be the sign of the hubris of an elected regime that seems unable — unwilling? — to care for greater public good. History has borne witness to such folly. Totalitarian regimes around the world have reposed their faith in this kind of towering symbolism in order to deify themselves and conceal their administrative ineptitude. India is now dotted with symbols of the government’s monumental lapses, the Central Vista Project and the Statue of Unity being two examples. The real concern lies with the moral turpitude of this government. No amount of public suffering or criticism — India’s courts have held the governments at the Centre and some states accountable — seems to make a difference to the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Reach out: Afghanistan||As the Joe Biden administration has announced the withdrawal of American troops on the ground in Afghanistan and proposed a new peace process framework, there are ominous signs that New Delhi may be losing the most in this high-stakes diplomacy. A summit to articulate the future of the Afghan peace process is to be held in Istanbul and New Delhi must get ready to accept some hard realities and act accordingly. Remaining a mute spectator will not serve New Delhi’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy. In spite of New Delhi’s stated aversion to the Taliban and its diabolical process of capturing power, New Delhi must recognize that the Taliban is here to stay and may well return to power should the United States of America pull out troops from Afghanistan in the near future. Based on the situation at ground zero, the best thing for New Delhi is to press the accelerator in terms of a diplomatic outreach to the Taliban, providing full recognition to the insurgent group without any qualms. While the advocates of idealism and liberal order may raise a hue and cry over reaching out to a terrorist group, New Delhi needs to adopt realism vis-à-vis its Afghan policy. An outreach to the Taliban has a number of advantages. First, it will help India decouple the group from its ideological masters in Rawalpindi which is of immense strategic value. Given the fact that both India and Pakistan have decided to extend olive branches to each other in recent times, the Pakistani military establishment will not raise objections to new outreach by its arch-nemesis, India. Second, New Delhi needs to be prepared for all eventualities. Avinash Paliwal, in his wonderful book, My Enemy’s Enemy, had written at length on how external (financial and military) help allowed mujahideen fighters to topple the Soviet military machine from their country. Since the Taliban is the product of the mujahideen, India cannot rule out foreign interference in Afghanistan in the new scheme of things. Exercise caution Third, the Taliban considers Saudi Arabia to be its religious godfather. At a time when the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, has signalled a shift towards a more moderate, inclusive version of Islam, New Delhi must play a surreptitious role in allowing its promotion on a large scale as this will help root out extremism in India. The latter must try and persuade the Taliban to adopt a moderate version of Islam, prioritizing women’s empowerment, promoting the principles of liberal democracy and so on. While this may appear to undermine India’s secularist credentials, it must be noted that geopolitics trumps religion according to Henry Kissinger. Finally, New Delhi would require the support of both the Afghan national army and the Taliban in eliminating the menace of the Islamic State. The road ahead, however, is very difficult. Pakistan, in spite of its platitudes about wanting peaceful relations with India, has already set the restoration of statehood for Kashmir as the prerequisite for resumption of dialogue with India. India cannot lower its guard; if history is anything to go by, then trusting Pakistan has not always yielded good results. New Delhi needs to be cautious and on its toes while negotiating with the military establishment because it still calls the shots in Afghanistan. If Pakistan continues on a trajectory of animosity towards India, then it will not desist from activating its covert contacts in jihadist groups like the Haqqani network to upset the peace process. But as the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, eloquently said: “You can change your friends, not neighbours.” India thus needs to move cautiously, keeping its interests foremost. It also needs to galvanize support for its new policy, which will result in a win-win situation for all stakeholders in the Afghan peace process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||George Floyd verdict: Justice triumphs, at last||Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. A former defence lawyer celebrating these three verdicts shows how extremely unjust, unreasonable and unlawful the actions of the police officer, Derek Chauvin, were when he arrested and then murdered George Perry Floyd in broad daylight, in plain view, and on camera on the streets of Minneapolis, Minnesota on May 25, 2020. As I began my legal career many years ago, representing indigent defendants in Minnesota, I saw how racist many police officers were. I saw a pattern of abuse of power. And I saw how this abuse steadily stripped my mostly black clients of hope, faith in the justice system and the prospect of having anything resembling a normal life. Driving-while-black cases were part of my daily workload. Rogue cops would even lie in wait for some clients, stopping them on flimsy pretexts, and always padding up charges with an ‘obstructing legal process’ to scare them. Clients could barely hang on to hard-to-come-by jobs if they wanted to go to trial instead of pleading to a lesser charge that either started their criminal record or added to their criminal record. Going to trial meant repeatedly showing up for court dates. And there was always the chance that the judge would punish you for going to trial and give you the stiffest sentence recommended by the prosecutor if you were found guilty. The system quickly corroded my soul and I became disenchanted with the lofty notions of justice that I had once held. I had also had enough of the jangle of keys in jails, the smell of the human cages, and the lunch trays — sad and gray or brown, mute witnesses to those who came and went through those bars as well as to the many who would be back. I did not want more clients offering to share their lunch with me while I spoke to them about their case in a cage. Most people go through life having to never encounter the criminal justice system or know what it is like to be incarcerated or to be in a family where you are forever hustling for money to pay for someone’s bail or lawyer. The system is a murky mire — even a quicksand — for young black men. For George Floyd, like so many others, it was an early grave. I am so proud of my friend and brother, Keith Ellison, who stepped up to the plate, dug in his heels, and did the best possible job he ever could realizing that this was a now-or-never moment in his life. It’s as if he had been preparing for this moment his whole life. There could not be a more perfect murder at the hands of a police officer, there could not be a better documented murder at the hands of a police officer, to expose systemic racism. Seeing Derek Chauvin being handcuffed and then swiftly led away to jail marks a turning point in America that begins in Minnesota. Minnesota lost one of its best sons, the former vice-president, Walter Mondale, recently. Jane Mayer’s remembrance in The New Yorker highlights how he spoke the hard truth and how that cost him the election. Mondale was also the first man to choose a woman as a running mate in his bid for president of the United States of America. Now, we have for the first time in the history of the US — from Minnesota — a jury that spoke the hard truth to begin the process of setting things right. A Minnesota jury is the first to find a white police officer guilty of murdering a black man with impunity. This accountability gives us a ray of hope that justice is perhaps still attainable. If this moment is not grasped and appropriate reforms not undertaken to prevent police brutality and racially-motivated murders, America may be headed for the worst unrest it has ever seen. The author is a former public defender in Minnesota||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Shared suffering||Every Indian that I follow on Twitter has been tweeting about the Covid-19 crisis in recent weeks. All we can see on our timelines are tweets asking for oxygen supply, for information regarding hospital beds, retweeted messages for friends and strangers alike and much more — all related to the pandemic. We saw the chilling report by BBC’s Yogita Limaye from Delhi in which we could feel the helplessness of coronavirus patients as well as of their families. Those visuals of people breathing their last breath or family members pleading to get hospital beds were extremely distressing. Another report showed how a Muslim cemetery in Delhi is running out of space; it is receiving 35-40 bodies every day as opposed to 8-10 bodies before the second wave hit India. Reports also show how crematoriums are facing the same situation as they, too, have been overwhelmed. News from across the border is horrendous. One cannot help but feel as if this is one of the greatest global catastrophes to have hit the world. As the situation in India kept getting bleaker and bleaker, Pakistanis expressed solidarity with their Indian brethren. From trending hashtags like #IndiaNeedsOxygen and #PakistanStandsWithIndia, Pakistanis have sent their prayers across the border. Last Saturday, Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted his support for India in its fight against the coronavirus. Pakistan’s foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, tweeted that Pakistan has officially offered relief and support to India. It shows that even if the ties between the two countries may not be ideal, when it comes to humanity, everything else is set aside as it should be. We saw some heartwarming stories as well during the current crisis. Ashish K. Singh, an Indian journalist, recently tweeted whether any of his friends in Pakistan could “pay an obeisance at Data Darbaar” for him, his wife and his friends suffering from coronavirus. Data Darbaar, located in Lahore, is the largest Sufi shrine in South Asia. The same day, some journalists in Pakistan got it done. One of the Pakistani journalists, Ghulam Abbas Shah, arranged prayers for Ashish and his family not just at Lahore’s Data Darbaar but also at the Abdullah Shah Ghazi shrine in Karachi and Baba Farid Ganjshakar’s shrine in Pakpattan. Such gestures show that despite the tensions and animosity between the two neighbours, the people of these countries will always rise to the occasion, helping each other out when the time comes. It gives one hope that we can rise above politics when it matters. The solidarity between the people of India and Pakistan at this moment of grave crisis is quite amazing. At a time when India is facing a deadly second wave of the coronavirus, Pakistan is facing its third Covid-19 wave. This wave is turning out to be quite lethal. Things in Pakistan are not as bad as they are in India but if we don’t control the situation now, matters will get to a point where we will also run out of hospital beds and oxygen. The government has warned of this on several occasions. It is unfortunate that many people still refuse to follow SOPs like wearing a mask. We may need stricter lockdowns or complete lockdowns in cities with high positivity rates. On Wednesday, Pakistan reported 201 deaths, the highest since the pandemic broke in the country last year. The positivity rate was above 10 per cent. Army troops have been deployed in 16 cities where the positivity rate has reached dangerous levels to ensure the enforcement of coronavirus SOPs. The situation in Pakistan is getting worse. Examinations, too, have been cancelled given the rise in the cases. The vaccination drive in the country is slow. Only about one per cent of the country’s population has been vaccinated so far. According to a report by Afshan Subohi in the newspaper, Dawn, if Pakistan continues its vaccination drive at this rate, “it will take more than three years to cover 20 [per cent] of the country’s population”. While the government’s vaccination drive is slow due to procurement issues, even the private sector has not been able to purchase enough vaccines. I am one of the lucky ones who were able to get the vaccine earlier this month. I got my second jab just this week. While some of us have been fully vaccinated, it will take a couple of years before 60-70 per cent of the country’s adult population is vaccinated. Two years is a long time. We have already spent a year battling the pandemic and things are not looking good even now. Our economy has already suffered a lot, many people have lost their jobs, the healthcare system will collapse if cases keep increasing at this rate. This pandemic has taken the lives of our loved ones or of people we know. If we don’t speed up our vaccination process, the country will suffer even more. What is happening in India makes it even more pertinent for us to realize that this virus can lead to unimaginable consequences. One of the key reasons why the former US president, Donald Trump, lost the elections last year was because of his government’s mishandling of the coronavirus. In India, too, the Narendra Modi government has gravely mishandled the pandemic. At a time when coronavirus cases were increasing with each passing hour in India, the visuals of Amit Shah and others campaigning in West Bengal made one wonder whether politics is so ruthless a business that it does not care about saving human lives. People must hold their public representatives accountable for such shameless disregard for human life. After all, they were elected to protect the lives of their peoples. On another note, reports indicate a thaw is expected soon between India and Pakistan. Fahd Husain in Dawn recently wrote an interesting report on India-Pakistan relations. As per Husain’s information from Pakistan’s official quarters, “India approached Pakistan in December 2020 with an offer to reduce tension and offered backchannel talks on all outstanding issues, including Jammu and Kashmir, and Pakistan reciprocated favourably”. So it seems that a backchannel dialogue between the two nuclear neighbours has indeed started, which is what led to the ceasefire agreement on the Line of Control back in February. Rumours of cricket diplomacy are also doing the rounds — only time and circumstances will tell whether anything would materialize or not but this is a good beginning. War should never be an option for either side. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught us, that is the world needs to invest more heavily in the healthcare sector. We need to understand that hostilities between India and Pakistan will only lead to more bloodshed. Peace should not remain elusive. In fact, it should be sought. We hope and pray that India comes out of this health emergency soon. And we hope and pray that Pakistan does not have to witness anything similar. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad research scholars protest hostel evacuation notice||Research scholars of IIT (ISM),Dhanbad are protesting against the mandatory hostel evacuation notice served to them on April 26. The protestors claimed that the other IITs including, IIT Kanpur and IIT Delhi have made it optional for research scholars to vacate the hostel. IIT (ISM), Dhanbad has given students a five-day notice to evacuate its campus. A research scholar of Uttar Pradesh requesting anonymity claimed that forcing the students to leave in trains and buses is akin to putting them in danger. “If infected during the journey than they will also serve as source of infection for their family members as, in many parts of the country the RTPCR test for passengers are not being conducted,” said the student. “The family members of the many of research scholars are in self isolation at home or in quarantine and have little space for them at home, so at such a time the campus is the safest place for them,” argued another student. “As entry of outsiders is completely prohibited inside the hostel there is little chance of spread of infection,” said the research scholar. “If the foreign research scholars can be allowed to stay at the campus why can’t we be allowed as staying away from the campus at the crucial stage of their career may prove detrimental for our career as we have already been away from the laboratories for around a year affecting our career,” said a protester. The majority of the 450 research scholars who have been allowed on campus have a six month deadline to complete their research. The dean of student of IIT (ISM), MK Singh, said, “Recently around 50 persons including some of administration, faculty member, staff members etc have been infected inside the campus and given present situation, when limited beds are available in the district it will be very difficult to address any cases among hostellers.” “We are receiving continuous calls from parents of research scholars who are very concerned about the safety of their wards and in fact majority of students have already left the campus around a fortnight ago itself when we have given them the option to leave the campus or stay back at the campus,” said Singh. “We have also given the option the students to stay back or leave the campus around a fortnight ago but as the situation has aggravated and the medical facilities of Dhanbad is at par with other bigger cities like Kanpur or Delhi we have served them the hostel vacation notice,” said Singh and added that charges of suddenly asking them to leave the campus is also not true as the institute was informally convincing the students to leave the campus. “Furthermore, we are also providing all kinds of support to research scholars in booking their tickets etc and extending help to reach their places,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Pharmacy shops in Ranchi to display price chart in bid to curb malpractices ||Medical and pharmacy shops in the capital will have to mandatorily put up rate charts of medicines and medical equipment at prominent places inside their establishments, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan ordered on Friday to curb black marketing and overcharging amid growing reports of such malpractices from different quarters. Ranchi SDO Utkarsh Gupta, sectoral magistrates appointed to keep tabs on different medical shops and officials from the district’s drug control department attended the meeting with Ranjan, held at the district collectorate. Following the meeting, Ranjan said, “I have directed all the officials concerned to ensure that medical shops under their jurisdiction must now put up rate charts of crucial drugs and medical equipment so that people are aware about its actual price. No shop must charge anyone above the prescribed MRP rate. Anyone found doing so will be dealt with strictly. Most importantly, shops must desist from providing anyone medicines without prescription.” The deputy commissioner added that different magistrates have been deployed area-wise to keep strict surveillance on medical shops and have been asked to conduct surprise inspections as well. “Recently, different teams have conducted surprise inspections of shops in different areas in the city. Such inspections will now be intensified further,” he promised. A drug inspector maintained that people must seek valid bills from the shops after any purchase. “The moment you ask for the bill that is charged from you, chances are that the shop may refrain from overpricing. Every customer must stress on taking the bill,” he advised. City police too are on alert specially to curb black marketing of Remdesivir. “We have floated four numbers—9431706136/9431706137/9431706139 and 0651-2215855 to seek inputs/complaints regarding black marketing of Remdesivir,” said a Ranchi police official, adding that two days ago, based on the tip-off, they had arrested one person from Ratu road with four vials of Remdesivir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Fire accident at steel city market, shops gutted||A fire caused by a suspected electric short-circuit gutted around half-a-dozen shops at the steel city’s commercial hub Sakchi on Friday. It took around two hours for the fire tenders of the state fire department and Tata Steel to bring the blaze under control. Timely action by the fire department minimised damages to a great extent. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 3.10 pm, and the fire tenders reached the spot within five minutes. The fire tenders had no problem in entering the spot of the mishap behind Shitla Mandir close to the Tank Road as because of the extended lockdown all shops were closed by 2 pm. The fire broke out at a vegetable shop and soon spread to a grocery store, an eatery and a few other shops. The loss caused by the fire could not be immediately estimated. But, sources in Sakchi market said the loss would be somewhere between Rs 10 to Rs 15 lakh . An affected shop-owner selling vegetables said, "The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. I had closed my shop at 2pm and went home.  As I was about to take my lunch I got a phone call about the fire mishap." A chaos prevailed at the market soon after the fire detection. Most of the shopkeepers had left for their homes after closing their shops at 2 pm. Officer-in-charge of Sakchi police station, Kunal Singh, along with other officers was present at the spot. This was the third fire that broke out at Sakchi in the past five months. On December 19, a similar fire caused by a bonfire gutted around a dozen shops at the Jalebi Line close to the fish market. Another fire broke out at the Sakchi market on January 18 which gutted several shops resulting in a huge loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Twin storms trigger thunder showers across state||The season's sixth Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other places on Friday resulting in widespread lightning and thundershowers. Two storms originated from the Chhotanagpur plateau region. The first storm was triggered at Latehar in north-west Jharkhand. It covered places like Koderma, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh before hitting the capital. The wind notched a speed of around 40 Kmph, the storm lasted for a few minutes followed by thunder showers. The second storm originated from Lohardaga and travelled through Simdega, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district before reaching Jamshedpur around 5 pm. The steel city and its adjoining areas encountered the Nor'wester around 5.15 pm. The wind speed was around 45 kmph. It lasted for about 45 minutes followed by moderate showers. The storm resulted in snapping of power supply in Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) command areas. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum also experienced the summer saviour storm at the same time while Ramgarh and Khunti felt a two-minute snap squall. Jamshedpur recorded around 35 mm of rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum got 20 mm of rain. Ranchi and its ajoining areas received about  2 mm of rain while several other places recorded light showers. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre confirmed the tempest was a Nor'wester. "The Nor'wester was triggered by a cyclonic circulation over north-eastern Madhya Pradesh. A low pressure trough over Gangetic Bengal also helped in heavyoisture incursion into atmosphere,” said a duty officer at Ranchi Met Centre. A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, "Our reports show that the storm has hit different places in Jharkhand with wind speed between 40 to 50 kmph. Rain and storm is also likely to hit several pockets of central, northern and southern Jharkhand in next few days," he said. Trees fell at several places including Jamshedpur due to the impact of the high intensity storm. Darkness descended at Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan around 5 pm. Cars and other vehicles had to switch on the head lights. Weathermen said reports of hailstones also came from several parts of the state including Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur crematoriums reach full capacity||The steel city’s burning ghats are witnessing a manifold increase in bodies arriving for cremations in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Over 40 bodies are being cremated at Subarnarekha Ghat in Bhuiyandih and Parvati Ghat in Jugsalai respectively. In pre-Covid times, 10-12 bodies came for cremation daily at Subarnarekha ghat while the figure was 8-10 daily at Parvati ghat. The increased number of cremations at both the crematoriums has put pressure on the management committee of these facilities. Moreover, people coming for the last rites have to wait for long to complete the formalities. Subarnarekha Ghat has four electric furnaces. Besides Covid victims, normal cremation is also taking place. Apart from the furnaces, there are four platforms to cremate bodies on wood. With the load of cremations going up at the Subarnarekha ghat, bodies are being cremated at a vacant space inside the ghat premises. “Over 40 bodies, including ones who have died due to Covid, are coming for cremation. This has forced us to use the vacant space for cremating bodies. It’s a challenging task. The four electric furnaces are functioning round-the-clock,” a member of Subarnarekha Ghat management committee said. At Parvati Ghat, with two electric furnaces, bodies are also cremated on two platforms by using wood. “Over 40 bodies are cremated here. The load of cremating bodies has increased manifold. People have to wait for long hours for the last rites,” said Dipendra Bhatt, secretary of the ghat management committee. “We have never seen cremations in such numbers. Bodies are coming for cremations one after another,” said ghat manager Vinod Tiwary. “I came to Parvati ghat for the cremation of one of my relatives. We arrived at 9 am and waited till 8 pm to complete the formalities. Bodies are being waitlisted since the number of cremations has increased manifold,” said Rambalak Kumar, a resident of New Ranikudar. Priyansh Prajapati, who had gone for cremation of one of his neighbours at Subarnarekha Ghat on Wednesday, said it was an agonising wait. “Though extra space is available but we had to wait for over five hours for our turn to come,” the Sakchi resident recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||JMM blames PM for turning nation into a graveyard||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is leading the state's coalition government, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday for mishandling the Covid-19 outbreak right from start and turning the country into a graveyard. The party also asked Modi to accept responsibility for the growing number of casualties since the outbreak of the brutal second wave of the pandemic. “If he (PM) can flaunt his picture on every vaccination certificate, why shouldn’t he own up for the deaths too? The  PM should now put his photo on every Covid death certificate," said JMM general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee, who also urged the Supreme Court to take control of the situation as a "policy paralysis" had rendered the Union health ministry ineffective. Addressing an impromptu press conference on the eve of May 1 when everyone above 18 years will be eligible for vaccination, the JMM general secretary said that the decision to open up the immunisation drive now had turned into a cruel joke. Jharkhand, like several other states, is unlikely to begin the latest phase of vaccinations from Saturday, owing to depleting vaccine stocks. “As we speak, the state government has not got vaccines to begin the drive from May 1 as announced by the Union government. We have about 5 lakh doses as on date, which is inadequate to cover those who took the first dose and those who are above 45. Chaos over the unavailability of vaccines is evident in many states as many who have got their first dose are not able to get the second dose. As the nation is reeling under medical crisis, vaccines for all from May 1 is yet another cruel joke by the Modi government,” he said. Blaming the Modi government for the Covid mess in the country, the JMM leader said that th Modi government’s handling of the pandemic was turning the country into a graveyard. "First, they centralised everything related to Covid in the first phase by taking arbitrary decisions. Then they virtually announced that the virus is in its endgame in the country. And when the virus hit again, they kept ignoring it by being busy with elections. Now, they have pushed everything on to the the states in the name of decentralisation,” he said. Bhattacharjee said that the JMM was now appealing to the Supreme Court to take over the affairs of the health ministry to streamline things under its watch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
30-04-2021||Jharkhand||Covid death toll crosses 2,500 mark in Jharkhand with 145 casualties in 24 hours||The Covid toll in Jharkhand breached the 2500-mark on Thursday while the active caseload jumped past 55,000 as the state reported 145 Covid casualties and close to 6000 cases of Coronavirus infection in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. A bulletin released by the NHM stated that as many as 5,961 state residents, including 1539 from Ranchi alone and 890 from East Singhbhum, were found infected by the mysterious virus on Thursday. The state also reported 4755 Covid recoveries on the day, the active caseload still reached 55,877, the bulletin further highlighted. The situation worsened further in Ranchi on Thursday as the district reported 59 casualties and the active caseload here reached 18,786 while the Covid toll jumped passed the 800-mark. As per government data, as many as 807 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 so far. On the other hand, the active caseload dropped further down to 6,345 as the district reported 902 Covid recoveries against 890 cases. However, with 12 fatalities, the Covid toll in the district increased to 583, the NHM stated in its bulletin on Thursday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 320 cases against 203 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 251 cases against 138 recoveries. At least 413 people were found infected in Hazaribag while 480 Covid patients recovered there. Ramgarh also reported 222 cases against 142 recoveries on the day. As per government data, over 2.27 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and 74.31 per cent of them have recovered. The recovery rate in Jharkhand has dropped from over 98 per cent in March to below 75 per cent at present, reveals government data. As per figures with the NHM, the doubling rate for Covid cases in the state was 27.52 days against the national average of 51.48 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand was above 2500 days before the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state back in April first week. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand also surpassed the national average of 1.10 per cent on Thursday. As per government data, the mortality rate for Covid patients in the state was 1.11 per cent. So far, 2540 residents have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand and more than 50 per cent of the deceased were residents of Ranchi and East Singhbhum. The state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 14,764 residents, around 21 per cent of those registered. The second jab was administered to 13,632 residents, around 4 per cent of the total registered beneficiaries on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
