01-08-2021||---||Power cheaper by 37 paise per unit||Chandigarh, July 31Giving relief to power consumers of the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced reduction in tariff by 37 paise per unit.Sharing more details in this regard, an official spokesperson said the discoms had achieved a substantial reduction in the average power purchase cost of about 46 paise per unit during 2020-21 over the previous year due to better planning and scheduling. This has also been reflected in fuel surcharge adjustment (FSA) calculations done by the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC).To pass the benefit of the reduction of cost to consumers, particularly during the Covid times, the state government decided to waive 37 paise FSA being charged from consumers.With this, electricity consumers will get relief of about Rs 100 crore per month, he added.The FSA burden in respect of agricultural consumers is already being borne by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-cheaper-by-37-paise-per-unit-291280
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Udham Singh remembered||19 FIRs against shell firmsChandigarh: The police have registered 19 FIRs against bogus and shell firms operational in Fatehabad district. In all, 55 persons have been arrested and Rs 9.32 lakh recovered. The investigation brought out unaccounted transactions. A complaint regarding the shell firms was submitted in a letter during the “janata darbar” organised by Home Minister Anil Vij in Ambala. TNSDisaster mgmt awardChandigarh: The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will honour individuals and institutions with ‘Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar’ for 2022 for their remarkable work in the field of Disaster Management. Applications for this award will be accepted till August 31. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/udham-singh-remembered-291279
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Court notice to Gurugram hospital||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice of motion to Medanta the Medicity Hospital, Gurugram, on a petition filed by a patient’s daughter.  Among other things, petitioner Neha Gupta submitted the hospital was under a duty to provide the entire medical record of the patient within 72 hours.  The Bench of Justice Lisa Gill was told that the petitioner’s mother was admitted on April 27. The petitioner asked for the entire medical record so that she may seek second opinion regarding the medical condition of her mother. But the same was denied. Before parting with the case, Justice Gill fixed August 5 as the next date of hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-notice-to-gurugram-hospital-291198
01-08-2021||---||6 Fatehabad students test positive for Covid||Hisar, July 31Causing concern among students and teachers after the reopening of schools, six students — five girls and a boy — of two government schools in Gularwala and Karandi villages of Fatehabad district tested positive for Covid yesterday.The students are asymptomatic and isolated as per the Covid guidelines in their villages. The Health Department, meanwhile, decided to launch a drive to collect samples from various schools from Monday.A department official in Fatehabad said a team of the department had collected 55 samples from Gularwala village government school and 100 samples from Karandi village government school on July 28. The reports of the tests showed that two girls, aged 10 and 11, from Gularwala village government middle school and two girls, aged 16, besides a boy student and a girl from Karandi village government senior secondary school were positive for Covid.Dr Rajesh Kumar, Senior Medical Officer of the Jakhal community health centre, said: “A contact tracing team has traced persons who came in contact with the students and had issued them instructions as per the Covid protocol.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-fatehabad-students-test-positive-for-covid-291199
01-08-2021||---||3 killed in Panipat truck-bus collision||Panipat, July 31 Three persons, including a girl, were killed while 13 others sustained injuries in a collision between a truck and a bus near Khadi ashram on the NH-44 today, the police have said. The accident took place around 6.15 am. The truck hit the bus from behind when it stopped to drop off some passengers. The bus, carrying mainly labourers, was on its way to Patiala in Punjab from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, said the police. The deceased have been identified as Rahul, Sangeeta and Pintu Lal, all from Uttar Pradesh, the police said, adding the bodies had been sent for the post-mortem examination. Medical officer Dr Pawan Kumar said, “In all, 16 injured persons were admitted to the hospital. Of them, three succumbed to their injuries, while eight were referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak, because their condition was serious.” Truck and bus drivers, who managed to flee after the accident, were booked under Sections 279, 336, 337, 304, 304-A, 308 and 427 of the IPC. Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan said legal help would be provided to accident victims and strict action would be initiated against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-in-panipat-truck-bus-collision-291200
01-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Official below DSP not to probe inquiries marked by Home Minister||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 31From now on, the inquiries related to the Police Department, marked by Home Minister Anil Vij, will not be investigated by any official below the rank of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP).The Home Minister today directed his personal staff to get a letter issued to all Inspectors General of Police (IGPs), Commissioners of Police (CPs) and Superintendents of Police (SPs) of Haryana in this regard.Vij calls up officialsHome Minister Anil Vij ordered the Commissioner of Police, Faridabad, over the phone to constitute an SIT in connection with the murder case of a Faridabad woman who was allegedly killed by her in-laws. He also issued directions to the SP, Kaithal, to take action against a police official in Kaithal for not taking action in a rape case.Vij said, “People are coming from across the state and their complaints are being marked to the departments concerned. Many people reached here with complaints related to murder and matrimonial disputes. I have asked my staff to get a letter issued to all IGs, CPs and SPs that the inquiries related to the Police Department, marked by the Home Minister, shouldn’t be investigated by an official below the rank of the DSP.”Haryana Home and Health Minister Vij’s directions came during his Janta Darbar where he was listening to the complainants from across the state who had reached Ambala Cantonment to present their issues. He was holding his weekly Janta Darbar after a gap of a couple of months today.Complainants alleged police inaction and non-cooperation in cases related to murder, encroachments, rape, attempts to murder, cheating, assault, immigration and matrimonial disputes.Vij directed his personal assistants to mark the complaints to the officials concerned to examine, re-investigate and resolve the complaints.Some people sought financial assistance for medical treatment and house repairs and jobs from him.The Home Minister ordered the Commissioner of Police Faridabad, over the phone, to constitute an SIT in connection with the murder case of a Faridabad woman who was allegedly killed by her in-laws and issued directions to SP Kaithal to take action against the police official concerned in Kaithal for not taking action in a rape case.Following complaints against contractors who hire employees on a contract basis in civil hospitals, Anil Vij said, “The non-payment of salaries to the employees and seeking money from people to hire them, are both offences. An inquiry has been ordered into the matters and strict action will be taken against those who have not paid salaries and sought money for hiring candidates. If needed, FIR will also be registered against such contractors in Haryana.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/official-below-dsp-not-to-probe-inquiries-marked-by-home-minister-291201
01-08-2021||Rohtak||Man hurt in Rohtak blast||A resident of the district’s Kharawar village was injured in a blast near the village today. The blast took place as Rajkumar, an electrician, picked up a polythene bag lying near a hand-pump in the IMT area in the morning. The police registered a case under Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and 307 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-hurt-in-rohtak-blast-291202
01-08-2021||---||Shop timings  eased,  VCs told to plan reopening||Chandigarh, July 31While extending the lockdown till August 9, the state government today announced further relaxations, with all shops to operate from 9 am to 10 pm and malls allowed to remain open from 10 am to 10 pm.University VCs have been advised to plan the reopening of the varsities from the next academic session and share the programme of the same with the department concerned of the state government.“Immediate action may be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all hostel students, day scholars, faculty and staff, including the outsourced ones,” said the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan today.The anganwari centres and creches shall remain closed till August 15.The night curfew shall continue from 11 pm to 5 am.There is no change in operation of restaurants, which can remain open with 50 per cent of seating capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shop-timings-eased-vcs-told-to-plan-reopening-291203
01-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||After 4 years, Jhajjar PHC to be upgraded to civil hospital||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 31A double-storey air-conditioned building in the district’s Matanhail village will finally be used for the purpose, for which it was built around four years ago — a 50-bed civil hospital.At present, a Primary Health Centre (PHC) is operational from the building, the foundation stone of which was laid by then MP Deepender Hooda in 2014.The Health Department has approved a proposal to upgrade the PHC to the civil hospital. For this, it has given nod to 49 regular posts, including doctors and nurses, 14 outsourced posts of Class IV employees, and four data entry operators.Jhajjar Power Limited had, in 2017, built the building under the corporate social responsibility keeping in view the technical requirements of a 50-bed hospital. It is equipped with X-ray machines and other medical equipment used in the operation theatre and laboratory. But the equipment has been lying unused since 2017.Sources say instead of setting up the civil hospital in the building, the local authorities shifted its PHC there.Local Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal had raised the matter before the local administration as well as in the Vidhan Sabha, taking the plea that the building had been designed as a hospital.“For the optimum utilisation of the building and equipment, the local authorities were forced to start the civil hospital there,” the sources say.Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said, “The 50-bed hospital will prove a boon for the Matanhail area, as residents of nearby villages will no longer have to visit Jhajjar or other places for the treatment of minor ailments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-4-years-jhajjar-phc-to-be-upgraded-to-civil-hospital-291204
01-08-2021||---||Haryana awaits SC panel 2 years after notification||Chandigarh, July 31Over two years after the BJP-JJP government notified the Haryana State Commission about the Scheduled Caste Act, the constitution of the commission is yet to see the light of the day.Governor gave assent in Nov 2018In fact, Haryana does not have any institutional mechanism for the redressal of legally-guaranteed rights of the Dalit community since December 2014, when the Khattar-led government dissolved the SC Commission set up by the previous Congress regime.In view of the increasing atrocities on the SCs, the Haryana Assembly had passed the Haryana State Commission for the Scheduled Caste Bill on September 12, 2018, “for the overall development and welfare of the SCs, and check and curb atrocities being committed on them”.The Act got assent from the Governor on November 30, 2018. Subsequently, the state government notified the Act on February 2, 2019, while the rules governing the Act were notified on July 29, 2019.Under the rules, the commission was to have a chairman and four members, including a woman member. The commission was supposed to function like a civil court.Meanwhile, Vijay Bansal, a social activist, alleged that state government’s inability to set up the SC Commission reflected poorly on its commitment to welfare of the Dailts.The erstwhile Congress Government, led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had constituted the SC Commission under the chairmanship of veteran Congress leader Phool Chand Mullana before the 2014 Haryana Assembly polls on October 10, 2013.However, after coming to power on October 26, 2014, Khattar disbanded the “political commission” in December 2014. A writ challenging the dissolution of the SC Commission was later dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in December 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-awaits-sc-panel-2-years-after-notification-291205
01-08-2021||---||Sale of registration nos. fetches Rs 24L||Chandigarh, July 31  Haryana Government’s decision to auction vehicle registration numbers of HR26EQ series of Gurugram generated an income of Rs 24.55 lakh today. A notice regarding open auctioning was issued three days ago on the website of Haryana Transport Department. Haryana Transport Department Commissioner Amitabh Dhillon said that today, the registration of vehicles with new series ‘HR26EQ’ of Gurugram district was opened for auctioning.  Registration number 001 was auctioned for Rs 7.1 lakh, 002 for Rs 2.25 lakh, 003 for Rs 1.15 lakh, 005 for Rs 1.6 lakh, 006 for Rs 1.45 lakh and 007 for Rs 1.5 lakh in open auctioning. For all numbers, a price of Rs 15.25 lakh was reserved but people purchased those for a total sum of Rs 24.55 lakh.  The highest auction was for registration number 009 which was purchased by a bidder for Rs 4.1 lakh more than the reserve amount. Similarly, registration number 001 was given to the bidder for Rs 2.1 lakh more than the reserve amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sale-of-registration-nos-fetches-rs-24l-291206
01-08-2021||---||Gurugram MC blames ‘inefficient’ GMDA for waterlogging||Gurugram, July 31  The Gurugram Municipal Corporation had one of its longest House meeting today, stretching up to almost eight hours. It was the waterlogging issue which was strongly discussed in the house where councillors blamed “inefficient” Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) for the chaos that has become a feature of the monsoons. Demanding end of the “multi-civic agency management”,  councillors said waterlogging was maximum in areas governed by GMDA, but it was the MCG which drew the flak. The house made a collective demand of taking maintenance of roads, parks, green belts etc from GMDA and transferring these back to MCG. “The GMDA is nothing but a post-retirement posting venue for chosen employees who just make plans, but do not implement these. Our constituencies lie in their jurisdiction and despite repeated pleas, no cleaning or pre-monsoon repair is done and people face inconvenience. We want more involvement of the MCG in the civic issues and better coordination with the councillors as we know the problems of our areas,” said councillor Ashwani Sharma. The other issue which rocked the house was demand of action against the contractor who has been hired for the C and D waste treatment. It has been alleged that the contractor had illegally sub-let the treatment centre in Basai to a local company which allegedly effected the C and D waste treatment management, making city a dump of debris. The contractor has been accused of violating the contract which bars the sub-letting and, thus, following the Mayor’s directives, an inquiry has been marked into Joint Commissioner Hari Om Atri. “The contractor has duped us. It is alleged that breaking the contract, he has sub-let the treatment centre and no action was taken against him by the officials concerned. We have marked an inquiry into the matter and will get report within a week. If found guilty, we will blacklist and penalise the contractor,” said Mayor Madhu Azad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-mc-blames-inefficient-gmda-for-waterlogging-291207
01-08-2021||Karnal||Two cousins fall in pit, die||Two boys died after they fell in a pit dug on the premises of Haryana Agriculture University regional station and Maharana Pratap Horticulture University centre Udhani. The deceased have been identified as Jassi (9) of Sarfabad Majra in the district and Krishna Kant (11) of Agra. They came here to their maternal uncle’s residence and went to the regional station to play. A pit was dug reportedly for soil testing and was full of water. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-cousins-fall-in-pit-die-291208
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||UHBVN rapped over faulty meters, provisional bills||The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has lambasted the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) over provisional bills and faulty meters. The commission has also summoned Dr Balkar Singh, Managing Director (MD) of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), over its failure to file a reply in the case. During its last hearing on a suo motu petition on June 2, the commission had observed that 67,590 meters were faulty under the UHBVN. This comprised around 5% of the existing meters. Director (Operations), UHBVN, SK Bansal had then submitted that the count of faulty meters was more in rural areas, particularly in Jhajjar, Panipat, Sonepat and Rohtak districts where the “Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon” scheme was yet to be completed.Smart metersThe commission has directed the MD, Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), to be present at the next hearing in connection with tardy installation of smart meters in the stateOn July 29, the commission noted that the percentage of defective meters was more than the permissible limit (2%) even in urban areas. The commission also observed that the UHBVN was taking average 11 days to rectify bills against the mandated seven days.The Bench comprising Chairman RK Pachnanda and member Naresh Sardana said around 8,000 high trap bill complaints were pending for resolution in Gurgaon in case of the DHBVN. This mandated an explanation as to why the Superintending Engineer, Gurgaon, should not be penalised for the same, it said.The Director (Operations), UHBVN, claimed an action plan was in place and various agencies were being taken to task. In case of wrong billing of Rs 77 lakh to a Panchkula resident, the commission directed the authorities to inform about “action taken/punishment imposed on the erring official”. The next hearing is on August 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uhbvn-rapped-over-faulty-meters-provisional-bills-291042
01-08-2021||---||Haryana to reduce power tariff by 37 paise a unit||Chandigarh, July 31The Haryana government on Saturday announced reducing power tariff by 37 paise per unit for electricity consumers in the state.An announcement in this regard was made by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.With this move, electricity consumers will get relief of about Rs 100 crore per month, an official spokesperson said.He said the power distribution companies have achieved a substantial reduction in the average power purchase cost of about 46 paise per unit during 2020-21 over the previous year due to better planning and scheduling.This has also been reflected in FSA (fuel surcharge adjustment) calculations done by the state power regulator. Hence to pass this benefit in reduction of cost to the consumers particularly during the Covid time, the state government has decided to waive the 37 paise FSA being charged from the consumers henceforth, informed the spokesperson.The FSA burden in respect of agriculture consumers is already being borne by the state government.The spokesperson further said the state government has endeavoured to provide quality power to the electricity consumers of the state at affordable rates.Over the last few years, the Haryana power distribution companies have turned around and their excellent performance is also reflected in the integrated rating of power discoms done by the Ministry of Power, government of India where Haryana has emerged as the second best-performing state after Gujarat, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-reduce-power-tariff-by-37-paise-a-unit-291035
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Timings of shops, malls extended as Haryana extends lockdown till August 9||While extending the lockdown till August 9, the Haryana government on Saturday announced further relaxations, as all shops can operate from 9 am to 10 pm and malls are allowed to remain open from 10 am to 10 pm.  Earlier, shops were allowed to remain open from 9 am to 8 pm while malls were operating from 10 am to 8 pm.  Vice Chancellors of universities in the state are advised to plan reopening of varsities from the next academic session and share the programme of the same with the concerned department of the state government.  “The immediate action may be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all the hostel students, day scholars, faculty and staff including the outsourced ones,” said the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan today.   The Anganwadi centres and creches run by Women and Child Development Department, Haryana, shall remain closed till August 15. Department of Women and Child Welfare, Haryana, will release the methodology for implementation of various women and child welfare programmes in the state.  The night curfew shall continue from 11 pm to 5 am.  There is no change in operation of restaurants which can remain open with 50 per cent of seating capacity. While those in malls can operate from 10 am to 11 pm and those which are standalone can function from 8 am to 11 pm. Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast-food joints is permitted up to 11 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/timings-of-shops-malls-extended-as-haryana-extends-lockdown-till-august-9-291028
