02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mandatory to mention pleas pending in lower courts in bail applications: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has changed the way bail pleas are filed in each and every case before the lower courts in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh—it has now made it mandatory for an applicant to specify in the plea whether bail applications under any of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have, or have not, been filed before any superior court.Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul also ordered that the public prosecutors /prosecuting agency would be duty-bound to apprise the court concerned on the issue after collecting necessary information from the investigating officers.“In case of lapse/default on the investigating agency/prosecution’s part in this regard, it would be construed to be a fraud played upon the Court, which could invite departmental as well as penal action against the erring parties/officials, as the case may be”. The Registrar-General was also directed to circulate the order to “all concerned” for not only information but also “necessary and strict compliance”.The directions came on a second regular bail petition in a house-trespass case registered in August last year under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC at Hajipur police station in Hoshiarpur district.A report was called from the court below after the petitioner’s counsel, on a previous date of hearing, sought the petition’s withdrawal on the ground that he had since been released on bail by Mukerian Judicial Magistrate First Class.Justice Kaul observed the report clearly revealed that the petition’s pendency was cleverly concealed from the court below. Refusing the petition’s withdrawal, Justice Kaul added the court deemed it appropriate to take suo motu cognizance of the fraud played upon both the high court and the trial court by the petitioner. Notice was also issued to the petitioner as to why the bail should be not cancelled.Justice Kaul further added time and again, more so in the recent past, it came to the court’s notice that the accused clandestinely approached the trial court seeking similar relief in bail matter by either concealing the pendency of a petition before the high court or by misrepresenting facts. Such malpractices were undoubtedly a matter of serious concern deserving to be nipped in the bud at the earliest.Before parting, Justice Kaul made it clear to the courts below in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh that bail pleas would also mention the outcome if a superior court was at all approached for similar relief. An application not containing the information would not be accepted/ entertained and returned for resubmission with necessary information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mandatory-to-mention-pleas-pending-in-lower-courts-in-bail-applications-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-291881
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records one fatality, 14 fresh cases||Haryana on Monday reported one Covid-19 related death, which took the cumulative toll to 9,639, while 14 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 7,69,956 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.The latest death was reported from Jhajjar district, it said.Among the fresh cases, three were reported from Gurgaon and two from Rohtak district, the bulletin stated.There are 703 active cases in the state, it said.The total recoveries so far are 7,59,614 and the recovery rate stands at 98.66 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-one-fatality-14-fresh-cases-291875
02-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Three Shahabad girls represent India in women’s hockey team||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 2A brave Indian women’s hockey team stunned three-time champions and world no.2 Australia to enter the Olympic Games semifinals for the first time.Three members - skipper Rani Rampal, Navjot and Navneet- of the team belong to Shahabad town of Kurukshetra.The family members are elated with their performances and are hoping that the girls will return with an Olympic medal.Rampal, father of Skipper Rani Rampal, said, “We have been getting messages and people are reaching our house to congratulate us. We were clueless about hockey. She was youngest of the three siblings. She showed her interest after seeing other players practicing near her school in Shahabad. The financial condition was not good and we were reluctant initially as the community members were also not happy with our decision of letting her play. She is confident of winning the upcoming matches too. When she left she said that she will come back with a medal. I urge all the fathers to treat their daughters as equal to their sons. Let them play and they will make you proud.”Satnam Singh, father of forward player Navjot Kaur, said, “She was around 11-year-old when she started practicing. I had never imagined that she will be playing in such an intense Olympics match. People are congratulating us and we are hopeful that the girls will return with Olympic medal.  Navjot is eldest of the three siblings.”Satnam Singh, who is a shocker mechanic by profession, said, “Australia was undoubtedly a strong team and the girls have played bravely against the strong opponents.”Buta Singh, Navneet’s father, an agriculturist by occupation, said “She started playing when she was 7-year-old. We are happy with the performances of the girls and we have been getting messages from everywhere. In the beginning we thought it is going to be tough match as they were playing against world-2 ranking team but the way they have played was commendable.  They will be now playing against Argentina in the semifinal on Wednesday. We are confident that the team will return with a gold medal in the Olympics.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-shahabad-girls-represent-india-in-womens-hockey-team-291872
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC directs Palwal SP to hold inquiry into marriage of 19-year-old girl with 67-year-old man||Shocked by the marriage of a 19-year-old girl with a 67-year-old man, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday ordered Palwal Superintendent of Police to hold an inquiry after constituting a team of officers.For the purpose, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri set a week’s deadline.  Justice Puri asserted it was a shocking case where protection was being sought by a girl of 19 and a man of 67. It was not clear from the pleadings or the arguments by their counsel whether the man had solemnized first marriage or multiple marriages.The circumstances under which a girl of 19 had married an old man, too, were not clear.“Prima facie this court is of the view that there is some suspicion with regard to the marriage. The possibility of forced marriage can also be not ruled out at this stage,” Justice Puri added.Directing Palwal SP to forthwith depute a team of police officials, including a woman official, to reach out to the girl before ensuring her protection, Justice Puri added the team would also inquire into the entire matter.It would not only look into the present marriage, but also the man’s background and produce the girl before the ilaqa magistrate for recording her statement. The magistrate, in turn, would record her statement after ascertaining her voluntariness before filing his affidavit in the court.“So far as the protection to be granted to the girl is concerned, the same shall be done forthwith,” Justice Puri added before fixing the case for further hearing on August 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-hc-directs-palwal-sp-to-hold-inquiry-into-marriage-of-19-year-old-girl-with-67-year-old-man-291865
02-08-2021||New Delhi||Kisan Sansad passes resolution against Electricity Amendment Bill||Agitating farmers’ ‘Kisan Sansad’ on Monday passed a resolution against the ‘Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 or 2021’ and demanded that it should be withdrawn immediately.The parallel ‘Parliament session” also “directed” the Government “not to table this Bill or any other Bill containing similar provisions in this or subsequent sessions of the Parliament”. “Electricity being a basic resource for rural production and processing including by farmers, cottage industries, for health, education, and other civic services, the policy should be to provide free, high quality, regular supply of electricity, to enable rural people and farmers to benefit from the same,” it said, following deliberations on the policy directions and perspectives driving the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, and the specific provisions of the Bill.A statement issued by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha read: “Whereas Electricity Amendment Bill 2021 has not been put out into the public domain by the Government and having received an assurance from the Government delegation on 30th December 2020 that the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 will be withdrawn as per the demands put forth by our farmers’ movement led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the House notes with shock and dismay that the Government has reneged on its promise of not tabling this or similar Bill whereas such a Bill is listed for Business in the monsoon session”.“Electricity as a form of energy is a national resource and should be seen as a basic entitlement of all especially the poor and marginalised. The Bill will impact tariff on all activities in rural areas by farmers, whether it is shops or dairy farming or flour grinders or other small enterprises, as they would get exposed to commercial charges,” the statement said.“Such privatisation would make electricity—which is a basic service that should be accessible to all citizens—costlier for ordinary consumers, and that the quality of supply to rural areas and for agricultural sector could become worse with the reforms embedded in the Amendment Bill.”“Farmers will end up paying large bills or face disconnection by the DISCOMS, and that in the new regime, delays, and arrears will be run up against farmers and other ordinary consumers; and all of this will be a death knell to crores of farmers who are dependent on groundwater for irrigation,” the statement said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-sansad-passes-resolution-against-electricity-amendment-bill-291858
02-08-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Damaged roads & drains Rohtak’s bane||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 1The HSVP (earlier HUDA) sectors of Rohtak, which were considered the posh and upscale colonies of the city, have now been reduced to ordinary localities owing to lack of maintenance and indifference of the civic authorities towards the grievances and concerns of residents. Broken roads and drains, waterlogged parking lots and service lanes of market places, bad sewerage system, stray dogs, cattle and monkeys and improper disposal of garbage cause great inconvenience to the residents in their day-to-day life.The people’s representatives and local administrators, including the HSVP and municipal authorities and councillors, either express their helplessness in getting the pressing concerns of the residents addressed on account of paucity of funds or simply pass the buck to one another.“The condition of several roads is pitiable. The situation worsens in the rainy season, when the roads and streets get waterlogged and cave in. Many stretches of roads continue to be in a bad shape. Stray dogs and monkeys have become a big nuisance for the residents, but the authorities concerned remain oblivious to our plight,” says Kulbhushan, a resident of Sector 2.Several other residents complain lack of maintenance and upkeep of the HSVP sectors. Residents of different sectors have lodged numerous complaints with the HSVP, Municipal Corporation and even the Chief Minister’s office, but to no avail.“Even the residents’ welfare associations of HSVP sectors have failed to get the concerns of the residents addressed,” rues Virender of Sector 3, pointing out that rainwater accumulates in vacant plots and lanes of residential areas, which makes it difficult for the residents even to walk to their home.Contacted for comments, Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal attributed the poor maintenance of roads to the paucity of funds, and asserted that the allotment of work to catch monkeys was in process. However, he expressed helplessness in tackling/sterilising the stray dogs due to legal issues.It’s blame game||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damaged-roads-drains-rohtaks-bane-291585
02-08-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar young scientists discover six early asteroids||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 1Three young scientists and entrepreneurs of Yamunanagar have discovered six early asteroids under the International Asteroid Search Project 2021.Now, NASA will study these early asteroids in detail, determining orbit, size, speed, among other details.After NASA’s study, they will be given an official name, for which these three young scientists will be consulted too.“The six asteroids identified by us have been temporarily named P11hDB1, P11Hffu, P11Hfg4, P11hPe1, P11hp73, and P11hRXo,” said Sourabh Kaushal, who is a member of the team ‘Smartcircuits Innovation’ and the other members of the team are Sachin Sharma and Raghav Sharma.He said their findings were up on the International Astronomy Search Collaboration (IASC) site.“The International Asteroid Discovery Project was conducted by IASC as part of a NASA citizen science project, which gave researchers the opportunity to explore real astronomical data and look for asteroids,” said Sourabh Kaushal.Sachin Sharma and Raghav Sharma said NASA had a special telescope in Hawaii, which took pictures of the sky at regular intervals and as part of this programme, those photographs were sent to the participants.“We process these photos on the software and are able to view parts of the outer space which have been photographed. Studying it helps us identify moving objects,” said Sachin Sharma.Sourabh Kaushal further said in the project, the 134 teams from India and across the globe analysed the high quality astronomical data provided by IASC, a scientific programme for researchers to discover asteroids and near earth objects (NEO).According to Smartcircuits Innovation team, asteroids are small rocks and objects in the solar system that pose a threat to the earth.NASA and Jet Propulsion Laboratory work with programmes such as IASC to identify and track asteroids to circumvent any calamity related to asteroids.“The clouds of trouble hang over the earth, which has to bear the brunt of the asteroids. The asteroids have also been instrumental in eradicating the existence of giant creatures like dinosaurs,” said Sourabh Kaushal.He added that on July 24, 2021, a large asteroid passed near the earth, although it did not harm the earth in any way.To get official name||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-young-scientists-discover-six-early-asteroids-291586
02-08-2021||---||Bad weather no deterrent to Army aspirants||Rohtak, August 1Hundreds of youth exercising at the athletic tracks at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex is a common sight these days. The dedication is so strong that even rain can’t deter these Army aspirants from realising their dream of serving the nation.An open recruitment in the Army for Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat and Panipat districts is scheduled to be held from August 20. Majority of these aspirants belong to rural areas.“Nothing can be bigger than serving the nation and the joining the Army is the best way to pursue that dream. I have regularly been practising at the sports complex for past three weeks. Earlier, I used to practise on roads as the complex was closed in view of the pandemic,” said Rajesh, an aspirant. Krishan, another aspirant, said he had been passionate about the joining the Army since his childhood. “My grandfather had also served in the Army and always inspired me to join the forces too. It is my first chance and I am leaving no stone unturned in my preparations. I have not missed the practice despite the rain,” he added.Since Jhajjar does not have an athletic track, many youth either commute daily to the sports complex or are staying at hostels to train themselves for the recruitment. Some of them have also been staying at their relatives’ house in Rohtak to keep the momentum going. Gourav, a resident of Lohari village in Jhajjar, said: “My friends and I practise at the outer road of our village but we have to come to Rohtak on alternate days to time our pace at the 400-metre track of the sports complex.”Sumit of Aachhej village (Jhajjar), who has been staying at a hostel in Rohtak to train for the recruitment, said: “A lot of practice was required to clear the physical exam for the Army recruitment, which is not possible in Jhajjar.”Most belong to rural areas||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bad-weather-no-deterrent-to-army-aspirants-291587
02-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rs23L unpaid, firm puts a stop to Faridabad park’s facelift project||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 1The concept of public private partnership (PPP) adopted for the upkeep of Town Park, the largest public park in the city, has failed to deliver. The Faridabad Industries Association (FIA), which was given the facelift task in 2017, has announced to abandon the project in view of the non-clearance of dues worth over Rs 23 lakh by the HSVP for the past over 12 months.On June 12, 2017, the HSVP (previously known as HUDA) and the FIA had entered into an MoU in which the former’s horticulture division had agreed to pay a maintenance fee or charge at the rate of Rs 1.35 per sq m per month, according to officials concerned. As the park has an area of over 40.24 acre, the monthly fee comes to Rs 2,09,250. The FIA was asked to maintain the lawns, flowers beds, plants and related infrastructure connected to the park without any changes in the design or construction on the premises.With no commercial activities allowed on behalf of the FIA, the park was to be maintained with free entry to the visitors. But according to the FIA, the payment of dues from the HSVP were stopped after June 30, 2020, and since then not a single penny has been released by the authorities concerned despite reminders.“The matter of pending dues was taken up with the department concerned consistently through email, letters and personal meetings, but no proper response or relief made the FIA to give up the job,” says Navdeep Chawla, former president of the FIA.Claiming that the FIA had used lakhs from the CSR fund for the additional beautification of the park over the past four years, he said halting the basic dues without any reason was unjustified and no response made the FIA to withdraw from the PPP project, which he said was a first-of-its-kind concept in the state regarding the maintenance of public entities. Admitting that the FIA has shown unwillingness for the work, HSVP Administrator Krishan Kumar said he would check it with the horticulture wing of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs23l-unpaid-firm-puts-a-stop-to-faridabad-parks-facelift-project-291588
02-08-2021||---||500-yr-old K’shetra ‘baori’ to be tourist spot||Kurukshetra, August 1 Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board vice-chairman Dhuman Singh Kirmach today said the board would rejuvenate a nearly 500-year-old “baori”, known as Bhai Lakhi Rai Vanjara’s Baori, at Ishargarh village in Kurukshetra and develop it as a tourist destination. The place would also be linked with NH-44 as it is just about 200m from the national highway. Gurmit Singh, a former sarpanch of Ishargarh village, said Lakhi Rai Vanjara who built the “baori” was the same person who burnt his own house to cremate the headless body of Guru Tegh Bahadur, who was martyred on the orders of the Mughal emperor of the time. The former sarpanch said there was a panchayat land near the “baori” and they would request the government to develop a park and carry out beautification work there.  Dhuman Singh, who visited the old “baori” today, said, “It is known as Lakhi Rai Vanjara’s ‘baori’. It is said that while going to far-flung areas for business, Lakhi Vanjara, who was a rich trader, used to halt in this area near Saraswati river, and got the ‘baori’ constructed. The board has been making efforts to preserve and develop historical and heritage sites situated on the banks of the Saraswati. The board will develop this ancient stepwell as a tourist destination so that tourists could get a chance to know about the ancient heritage of Haryana.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/500-yr-old-kshetra-baori-to-be-tourist-spot-291589
02-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Driver’s licence to cost more||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 1Getting a driver’s licence for freshers will get dearer now as the state Transport Department has made the 21-day vehicle training certificate mandatory for it.The department has not yet fixed a fee for the training. Keeping this decision in mind, private training schools have also increased their fee. The applicants alleged that most training schools were charging Rs 5,000-6,000 per person (depending on the car) while prior to this notification, they used to charge Rs 2,000-3,500.rates not fixed An applicant has to bear the cost of the training apart from the cost of learner’s licence fee (Rs 600), regular licence fee (Rs 1,280) and Red Cross fee (Rs 300).The Transport Commissioner directed licensing authorities-cum-SDMs in the state to ensure all directions were followed before the issuance of driver’s licence for driving non-transport vehicle, and that the applicant had taken the 21-day training.Amit Kumar, an applicant for driver’s licence, said since there was no government training school, the private ones had almost doubled their fee after this condition.On the other hand, local authorities have sought clarity from the department regarding the prescribed rates for training. “We have sought clarification from the Transport Department regarding the prescribed training rates by schools. Till then, we are ensuing compliance with the directions issued by the department,” said Ayush Sinha, Karnal SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drivers-licence-to-cost-more-291590
02-08-2021||Karnal||Medical college gets nod for three new PG courses||Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has been granted the permission by National Medical Commission (NMC) to start three new postgraduate courses from the 2021-22 session. The college has been given the permission for four seats in MD Anatomy, MD Microbiology and MD Biochemistry. At present, the medical college has four seats of each in the PG courses of Diplomate of National Board (DNB) in the subjects of surgery, orthopedics, anesthesiology, general medicine and gynaecology.  The college is also expected to get permission to start courses in community medicine, forensic, paediatrics, physiology and pharmacology in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-college-gets-nod-for-three-new-pg-courses-291591
02-08-2021||Karnal||Tractor rams into godown; 3 hurt||Three labourers sustained serious injuries as a tractor rammed into the gate of a godown of the Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation near Newal village late Saturday evening. The driver lost control when the labourers were going back to their accommodation after completing their work, resulting in this incident. The driver managed to escape. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractor-rams-into-godown-3-hurt-291592
02-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Changing stance, SKM chooses not to oppose BJP ‘Tiranga Yatra’||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, August 1As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched its two-week-long “Tiranga Yatra” ahead of the 75th Independence Day from here today, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided not to oppose the event.Farmer leaders said the BJP government was trying to create a confrontation between farmers and people participating in the “Tiranga Yatra” and thus decided not to oppose the event.The yatra, launched by state BJP president OP Dhankar, was taken out on a 30-km-long route from Bahal to Loharu. Carrying Tricolours, a large number of tractors and other vehicles were part of the event.This was the first public event in eight months that the BJP organised without disruption. Farmers have been opposing BJP events in protest against the three new agricultural laws.Ravi Azad, an SKM leader from Bahal in Bhiwani district, said: “The SKM had sensed the intention of the BJP government. So, it decided against opposing the yatra. We don’t want to play into the hands of the BJP. We love the Tricolour. The SKM, however, will continue to boycott and oppose other programmes and events of the government.”Meanwhile, Dhankar said: “The ‘Tiranga Yatra’ aims to inculcate a spirit of patriotism among the younger generation. Sacrifices made by our freedom fighters will be highlighted and tributes will be paid to them.” He claimed farmers also joined the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/changing-stance-skm-chooses-not-to-oppose-bjp-tiranga-yatra-291593
02-08-2021||---||Political plunge need of the hour: Charuni||Jhajjar, August 1Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today reiterated his “Mission Punjab” call and exhorted farmers to take the electoral plunge.“Farmers can form their government in Punjab on the back of the sheer numbers. Snatching power from political parties is the need of the hour. Only political power can save the agricultural sector from devastation. Bad people will continue to remain in power if good people don’t enter politics,” Charuni told the media at the Rohad toll plaza near the Tikri border on Sunday.Giving the example of farmers’ leader Sir Chhotu Ram and Dalit icon BR Ambedkar, he said both leaders ensured welfare of farmers and labourers because they were in power. “Forming the government is the best way to empower farmers, who will be hit hard by the three farm laws introduced last year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/political-plunge-need-of-the-hour-charuni-291594
02-08-2021||---||Major rejig: 26 IAS officers transferred||Chandigarh, August 1In a major reshuffle, the state government has issued the posting and transfer orders of 26 IAS and one HCS officers.Pankaj Agarwal, Secretary, Personnel, Training, Vigilance and Parliamentary Affairs Departments; has been posted as the Secretary, Administrative Reforms, and Labour Commissioner.Vikas Gupta, Director General, MSME, has been posted as the CEO, Authority for Citizen Resources Information Depository. Ambala division Commissioner Pankaj Yadav has been posted as Rohtak division Commissioner. TL Satyaprakash, Secretary, Home-I, has been posted as MD, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd, and CEO (Designate) of Drone Imaging and Information Systems of Haryana Ltd.Vinay Singh, Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, has been given the additional charge of HAFED MD. Meanwhile, PC Meena, Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment Department, has been posted as DHBVN MD and Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi.A Sreenivas, Haryana Dairy Development Cooperative Federation MD, has been given the additional charge of Registrar, Cooperative Societies. Balkar Singh, DHBVN MD, has been posted as the Secretary, Home-I. Rohtak division Commissioner Anita Yadav has been posted as the Additional CEO, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority. Ashok Kumar Meena, Special Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, has been posted as the Special Secretary, Haryana, Personnel, Training, Vigilance and Parliamentary Affairs.Rohtak MC Commissioner Pradeep Godara has replaced Charkhi Dadri DC Amarjit Singh Mann, who has been posted as the Director, Haryana Tourism. Ram Sarup Verma, Registrar, Cooperative Societies, has been posted as the Director, Environment.Jitender Yadav, Chief Vigilance Officer, Urban Estates, has been posted as Faridabad MC Commissioner. Palwal DC Naresh Kumar and been posted as Jind DC.Palwal District Municipal Commissioner Monika Gupta has replaced Administrator-HSVP, Faridabad, Krishan Kumar, who has been posted as Palwal DC. Kurukshetra ADC Preeti has been posted as Rewari ADC.HAFED MD Dusmanta Kumar Behera has been posted as the Special Secretary, Urban Local Bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-rejig-26-ias-officers-transferred-291595
02-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Nod to industry in agri zones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1Industrialists can now set up units in agricultural zones outside the industrial estates in Haryana.To boost industrial production, the BJP-JJP government has come out with a new policy for the setting up of the industrial clusters and units in the agricultural zones across the state.A major concession seems to have been extended to the entrepreneurs intending to set up “Red category” (polluting) industry as the policy allowed the setting up of this industry in the high, medium and low potential zones (except hyper potential zone). Besides, general warehouses can now be set up in addition to agricultural warehouses.Currently, the industrial policy does not allow industrial units in agricultural zones in the hyper and high potential zones while there are strict guidelines for the setting up of these units in medium and low potential zones.AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, said to check the haphazard growth of industrial units outside the industrial estates of the Haryana State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation and the HSVP, there was a need to formulate a policy regarding the grant of change of land use permissions in the agriculture zones.Red category||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-industry-in-agri-zones-291596
02-08-2021||Faridabad||3 arrested for 17-yr-old’s murder||The police have arrested three persons for the murder of Rishi Kumar (17), a resident of Harkesh Nagar here.Rishi was murdered on the night of July 29 and his body was found dumped near a canal in Greater Faridabad.It is alleged that Rishi was friends with the daughter of one of the accused, Biresh. It is claimed that he received a message asking him to meet the girl around midnight and was caught by Biresh and his assistant upon reaching the spot.The CCTV footage revealed that the victim was taken away, shot and later dumped. The police arrested Biresh, Dheeraj and another man, Hridesh, on Saturday. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-arrested-for-17-yr-olds-murder-291597
02-08-2021||---||In Faridabad, encroachments hinder work on Delhi-Mumbai e-way||Faridabad, August 1 With ‘illegal’ structures continuing to pose hurdles in the progress of the 12-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project here, the authorities are yet to provide the right of way (ROW) of 70m on the Bypass Road here to the NHAI. The HSVP was required to hand over the ROW by December 31 last year but it is yet to clear encroachments. Claiming that while the ROW of the passage on the western side of the road has already been handed over to the NHAI, Jitender Kumar, Estate Officer, HSVP, said removal of the encroachments had been on hold in wake of the general order of the court which had stayed such an activity till August 31 in view of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-encroachments-hinder-work-on-delhi-mumbai-e-way-291598
02-08-2021||Karnal||40-yr-old  man hangs kids, self||A 40-year-old man died by suicide after hanging his two kids from a ceiling fan in Bhadson village on late Saturday evening. The deceased are Sukhwinder, his daughter Kritika (7) and son Himanshu (4).The family said Sukhwinder’s wife, Seema, allegedly eloped with Karanveer, their neighbour, and threatened him that they would take the kids away.A case has been registered against Seema and her paramour under Section 306 and 506 of the IPC. A case of her elopement had already been registered at the Kunjpura police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-yr-old-man-hangs-kids-self-291599
02-08-2021||Faridabad||Trafficking racket busted, 37 nabbed||The police arrested 37 persons, including 13 women, from a hotel in the NIT area last night in connection with an alleged sex racket. This is the second case in the past three days.A police spokesperson said on a tip-off that an illegal liquor party was underway in the hotel, a decoy customer was sent there. The police raided the hotel around 11.45 pm on Saturday. In all, 24 men and 13 women were arrested.They have been booked under the Immoral Trafficking Act, Pandemic Act and Disaster Management Act.The hotel owner has been booked under the Excise Act for not taking permission for serving liquor at the party.Three of the accused, including lease holders of the hotel, who had called women to the hotel, were remanded in judicial custody. The others were released on bail. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trafficking-racket-busted-37-nabbed-291600
02-08-2021||---||3 more Covid deaths, 29 new cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 1Haryana reported three more Covid-related fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 9,638, while 29 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,69,942.According to the Health Department’s daily bulletin, the new fatalities were reported from Hisar, Yamunanagar and Charkhi Dadri districts.Among the new cases, nine were from Gurugram, while four each were from Yamunanagar and Fatehabad districts, it said.The total active cases in the state stands at 715, the bulletin said.The overall recoveries so far have reached 7,59,589, it said, adding the recovery rate was 98.66 per cent.In all, 1,30,772 more persons were vaccinated today, taking the tally to 1.19 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-more-covid-deaths-29-new-cases-291601
02-08-2021||---||Education standard falling under BJP rule: Hooda||Chandigarh, August 1Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday questioned the event organised by the state government during the launch of the new National Education Policy on Friday.He said that education standards have been plummeting continuously in Haryana since the BJP government came to power.“Instead of opening new schools, the government closed more than 1,000 schools. In seven years, the government did not take out a single post for JBT recruitment. Instead of giving jobs, the present government has been snatching the jobs of PTI and drawing teachers. Instead of recruiting, the government has cancelled recruitments like PGT Sanskrit, TGT English,” the former Chief Minister remarked. Hooda said about 50,000 posts are lying vacant in the Education Department today due to this attitude of the government.“The government only talks about education and the fact is that 50 per cent of the schools in the state do not even have a head teacher. In such a situation, it is unfortunate that the BJP-JJP government is celebrating the new education policy,” he said.Hooda reminded how Haryana was emerging as a global education hub on the world map during the Congress government. “During our government, we established one central university, seven state universities, 23 deemed universities, 35 government colleges, 481 technical institutes, six medical colleges, 132 industrial training institutes and 2,623 schools in the state. We had established Rajiv Gandhi Education City project and students from all over the country and the world started coming to Haryana to get education,” he recounted.“The work on institutions sanctioned during the Congress government were suspended and cancelled during the present government,” he said.The former Chief Minister said Kisan Model Schools were started to improve the level of education in rural areas during the Congress government but these were closed by the BJP government.“In such a situation, slogans of the new education policy are only part of the event management plan of the BJP. The standard of education cannot be raised without strengthening the basic infrastructure of education,” Hooda said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-standard-falling-under-bjp-rule-hooda-291603
02-08-2021||Faridabad||Civic bodies pass the buck||Hooting at CM’s eventMahendragarh: Hooting by supporters of Ateli MLA Sitaram Yadav during a party workers’ meeting addressed by CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Narnaul on Wednesday gave locals a new political issue to discuss. They are linking the incident with the internal bickering of BJP leaders in the district. The incident happened when Yadav’s name was not announced from the dais for welcoming the CM and the announcer invited the latter for the address after giving an opportunity to other BJP MLAs to greet him. After the hooting, Yadav had to be called on the dais. On July 19, another MLA and some local BJP leaders had entered into a verbal duel over the functioning of an officer during the meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievances Redressal Committee chaired by Agriculture Minister JP Dalal.Fake resignation letter goes viralYamunanagar: A fake resignation letter of the district vice-president of the BJP has been doing the rounds on the social media. Seeing the letter on Friday, the district vice-president had to upload a video on WhatsApp to clear his stance. In his video message, he said some people were conspiring against him and wanted to weaken him in the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-bodies-pass-the-buck-291607
02-08-2021||Tall claims of the Municipal Corporation||Stray Animals obstruct traffic on P’kula roads||RP Malhotra, PanchkulaNeed for coordination before executing worksOne has noticed over the years that various development works being carried out in Ambala, is being made, dismantled, and remade. This is because of lack of planning and coordination before a work starts. This is exactly what has happened in the Defence Colony. Roads were made before laying the sewerage lines, resulting in the present mess. The Tribune news on July 31 that 'Ambala Cantt roads to be beautified' is very heartening. But let's learn from our mistakes, and before we start this project, let all the agencies coordinate with one another, so that people are not subjected to continued inconvenience. When a project is in progress, the authorities must go on ground and monitor the quality of work. The erring contractors need to be taken to task so that people do not suffer, and tax payers' money is not wasted.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-obstruct-traffic-on-pkula-roads-291609
02-08-2021||Ambala||International Tiger Day celebrated||Plantation drive at schoolSonepat: On silver jubilee, a tree plantation drive led by 20 former students of 1996 batch of Motilal Nehru School of Sports, Rai, Sonepat, was organised. Plants of around 3,000 varieties were planted on the school premises and a pledge was taken to keep it green and beautiful. Dr Rajkumar Ahlawat, Subhash Kinha, Rakesh Dahiya and Col. Amit Ahlawat, Dr Jimmy Suhag, Prof Shailly Tomar, Dr Seema Gehlawat, Praveen Shokeen, Dinesh and Shailendra were among the participants and orgnisers.Student brings laurelsYamunanagar: Aliya Majid of Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Jagadhri, bagged first position (non-medical) in CBSE Class XII results in her school. She has secured 98.4 per cent marks. Aliya had topped Yamunanagar district in Class X by securing 99.4 percent marks in 2019. "I want to be Indian Administrative Service officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-tiger-day-celebrated-291610
02-08-2021||Ajay Banerjee||Fewer from region opting for armed forces||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 1The share of Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in recruitments in the armed forces has seen a decline over the past few years.The information was shared in the Rajya Sabha by the Ministry of Defence in a written reply to a question asked by Neeraj Dangi, an MP from Rajasthan. Dangi had sought details of youth who had joined the armed forces from various states in the past three years.The data suggests that despite better salaries and post-retirement benefits, there is a decline in the number of youths from the region joining the Army as jawans, airmen in the Air Force and as sailors in the Navy.The trend is similar for Delhi and Chandigarh. While Himachal Pradesh has seen a small growth in Army recruitments, Punjab and Haryana have improved their numbers in the IAF.Nationwide, the states of Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Telangana, Karnataka, Manipur and Mizoram have sent more recruits to the Army over the previous years. The larger states like UP, MP, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Assam are among the ones where the numbers have declined.There are 1,09,671 vacancies across the three services, the MoD said.The Army has 90,640 vacancies, while the IAF and the Navy have 7,104 and 11,927 vacancies, respectively. Even the officer cadre has 9,712 vacancies, with the Army alone having 7,912 vacant posts. The recruitment to the officer cadre is done through an open test applicable uniformly across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fewer-from-region-opting-for-armed-forces-291615
02-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt issues transfer orders of 26 IAS officers||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government has issued transfer and posting orders of 26 IAS officers with immediate effect, according to a statement issued here on Sunday.Among those transferred include Pankaj Yadav, Commissioner, Ambala Division. He has been posted as Commissioner, Rohtak Division.P C Meena, Director General and Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment Departments, has been posted as Managing Director, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd and Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi.Anita Yadav, Commissioner, Rohtak Division, has been posted as Additional Chief Executive Officer, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, Faridabad, the statement said.Ravi Prakash Gupta, Director, Environment, and Special Secretary, Environment and Climate Change Department has been posted as Special Secretary Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department.Marjit Singh Mann, Deputy Commissioner, Charkhi Dadri has been posted as Director and Special Secretary, Haryana, Tourism Department.Pradeep Godara, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Rohtak and District Municipal Commissioner, Rohtak has been posted as Deputy Commissioner, Charkhi Dadri.Jitender Yadav, Chief Vigilance Officer, Urban Estates, Administrator, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, Gurgaon and Additional Director, Urban Estate, Gurgaon and Additional CEO, Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad.Naresh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Palwal, has been posted as Deputy Commissioner, Jind. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-issues-transfer-orders-of-26-ias-officers-291429
