03-08-2021||New Delhi||Scrap penal provisions on farmers in Air Pollution Bill: Kisan Sansad||The ongoing ‘Kisan Sansad’ organised by the agitating farmer unions on Monday demanded the scrapping of sections in a Bill on checking air pollution that penalise farmers for stubble burning, according to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).In a statement, the SKM, which is an amalgam of 40 farmer unions that have been agitating against the three central agriculture laws, expressed concern over the ‘Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas’ Bill 2021; that was introduced in the Lok Sabha earlier during this monsoon session,.The SKM said that the new Bill has an additional section that allowed the farmers to be penalised for stubble burning in the name of environmental compensation.The Kisan Sansad or mock Parliament of farmers demanded that the penal provisions on farmers in the bill be dropped.“While in the new Bill, a caveat has been added in the penalties provision (Section 14) that farmers will be exempted from the provision of penalties of up to Rs 1 crore and five years of jail term, a new penal provision on farmers has been deviously included as Section 15, in the name of ‘Environmental Compensation’,” the SKM claimed.The farmers’ body said that the government needed to provide alternatives to farmers to tackle the problem of stubble farming instead of penalising them.“There is no economically viable solution put in place to deal with paddy straw with the genesis of the problem in wrong technologies and policies being promoted. Kisan parliamentarians suggested that there are solutions to tackle the straw burning problem through legally-guaranteed MSP for all crops, through practices like mulching and composting, through low-cost appropriate machinery, etc, which is not being done,” the SKM said.The ‘Kisan Sansad’ is being organised by protesting unions to draw attention to the farmers’ issues while the Monsoon session of Parliament is underway.The farmers have expressed fear that the central agriculture laws could lead to elimination of the minimum support price system and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that the MSP and the Mandi system will stay.Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.The SKM also announced that the Kisan Sansad will see talks by eminent economists and other experts in the upcoming days to “enrich the proceedings”.“The Kisan Sansad will discuss matters related to MSP legal guarantee over the next two days, on August 4-5. The Kisan parliamentarians will be joined by experts like Devinder Sharma, Sucha Singh Gill, RS Ghuman, and others,” the statement said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scrap-penal-provisions-on-farmers-in-air-pollution-bill-kisan-sansad-292438
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice threatens Haryana CM won’t be allowed to hoist Tricolour||Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice on Tuesday purportedly threatened that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will not be allowed to hoist the national flag on Independence Day, days after a similar warning was issued for his Himachal Pradesh counterpart.The threat was made through a recorded phone call to a number of people, including journalists. The caller identified himself as Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the general counsel for the SFJ.He said the Sikhs for Justice, pro-farmers and supporters of Khalistan will not allow Khattar to unfurl the Tricolour on Independence Day.Asked about the threat, the chief minister replied, “I haven’t got any such threat call directly.”“But from a security point of view, the arrangements made by the police and our agencies are adequate... If any difficulty arises, we will face it,” he told reporters here on the sidelines of a meeting.To another question, Khattar said, “The Pannun issue is an old one, there is nothing new.”US-based SFJ pushes for Sikh Referendum 2020 as part of its separatist agenda. It openly espouses the cause of Khalistan and in that process challenges the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.The Himachal Pradesh Police have booked Pannun for sedition and other charges for allegedly issuing a threat that CM Jai Ram Thakur won’t be allowed to hoist the national flag. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-pro-khalistan-group-sikhs-for-justice-threatens-haryana-cm-wont-be-allowed-to-hoist-tricolour-292434
03-08-2021||New Delhi||SC rejects Haryana judge’s petition against compulsory retirement||The Supreme Court has rejected a Haryana Additional Sessions Judge’s petition challenging a Full Court decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recommending his compulsory retirement from service from immediate effect for multiple unexplained bank transactions that went against judicial ethics.“Considering the facts and circumstances on record and in view of the record indicating that there were multiple transactions showing deposits and withdrawals of substantial amounts of money, it cannot be said that the Full Court was not justified in taking the view that it did. We do not find any reason to take a different view in the matter,” a Bench led by Justice UU Lalit said in an order on Monday.Additional Sessions Judge Rajinder Goel had challenged the December 14, 2020, recommendation of the Full Court of the Punjab and High Court recommending his compulsory retirement and the consequential order dated January 5, 2021 of the Haryana Governor accepting the Full Court’s recommendation.The Bench had advised Goel to approach the high court first but his counsel said he wanted to pursue his remedies before the top court. Later, he changed his mind but the Bench refused to allow him to go back to the high court, saying it had already reserved the judgement.The petitioner joined Haryana Judicial Services on February 16, 1996 and was promoted in 2008 to the Haryana Superior Judicial Services. Pursuant to certain complaints made against him, including one made by the Bar Association, an enquiry was conducted and he was asked to furnish statements regarding his bank accounts and property for the years 2006 to 2009.A preliminary report dated April 21, 2011, found that there was no documentary evidence regarding allegations of land purchases. It was, however, observed that there were “heavy unexplained bank transactions”.The report was reviewed by the Administrative Committee of the High Court on August 3, 2011, which decided to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the petitioner and recommended that the petitioner be put under suspension.On August 5, 2011, the Full Court ordered that the Vigilance/Disciplinary Committee proceedings be initiated against the petitioner and that the petitioner be suspended till the proceedings were concluded.The Inquiring Authority in its report dated May 23, 2016, found Goel guilty of unexplained transactions. Accordingly, a show cause notice was issued to the petitioner on August 29, 2016. The Vigilance/Disciplinary Committee of the High Court found that the charges against him were not proved and recommended that he be cleared of all the charges.However, the Full Court of the High Court on February 4, 2019, decided to send the matter back to the Vigilance/Disciplinary Committee to scrutinize the property statements of the petitioner. The Vigilance/Disciplinary Committee exonerated him again. But the Full Court chose to reject both the reports and recommend his compulsory retirement. The top court accepted the Full Court’s decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-rejects-haryana-judges-petition-against-compulsory-retirement-292408
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 26 fresh cases, 2 deaths in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday reported two coronavirus-related fatalities, bringing the toll to 9,641, while 26 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 7,69,982, according to a bulletin.The new fatalities were reported from Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts, the health department's daily bulletin said.Of the fresh Covid cases, 12 were registered in Gurugram and four in Faridabad district.The number of active coronavirus cases stands at 708, while a total of 7,59,633 people have recovered from the infection in the state.Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 98.66 per cent, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-26-fresh-cases-2-deaths-in-haryana-292392
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Temperatures remain below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures on Tuesday hovered below normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab.According to the Meteorological Department here, Chandigarh (2.4 mm), Ambala (1 mm), Ludhiana (28 mm) and Patiala (30.8 mm) were among other places to receive rainfall.Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 30.1 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 32 deg C.The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 33.6 deg C while Bhiwani registered a high of 33.3 deg C. Karnal registered a high of 31.6 deg C.Gurgaon registered a high of 32.8 deg C.Chandigarh, common capital of the two states, which was lashed by rains, recorded a maximum temperature of 31.4 deg C.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35 deg C.Ludhiana recorded a high of 29.2 deg C, while Patiala's maximum settled at 30.8 deg C. Faridkot recorded maximum temperature of 34 deg C. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/temperatures-remain-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-292390
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Free speech fundamental to democracy, says Punjab and Haryana HC; grants bail to farm leader||Freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy, the Punjab and Haryana High Court said on Tuesday while granting regular bail to farm leader Dalbir Singh.He had delivered speeches that the State claims were objectionable, especially with regard to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The State’s stand was that the speeches could have resulted in caste-based division and threatened peace and harmony.Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the Court has no occasion to consider the merits of the allegations in detail while dealing with the petitions for grant of regular bail. “Suffice to say that freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy. At this stage must hasten to add that embargo to freedom of speech is prescribed in Article 19 of the Constitution of India itself”.Dalbir had moved the High Court against the State of Haryana by filing two petitions through senior advocate Randeep Surjewala and counsel R. Kartikeya for regular bail in FIRs registered on February 22, 2017, and May 24 at Sadar police station in Jind.Claiming the petitioner’s false implication in the case, Surjewala and Kartikeya submitted he was only exercising his fundamental right to protest. “The petitioner has a right to criticize the functioning of the State,” it was added.The Bench was also told that the petitioner was ready to furnish surety of Rs 2 lakhs each in both the FIRs to meet the apprehension of the State. If enlarged on bail, he would indulge in similar activities and create a law and order problem.Justice Jhingan added: “The nature of contents of the speeches would be the  subject matter of trial as to whether it was a lawful protest against the policies and working of the government or had a different goal and intention. Be that as it may, the investigation in both the cases is complete”.Justice Jhingan added the trial’s conclusion was likely to take time. It would not be appropriate to deny personal liberty to the petitioner on mere apprehension of bail misuse. As such, the petitioner was granted bail, subject to furnishing surety/bail bonds of Rs 2 lakhs each in both the FIRs before the Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-speech-fundamental-to-democracy-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-bail-to-farm-leader-292384
03-08-2021||New Delhi||Aviation ministry permits Haryana’s Directorate of Urban Local Bodies to use drones||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has permitted Haryana’s Directorate of Urban Local Bodies to use drones for mapping 18 urban areas to develop their infrastructure under the Centre’s AMRUT scheme, an official statement said on Tuesday.The ministry has granted the directorate “conditional exemption” from Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for one year, the statement noted.Under the AMRUT scheme, the government plans to provide basic services—including water supply, sewerage and urban transport—to households and build amenities in cities which will improve the quality of life for all, especially the poor and the disadvantaged.The ministry’s statement on Tuesday said: “The exemption has been allowed for data acquisition, mapping, and implementation of web-based GIS (geographic information system) platform for development of AMRUT cities and property tax survey for Hisar, Panchkula, Ambala urban areas.”The 18 cities for which the directorate has got permission to use drones for mapping are—Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat, Thanesar and Yamunanagar. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aviation-ministry-permits-haryanas-directorate-of-urban-local-bodies-to-use-drones-292364
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana employees to get allowance for education of kids studying abroad||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-employees-to-get-allowance-for-education-of-kids-studying-abroad-292320
03-08-2021||Gurugram||Boy slips in pond near Inchhapuri Shiva temple in Pataudi, dies||Two Punjab women bookedGurugram: Gurugram police on Monday booked two women from Punjab for allegedly furnishing false documents to get their passport renewed. While one woman managed to get her passport renewed, a letter from Punjab police stalled the other. OCTwo IAS officers shiftedChandigarh: Haryana Government issued transfer and posting orders of two IAS officers on Monday. Jitender Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, has been posted as Deputy Commissioner, Faridabad. Yash Pal, Deputy Commissioner, Faridabad, has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad. TNSPortal for house allotmentChandigarh: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched the portal awas.haryanapwd.gov.in to make the process of allotment of government accommodation to the employees more transparent. The Chief Minister said that the employees should get government accommodation on the basis of their seniority without any recommendation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-slips-in-pond-near-inchhapuri-shiva-temple-in-pataudi-dies-292166
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Additional Chief Secretary Agriculture gets additional charge||Haryana Government on Monday gave additional charge of Chairperson, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, to Dr Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, in addition to her present duties with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-additional-chief-secretary-agriculture-gets-additional-charge-292155
03-08-2021||Faridabad||Woman held for beating  up children in Faridabad||The police have arrested a 32-year-old woman for beating up her two kids, aged six and eight years. The action came after a video of her action went viral.The police said the accused had not only made a video of beating up her kids but they were also made to stand semi-naked in the street around 10 days ago.A case under Justice Juvenile Act was registered against the woman on Sunday evening and she was arrested today morning. The woman was released on bail immediately after she confessed her crime and promised not to repeat the action.During the investigation, the woman told the police that she had beaten up her kids because she found milk spilled on the floor in her absence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-held-for-beating-up-children-in-faridabad-292149
03-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Policy paralysis by public servants one of the biggest evils||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2“Policy paralysis at the hands of public servants is one of the biggest evils faced by our nation in recent times,” the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted.In a scathing judgment, Justice Anil Kshetarpal made it clear that matters were kept in a state of flux, creating opportunities for litigation and corruption due to delay in decisions. Justice Kshetarpal also rapped Haryana for taking contradictory stands before the High Court in a previous round of litigation, and before the Supreme Court, in a case concerning the allocation of road transportation permits. “The courts have already allowed enough indulgence to the state,” Justice Kshetarpal said.Justice Anil Kshetarpal, Punjab and Haryana High CourtDecisions delayed Matters were kept in a state of flux, creating opportunities for litigation and corruption due to delay in decisions. Policy makers had adopted the practice of taking a U-turn in the courts of law, resulting in the complete reversal of the decision previously taken and, consequently, leading to the travesty of justice.The petitioners, “Yaduvanshi CTS Limited Hazariwas” and others, were seeking directions for setting aside orders/permits on certain routes “in violation” of the Motor Vehicles Act and order/directions dated January 21, 2020, passed by the Supreme Court. Justice Kshetarpal observed that all these permits under challenge were issued pursuant to the Supreme Court order by adopting ad hoc policy decision dated March 30. 2020.Justice Kshetarpal also ruled that policy makers had adopted the practice of taking a U-turn in the courts of law, resulting in the complete reversal of the decision previously taken and, consequently, leading to the travesty of justice. The petition had been filed only because the state had failed to take a decision at an appropriate time.Justice Kshetarpal observed that the Central Government, while enacting the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, envisioned the simplification of procedure and liberalisation of policy for private sector operators in the field of road transportation to permit market forces to engage in free play.The Act was, rather, enacted for freeing the transport sector from the shackles of monopolistic tendencies of both the state transport undertakings and a few selected private operators, but the message apparently had little impact on the ground.Even after making a statement before the Supreme Court on January 20, 2020, that the state would either cancel or modify the stage carriage scheme of 2016, the matter was hanging fire, still awaiting a final decision. In the meantime, ad hoc arrangements were made, giving rise to multiple litigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-policy-paralysis-by-public-servants-one-of-the-biggest-evils-292146
03-08-2021||---||400 more structures razed in Khori colony in Faridabad||Faridabad, August 2With around 400 more constructions razed on the 20th day today, authorities claim that the drive was likely to be over in a couple of days.Total number of structures razed so far has reached to 9,300 in the colony that was declared illegal in view of its location on forest land. The Supreme Court in its order on June 7 had directed the authorities to remove the encroachments.Revealing that the drive had reached in its last phase, an official on the condition of anonymity said it might take two to three days more to clear the land, adding that rains, to some extent, had also delayed the drive. The drive was launched on July 14.Meanwhile, the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, who is carrying out the drive, has got a new Commissioner. DC Yashpal Yadav has now replaced Garima Mittal as the Commissioner of the Faridabad MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/400-more-structures-razed-in-khori-colony-in-faridabad-292141
03-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Land for AIIMS project in Rewari finalised||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 2The decks for the execution of the ambitious AIIMS project has been cleared with the settling of disputes regarding some patches on the proposed 228 acres at Majra village for the project.Yashendra Singh, Deputy CommissionerALL LAND DISPUTES SETTLEDAll disputes regarding the land have been settled and a report has been sent to the state authorities for further procedure.Some reluctant villagers have now consented to provide their land. Some minor changes have also been made in the layout of the project in order to exclude those patches whose owners do not want to sell their land.The project needs at least 200 acres for execution. Though residents of Majra village had given consent to sell a total of 228 acres for the project, it was all scattered as owners of around 44 acres were unwilling to sell their land.Local leaders and the district administration contacted and requested them to provide their land for the betterment of the region.“Owners of 34 acres later agreed to sell their land and the authorities resolved the issue of the remaining 10 acres by making minor changes in the boundary of the site plan of the project. Now, a total of 228 acres unscattered land is available for the project,” said an official, adding that landowners were ready to sell their land for Rs 40 lakh per acre.Yashendra Singh, Deputy Commissioner, said all disputes regarding the land had finally been settled and a report in this regard had been sent to the state authorities for further procedure.Meanwhile, the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti has demanded the state government should lay the foundation stone of the project at the earliest.“Despite the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi about setting up of the AIIMS in Rewari, the project has been delayed on various pretexts for the past over two years. Hence, people want that the government should clear its intention by laying its foundation at the earliest,” said Sheotaj Singh, chief of the samiti, adding that they would not hesitate to launch an agitation if the government fails to do so soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-for-aiims-project-in-rewari-finalised-292140
03-08-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Residents get contaminated water supply in Bhiwani||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Residents get contaminated water supply in BhiwaniSeveral localities of Bhiwani town located on the Court road, Dhana road and Hanuman gate have been getting contaminated water supply for several months. We have been taking up the issue with the authorities concerned but to no avail. Now, we have written a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. We hope to get a positive response from him so that the local authorities wake up from slumber and redress our grievances.Bhagwan Dass Kalia, BhiwaniPost rain, Road caves in at GurugramIndeed it is a matter of great pity that a section of the road under the IIT Delhi flyover caved in on Saturday after days of heavy rain, which forced the authorities to divert the traffic. Thank God that no vehicle was passing at the moment when the road caved in. Had there been vehicles then there would have been casualties. It proves that poor quality material was used to build the road. The authorities concerned should look into the matter and solve it. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-get-contaminated-water-supply-in-bhiwani-292137
03-08-2021||Ambala||Story- telling competition held at Ambala||Online workshop beginsKurukshetra: The department of commerce in collaboration with the Centre of Continuing Education under the aegis of Kurukshetra University RUSA project society (KURPS), Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, organised a week-long online workshop, which began on Monday. The purpose of the workshop is to enhance the knowledge of the participants regarding tools and techniques used in research and to provide them a platform to interact with experts of research techniques. The session started with the Kulgeet of KUK followed by presentation of details of the programme by Neha Bansal, research scholar, department of commerce. Prof Manjula Chaudhary, dean of academic affairs, talked about the importance of quality in the field of research.Skill varsity begins admissionsPalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Dudhola, Palwal, has started the admission process for the new academic session 2021-22 in various skill courses. According to a spokesperson of the university, the closing date of applications has been fixed to August 19. Interested students can apply for various skill courses, which include engineering and technology, faculty of management studies and research, faculty of applied sciences and humanities, faculty of agriculture offering BVoc, DVoc, MVoc, diploma, BBA and MBA. Vice-Chancellor Raj Nehru said students would also be provided theoretical and practical skills, which would be beneficial as far as the job opportunities are concerned. All courses are industry oriented where practical training will be given to students.Online techno-digital festFaridabad: With participation of over 6,000 students from 60 institutions covering 10 states across the country, the online techno-digital festival titled 'Digi-Fiesta 2021: The essence of virtual world' of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has commenced. The event is being organised by the university computer centre and digital affairs cell. Director General of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Dr Omkar Rai, appreciated the entrepreneurial efforts made by young minds of India during the Covid pandemic and also apprised the audience with digital initiatives of the government like secured biometric system, BHIM app, DBT, GSTN, e-market etc. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said such events provided an opportunity to learn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/story-telling-competition-held-at-ambala-292133
03-08-2021||Gurugram||Haryana State Legal Services Authority launches campaign in Gurugram||The Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA) has launched a year-long campaign titled “Quality of legal services is key to access to justice for all” from Gurugram on Monday.The campaign was inaugurated by Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, Supreme Court Judge, and National Legal Services Authority executive chairman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-legal-services-authority-launches-campaign-in-gurugram-292132
03-08-2021||Hisar||5 criminals arrested in Hisar||The Jind police have busted a gang of inter-state cyber criminals and arrested five persons in this regard. The police said the accused used to open accounts in the name of labourers and then lured people to make transactions to those accounts. The arrested accused have been identified as Ashok o fJhajjar; Munna of Rajasthan; Vijay of UP; and Amzad, from Rajasthan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-criminals-arrested-in-hisar-292131
03-08-2021||Gurugram||Three nabbed for beating up friend to death in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have nabbed three persons for allegedly thrashing a friend to death with sticks after a brawl broke while they were having drinks.The victim has been identified as Amit. His body was found at roadside outside a toilet in Sector 5 on July 25.The accused have been identified as Vikas and Rohit Kumar, natives of Bihar, and Rahul Saini of Mahaveerpura in Gurugram. According to the police, on the night of July 24, Vikas, Rohit and Amit were drinking together outside a toilet on the roadside and a fight broke out among them. Vikas and Rohit called Rahul and the trio attacked Amit while he was sleeping in a room near the toilet. The trio thrashed him with sticks and fled the scene after Amit got unconscious. The police said the arrested accused revealed that they had thrashed Amit in revenge. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-nabbed-for-beating-up-friend-to-death-in-gurugram-292129
03-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Under Saksham scheme, only 4% youth got jobs in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 2The number of unemployed youth continues to increase in the district but they are getting very less job opportunities.This is evident from the fact that in the current year till June 30, around 4 per cent of the registered unemployed youth got jobs under Saksham Yuva Yojana, a scheme launched in 2016 by the state government with an objective to provide unemployed educated youngsters monthly financial assistance along with job opportunities by placing them in different departments of the state government.As per the data of employment exchange Karnal, as many as 68,162 unemployed youth had been registered till June 30, 2021 with the Employment Department. But the number of registered youth under Saksham Yojana is only 23,050. Out of them, 1,023 (4 per cent) got work for 100 hours a month under the scheme.The data further revealed that last year till December 31, the number of unemployed youth was 67,597. Of them, 22,114 got themselves registered under Saksham. Out of them, 1,384 youth got job.The number of registered unemployed youth has increased during the Covid pandemic. Prior to the pandemic in 2019, the number of the registered unemployed youth was 8,219 under Saksham, said the sources in the department.On the other hand, the authorities claim that they inform the registered youth about the job opportunities, but very few of them continue to work.“As soon as vacancies are generated by any department on Saksham Yuva portal, registered youth are informed through SMS or e-mail,” said Manoj Kumar Grover, Assistant Employment Officer, Zonal Employment Exchange Office, Karnal.To avail the benefits of the Saksham scheme, the unemployed youth have to get themselves registered with the Employment Department and all the state government departments, colleges, boards and corporations are required to notify the department about the vacancies, he added.The department sends mail alerts to registered youth about the work opportunities. The candidate would be required to work for 100 hours in a month.Besides, under Saksham, Class XII-passed, graduate and post-graduate unemployed youth are given financial assistance of Rs 900, Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000 respectively. The applicant should be educated and a Haryana resident aged between 21 and 35 years.Launched in 2016 by state govtUnder the Saksham Yuva Yojana, a scheme launched in 2016 by the state government with an objective to provide unemployed educated youngsters monthly financial assistance along with job opportunities by placing them in different departments of the state government.Unemployed youth get financial helpBesides, under Saksham, Class XII-passed, graduate and postgraduate unemployed youth are given financial assistance of Rs 900, Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000 respectively. The applicant should be educated and a Haryana resident aged between 21 and 35 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/under-saksham-scheme-only-4-youth-got-jobs-in-haryana-292122
03-08-2021||Sumedha Sharma||1.5L MT construction waste lies untreated in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 2As the Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, has initiated an inquiry into the alleged illegal sub-letting of the city’s sole construction and demolition(C&D) waste treatment plant, it is flooded with complaints that over 1.5-lakh metric tonnes of untreated debris is being dumped in vacant plots in the city.Senior MCG officialPlant officials misusing civic landOfficials at the treatment plant have been misusing the civic land without paying any rent and dumping the waste with negligible treatment. Now, we have also got complaints that the infrastructure leasing & financial services contractors have sublet the plant to an individual authority which has no legal contract with us or are on board with the ILFS. Despite having the capacity to treat 1,500 metric tonnes of waste a day, the treatment plant is reportedly managing to treat only 300 metric tonnes, leading to increase in debris dumped on the GMDA land. The city according to experts is producing over 2,000 metric tonnes of construction waste and the gap between production and treatment has led to the accumulation of waste in the city.This alleged inefficiency has left both residents and councillors a harried lot. The issue was discussed in the MCG House meeting in March and a committee was formed, which recommended setting up of second plant and handing it over to another contractor currently handling door-to-door collection of waste, but no action has been taken so far.“Yes, we were facing a major problem. Officials at the treatment plant have been misusing the civic land without paying any rent and dumping the waste with negligible treatment. Now, we have also got complaints that the Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (ILFS) contractors have sublet the plant to an individual authority, which has no legal contract with us or are on board with the ILFS, which has made the entire process unaccountable . We are looking into the matter,” said a senior MCG official.“ Last year, we had a good enforcement team so the debris collection was par excellence. However, the effort was negated by lack of timely treatment of waste. The collected waste is illegally dumped on our land and the mountain is growing. We had formed a committee and recommended that a new second unit be set up for the city. The committee would lay down ways to enforce construction and demolition waste laws. However, no action has been taken so far. We will take up the issue in the House and seek cancellation of contract,” said Deputy Mayor Sunita Yadav.For processing the debris, the ILFS (the concessionaire for handling C&D waste) has set up a plant at Basai. The Basai C&D waste plant opened in December 2019. As per MCG officials, the plant has a maximum capacity to process around 1,500 tonnes of waste per day. The MCG has also designated five places for primary C and D waste dumping from where the waste is taken to the treatment plant. However, with debris already piled up at the plant even these spots have been converted into permanent dumpyards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-5l-mt-construction-waste-lies-untreated-in-gurugram-292120
03-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Haryana residents block National Highway as Rajasthan units discharge effluents again||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 2The fresh spell of rain on Monday brought misery for residents of various localities in Dharuhera town here as industrial units in adjoining Bhiwadi town of Rajasthan’s Alwar district again discharged liquid waste, inundating streets and houses in Sectors 4, 6, Bajrang Nagar and nearby localities.SDM, officials pacify protestersThe flood-like situation forced the residents not only to hold a protest demonstration but also to disrupt vehicular traffic on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway for around half-an-hour. Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao also joined them and blamed the district authorities for the situation.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav along with other officials rushed to the spot and persuaded the protesters to clear the road. Rao and other officials then took stock of the situation in the residential areas.Acting swiftly, Yadav directed the officers concerned to get stagnant water removed through the Maalpur village drain. The officials were present on the spot to resolve the issue till filing of the report.Deepak of Sector 6 said they were compelled to live in these conditions as the authorities had failed to deter Bhiwadi industrial units from discharging its chemical-mixed waste in their localities. “The dirty water is accumulated in the houses of Sector 6 for the past three days but no one is paying any heed,” he claimed.MLA Chiranjeev Rao said he had raised the issue in the Vidhan Sabha in March and the state government in its reply assured him of resolving the issue permanently while coordinating with Rajasthan in the next three months, but nothing had been done in this respect.“An already built nullah is being widened to drain out the water fast on the land of Malpura village. Since it is a chemical-mixed effluent, it will harm the soil of the village,” said Rao, adding that the nullah should be linked with drain number 8.SDM Ravinder Yadav said efforts were under way to drain out the accumulated water at the earliest through the Malpura drain. The industrial units had been warned not to release its effluents in Dharuhera town, he added.No one paying heedThe dirty water is accumulated in the houses of Sector 6 for the past three days but no one is paying any heed. Deepak, residentEfforts on to drain out accumulated waterEfforts are under way to drain out the accumulated water at the earliest through the Malpura drain. The industrial units have been warned not to release its effluents in Dharuhera town. Ravinder Yadav, SDM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-residents-block-national-highway-as-rajasthan-units-discharge-effluents-again-292115
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Special subsidy scheme to attract mega projects in Haryana||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today announced that the state government had prepared a scheme of ‘Investment subsidy in lieu of net SGST’ to attract investors in the state.Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMFor backward areasTo attract investors in backward areas, the state needs to provide support in setting up infra and better ease of doing system as well as investment subsidy in lieu of net SGST.The projects, ranging from MSMEs to ultra-mega, will be given subsidy under the scheme. He said the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020, had been formulated to make the state a major investment destination, and facilitate balance between regional and sustainable development through an energy-efficient governance system.Dushyant said for first five years, the industry set up in the D-category would be given net SGST of 75% while 35% (maximum 125% of fixed capital investment) would be given for the next three years. Similarly, those in the C-category will get 50% of net SGST for the first five years and 25% for next three years (maximum 100% of fixed capital investment) while the B-category industries would be given 30% of net SGST for the first five years and 15% (maximum of 100% of fixed capital investment) for next three years . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-subsidy-scheme-to-attract-mega-projects-in-haryana-292092
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three months on, Covid cases show 1.5% surge in Haryana||For the first time in nearly three months since the second Covid wave started abating, the fresh weekly cases have witnessed a slight surge of 1.5% in the past seven days.The state saw 203 fresh cases in the past seven days against 200 persons testing positive during the preceding week. Ever since the second wave peaked at 1,01,009 weekly infections from May 3 to 9, the state has been witnessing a regular dip. Now, this is for the first time since May that the weekly fresh cases have recorded a surge, though by merely three cases. The development is particularly worrying since the R Naught value of the virus, also called the reproduction rate, is still constant at 1 for seven weeks.Rajeev Arora, ACS, Health, however, said: “This small surge in cases does not indicate anything. We are closely monitoring the daily positivity rate, which is hovering around 0.1%. Not many people are coming for tests.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-months-on-covid-cases-show-1-5-surge-in-haryana-292068
03-08-2021||Palwal||Palwal flyovers develop potholes within a year||The roads on some flyovers on the NH-19 passing through the district have started crumbling. Built around a year ago, these were opened for commuters to provide them signal-free movement.“The flyovers in the district have developed potholes of various sizes,” said Praveen Garg, a local businessman. “Given the condition of the flyover near Maharana Pratap Chowk in the city, no one would believe that it was built a year ago as the bitumen has already started giving way, exposing the poor quality of work,” he said.Funds to the tune of Rs 18 to 25 crore were spent on each of the flyovers, claim sources.Expressing concern over the damage to the road on the flyover near the HUDA Chowk here within a few months of its inauguration, Subhash Sharma, a social activist here, said the authorities should punish the guilty as the work reeks of corruption.“Damaged roads pose a serious risk not only to lives of commuters but also result in damage to vehicles especially during the rains,” he added.Claiming that the roads on the flyovers near Prithla village of Palwal and Seekri village of Faridabad have also become victim of poor quality, SK Sharma, coordinator, Road Safety Organisation, said a probe must be conducted to expose and punish the guilty.Admitting to the complaints of potholes on three flyovers, Dhiraj Singh, Manager, NHAI, said that while the payment of the contractor had been stopped, the damaged patches had been filled up. Moreover, the re-laying process is expected to begin soon after the monsoon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-flyovers-develop-potholes-within-a-year-292050
03-08-2021||Sushil Manav||Grandpa inspired hockey player Savita Punia, would together hear commentary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2For Savita Punia, Indian women hockey team goalkeeper who proved to be “The Great Wall” on Monday by thwarting every attempt by Australian team to score a goal, listening to the radio commentary of matches with her grandfather during her childhood was always fascinating.This “childhood love” for the sport prompted her to opt for hockey, when her family decided to send Savita and her cousin Manju to a newly launched sports nursery in Sirsa in 2003. “My father Ranjit Singh Punia, though an uneducated farmer, was progressive in his outlook. He would always motivate his children and grandchildren to concentrate on studies and sports, as he knew that with dwindling landholdings, future was in government jobs,” says Savita’s father Mahender Singh Punia, who works as pharmacist at the Primary Health Centre at Ding, near the family’s native Jodhkan village in Sirsa.Since the team’s victory in which Savita saved nine shots at the goal, Mahender’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing.Born on July 11, 1990, Savita has an elder brother who works as a Group D employee in the ITI, Sirsa, and a homemaker mother. Since 2018, Savita has been working as an assistant coach with SAI in Delhi. Within a year of her joining the nursery, Savita’s coach Sunder Singh Kharab identified her qualities as a goalkeeper, looking at her height and agility.“Kharab called me and said if I was ready to train my daughter as a goalkeeper, she would wear Team India jersey one day. I told him I don’t know anything about hockey and will go by whatever he thinks is good for Savita,” remembers her father.But the next condition to buy a kit was too much for Mahender whose monthly income in 2004 was just Rs 12,000 per month and the kit cost over Rs 17,000. However, Savita’s passion was much bigger for him and he didn’t think twice before buying a new kit from Hisar.“During those times, Savita used to travel in roadways buses with her kit. Conductors would often object to keeping the kit in the bus and ask Savita to keep it on the roof instead. Since she knew the hardships her family faced in buying her the kit, she used to feel bad at the attitude of the roadways staff,” Mahender says.In 2007, Savita joined the SAI in Hisar and by 2009 she had already played the Junior Asia Cup, in which India won a bronze. In 2013 Asia Cup, Savita was adjudged the best goalkeeper. Ever since, she has been a consistent player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grandpa-inspired-hockey-player-savita-punia-would-together-hear-commentary-292041
03-08-2021||Kurukshetra||When hockey player Navjot Kaur's father skipped a heartbeat||Satnam Singh, father of the forward player of India’s women’s hockey team, Navjot Kaur, switched off his TV at his home here to calm himself down in the last few minutes of the match against Australia.Satnam Singh said, “It was an intense match and my heartbeat started to increase. To calm myself down, I switched off the television set. The way the girls played bravely against the strong Australian team was commendable.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-hockey-player-navjot-kaurs-father-skipped-a-heartbeat-292006
03-08-2021||---||It’s a matter of pride for state, say Haryana CM Khattar, Anil Vij||Chandigarh, August 2Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij today congratulated both Indian women’s and men’s hockey teams for reaching the semifinals in the Tokyo Olympics.There are nine players from Haryana in the team and the captain of the team, Rani Rampal hails from Shahabad, which was a matter of pride for the people of Haryana, said the CM.Vij expressed the hope that both teams would definitely make a mark in Tokyo and win some medal, making the country proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-a-matter-of-pride-for-state-say-haryana-cm-khattar-anil-vij-291988
03-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Haryana: Dad’s Rani has come a long way despite hurdles||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 2The Indian women’s hockey team led by Shahabad’s Rani Rampal scripted history on Monday by qualifying for the Olympic semifinals for the first time. Her family is being showered with praises and congratulatory messages.Meanwhile, her story of how a malnourished girl, who started practising with a broken stick, became the captain of the Indian women’s hockey team is an example and a source of motivation to many.Rampal, Rani’s fatherPassionate about the gameInitially, there were many hurdles… We were reluctant too but she was unmoved. At last, we gave in and it’s her determination that made us proud.The 26-year-old daughter of a horse cart-puller and a housemaid, her family has experienced many hurdles and seen extreme poverty but her talent, determination and passion towards the sport have taken her to the pinnacle of the game. Given the Khel Ratna last year, she has been a regular in the Indian team after making her debut as a 14-year-old back in 2008, making her the youngest player to play for the national team.Playing in Olympics was her childhood dream and now she is just a victory away from achieving a milestone.Fighting all odds, Rani bought her family a house in 2017. “I finally fulfilled the promise I made to my family and bought them a home. I’m not done yet. This year, I’m determined to repay them and my coach with something they’ve always dreamed of – a gold medal from Tokyo,” she said.Talking to The Tribune, her father Rampal said: “Initially, there were a lot of hurdles, not only due to lack of money but also conservative mindset... At first, we were reluctant and didn’t allow her to play but she was unmoved. So we gave in and it was her determination and passion that made me a proud father today.”He said now many people of our community send their daughters to play hockey and I wish all girls make their parents proud. “We are also thankul to her coach Baldev Singh for his help.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dads-rani-has-come-a-long-way-despite-hurdles-291960
03-08-2021||Sushil Manav ||Goalie Savita Punia, who stood like a wall, loved listening to hockey commentary on radio as a child||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 2  For Savita Punia, the Indian women hockey goalkeeper who proved “The Great Wall” today by thwarting every attempt by Australian team to score a goal, listening to running commentary of hockey matches with her grandfather during her childhood was always fascinating. This “childhood love” for the sport that prompted her to opt for hockey when her family decided to send Savita and her cousin Manju to a newly launched sports nursery in Sirsa in 2003. Read also“My father Ranjit Singh Punia, though an uneducated farmer, was very progressive in his outlook. He would always exhort his children and grandchildren to concentrate on studies and sports, as he knew that with dwindling landholdings, future was in government jobs alone which can either be won by studies or through achievements in sports,” says Savita’s father Mahender Singh Punia, who works as pharmacist under Haryana health department in Primary Health Centre at Ding near the family’s native village Jodhkan in Sirsa. Ever since the victory of the team today in which Savita played a key role by saving 9 shots at the goal by the Australian team, Mahender Punia’s phone has not stopped ringing. Born on July 11, 1990, Savita has an elder brother who works as a Group D employee in Industrial Training Institute, Sirsa, and mother, a homemaker. Since 2018, Savita Punia has been working as an assistant coach with the SAI in Delhi. Within a year of her joining the nursery, Savita’s coach Sunder Singh Kharab identified in her the qualities of a goalkeeper looking at her height and agility. Savita stands 5 feet 7 inches. “The coach called me and said if I was ready to train my daughter as a goalkeeper, he was sure that she would wear Team India jersey one day. I told the coach I don’t know anything about hockey and I will go by whatever he thinks is good for Savita,” remembers her father. But the next condition posed by the coach – buy her a goalkeeper kit – was too much for Mahender Punia whose monthly salary then in 2004 was Rs 12,000 per month and the kit carried a price tag of Rs 17,000 or more. However, Savita’s passion for hockey was much bigger for him and he didn’t think twice to buy a new hockey kit from Hisar for his daughter.  “During those times, Savita had to travel in Haryana roadways buses with her kit and a bag of her clothes whenever she had to participate in a tournament in some other district. The conductors would often object to keeping the kit in the bus and would kick it asking Savita why she has not kept it on the roof of the bus. Since she knew the hardships her family faced in buying her kit, she used to feel very bad at the attitude of the roadways staff while narrating this after returning home,” Mahender Punia recalls. In 2007, Savita joined SAI academy in Hisar and by 2009, she had already played in national team Junior Asia cup where India won a bronze. In 2013 Asia Cup, Savita Punia was adjudged the best goalkeeper of Asia. Ever since, she had been one of the most consistent players of the team. Today, by thwarting repeated attempts by Australia to score a goal against India, she had proved she is among the best goalkeepers of the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/goalie-savita-punia-who-stood-like-a-wall-loved-listening-to-hockey-commentary-on-radio-as-a-child-291861
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||From facing poverty in childhood to fulfilling 'Olympic dream'; Rani Rampal has come a long way||Rani Rampal, who has led the Indian women’s hockey team to the semifinals of the Olympic Games for the very first time, is a living example of the transformative power of sport.Daughter of a cart-puller father and housemaid mother in Haryana’s Shahabad, Rani knew extreme poverty growing up but her talent and perseverance took her to the pinnacle of sport in India – when she was awarded the Khel Ratna last year, she said she had only one dream: an Olympics medal.Now the 26-year-old is just one more victory away from achieving her dream.Rani’s story is not new, for she got into the national team at age 14 and has been around for a long time, but this inspirational story bears retelling.Sports was her dream and also her route out of poverty, and she defied odds such as lack of gear – playing in salwar-kamiz, for instance – or good shoes to play in or even a proper diet.She wanted to escape a life that’s norm for a large number of Indians.“I wanted an escape from my life; from the electricity shortages, to the mosquitoes buzzing in our ear when we slept, from barely having two square meals to seeing our home getting flooded when it rained,” Rani said a few years ago.“My parents tried their best, but there was only so much they could do — papa was a cart-puller and maa worked as a maid.”The road to Tokyo has been very difficult. When she started out playing hockey, she was told by her parents: ‘Ladkiya ghar ka kaam hi karti hai… Girls only do household work and we won’t allow you to play in skirts.”Eventually, her family gave in to her pleadings. Since they did not have a clock, Rani’s mother used to stay awake until early morning to be able to wake Rani up for practice.Probably the best thing that ever happened to her was that she was accepted for training at the Shahabad Hockey Academy. Training under Baldev Singh, a winner of the Dronacharya Award, honed her skills.She has been a regular in the Indian team after making her debut as a 14-year-old back in 2008, making her the youngest player to play for the national team.She made her World Cup debut in 2010, at 15, and scored five of India’s seven goals in the competition.Rani was part of the Indian team which represented India at Rio 2016, the first time the Indian women qualified for the Olympics in 36 years.She had earned 241 international caps till before the Tokyo Olympics and had scored 117 goals.Coming to Tokyo, she scored the goal that clinched India’s berth for the Olympics, in the final qualification match against the United States in Bhubaneswar.In 2017, Rani bought her family a home – just as she had promised. “I finally fulfilled the promise I made to my family and bought them a home. We cried together and held each other tightly,” she said.She can fulfil another promise to herself now, of a medal at an Olympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/from-facing-poverty-in-childhood-to-fulfilling-olympic-dream-rani-rampal-has-come-a-long-way-291832
