04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records three deaths, 27 new cases||Haryana on Wednesday reported three coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the cumulative toll to 9,644, while 27 fresh infections pushed the case count to 7,70,009, according to a bulletin.The new deaths were recorded in Hisar, Jhajjar and Fatehabad districts, the health department’s daily bulletin said.Nine fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in Gurugram and four in Panchkula district.The number of active coronavirus cases stands at 712 and the recovery count at 7,59,653 in the state.Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 98.66 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-three-deaths-27-new-cases-292970
04-08-2021||  Chandigarh||Gender gap: Haryana women fall behind in vaccination drive||Even as the share of women deaths in total Covid casualties jumped to 37.5 per cent in Haryana, their share in the vaccination remains smaller than men.From the start of the pandemic to March 31, there were 1,030 (32.6 per cent) women deaths out of 3,155 total casualties. But the share jumped to 37.5 per cent on August 3, as the last four months-April, May, June, and July-alone contributed 2,588 female deaths.  However, till July 29, against 1,000 men who received the Covid vaccine dose in Haryana, only 806 women reached vaccination centres for the jab. This is far fewer than the Census 2011 sex ratio in the state which was recorded at 879. Even the projected sex ratio is 887 in Haryana for 2021, as per the Census of India report on population projections (2019).  These facts have come to light in a reply of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on August 3 to a question on the gender gap in vaccination in the Rajya Sabha. Till July 29, in Haryana, 62.78 lakh men have received dose against 50.63 women, as per the CoWin portal. The figure of Punjab is worse with just 797 women receiving the vaccination against 1,000 men. The projected sex ratio in Punjab for 2021 is 903.  Chandigarh too presents a poor picture with 777 women receiving dose against 1,000 men. The projected sex ratio here is 847 for 2021.    On the other hand, more women have received doses in Himachal Pradesh than men. Against 1,000 men, 1033 women have received vaccination here. Here, the projected sex ratio is 972 for 2021.  Andhra Pradesh (1,201), Kerala (1,083), Puducherry (1,037), and Chhattisgarh (1,001) too have recorded more women getting vaccinated in comparison to men.  But Dadra and Nagar Haveli (427), Daman and Diu (586), J&K (714), Delhi (740), Nagaland (751), and Uttar Pradesh (757) are on the lower side.  Overall, in the entire country, 876 women have got vaccinated against 1,000 men. The projected sex ratio is 948.  The MoH&FW reasoned, “At the beginning of Covid-19 vaccination program, pregnancy and lactation were contraindications for vaccination. On the basis of the review of available scientific evidence and consensus of stakeholders, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has approved vaccination of lactating women on May 19 and of pregnant women on July 2”.  It added, “Further, States/UTs have been provided detailed guidance on preparing counselling and vaccination plan for pregnant women”. Prof Aswini Nanda, from Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, who has been studying vaccine hesitancy, opined, “The gender gap has to be understood in terms of factors such as pregnant and lactating mothers are late entrants, women being confined to households, and need someone to escort them to vaccination centres, and they tend to ignore their health for the family. They have less access to information on benefits of vaccination.”   “Several women are under influence of rumours on social media that vaccination could affect their fertility and that they wouldn’t be able to conceive. We are fighting back to negate this,” said Sunita Rani, Secretary, Asha Workers Union, Haryana, who is posted in Sonepat.  “The percentage of women will rise as the government has allowed pregnant and lactating mothers. It is not that rumours are influencing women alone. But men also get influenced,” said Pravesh, President, Asha Workers Union, who is posted in Jhajjar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-gap-haryana%C2%A0women-fall-behind-in-vaccination-drive-292937
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Nahri, a village of three Olympians, two Arjunas and one Olympic medallist||The atmosphere at the Nahri village chopal in Sonepat district has been electric after freestyle wrestler Ravi Dahiya (57kg) took to the mat at the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday morning.Close to 500 youth and elderly of two panchayats, Nahri and Nahra, were watching their son’s progress to the final on a giant screen and dancing to the tap of dhol after every victory.At Ravi’s home, father Rakesh Dahiya, a farmer, and mother Urmila Devi, a housewife, are overwhelmed with the cocktail of son’s success and massive support.“The whole village and the country wants Monu (Ravi) to win the gold. We pray to God that his hard work bears fruit,” said the proud father of the Olympic medallist.Ravi Dahiya’s younger brother Pankaj Dahiya could not come home but watched the bouts with his mates at the Chhatrasaal Stadium where he trains as a Greco Roman wrestler.“Ravi came here much earlier. I came here three-four years ago. He has been here since he was 11 years old. Ravi started wrestling at the Hansraj Brahmchari akhada in a village where every child used to try his hand at kushti.”Wrestling runs in the Dahiya clan’s blood. His father used to wrestle in youth but Ravi was impressed by his uncle Rajesh Dahiya’s muscular built who is currently serving as an Assistant Commandant in BSF Rajasthan.The two panchayats of Nahri and Nahra are famed for producing wrestlers, as is almost every village in Sonepat. The village is home to two Arjuna awardee wrestlers Satveer Singh and Mahavir Singh, and two Olympians Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow) and Amit Kumar Dahiya (2012 London). At 18, Amit held the record of being the youngest Indian wrestler to have competed at OlympicsRavi,23, is the latest find from here but he now has an added feather of being an Olympic medallist.“In Sonepat, Delhi’s wrestling arenas, Moni pehalwaan, as Ravi is popularly known, has climbed the ladder of success rapidly after joining the Chhatrasaal stadium. God has always been kind to him by rewarding his hard work instantaneously,” said Harjit Singh, a wrestling coach here.He has won two gold in Asian Championships (2020,2021), bronze at 2019 World Championships in Nur Sultan, silver in World U-23 Championships in Bucharest and silver in 2015 World Junior Wrestling in Salvador da Bahia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-nahri-a-village-of-three-olympians-two-arjunas-and-one-olympic-medallist-292923
04-08-2021||New Delhi||183 people arrested by Delhi Police in connection with protests against farm laws: Govt||Altogether 183 people were arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the farmers’ protests against three agricultural laws enacted last year, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday.Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said that according to the Delhi Police, provisions of sedition or any anti-terror law such as the UAPA have not been invoked in any of the cases registered against the protesting farmers.Replying to a written question, he said, “183 people have been arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the farmers’ protests since 2020 (upto July 20, 2021).”     Several farmer organisations have been protesting at Delhi’s borders blocking vital roads since November last year protesting against the three contentious farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/183-people-arrested-by-delhi-police-in-connection-with-protests-against-farm-laws-govt-292910
04-08-2021||Ludhiana||PO wanted by Haryana Police held in Ludhiana||The special branch cell of the Ludhiana police nabbed a proclaimed offender (PO) wanted by the Haryana Police.In-charge of the special branch Beant Juneja said on information provided by the SSP, Kaithal, the special Branch arrested PO Harvinder Singh, a resident of Bishanpura in Khanna district.The accused was wanted in a theft case registered against him by the Kaithal police in 2005, inspector Juneja said, adding that the accused was declared a PO on July 16, 2010, and he was absconding since then.Juneja said during the investigation, it had been found that the accused had total six cases of theft registered against him in various districts of Punjab and Haryana. After nabbing Harvinder, he was handed over to the Kaithal police for necessary action.A few days ago, the special branch had also nabbed another proclaimed offender, Raj Kumar of Shimlapuri, wanted by the Kaithal police in a drug case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/po-wanted-by-haryana-police-held-in-ludhiana-292766
04-08-2021||Faridabad||Garbage spills onto main road in Faridabad||Tonnes of garbage have been dumped on the main road (Byepass road) here leading to problems for commuters besides creating unhygienic conditions. The authorities have been blamed for the mismanagement. The work has been outsourced to a private company at a cost of several crores.Official sources said hurdles had come in clearing the garbage from the transfer stations and shifting points ( Khattas) due to the rainy season and space crunch at the main dumping site in Bandhwari village. They said it had delayed the lifting process from the transfer stations. The city has 13 transfer stations and 250 shifting points. The Bypass road is running parallel to the national highway from the Badarpur border to Kelly village to ease the traffic congestion on the main highway. The Municipal Corporation, Faridabad (MCF), had outsourced the work of waste disposal in November 2017. Around 800 tonnes of waste is churned out daily. While it is revealed that an amount of Rs 1.5 crore is paid for the work. Several notices have been issued to the company for the alleged shoddy work in the past few years.Claiming that garbage dumping on the Bypass road and in open spots, including green belts have become common, Varun Sheokand, a resident, said this had not only led to problems for commuters, but also a cause for concern as cows gathered around these dumps to find food. “We are getting 10 to 12 calls every day regarding the incidents of stray cattle getting injured in accidents or consuming the waste,”said Ravi Dubey of the People for Animals Trust, an NGO, engaged in the taking care of animals. “ Presence of stray cattle on the roads also exposes the tall claims of shifting these to goshalas that receive grants from the government,” says Vishnu Goel, a social activist.“Though the problem is temporary, the matter will be taken up on a priority basis to improve the civic amenities ,’’ said Yashpal Yadav, who has taken over as the new Commissioner of the MCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-spills-onto-main-road-in-faridabad-292657
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||99.75% students from Haryana pass Class X exams||UHS VC given warm send-offRohtak:A farewell ceremony was organised for Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) Vice-Chancellor Prof (Dr) OP Kalra at Rohtak PGIDS. Professor Kalra expressed his gratitude towards the government for reposing faith in him and thanked his colleagues for working as a team during his successive tenures. He praised the sincere efforts put in by PGIDS Principal Dr Sanjay Tewari for taking the institute to new heights. Acting Vice-Chancellor of UHS and Director of Rohtak PGIMS Dr Rohtash K Yadav, UHS registrar Dr HK Agarwal, PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya, former Rohtak MLA Manish Grover and RSS functionaries Sita Ram Vyas, Subhash Ahuja and Ravinder Saxena were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/99-75-students-from-haryana-pass-class-x-exams-292658
04-08-2021||Yamunanagar||13 sanitation staff found absent from duty in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||In a surprise inspection, 13 sanitation workers were on Tuesday were found absent from duty without prior information in four wards of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.The inspection was conducted by Ashok Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, along with Harjeet Singh, Chief Sanitary Inspector. According to information, the Deputy Municipal Commissioner conducted the inspection at Jhanda Chowk in Ward 2 of Jagadhri at 7 am, where he found one worker absent out of the total 30 sanitation workers deputed in that area. Then he reached near the gurdwara in Ward 4, where nine sanitary workers were found absent. In this area, total 25 sanitary workers were deputed for sweeping work.At Durga Garden in Ward 6, one worker was absent out of the total 27 sanitation workers. Later, he went to Shanti Colony in the Chitta Mandir area of Ward 11 and found two workers absent here out of the total 18 workers deputed in the area.Ashok Kumar said those not found reporting on duty were marked absent in the attendance registers .He further said they had also been issued notices and explanations were sought from them in this connection.“We are strict against indiscipline. Therefore, the sanitation workers, who were found absent, have been asked to give reasons for not being on duty,” said Ashok Kumar.Sources said the sanitation workers did not come regularly to sweep in several areas and garbage and littering on roads were visible in the absence of proper sanitation work. “No cleaning is being done regularly in several areas of the two cities and the garbage is not being removed properly,” said Sushil Kumar, a resident of Jagadhri.The Deputy Municipal Commissioner further said officials had been asked to focus on cleanliness in the twin cities on a priority basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-sanitation-staff-found-absent-from-duty-in-yamunanagar-jagadhri-292660
04-08-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Snatchers’ gang busted in Gurugram||Gurugram police today busted a gang of bike-borne snatchers and have nabbed three in this regard. A gold chain and 8 mobile phones have been recovered from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Sahil, resident of Aasan village in Rohtak; Ajay, resident of Rewari; and Harsh of Sector 5, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/snatchers-gang-busted-in-gurugram-292662
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drones to be used in mapping of urban areas for building infra in 18 cities, towns in Haryana||The Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department will use drones in mapping of urban areas for developing infrastructure in 18 cities and towns of the state.Dusmanta Kumar Bahera, Director of Urban Local Bodies Department, Haryana, confirmed that the Ministry of Civil Aviation had permitted the department to use drones for mapping 18 urban areas for developing their infrastructure under the Centre’s Amrut scheme.Places where drones are to be usedThe 18 places in which the Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department has got the permission to use drones for mapping are — Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat, Thanesar and Yamunanagar.The ministry has granted the directorate “conditional exemption” from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for one year.Under the Central Government’s Amrut scheme, the state government plans to provide basic services — including water supply, sewerage and urban transport — to households and build amenities in cities which will improve the quality of life for all, especially the poor and the disadvantaged.“The exemption has been allowed for data acquisition, mapping, and implementation of the web-based GIS (geographic information system) platform for the development of Amrut cities and property tax survey for Hisar, Panchkula, Ambala urban areas,” said a letter issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation.The 18 cities for which the Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department has got the permission to use drones for mapping are — Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat, Thanesar and Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drones-to-be-used-in-mapping-of-urban-areas-for-building-infra-in-18-cities-towns-in-haryana-292664
04-08-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Gurugram: 20-year-old youth thrashed to death||A 20-year-old youth from Uttar Pradesh was beaten to death by a group of men on the suspicion of being a molester’s accomplice, who had harassed a Class XI girl.The deceased has been identified as Anuj Kumar Gautam. According to the police, the girl alleged that an unidentified biker molested her on her way to the badminton academy. She said the deceased did not stop the molester and this made her suspect him, the police added.She called her father and informed him that a biker was stalking her. The father complained in the academy, after which the badminton coach, along with the caretaker of the academy, reached the spot and took away the youth and his brother-in-law Sanjay Kumar to the academy, where they beat the 20-year-old to death.The police have nabbed Binda Prasad, the caretaker, and have named the badminton coach of the victim as the other accused.“A car stopped and asked us about the biker who had misbehaved with the girl. We told them that we knew nothing but they pulled Anuj and I in their car. They took us to the academy where they tied our hands and legs and interrogated us. They beat us with sticks and iron rods, leaving Anuj unconscious,” said Sanjay. An FIR has been registered against three persons under Sections 147, 149, 323, 364 and 302 of the IPC at Sector 10-A police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-20-year-old-youth-thrashed-to-death-292668
04-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Minister recommends suspension of 3 MC staff in Pehowa||Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh on Monday held a surprise visit at the Pehowa Municipal Committee and recommended suspension of three MC employees, including a Junior Engineer, and sanitary inspector for negligence in duty and issued a show-cause notice to an accountant for coming late.Sandeep Singh said, “There were complaints against the officials of the Municipal Committee following which I visited the office and found several irregularities. The officials leave their offices on Friday and don’t return till Monday afternoon.”“The sanitation condition is also very poor in the town area. Files in the offices are pending since January”, he further said.“Junior Engineer Om Prakash, Sanitary Inspector Minakshi, and Beldar Dalbir are being suspended while a show-cause notice has been issued to an accountant for coming late”, the minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-recommends-suspension-of-3-mc-staff-in-pehowa-292669
04-08-2021||Garbage has been dumped outside the boundary wall of a water-boosting station in Sector 8||Cleanliness goes for a toss in Panchkula sector||Broken drain threat to life in Ambala villageA broken drain without cover in Kambasi village poses threat to life as many accidents have taken place here. Despite endless complaints, the authorities concerned have not resolved the issue. It should be covered immediately to avoid any mishap. — Sameer Bakshi, AmbalaStinking rainwater in drain poses health riskIn Narwana, the main road from Vishwakarma Chowk to Dhakal head, which passes through a very thickly populated area, is flooded since a long time. Shopkeepers on both sides of the road are losing business day by day. The accumulated stinking rainwater in it has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes, which is hazardous for all residents living nearby. The administration should drain out the water immediately. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cleanliness-goes-for-a-toss-in-panchkula-sector-292671
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||148% hike likely in MD, MS course fee in Haryana||Doctors aspiring to enrol in MD/MS courses in private medical colleges in Haryana for 2021-22 session will have to shell out a hefty amount with the Haryana Government proposing a nearly 148 per cent increase in fee. The fee is set to go up to Rs 22 lakh per annum as against the existing nearly 8.85 lakh.Sources said the highest tuition fee of Rs 20 lakh per annum is to be effected for the clinical specialties, including general surgery, general medicine, orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, ophthalmology, anaesthesiology, radiotherapy and respiratory medicine.Provision of 10% hike per yearHowever, para-clinical specialties such as forensic medicine, pathology, microbiology and community medicine will have a tuition fee of Rs 11.5 lakh per annum.The pre-clinical specialties, including anatomy, physiology and biochemistry, will have an annual fee of Rs 9.5 lakh. There is a provision of 10 per cent hike per year for the three-year course, sources said.Besides, the tuition fee, the candidates will have to shell out nearly Rs 2 lakh annually on other expenses, including hostel charges. The revised fee structure will be applicable for postgraduate courses (MD/MS) of all private unaided medical colleges affiliated to Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.A saving grace will be the payment of a monthly stipend of Rs 50,000 to all postgraduate students doing MD/MS as per the National Medical Commission (NMC) norms.The Department of Medical Education and Research, Haryana, has come out with the new fee structure on the recommendations of the Fee Fixation Committee constituted under the Haryana Private Health Sciences Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Maintenance of Educational Standards), Act, 2012.It may be recalled that MD/MS studies in government medical colleges and government-aided colleges are much cheaper. In the 2020-21 academic session, the annual fee for government medical colleges was pegged at about Rs 35,000.Similarly, the fee for these courses in Maharaja Aggarsain Medical College, Agroha (Hisar), a government-aided institute, was around Rs 1.7 lakh, including Rs 1 lakh tuition fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/148-hike-likely-in-md-ms-course-fee-in-haryana-292672
04-08-2021||New Delhi||Illegal structures on Aravalli forestland in Faridabad’s Khori village have to go: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court today made it clear that all illegal structures on the Aravali forestland in Faridabad’s Khori village would have to be demolished.“Our order is very clear that all unauthorised structures on the forestland will have to go,” a Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar said.200 constructions razed at KhoriFaridabad: The Faridabad Municipal Corporation razed another 200 constructions at Khori on Tuesday, the 21st day of the drive. Majority of the constructions removed on Tuesday are located in the vicinity of Delhi border, but fall in the forest area of Faridabad. TNSThe Bench, which had on July 23 given four weeks to the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to remove encroachments from the forestland, asked the MC Commissioner to submit a status report by August 23 and posted the matter for further hearing on August 25.The Haryana Government counsel said the state needed to invite objections and the policy would be finalised within two-three weeks.“Something should be done by the state. They cannot wash off their hands. Temporary arrangement should be made,” said one of the petitioners regarding rehabilitation of those being evicted.The MC counsel said arrangements such as beds, toilets and food had already been made available.A group of people have approached the top court claiming they have their own land which was being used for hosting marriage functions. “If it is on the forestland, they have to abide by our order,” the Bench said, adding, it would hear the matter on August 6, along with other pending pleas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-on-aravalli-forestland-in-faridabads-khori-village-have-to-go-supreme-court-292673
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm leader Dalbir Singh who spoke ‘against Haryana CM Khattar’ gets bail||Freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday asserted while granting regular bail to farm leader Dalbir Singh.He had delivered speeches, which according to the state, had objectionable contents regarding Haryana Chief Minister. The state’s stand was that the speeches could have resulted in caste-based division, creating a threat to peace and harmony.Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the court has no occasion to consider the merits of the allegations in detail while dealing with the petitions for grant of regular bail. “Suffice to say that freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy. At this stage, must hasten to add that embargo to freedom of speech is prescribed in Article 19 of the Constitution of India itself”.Dalbir had moved the High Court against the state of Haryana by filing two petitions through senior advocate Randeep Surjewala and counsel R Kartikeya for regular bail in FIRs registered on February, 22, 2017, and May 24 at Sadar police station in Jind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-leader-dalbir-singh-who-spoke-against-haryana-cm-khattar-gets-bail-292674
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||1.8 lakh more get jabbed in Haryana||Haryana reported 26 fresh Covid cases and two deaths on Tuesday. The total vaccinations against Covid were pegged at 1,23,08,972 with 1,80,651 more persons being vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-8-lakh-more-get-jabbed-in-haryana-292675
04-08-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court rejects Haryana Additional Sessions Judge’s petition on compulsory retirement||The Supreme Court has rejected a Haryana Additional Sessions Judge’s petition challenging a Full Court decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recommending his compulsory retirement from service with immediate effect for multiple unexplained bank transactions that went against judicial ethics.“Considering the facts and circumstances on record and in view of the record indicating that there were multiple transactions showing deposits and withdrawals of substantial amounts of money, it cannot be said that the Full Court was not justified in taking the view that it did. We do not find any reason to take a different view in the matter,” a Bench led by Justice UU Lalit said in an order on Monday.Additional Sessions Judge Rajinder Goel had challenged the December 14, 2020 recommendation of the Full Court of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recommending his compulsory retirement and the consequential order dated January 5 of the Haryana Governor accepting the Full Court’s recommendation.The Bench had advised Goel to approach the High Court first but his counsel said he wanted to pursue his remedies before the top court. Later, he changed his mind but the Bench refused to allow him to go back to the High Court, saying it had already reserved the judgment.The petitioner joined Haryana Judicial Services on February 16, 1996 and was promoted in 2008 to the Haryana Superior Judicial Services. Pursuant to certain complaints made against him, including one made by the Bar Association, an inquiry was conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-rejects-haryana-additional-sessions-judges-petition-on-compulsory-retirement-292676
04-08-2021||Rohtak||Pay Rs 50 K to student tortured in police custody, Haryana govt told||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has asked the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 to a student of CR Jat College, Hisar, who was allegedly tortured in police custody.Surya, who was the main accused in a case registered at Civil Lines police station in Hisar, was arrested from the college when he had gone to appear in his BA-III exam.Surya’s father, Ajit Singh, later lodged a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The NHRC transferred the complaint to the HHRC on January 24, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pay-rs-50-k-to-student-tortured-in-police-custody-haryana-govt-told-292677
04-08-2021||Kurukshetra||‘We didn’t allow financial woes to hamper Navjot Kaur’||She was just 11 when she started playing hockey in Shahabad and at that time, we never imagined that she will be representing the country in the Olympics, said Satnam Singh, father of Indian women team’s midfielder Navjot Kaur.After stunning the Australians, now all eyes are set for the Wednesday’s big game against Argentina.“Navjot (25) is the eldest of the three siblings. During childhood, Navjot expressed her wish to play. I am a shocker mechanic by profession, but somehow we managed everything. We never told her about any financial issues. Now, she has made us proud. Her coach Baldev Singh has played a crucial role in grooming many Shahabad players,” said Satnam Singh.Navjot made her debut for the senior team in 2012 and it’s her second appearance in the Olympics this year. She was a part of the team in Rio Olympics in 2016. Navjot had also participated in the 2017 Asia Cup when the team won the gold and the 2018 Asian Games when it clinched the silver medal.At present, Navjot, a BA graduate, is working at the Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala.“She plays forward as well as a midfielder for the team. We haven’t been able to talk to her much after the historic match. We’ve been watching all matches closely and the girls have done a commendable job so far. The way they have played against mighty Australia, we are confident that the will continue their winning streak,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/we-didnt-allow-financial-woes-to-hamper-navjot-kaur-292678
04-08-2021||Sonepat||A journey from abject poverty to fame for hockey midfielder Neha Goyal||Neha Goyal, 25, a midfielder in the Indian women hockey team, has covered her way from a “toxic” atmosphere at her home to Tokyo Olympics by facing a life of intense struggle and hardships.“Pritam Siwach, Arjuna awardee, who runs a hockey academy here, spotted her when she was only nine,” said Monika, elder sister of Neha. “Our financial condition was not good and our father was not living with us. That’s why we couldn’t afford her sports kit and other equipment.”Our father used to drink a lot and used abusive language when he came home, said Monika. He passed away four years ago, with only our mother Savitri Devi taking care of all three sisters, she said.“We have our own house in only 30 sq m land. It got damaged and we had no money for its repair. So, we went to live in a rented single room in the industrial area,” she added.Our mother has fulfilled all our basic needs by working in a foam factory. Monika said Neha had started supporting the family now and had also bought the adjoining house.Meanwhile, Pritam gave her sports shoes, uniform and hockey stick. He said she worked hard and cemented her position in the hockey team, which created history, making it a proud moment for our academy, where around 150 girls were playing presently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-journey-from-abject-poverty-to-fame-for-hockey-midfielder-neha-goyal-292679
04-08-2021||Sonepat||Family wanted Nisha Warsi to quit hockey, but she changed their mindset||Nisha Warsi (26), a member of the Indian women’s hockey team, lives in a 25 sq m house in West Ram Nagar colony in the city with her family.She has not only brought a change in the mindset of her parents but also won laurels for the entire nation after the team’s sterling performance in the Tokyo Olympics.Sohrab Ahmad, father of Nisha, told The Tribune that she was his third daughter.We could not afford her expenditure on sports, but her passion for games and support of our relatives and her coach helped her achieve the goal, he said.A tailor by profession and living in a rented accommodation, he was the only bread-earner of their family till 2016, when he had a paralytic stroke, making him quit his work.Her mother, Mahroon, worked in a foam-manufacturing factory for a few years before Nisha landed a job with the Railways. We purchased a 25 sq m house in the same vicinity after she got a job in the Railways, said her father. “Now, Nisha is the only bread-earner for our family,” he added.“Nisha and Neha Goyal (another hockey player) were studying in the same school. Nisha started playing at the age of 9,” he said. She went to play at the academy of Pritam Siwach in the industrial area.Sohrab said, “I was thinking that she is a girl and what will she do by playing games. But I was wrong and my daughter has changed my mindset.”Selection in the Indian hockey team and to qualify for the Olympics was her dream and she fulfilled this with her hard work. Not only the family members but all Indians are feeling proud today.At one point, Nisha was about to quit the game as her family was forcing her to get married after she joined the Railways, but she wanted to play more for India, said Pritam Rani Siwach, who nurtured the hockey player in her academy.“I called her parents to the ground and convinced them to allow her to play and fulfil her dreams,” said Siwach.It was a very big achievement for our hockey team in which three players — Neha Goyal, Nisha Warsi and Sharmila — were from our academy, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/family-wanted-nisha-warsi-to-quit-hockey-but-she-changed-their-mindset-292681
04-08-2021||Hisar||Hockey star Sharmila rings mom, says will bring gold||The family of hockey star Sharmila is elated at the team’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics.After their quarterfinal win, Sharmila called up her mother Santosh Devi and said they would bring home the gold medal. Talking to reporters, Santosh said they were getting numerous calls from their relatives and friends congratulating them. “We hope and pray that our daughters strike gold and bring laurels for the country.”Sharmila’s brother Maan Singh said his sister had got a back injury while playing, but the pain turned into joy with the team’s victory.Their parents, Suresh Kumar and Santosh Devi, visited the local hockey ground and distributed laddoos to celebrate the performances of the country’s men and women hockey teams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hockey-star-sharmila-rings-mom-says-will-bring-gold-292682
04-08-2021||Hisar||‘Hockey player Udita Duhan has fulfilled her late dad’s dream’||Looking up to her late father, a former handball player, Udita Duhan too wanted to join the sport but had to switch to hockey after her coach did not turn up in the ground for three days.On seeing her late father Jasbir Singh, who was posted as ASI in Hisar, play handball, she got inclined towards sports in her early years. Initially, she started playing handball but later expressed her desire to change the sport to her mother. This switch sealed her fate.Hailing from Bhiwani’s Nangal village, Udita gave up the ball and picked up the stick and has not looked back since. She was soon picked up by the SAI and her career was fast-tracked as a professional hockey player.The switch that changed her fateSeeing her father Jasbir Singh play handball, Udita Duhan got inclined towards sports in her early years. Initially, she started playing handball but later decided to switch to hockey after her coach didn’t show up for the classes for three days in a row. Udita then gave up the ball and picked up the stick and has not looked back since. She has emerged as one of the rising stars of the Indian women hockey team.After her initial success, she continued performing well and it was only a matter of time before she was selected in the junior hockey team to represent India. However, she suffered a setback when her father died in 2015. Her mother Geeta Devi took reins of the family and encouraged Udita set her eyes for a berth in the Indian team. “She has realised the dream of her father,” says Geeta Devi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hockey-player-udita-duhan-has-fulfilled-her-late-dads-dream-292683
04-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Aim for greater glory, say debutant Navneet Kaur’s kin||Excited family members of women hockey team’s forward player Navneet Kaur, who hails from Shahabad in Kurukshetra, have high hopes and are confident that they will return with the gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics.Navneet’s father Buta Singh, a farmer, said: “We are excited for Wednesday’s game. We are happy with the performances of the girls so far. Navneet had also scored a goal against Ireland, which helped the team remain in the race for the gold. We knew their match against Australia was a tough one, but the way they played has been commendable. Now, they should aim for greater glory while playing against Argentina in the semifinal.”Navneet (25), who started playing when she was just seven, made her debut in the senior Indian team in 2014. This is her maiden appearance in the Olympics. She is a BA second-year student at the KU and a chief travelling ticket travelling inspector in the Western Railway.“We don’t fear the stronger opponents anymore. We have been practising hard and are ready to play,” Navneet said.“Our excitement knows no bounds. We are just waiting for their next game. There is a hockey ground just opposite to our house in Shahabad. After seeing the players practising there, she showed interest to play hockey. Initially, we told her that it is a tough game but it’s her determination and hard work that she is representing her country today. Her coach Baldev Singh has played a crucial role in grooming her,” Buta added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aim-for-greater-glory-say-debutant-navneet-kaurs-kin-292684
04-08-2021||Panchkula||Haryana CM Khattar launches ‘Har Hith’ store scheme in Panchkula||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the first-of-its-kind ‘Har Hith’ store scheme to promote the sale of quality products of daily need at reasonable prices.As many as 2,000 stores will be launched in the first phase – 1,500 in rural and 500 in urban areas. The number of stores will later be extended to 5,000 in the first phase.“These stores will provide a platform to youth franchisees as well as micro small and medium enterprises, government cooperative institutions, farmer producer organisations and self-help groups for increasing their business,” said Khattar while inaugurating a store in Panchkula.As per the scheme franchise policy, people in the age group of 18-35, women, person with special disabilities, young members of families having annual income less than Rs1.80 lakh and those verified under the Mukhyamantri Parviar Uthan Yojana would be given preference.“The state government will also guarantee a minimum monthly income of Rs15,000 per month through these stores. As per the sale provision made in the Har Hith store scheme, the franchise partner, who sells products worth Rs1.50 lakh will earn a marginal profit of 10 per cent that is Rs15,000,” the CM said.The Chief Minister said: “Making Haryana “Berojgar Mukt, Rozgar Yukt” by 2024 is our target and opening of these stores will encourage entrepreneurship and further create an ecosystem that promotes youth to be a part of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal and Cooperation Minister Dr Banwari Lal were also present. — TNS Mudra Loan facilityIf the applicant for the franchise is financially weak, the state government will provide a loan facility under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana without any guarantee. Apply onlineThose interested for the franchise can apply on the official website - www.harhithh.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-launches-har-hith-store-scheme-in-panchkula-291971
