05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana formulates policy to create land banks; move to check distress sale of land by farmers||In a bid to prevent distress sale of land by farmers, the Haryana government has provided an option to them by formulating a policy to create land banks for government departments, boards and corporations, an official statement said here on Thursday.Under this policy, farmers can advise the state government for selecting a site for the development project at a particular place.A decision to this regard was taken in the meeting of the Council of Ministers under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here.This policy may be called the Policy for Creating Land Bank for the Government Department, including Boards and Corporations and disposal thereof for development projects, the statement said.The Cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to a proposal regarding to grant extension in service in respect of the employees of four departments for a period of one month who were going to retire on April 30, 2021, on attaining the age of superannuation in view of the emergent situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic.The employees of the four departments are Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Medical Education and Research Department, Health and Family Welfare and Panchayats Department.In a bid to reduce the financial burden of farmers in transactions in respect of exchange of cultivable agriculture land, the Cabinet accorded approval regarding a proposal for consideration of remission of stamp duty.The Cabinet has approved that only a nominal duty at the rate of Rs 5,000 per deed of registration will be chargeable.The Cabinet accorded approval to five affordable rental housing policies namely policy for planned development of Retirement Housing, Affordable Rental Housing, Policy for planned Development of Student Rental Housing, Policy for planned Development of Medico Assisted Living Facilities and Policy for planned Development of working Women’s hostel.The Cabinet also approved the creation of a new department namely Human Resources Department under Chief Secretary.The scope of the department will be regulation of service conditions of all government posts.The Cabinet accorded approval for designating existing Hisar Airport as Maharaja Agrasen Airport, Hisar.The Cabinet also accorded approval for the establishment of a company for deployment of manpower in government departments, boards, corporations, statutory entities, state universities.The Cabinet decided to convene the monsoon session of the state assembly from August 20. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-formulates-policy-to-create-land-banks-move-to-check-distress-sale-of-land-by-farmers-293525
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt announces Rs 4 crore reward for wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya||The Haryana government on Thursday announced a reward of Rs 4 crore for the wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya for winning a silver medal at Tokyo Olympics.The wrestler will get a Class I government job as per the state’s policy and a plot of land at 50 per cent concession.An indoor stadium for wrestling would be constructed in his village.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday congratulated wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya.Ravi Kumar got the silver after losing 4-7 to Zavur Uguev of Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) in the final on Thursday.Khattar, who watched the match on television, announced a reward of Rs 4 crore for the wrestler along with a Class I government job, as per the state’s policy.An indoor wrestling stadium will be built at Nahari village in Sonepat district, the native place of Ravi Kumar, he said.Khattar also said that Dahiya has not only won the heart of Haryana, but the entire country is elated with his achievement.“I wish you achieve new heights of success,” the chief minister said. With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-announces-rs-4-crore-reward-for-wrestler-ravi-kumar-dahiya-293493
05-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Watch video: Wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya got bitten by opponent during last few seconds at Olympic semis||Chandigarh, August 5Kazakhstan's Nurislam Sanayev's got his teeth into the Tokyo 2020 Games, but his rival Ravi Kumar Dahiya of India wasn't expecting to find them cutting into his skin.Sanayev lost to Kumar by fall, in a bantamweight match in freestyle wrestling on Wednesday at Tokyo's Makuhari Messe Hall.In a statement on Thursday, the international wrestling governing body, United World Wresting (UWW), said that the bite action was prohibited, but unintentional.Noor Islam doing what he could do the best. pic.twitter.com/qFaxy8E6MT  "It was concluded that the action taken was an unintentional reaction," UWW said."Based on the discussion and review of the incident no disciplinary action will be taken based on the conclusion of the incident." According to the rules enforced by the UWW, wrestlers are forbidden to pull the hair, ears, genitals, pinch the skin, bite, twist fingers or toes of their opponents.In the last few seconds of the semifinal, Ravi was trying to pin down Sanayev upon getting a good grip on his leg and that was the only way he could have won that match. Ravi did complete his move and get the victory but with a sting. Unfazed, Kumar will face Russian Zaur Uguev for the gold medal later on Thursday.A post shared by Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag)   "How unfair is this, couldn’t hit our Ravi Kumar Dahiya's spirit, so bit his hand. Disgraceful Kazakh loser...Ghazab Ravi, bahut seena chaunda kiya aapne," wrote India former cricketer Virender Sehwag on Instagram and also shared pictures of Dahiya getting bitten on his arm by Sanayev. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/watch-video-wrestler-ravi-kumar-dahiya-got-bitten-by-opponent-during-last-few-seconds-at-olympic-semis-293430
05-08-2021||Karnal||Karnal: NCC officers honoured||College Principals' AssociationAmbala: The Haryana Government Aided College Principals' Association unanimously elected Dr Ashok Kumar, Principal, Markanda National College, Shahabad Markanda (Kurukshetra) as president of the association. Prior to it, he acted as the finance secretary of the association for two years. Other office-bearers include Dr S Singh Rana and Dr Rajshri got elected as general secretary and finance secretary, respectively. The meeting got convened at DAV College, Sadhura.9 research proposals given grantFaridabad: To motivate young researchers in the university and to promote research environment, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has sanctioned nine research proposals of newly appointed faculty members and granted a sum of Rs18 lakh for their research proposals as seed grant under the research policy of the university. Under the policy, the university provides a maximum of Rs 2 lakh to the selected projects of faculty members. VC Prof Dinesh Kumar distributed the seed money grants to the selected faculty members in a programme organised by the research and development section. Prof Kumar said the university was committed to fostering a research culture by encouraging various research initiatives.Varsity selected for LITE programmeFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been selected for AICTE's leadership in teaching excellence (LITE) programme. Further, the university will be upgraded as 'AICTE brand ambassador of change' to implement online teaching-learning methods that are aligned with National Education Policy, 2020. Two faculty members Dr Payal Gulati and Amita Arora, assistant professors in computer engineering have been selected for the leadership training in teaching excellence under the programme. LITE is a national programme to select and equip academic institutions with teaching excellence in software industry standards and become an aspirational benchmark for other academic institutions across the country. Chairperson of computer engineering Prof. Komal Kumar Bhatia said that 475 academic institutions from 28 states applied for the LITE programme.Interactive session on civil servicesFaridabad: The Civil Services Forum under the career and counselling cell of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, in collaboration with the YMCA Alumni Association organised a panel discussion with civil services officers on the topic 'Civil services: A rewarding career with opportunities to serve'. The session was presided over by Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. IPS Dr Anshu Singla explained about the two main divisions of the career being motivation and preparation. She also emphasised on good reading and writing skills. Nishant Jain, Director, Rajasthan Tourism, explained to the students why one should opt for UPSC and why it has a major role in the development of the country. He also talked about the importance of plan-B in life. Vishakha Yadav, Assistant Commissioner, Delhi, emphasised on hard work, time management and consistency to achieve great results and to also focus on previous year questions and test series to improve scores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-ncc-officers-honoured-293182
05-08-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Muddy water being supplied in Bhiwani localities||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Muddy water being supplied in Bhiwani localitiesMuddy water is being supplied in the localities of Haluwas gate and Jahargiri Ashram in Bhiwani town for the past many days. The residents have to purchase water from private suppliers. The local administration need to take note of the problem and act immediately. Dr Himanshu Sharma, BhiwaniFarmers face problem registering on govt portalThe Haryana Government has made it mandatory for farmers to register themselves on "Meri Fasal Mera Byora" portal for official sale of their crops. There are many khasra numbers of farmers' land located in Karnal town, which have already been divided. There is also a lot of shamlat land, which is occupied by the farmers as shareholders and they are also cultivating that land. But so far, the Khasra numbers of these land have not been uploaded on the online Jamabandi portal. Due to which the registration of such land is not being done on the portal and the farmers are making rounds of government offices. The government should immediately pay attention to this and solve the problems of farmers at the earliest. Shakti Singh, KarnalCivic issues should be addressed at the earliestResidents of Sector 7, Ambala City, are facing several civic issues. The drains are blocked and overflowing. Besides, garbage is seen scattered on roads. Stray animals are also posing threat to commuters as they roaming freely. Where are the municipal staff and officers? Arun Kumar, Ambala City||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/muddy-water-being-supplied-in-bhiwani-localities-293183
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Online transfer policy in Haryana||MoU with Walmart signedChandigarh: The state government on Wednesday signed an MoU with Walmart Vriddhi and Haqdarshak in the presence of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. “With the help of e-commerce companies such as Walmart, the state government will be able to showcase the products of traditional weavers and handicraftsmen at the international level,” said Dushyant. TNSContractors warnedKarnal: The contractors of the buildings of two under-construction government women colleges have been directed to finish the work by August 31, otherwise they would be blacklisted. This was ordered by DC Nishant Kumar Yadav during his surprise visit to the Government College for Women in Dadupur and Jaisinghpura villages. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-transfer-policy-in-haryana-293178
05-08-2021||Karnal||Karnal MC officials get notices for illegal colonies||DC Nishant Kumar Yadav has served showcause notices on the secretaries of the Assandh and Indri municipal committees for failing to take action against illegal colonies that have mushroomed in the past few years. “I will write to the headquarters if the secretaries continue to be negligent,” said the DC at a meeting here today. District Town Planner Vikram Kumar informed the DC that illegal colonies at Gudha village , Madhuban and Assandh grain market were demolished in April and May. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-officials-get-notices-for-illegal-colonies-293002
05-08-2021||---||Protests planned over shifting of fire department staff||Chandigarh, August 4Upset over being put under the Revenue Department, employees of the fire and emergency services will protest outside Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij’s residence in Ambala on August 8. At present, they are under the Local Bodies Department.On August 14, fire services employees, sanitation workers and even contractual workers will hold a procession in Rohtak. The Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh (Local Bodies Employees Union) will protest on August 17 with black flags in 90 cities across the state. For August 24 and 25, a chain hunger strike has been planned. On August 27, the employees have planned to take one-day leave.Naresh Kumamr Shastri, president of the Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh, said the government should explain on whose demand the employees of the fire and emergency services were being shifted to the Revenue Department and how it would be beneficial for the people of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protests-planned-over-shifting-of-fire-department-staff-293003
05-08-2021||---||Dial 112 emergency service gets 705 calls in Yamunanagar district||Yamunanagar, August 4Dial 112, emergency helpline number, has received 705 calls in Yamunanagar district in the past 19 days.In 38 per cent cases, the emergency response vehicles reached the spot within 10 minutes and in 43 per cent cases, those reached within 20 minutes. “Dial 112 emergency helpline service started working from July 12 and it has received 705 calls in Yamunanagar district till July 30,” said Kamaldeep Goyal, Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar.He said that the team of this helpline service had been doing excellent work in Yamunanagar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dial-112-emergency-service-gets-705-calls-in-yamunanagar-district-293004
05-08-2021||Gurugram||Daughter of noted singer ‘molested’ in Gurugram||A 48-year-old woman was allegedly molested by the husband of her late father’s physician. The victim is the daughter of a late renowned devotional singer.The accused has been identified as Shaym Kohli (57).According to the complaint filed by the woman, it was in November 2020 when her father was admitted in a local hospital that Kohli made contact with her through his wife, who was her father’s physician. “Shyam started coming to my home in November 2020 and used to touch me inappropriately. I was in trauma after my father’s death in January 2021 to say anything but now I want strict action against the accused,” the complainant told the police.An FIR has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/daughter-of-noted-singer-molested-in-gurugram-293005
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Court ‘dismisses’ bail in Tikri sexual abuse case||Just about three months after an FIR was registered for the alleged sexual exploitation of an activist at the Tikri border, the Punjab and Haryana HC today “dismissed” the anticipatory bail plea of an accused in the matter.The petition, filed by Anoop, alias Anuj, was dismissed by Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj of the High Court. The FIR in the matter was registered on May 9 at Bahadurgarh’s city police station in Jhajjar district of Haryana.As per the allegations, a delegation of six, claiming to be members of the Kisan Social Army, reached West Bengal as part of the campaign by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. The victim met the group during the tour and joined the group on April 11 to travel to Delhi.On April 24, she developed cough and difficulty in breathing before being admitted to a hospital where she was diagnosed with Covid. On April 29, her father reached the hospital and she alleged that she was sexually exploited in a tent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-dismisses-bail-in-tikri-sexual-abuse-case-293006
05-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 11.6 lakh in Yamunanagar||A special police officer (SPO) was cheated of Rs 11,67,552 by two persons pretending to be advisers of a private insurance company.On the complaint of Surjeet Singh of Hadauli village, a case was registered against Abhishek Bansal and Ravi Bajaj under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC.The police said the victim had shared credit card details with the accused as well. The amount was transferred between September 19, 2019, and March 18, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-11-6-lakh-in-yamunanagar-293007
05-08-2021||Faridabad||Minor among 2 held for mother’s murder in Faridabad||A 16-year-old girl and her 18-year-old male friend have been arrested in connection with the murder of the girl’s mother. The victim was a resident of NIT area here. She was murdered on July 10.A police official said the girl and her friend planned the murder of her 45-year-old mother as she opposed the idea of her daugther’s wedding to the friend.The police said the daughter gave her mother lemon water mixed with sleeping pills on the night of July 10 and when she fell unconscious, she strangled her. During the crime, the girl was on a video call with her friend, Deepanshu.An FIR was registered on the complaint of the victim’s son Deepak on July 11. He claimed the plan to carry out the murder was provided by his sister’s friend. The boy was arrested on yesterday, while the girl was nabbed today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-among-2-held-for-mothers-murder-in-faridabad-293008
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana officer’s appointment to be kept in abeyance||The state government has decided to keep in abeyance the appointment of Ranbir Singh Prashar as Deputy Director (Administration), Urban Local Bodies-cum-Fire Services.A clarification regarding instructions, on the basis of which Prashar was appointed, has also been sought from the Chief Secretary’s office.Submissions in this regard were made before the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a petition filed against the state and other respondents by Sanjeev Kumar through senior counsel Amit Jhanji with Abhishek Kumar.Appearing before Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi’s Bench, the counsel appearing on behalf of the state and another respondent submitted: “As per the communication received by the office of the Advocate General, Haryana, a clarification with regard to the instructions, on the basis of which the respondent has been appointed, has been sought from the office of the Chief Secretary, Haryana. During the process, the appointment of the respondent will be kept in abeyance.”The counsel further prayed for three weeks’ time for the department concerned to finalise the matter. The decision, so arrived at, would be placed before the HC by the next date of hearing, the counsel added. Taking note of the submissions, Justice Sethi fixed the case for further hearing on August 27.The petitioner’s case was that the order dated June 28, whereby the respondent was engaged on a contractual basis for a year, was passed without jurisdiction, and was in violation of the outsourcing policy dated April 6, 2015. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-officers-appointment-to-be-kept-in-abeyance-293009
05-08-2021||---||Couple dupes man of Rs 12 lakh in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, August 4Lured with a job in abroad for his son, a Pehowa resident has been duped of Rs 12 lakh by a couple in Kurukshetra.The accused have been identified as Joginder Singh and his wife, Charanjeet Kaur.In his complaint, Pritam Singh said his son, Harjinder, had gone to Serbia last year, where he came in contact with Joginder Singh, who lured him into securing a job in Italy and sought Rs 12 lakh for the process.“Joginder told Harjinder that his wife handles all work-related documentation in India. Following his offer, I met Charanjeet at their house in Pehowa and gave her the money. However, the couple failed to provide a job to my son and refused to return my money,” Pritam said.A case has been registered against the two accused under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC and Section 10 and 24 of the Immigration Act at Pehowa police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-dupes-man-of-rs-12-lakh-in-kurukshetra-293010
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman, son run over by dumper in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 4A woman and her son were killed when the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a dumper near Sohna town in the district today, the police have said.The deceased were identified as Gaurav (22) and his mother Rajshree (45), both residents of Faridabad. Gaurav had cleared Class XII recently and was looking for a job.The mother-son came to the historical Shiv Kund in Sohna to take a dip. On their way home, a dumper hit their motorcycle near Ghati turn. Gaurav and Rajshree died on spot, while the dumper driver managed to flee, leaving his vehicle behind.An FIR has been registered against an unidentified driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at the Sohna City police station.“We are conducting raids to nab the driver,” said Inspector Rajesh Yadav, Station House Officer of Sohna City police station.Driver flees spotOn their way home, a dumper hit their motorcycle near Ghati turn. Gaurav and Rajshree died on the spot, while the dumper driver managed to flee, leaving his vehicle behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-son-run-over-by-dumper-in-gurugram-293174
05-08-2021||Faridabad||175 structures razed at Khori colony in Faridabad on last day||Around 175 structures were razed on the last day of the demolition drive at Khori colony. All illegal constructions on the forestland have been razed.Claiming that a total of over 9,800 residential units had been razed during the three-week long drive, officials said only clearance of some remaining sections of buildings and their walls had to be done, which they said would be also over in the next couple of days.Meanwhile, reiterating the demand for free lodging and rehabilitation of the affected residents of the colony, Dr Sushil Gupta, AAP MP, said the state government and the authorities should focus on providing alternate housing to thousands of residents left homeless. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/175-structures-razed-at-khori-colony-in-faridabad-on-last-day-293175
05-08-2021||---||Ambala Division of the Northern Railways collects Rs 3.31-cr fine||Chandigarh, August 4The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has earned revenue of Rs3.31crore from ticket checking in July this year.A total of 794 checks were conducted during the month across the division and about 61,000 cases of irregular travel came to the fore during checking.An amount of Rs3.31 crore was recovered from offenders. To ensure Covid norms, 794 people were fined for traveling without a mask.A special emphasis has been laid to curb the menace of littering among the general public to make railway stations clean. For the purpose, regular checks are conducted over the main stations of the division. “As a result, 212 passengers were apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs41,120 recovered from them,” said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-division-of-the-northern-railways-collects-rs-3-31-cr-fine-293287
05-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra: Girls will bounce back, say parents||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 4After India’s loss to Argentina in the women hockey semi-final in the Olympics on Wednesday, the families of skipper Rani Rampal, forward player Navneet and midfielder Navjot of Shahabad looked a little disappointed, but they still have hopes that the girls will bounce back and return with the bronze medal.After the match, Rani’s neighbours, who had gathered at her house, said, “The girls fought well. For us, they have won. They already created history when they stunned three-time champion Australia to enter the semis for the first time.”Rampal, Rani’s father, said, “It happens. The team fought till the last second. They played bravely and made us proud. It was not their day. We have not lost hope and I am sure that the girls will learn from their mistakes, and I assure you that they will bounce back strongly. You will see a geared-up team in the next match. I will talk to her soon to boost her morale.”Similarly, forward player Navneet’s father Buta Singh said, “It was a tough match. They played well, but it is a game and only one team will win. The girls still have a match on Friday and they will return with a medal.”Satnam Singh, Navjot’s father, said, “They played well and we still hope that the girls will return with a medal as they still have a chance.”In Sonepat, the family members of Neha Goyal and Nisha Warsi were left disappointed as they were quite confident about the team making it to the final, but their hopes were dashed.The mothers of both the players started weeping as the team lost the match.Monika Goyal, midfielder Neha’s sister, said she specially went to their home to watch the match with her mother Savitri Devi. “My mother hasn’t eaten since morning as she decided to eat after the team’s win.”Meanwhile, hockey lovers in Hisar said they were proud of the girls, who proved that future of women hockey was bright. Udita’s mother Geeta Devi said the girls lost the match, but won many hearts.‘Winning, losing part of game’Hisar: “Well played,” said Mahender Punia, father of Savita Punia, goalie of the Indian women hockey team, after the girls went down fighting in the semis at the Tokyo Olympics.As the match ended, Mahender said winning and losing were part and parcel of the game. He said the performance of girls was laudable. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-girls-will-bounce-back-say-parents-293176
05-08-2021||---||Panipat: Kin hope for golden throw from Neeraj Chopra||Panipat, August 4Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra of Khandra village in the district has raised hopes of a gold medal after reaching the final round with a throw of 86.65 m in his first attempt in the Olympics.As Neeraj achieved the feat, villagers reached his home to congratulate his family. His loved ones and villagers said Neeraj was positive and motivated about his game and would definitely bring gold.The family is making special arrangements in the village on August 7 during the match and also plans a special welcome for him.Bhimsen Chopra, Neeraj’s uncle, said, “After winning gold in the Commonwealth Games in Australia in 2018, Neeraj was preparing for the Olympics regularly. He had won the title with a throw of 86.48 m, creating a world record, in the U-20 Junior World Championship in Poland in 2016 and his best throw was of 88.07 metres.”His family, led by his parents, Satish and Saroj Devi, were ecstatic and distributed sweets in their village today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-kin-hope-for-golden-throw-from-neeraj-chopra-293177
05-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar: Lost one match, wrestler Deepak Punia won a million hearts||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 4Though wrestler Deepak Punia (22) missed the opportunity to make it to the final of the 86-kg category at the Olympics, he has won a million hearts by emerging victorious in two bouts in a row on Wednesday morning.Deepak’s family and people of his native Chhara village are hopeful that he would clinch the bronze.“It is Deepak’s maiden Olympics appearance, but he has played marvelously. Unfortunately, he lost in the semis but I am confident that he will not return empty-handed,” said Deepak’s father Subhash Punia, a milkman and farmer by profession. He said Deepak talked to him last evening and promised to perform well.Deepak was just six when he won his first open dangal at a annual fair in his village in 2006. “This made us realise that he has the ability to become an international grappler as he trounced the opponents who were not only older to him, but were more bulky. He won the cash prize of the dangal,” recollects Subhash.Subhash said he wanted to become a wrestler, but couldn’t realise the dream because of his humble background. “My love for wrestling remained in my heart forever, hence I started pushing Deepak towards the ring when he was just four,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-lost-one-match-wrestler-deepak-punia-won-a-million-hearts-293179
05-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat: Ecstatic over 23-year-old wrestler Ravi Dahiya’s win, family breaks into celebrations||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 4Residents of the district’s Nahri village are ecstatic about Ravi Dahiya’s entry into the final of the freestyle 57-kg wrestling event at the Tokyo Olympics.The 23-year-old wrestler’s family, along with villagers, gathered at his house and celebrated the proud moment by distributing laddoos and by dancing to dhol beats. Feeling proud, the villagers claimed he would bring the gold for the country.Ravi comes from a humble background. His familyowns just one acre. Ravi’s father Rakesh Dahiya takes land on lease for farming. When Ravi trained in Delhi, Rakesh travalled 40 km daily from Nahri village to the Chhattarsal Stadium to give fresh milk and ghee to him.“Ravi is fond of choorma, kheer and halwa. When he’ll return with the medal, we’ll welcome him by offering him his favourite dishes,” says Urmila, Ravi’s mother.His father Rakesh said: “Ravi has brought laurels to the country. We have complete faith that he will definitely bring the gold. It is a proud moment not just for us, but for all Indians.”“Ravi started practising at the age of six. Raj, a prominent wrestler of our village, started training him after which he was taken to the Chhatarsal Stadium, where he learnt wrestling tricks by watching senior players,” he added.Rakesh further said: “After looking at Ravi’s talent, his guru Mahabali Satpal also started nurturing him.”CM wishes wrestler luck for final boutChandigarh: CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday congratulated Ravi Dahiya on reaching the final of the 57-kg category freestyle wrestling competition at the Tokyo Olympics. Wishing him best of luck, Khattar hoped that he would win the gold medal for the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-ecstatic-over-23-year-old-wrestler-ravi-dahiyas-win-family-breaks-into-celebrations-293180
05-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Vaccination: Women lag behind men in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Even as the share of the women deaths in the total Covid casualties jumped to 37.5 per cent in Haryana, on the vaccination front their share is lesser.From the start of the pandemic till March 31, there were 1,030 (32.6 per cent) women deaths out of 3,155 total casualties. But the share jumped to 37.5 per cent on August 3, as the last four months, April, May, June, and July, alone contributed 2,588 female deaths.However, till July 29, against 1,000 men who received the Covid vaccine dose in Haryana, only 806 women reached vaccination centres for the jab. This is far lesser than the Census 2011 sex ratio in the state which was recorded at 879. Even the projected sex ratio is 887 in Haryana for 2021, as per the Census of India report on population projections (2019).These facts came to light in a reply of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on August 3 to a question on the gender gap in vaccination in the Rajya Sabha. Till July 29, in Haryana, 62.78 lakh men had received the dose against 50.63 women as per the CoWin portal.The figure of Punjab is worse with just 797 women receiving the vaccination against 1,000 men. The projected sex ratio in Punjab for 2021 is 903.The MoH&FW reasoned that at the beginning of Covid vaccination programme, pregnancy and lactation were contraindications for vaccination. On the basis of the review of the available scientific evidence and the consensus of the stakeholders, the MoH&FW approved the vaccination of lactating women on May 19 and of pregnant women on July 2.Prof Aswini Nanda from the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, who has been studying vaccine hesitancy, opined, “The gender gap has to be understood in terms of factors such as pregnant and lactating mothers are late entrants, women being confined to households, and need someone to escort them to vaccination centres, and they tend to ignore their health for the family. They have less access to information on the benefits of vaccination.”“Several women are under the influence of rumours on social media that vaccination could affect their fertility and that they wouldn’t be able to conceive. We are fighting back to negate this,” said Sunita Rani, secretary, Asha Workers Union, Haryana, who is posted in Sonepat.In Parliament||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccination-women-lag-behind-men-in-haryana-293181
05-08-2021||---||Digitisation of British-era land records on war footing in Karnal||Karnal, August 4To speed up the digitisation of revenue record of the British era, the district administration has fixed a deadline of September 15.Around 80 lakh out of two crore pages are yet to be scanned. Indri SDM Sumit Sihag and District Revenue Officer Shyam Lal have been assigned the duty to supervise the process for speedy digitisation.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal Deputy Commissioner For posterityThe land of the old record room has been transferred to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. The British-era record has been shifted to the mini-secretariat. The digitisation is on a war footing. These directions were given by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav after reviewing the progress of scanning the record and after a visit to the new record room.“For the expansion of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), the land of old record room has been transferred to the college. The whole record of the British era has been shifted to the new record room at the second floor of the mini-secretariat. The process of digitilisation is going on a war footing,” said Yadav, adding 50 employees have been assigned the task of scanning the record and maps.Besides, the bar coding is also being done of the scanned record by keeping them in steel boxes so that it could be identified easily, the DC said. The old record would be available at the click of a mouse.The revenue record of Karnal district between 1865 and 1964, of Panipat (1865-1959), Kurukshetra (1865-1956) and Kaithal (1865-1957) and the court record of Karnal district between 1905 and March 31, 1987 were lying with the old record room. These have been shifted to new record room.The building of old record room will be demolished by August 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/digitisation-of-british-era-land-records-on-war-footing-in-karnal-293184
05-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad-Greater Noida bridge misses deadline once again||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 4The construction work of the Rs 315-crore bridge over Yamuna river to connect Faridabad with Greater Noida is missing deadlines. With the deadline of June 30 missed already, it is the sixth time when the completion date has been revised though the project is expected to take another 12 months, if work goes on smoothly.The project launched by the PWD in August 2014 has failed to meet the target date of June 30, as the civil work connected with laying of the spans of the 600-m long bridge is only 50 per cent complete, according to sources. Though the casting process of the girders and segments of the bridge has been going on, the work has been hampered due to the surge in the Yamuna caused by the monsoon for the past three weeks. The work of laying the girders and spans can be started only after reduction in the water level and it can take another four to six weeks, claim sources. Delayed payments, design and approval hassles, 2019 elections and the Covid pandemic have added to the factors behind the delay, it is revealed.The foundation stone of the bridge, claimed to be a dream project of the local MP and Union Minister of State for Heavy Industries, Krishan Pal Gurjar, was laid on August 15, 2014. Aiming to provide the first direct connectivity between Faridabad and Greater Noida it is expected to cut the travelling time to just half an hour from the present two hours. Marred by an initial delay of over three years in its launch, the project took off in February 2018. Though December 31, 2019 was the first deadline it was revised to March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020, December 31, 2020 and June 30, this year.Pradeep Sindhu, Executive Engineer, PWD, said the department aimed at completing the bridge work by December 31 this year, though the acquisition of land and construction of roads providing access to the bridge was an issue that could stretch the deadline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-greater-noida-bridge-misses-deadline-once-again-293185
05-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Crops on 4,290 acres damaged due to waterlogging in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 4The crops of paddy, cotton and bajra spread over a total of 4,290 acres in more than 100 villages in the district were damaged due to waterlogging in the past 10 days.Naveen Malik, Farmer, Karor villageFields submerged for 10 daysMy fields have remained submerged for over 10 days now. I drained out water once after installing pumps but another spell of rain inundated the fields again. Losses have been pegged between 20 and 70 per cent. A survey conducted by the local office of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department said Lakhan Majra, Sampla and Rohtak blocks were the worst affected.As per the report, waterlogging has caused up to 30 per cent damage to paddy crop in over 2,960 acres. Cotton has suffered a loss between 50 and 70 per cent in 900 acres while 60 per cent damage has been recorded in bajra crop in 430 acres.Inderjit Singh, Vice-President, All India Kisan SabhaRain wreaked havocRain has wreaked havoc on standing kharif crops in the region, exposing ‘failure’ of the district authorities to undertake timely steps to improve drainage.The local office has sent the report to the state authorities. Meanwhile, distressed farmers are also moving applications for securing compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) for the crop loss.Naveen Malik of Karor village said his fields had remained submerged for over 10 days now, causing more than 50 per cent damage to paddy and jowar crops. “I drained out water once after installing pumps but another spell of rain inundated the fields again. Many farmers in our village have suffered 100 per cent loss,” he added.Demanding adequate compensation for distressed farmers, Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha, said rain had wreaked havoc on standing kharif crops in the region, exposing “failure” of the district authorities to undertake timely steps to improve drainage.Dr Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said: “A team led by the ADO concerned at the block level was formed to conduct the survey for assessing losses due to waterlogging. Insurance company has also initiated loss-assessment process for awarding compensation to farmers under the PMFBY,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crops-on-4-290-acres-damaged-due-to-waterlogging-in-rohtak-293186
05-08-2021||---||Haryana notifies employment generation subsidy scheme||Chandigarh, August 4The state government has notified the employment generation subsidy scheme to create job opportunities in the skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled categories for persons with the state domicile.“Under the scheme, ultra mega projects will be offered customised package of incentives by the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board, which will decide the quantum and period of employment generation subsidy,” said Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Any cluster, comprising of at least 10 enterprises engaged in similar economic activity, being established or relocated from other countries and states to Haryana will be treated as a mega project.The Deputy Chief Minister said new industrial units hiring SCs and women belonging to Haryana in skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled categories will get subsidy at the rate of Rs 36,000 per person per year. In the general category, industrial units in the B, C and D blocks will get Rs 30,000 per person subsidy per year for seven years.The thrust sector, import substitution, essential sector, bio-energy, renewable energy enterprises (MSMEs, large, mega projects) engaging SCs and women from the state will be given subsidy at the rate of Rs 48,000 per person. A subsidy of Rs 36,000 per person per year will be given for the general category for seven years to units in the B, C and D blocks.In case of data centres and co-location facility (MSME, large, mega projects), subsidy at the rate of Rs 48,000 per person per year for SCs women, and Rs 36,000 per person per year for general category will be given.Dushyant said registered farmer producer organisation (FPO) and integrated pack house (with facilities such as grading, sorting, packaging) will also be eligible.The Deputy Chief Minister further said the scheme would be considered effective from January 1, 2021, and would be in operation for five years.Industrial units, which started commercial production on or after January 1, 2021, and will remain in operation till December 31, 2025, will be eligible under the scheme.Creating opportunitiesIndustry setting up units in backward areas and hiring persons from Haryana to get subsidy.Rs36,000 Subsidy per person for new industrial units for hiring SCs and womenRs30,000 Subsidy per person in the general category for units in the B, C and D blocksRs48,000 Subsidy per person for the thrust sector and renewable energy enterprises engaging SCs, womenRs36,000 Subsidy per person in the general category for units in the B, C and D blocks||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-notifies-employment-generation-subsidy-scheme-293187
05-08-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Tokyo 2020: Sensational fightback, Ravi Kumar Dahiya in final||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Ravi Kumar Dahiya of Nahri village in Sonepat district will return from Tokyo with at least a silver after he became the second Indian wrestler to enter the final at the Olympic Games.The 23-year-old made it to the final of the 57kg freestyle event when he overturned a massive deficit of seven points, having being 2-9 down against Kazakhstan’s Nurislam Sanayev in the semifinals. Dahiya, a bronze medallist at the 2019 World Championships, fought back fiercely to first reduce the deficit to 7-9 and then managed to pin down Sanayev to win by fall. Dahiya will fight the reigning world champion Zavur Uguev of the Russian Olympic Committee in the final on Thursday.Bronze for boxer LovlinaAnother young Haryana wrestler, Deepak Punia (86kg freestyle), lost in the semifinal and will fight for a bronze medal on Thursday.Dahiya led 2-1 before Sanayev managed to grip his legs to turn him four times to earn eight points through a move called “leg lace” — made famous as ‘fitley’ by Yogeshwar Dutt at London 2012. Now Sanayev led 9-2 and Dahiya had to fight back furiously against an opponent who was discomfited by a head injury he had suffered earlier in the day. Dahiya won point after point with aggressive moves and eventually managed to pin Sanayev’s shoulders down and the referee stopped the bout.Dahiya later said he was not happy that he had conceded such a big lead to Sanayev, whom he has beaten twice in the past.Celebrations at NahriThe atmosphere at the chopal of Nahri village — around 18km from Sonepat — was electric through the day after Dahiya took to the mat for his first bout. Close to 500 people of two panchayats, Nahri and Nahra, were watching his progress to the final on a giant screen and dancing to the beat of the dhol after every victory.His father Rakesh Dahiya, a farmer, and mother Urmila Devi, a housewife, were overwhelmed by their son’s success and the massive support. “The whole village and the country wants Monu (Ravi) to win the gold. We pray to God that his hard work bears fruit,” Rakesh Dahiya said.The panchayats of Nahri and Nahra are famous for producing wrestlers. Nahri is home to two Arjuna Award-winning wrestlers, Satveer Singh and Mahavir Singh, and two Olympians — Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow) and Amit Kumar Dahiya (2012 London).PM Narendra ModiOur women’s hockey team played with grit and showcased great skill. Proud of the team.Hockey: Men to fight for bronze todayThe Indian men’s hockey team must make one final effort at the Tokyo Olympics when they play Germany for the bronze medal on Thursday morning. Manpreet Singh’s men would need to be stronger in the midfield to thwart Germany’s attacks. Too many circle penetrations and penalty corners (14) conceded to Belgium had resulted in immense pressure on their defence. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-2020-sensational-fightback-ravi-kumar-dahiya-in-final-293045
