06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 1 fatality, 15 new cases||Haryana on Friday reported one Covid-related fatality taking the cumulative toll to 9,647, while 15 new cases pushed the total case count to 7,70,042.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the fatality was reported from Bhiwani district.Of the new cases, five cases were reported from Gurgaon and two each from Hisar and Rohtak districts.There are 69 active cases in the state.The total recoveries so far are 7,59,705 and the recovery rate is 98.66 percent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-1-fatality-15-new-cases-293997
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana fixes Rs 299 for RT-PCR test||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said the government has asked all private hospitals and laboratories to charge Rs 299 for an RT-PCR test.He said since the onset of the pandemic, the state has been providing free Covid testing facilities at the government health facilities.To prevent the third wave, the minister said the government is laying focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of Covid-19, i.e., test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence of appropriate behaviour.At the meeting, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said the state has 659 ventilators, including paediatric and neonatal. On the availability of oxygen, he said the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants have been set up in districts, especially in those with high incidence of Covid cases.Besides, liquid medical oxygen tanks are present in six places -- Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Hisar, Jind, and Rewari. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-fixes-rs-299-for-rt-pcr-test-293961
06-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Study validates five active seismic fault lines in north-west India||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6 The existence of five active geological fault lines in the north-western region has been validated in a five-year long research project undertaken by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in association with Panjab University, Chandigarh, and two other institutions.The Kangra Valley fault in Himachal Pradesh; Pinjore Garden and Jhajra Fault, the Khetpurali Taksal Fault, both in Haryana,  the Himalayan Frontal Thrust along the left bank of the Beas, near Hajipur; and the Himalayan Frontal Thrust in Kumaon Himaalayas along the Gabua-Dhol-Nandpur axis are those that have been authenticated.A fault is a fracture or zone of fractures between two blocks of rock. Faults allow relative movement between the blocks which may occur rapidly, in the form of an earthquake, or slowly over a period of time. The length of a fault may vary from just a few meters to several thousand kilometers.Faults can have a large influence on the mechanical behaviour, such as strength and deformation, of soil and rock masses and their assessment is critical seismic zoning and for planning construction of buildings, roads, bridges, tunnels, pipelines and railroads.The project, tittled “Active fault, paleoseismic and crustal deformation in north-western and Central Himalayas: An integrated approach towards seismic hazard assessment”, was funded by the Ministry of Earth Sciences at a cost of Rs 5.54 crore. It is expected to be complete by September 2021, according to a statement made by the Ministry in the Lok Sabha today.As per the objective of the project, active faults were identified and mapped using satellite data and ground-truthing was carried out in areas like Central Kumaon Himalayas, Chandigarh-Pinjore, Ropar-Hajipur-Pathankot and Kangra.Studies and identificatiuon of faults and rock deformation in areas covering the Dehradun foothills and Central Himalayas from east of Kaladungi till west of Nepal is still under progress, according to the ministry’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/study-validates-five-active-seismic-fault-lines-in-north-west-india-293957
06-08-2021|| Chandigarh||IPS officer Bharti Arora would be urged to reconsider her request for voluntary retirement: Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday said senior IPS officer Bharti Arora is the pride of Haryana and she would be urged to reconsider her request for voluntary retirement from service. A week back, Arora, currently posted as the inspector general of police of Ambala Range in Haryana, had sought voluntary retirement citing personal grounds, and had said she wants to dedicate the rest of her life to the service of Lord Sri Krishna.Vij said he has received Arora's request for voluntary retirement, and added that she would be urged to reconsider her decision."I have written a note on the file that Bharti Arora is a very good police officer. She is the pride of Haryana Police," he said. In her letter to the chief secretary through the director general of police, Arora had said, "I voluntarily submit this application seeking retirement from the service with effect from August 1, 2021, under rule 16 (2) of All India Services (DCRB) Rules, 1958, after attaining 50 years of age."Now I wish to achieve the ultimate goal of life. I yearn to traverse the path shown by the holy saints such as Guru Nanak Dev, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Kabirdas, Tulsidas, Surdas, Meerabai, the Sufi saints and dedicate the rest of my life in loving devotional service of Lord Sri Krishna," she had said.Arora had earlier told PTI that she always took her service as her pride and passion and added that she has elaborated on the reasons for seeking voluntary retirement after putting in 23 years of service.In her stint as an IPS officer, Arora had handled the 2007 Samjhauta Express train blast case as then Superintendent of Police (Railways).She was transferred to Ambala Range from Karnal in April 2021, as part of a reshuffle in the police administration. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ips-officer-bharti-arora-would-be-urged-to-reconsider-her-request-for-voluntary-retirement-vij-293955
06-08-2021||---||1.87 lakh prisoners get Covid 19 doses: UP, Maharashtra lead; Punjab lags||New Delhi, August 6State governments have so far administered 1,87,453 Covid 19 vaccination doses to prisoners lodged in jails across India.Uttar Pradesh with the administration of 27,019 doses leads the charts followed by Maharashtra at 23,051, Bihar 18,358, Odisha 18,329 and Madhya Pradesh 15,806.Among major states, Punjab is a laggard on the indicator having inoculated 2,524 prisoners, while the number of doses administered by Haryana is 9,978, Himachal Pradesh 847, Jammu and Kashmir 2,461 and Uttrakhand 4,652.Delhi government has administered just two Covid 19 doses while Chandigarh has administered none, as per the reply given by the Ministry of Health to Lok Sabha today.The ministry said Covid-19 vaccination of prisoners is included and recorded under the vaccination of ‘Persons without Prescribed Identity Cards’ which includes nomads, prison inmates, inmates in Mental Health Institutions, citizens in Old Age Homes, road side beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres/camps and any other identified eligible persons, aged 18 years or more, and not having any of the nine prescribed individual Photo ID Cards.“The Government of India has shared a Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) regarding Covid-19 Vaccination of Persons without Prescribed Identity Cards through Co-WIN with all States/UTs in May 2021. It is expected that eligible beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, including prisoners, will be vaccinated by December 2021,” the ministry said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-87-lakh-prisoners-get-covid-19-doses-up-maharashtra-lead-punjab-lags-293948
06-08-2021||Ravi S Singh||AAP asks Haryana to expedite implementation of SC order to rehabilitate jhuggi-dwellers in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 6The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked the Haryana government to expedite implementation of the Supreme Court's order to rehabilitate jhuggi-dwellers in Faridabad following their eviction.Party’s Rajya Sabha MP and Haryana incharge Sushil Gupta said the Haryana government should leave its adamant attitude to rehabilitate only those having voting identity cards issued in Haryana.AAP was in the forefront of agitation of the victims."AAP had been demanding rehabilitation of all the victims since the beginning. But the Haryana government tried to come down heavily with a mindset of discrimination," Gupta told reporters here."The overall behaviour of the state government in the matter, including demolition of their residential structures during the Covid pandemic, was inhuman," Gupta said, adding that the people had been living in the area for decades.Gupta said AAP would not give up till all the victims were rehabilitated. Till the time they are rehabilitated, the government should show humanity by providing all help to the victims, he said.AAP has zeroed in on Faridabad district, among others, to expand its base in Haryana in preparation for the local panchayat and urban bodies elections which are due.Going by the mood of the central leaders of AAP, the party will milk the Khori village development to build up its credibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-asks-haryana-to-expedite-implementation-of%C2%A0sc-order-to-rehabilitate%C2%A0jhuggi-dwellers-in-faridabad-293899
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to give Rs 50 lakh each to state's 9 women Olympic hockey players||The Haryana government will honour the nine history-making women's hockey players of the state with cash reward of Rs 50 lakh each, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday."Haryana government will award Rs 50 lakhs each to the nine members of the Olympic women's hockey team who are from Haryana," Khattar tweeted.He congratulated the Indian women's team for its best-ever performance at the ongoing Olympics, where it finished fourth after losing 3-4 to Great Britain in the bronze medal play-off match in Tokyo on Friday.The Indians played their hearts out and overcame a two-goal deficit to lead 3-2 at half time. But a desperate Great Britain gave their everything in the second half and scored two goals to snatch the match from India's hands.Back in Haryana and Punjab, families of many players remained glued to their television sets to watch in anticipation of an Indian win.At the end of the game, skipper Rani's father Rampal told the media at his Shahabad home in Kurukshetra that the Indian team played well and were unlucky to lose out on its maiden Olympic medal.He said the team's performance at the Olympics will have a positive impact on the game and will encourage youngsters to take up the sport.Goalkeeper Savita Punia's father Mahender Punia said there was no need to feel dejected."Match result may not be on their side, but they played really well," he said.Neha Goyal's mother Savitri turned emotional while watching the game.Notably, most of the women hockey players come from humble backgrounds. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-give-rs-50-lakh-each-to-states-9-women-olympic-hockey-players-293884
06-08-2021||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: Deepak Punia is winner for us, says wrestler’s father||Wrestler Deepak Punia’s agonising loss in the bronze medal bout on his  Olympic debut has left his family with a heavy heart, but they consider the defeat to be a learning curve for him.For Deepak’s father Subhash Punia, his son is a winner. “Competing in the  Olympics at the age of 22 is an achievement in itself. He dominated his  bronze medal bout, but unfortunately lost it in the last 10 seconds,” he said with a shrug of resignation.“The Tokyo Olympics has been a learning curve for him. The experience will help him in future competitions and in the next Olympics,” said Subhash.Earlier, villagers had gathered at Deepak’s house in the district’s Chhara village to watch the quarter-final bout. They carried Tricolour and waved it when Deepak got the lead. They clapped at his every move. They even started celebrating his victory when 15 seconds were left in the bout, but were left shocked when his opponent, San Marino’s Myles NazemAmine, grabbed the decisive two pointer after getting hold of the Indian’s right leg and converted it into a take-down in dying moments of the bout.Virendra Dalal, who has coached the Jhajjar lad, said Deepak was performing well and was close to clinching the bronze medal but lazy wrestling in the last  moments snatched the medal from him.“His opponent seemed tired and Deepak could have taken advantage of that. I know his strengths and skill sets he possesses. This is why it is difficult for me to believe that Deepak will return empty-handed from Tokyo,” he added.Bablu of Chhara village said it was not Deepak’s day, but he made every villager proud by reaching the semifinal in the Olympics. “We have decided to extend him a warm welcome when he returns to the village,” he said, adding Deepak had become a role model for village youths, especially budding wrestlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-deepak-punia-is-winner-for-us-says-wrestlers-father-293730
06-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Joy & heartbreak: Wrestler Ravi Dahiya’s kin grapple with mixed emotions||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 5With wrestler Ravi Dahiya having to content with silver at the Olympics in the 57-kg category today, disappointment was evident on the faces of his family members and villagers.Khattar announces Rs4 cr for Dahiya Chandigarh: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday congratulated wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya for bagging silver in men’s 57 kg freestyle wrestling at the Tokyo Olympics. He announced a reward of Rs4 crore for the wrestler along with a Class I government job. An indoor wrestling stadium will be built at Nahari village in Sonepat district, the native place of Ravi Kumar, he said. Meanwhile, hockey players Surender Kumar and Sumit, who won bronze today, will get Rs2.5 crore each and a Class II job. TNSHooda congratulates hockey teamChandigarh: Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda congratulated wrestler Ravi Dahiya, who won silver in the Olympics, and expressed hope of securing more medals in the sport. Hooda said the entire country was proud of Dahiya. The former CM also extended congratulations to the hockey team that won a medal in the Olympics after 41 years. TNSDahiya’s family said the wrestler would now practise hard and bring gold medal in the Paris Olympics.“Now, all of us are planning to accord him a grand welcome from the airport to the village,” the family said.The family members, along with villagers of Nahra and Nahri, MLA Mohan Lal Badoli, Mayor Nikhil Madaan and mediapersons watched Ravi’s final match on a giant screen in the village chaupal.Villagers said it was a proud moment for them that Ravi won the silver. Rakesh Dahiya, father of Ravi, said three wrestlers of the village had got the opportunity to play in the Olympics, but Ravi became the first wrestler to win a medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/joy-heartbreak-wrestler-ravi-dahiyas-kin-grapple-with-mixed-emotions-293732
06-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Bronze after 4 decades: Hockey star Surender Kumar didn’t let Covid bog him down||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 5As the Indian men’s hockey team registered a memorable win to claim the bronze medal by defeating Germany 5-4 at the Tokyo Olympics, celebrations erupted at defender Surender Kumar’s house here.Friend’s dad helped usOur financial condition was so bad that we were not in a position to even buy a hockey stick. Then, a friend’s father, Purushottamji, who used to motivate us, gave us a hockey stick. — Narender, Surender’s brotherToday, everyone is celebrating the win, but there was a time when the family didn’t have enough money to even buy a hockey stick for Surender and his elder brother Narender.Narender, who is also a hockey player and plays for various clubs, said, “It was 2004-05 when we used to see other players playing hockey. It was a new game for us so we decided to start playing. We requested the coach there, but our financial condition was not very good and we were not able to buy even a hockey stick. Then, a friend’s father, Purushottamji who used to motivate us, gave us a hockey stick. The only things we had at that time were our hard work and struggle. But after we both got jobs in 2012, the situation improved.” Surender works for FCI in Delhi.Besides financial conditions, Covid also tested the determination of the Indian team’s defender. Last year, Surender (27) tested Covid positive and even had to face post-Covid complications. Surender had developed pain and swelling in his right arm due to blood clot. He had to take rest from the game to recover.He was part of the team in the Rio Olympics too in 2016.Today, while everyone was watching the match closely, Surender’s parents were out of their house as they don’t watch him playing live.His father Malkhan Singh said, “I am a farmer having five-acre land and have no specialisation in any other field. But I wanted my children to be successful. So we moved from Brana village in Karnal to Kurukshetra to provide better education and life to them. Our financial condition was not good and we had no money to buy a hockey stick. Today, I have forgotten all our sorrows. I don’t watch matches as it gets tense and I become nervous.”Surender’s mother Neelam Devi said, “I also don’t watch him play as I get tense. After they lost in the semifinals, I talked to him and he was confident of winning bronze.”After the match, Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar and Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha visited Surender’s house to congratulate his family.Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh, a former Indian hockey captain who also belongs to Kurukshetra, said: “They have created history. It is a big day for all of us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bronze-after-4-decades-hockey-star-surender-kumar-didnt-let-covid-bog-him-down-293733
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||No demolitions, evictions in Haryana till Aug 31||The Haryana Government has directed various departments, including urban local bodies, to desist from resorting to any eviction or demolition of property in view of the ongoing pandemic till August 31.Besides, banks and financial institutions have also been restrained from conducting any public auction of properties vested with them as a result of default on loans by individuals and institutions.According to an order issued by the General Administration Department, the decision has been taken following an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court passed the order in the wake of the “likelihood of the spread of Covid in future”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-demolitions-evictions-in-haryana-till-aug-31-293736
06-08-2021||---||Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala ‘passes’ Class XII exam||Chandigarh, August 5The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has declared former four-time Chief Minister and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala deemed to have passed the Class XII examination. However, his result has been withheld on “technical grounds”.Board Chairman Jagbir Singh told The Tribune that the board would formally declare Chautala’s result when he passed English examination of Class X, basic requirement for declaring a candidate successful in Class XII, scheduled to be held on August 18.In 2017, while being lodged in the Tihar jail following his conviction in the JBT teachers scam, Chautala had passed the Class X examination of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS). In the NIOS Class X examination, English is not a compulsory subject.However, last year, Chautala enrolled in the Class XII of the Haryana Open School of the BSEH. Since examinations were not held in view of the Covid pandemic, all candidates, numbering about 39,000, were declared successful by the board as per the state government policy. However, the results of six candidates, including Chautala, were withheld on “technical grounds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-om-prakash-chautala-passes-class-xii-exam-293737
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||18 new Covid cases in Haryana||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-293738
06-08-2021||---||5 affordable rental housing policies get Haryana Cabinet nod||Chandigarh, August 5The Haryana Cabinet, which met under Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, today accorded approval to five affordable rental housing policies.OTHER DECISIONSPolicy to create land bank formulatedThe Cabinet approved a policy to create a land bank for government departments, boards and corporations. Now, farmers can first submit their proposal to the government as a potential buyer. Along with this, farmers can also advise the state government for selecting a site for the development project at a particular place. Three committees — Land and Rate Scrutiny Committee, Land Bank Committee and High Powered Land Bank Committee — will be constituted for ensuring the implementation of the policy.Amendment in motor vehicles rulesThe Cabinet granted approval for amendment in Rule 67-A of the Haryana Motor Vehicles Rules, 1993, revising the age of operation of various types of transport vehicles under various permits in the state.New HR Dept approvedThe Cabinet approved the creation of a new department — Human Resources Department — under Chief Secretary. It has been reasoned that this initiative will ensure unified administrative control over all employees of Group A, B, C and D, including HCS, to ensure maintenance of common cadres through a single department.These include policies for the development of retirement housing, affordable rental housing, student rental housing, medico-assisted living facilities and working women’s hostel.The policies are aimed at addressing the housing needs of students, working women, labour and senior citizens.These five policies have been formulated through the grant of the change of land use (CLU) permission under the Haryana Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Act, 1963, and through the grant of licence under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975.In a bid to reduce the financial burden of farmers in transactions in respect of the exchange of cultivable agriculture land, the Cabinet accorded approval for the consideration of the remission of stamp duty.Only a nominal duty at the rate of Rs 5,000 per deed registration will be chargeable, subject to the condition that the exchange of agricultural land is in the same revenue estate.Besides, the Cabinet approved the amendments of various provisions of Haryana Kisan Pass Book Rules, 1996, as per the observations of the 42nd report of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Committee on Subordinate Legislation for the year 2013-14.Now, in a case of loss or damage of passbook, there is no need of police report and personal undertaking will be sufficient for the issuance of duplicate pass book.The Haryana Kisan Pass Book Act, 1994, was framed to provide Kisan Pass Book to every farmer containing records of rights and liabilities of his agricultural holdings in a revenue estate and to enable him to have credit facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-affordable-rental-housing-policies-get-haryana-cabinet-nod-293739
06-08-2021||Karnal||Karnal Police arrest 2 transformer thieves||The Karnal police have claimed to have busted an inter-state transformer theft gang and solved 90 cases of theft. The police said the gang members had stolen 90 transformers in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. Of the solved cases, 33 are of Karnal district.The accused have been identified as Dharamvir and Bughdeve of Aligarh district in Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-police-arrest-2-transformer-thieves-293740
06-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal MC begins recovery of development charges||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 5The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started the process of recovering development charges from residents of colonies approved in 2014 and 2018 by the state government. In the first phase, it has taken Basant Vihar, which was approved in 2018, and started the process of serving notices on the residents, directing them to deposit their development charges, so that the remaining development works are done.3,146 properties in Basant ViharThere are 3,146 properties in Basant Vihar. Of them, 2,745 are residential properties. The owners of residential properties have to deposit Rs320 per sq metre development charge, decided by the state government. — Dr Manoj Kumar, commissioner, KMCTo hold awareness camps.“We are issuing notices to the residents to deposit their development charges,” saidDr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC.“There are 3,146 properties in Basant Vihar. Of them, 2,745 are residential properties. The owners of residential properties have to deposit Rs 320 per sq metre development charge, decided by the state government”, said the Commissioner.He maintained that the KMC would hold camps to recover development charges in this colony. People will be made aware of the fact that the deposition of development charges will help in the development of their colony.The KMC had sent a list of 50 illegal colonies to the state government. Of them, 35 colonies were regularised in 2018. The government has asked the residents to deposit the development charges as per the area, said an employee of the KMC.The Commissioner said in the second phase, the recovery of development charges would be made from other colonies.“We have spent around Rs 16 crore in the development of Basant Vihar on various projects, including storm water, sewerage, street, and parks. We will replace all street lights with LED lights in coming days,” said the Commissioner.Naveen Kumar, Deputy Senior Mayor and Councillor of the ward, said they had been making efforts to educate people to deposit the development charges which were necessary for the development of the ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-begins-recovery-of-development-charges-293741
06-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Demolition drive in two illegal colonies in Yamunanagar villages||A team of the district town planner (DTP) carried out a demolition drive in two unauthorised colonies at Gadhauli and Tejli villages of Yamunanagar today.The team demolished 26 structures, including damp proof courses, in the colonies. DTP Deshraj requested the public not to invest in such unauthorised colonies and should contact the office of the DTP for any inquiry before buying land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demolition-drive-in-two-illegal-colonies-in-yamunanagar-villages-293742
06-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana 5th in export of organic products||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5Haryana has one of the lowest areas under certified organic farming but it is ranked fifth in the country in exporting organic products. 5,303 hectares under certified organic farmingThe state has 5,303 hectares under certified organic farming with 4,903 hectares under National Programme for Organic Production and 400 hectares under Participatory Guarantee System certification.4,339 farmers engaged in growing organic cereals, millets, basmatiA mere 4,339 farmers are engaged in growing organic cereals and millets, medicinal plants, wheat, basmati rice, fodder, fruits and vegetables, oilseeds, processed food, pulses, spices, condiments, sugar, tea and tuber products.The state has 5,303 hectares under certified organic farming with 4,903 hectares under National Programme for Organic Production (NPOP) and 400 hectares under Participatory Guarantee System (PGS) certification.A mere 4,339 farmers are engaged in growing organic cereals and millets, medicinal plants, wheat, basmati rice, fodder, fruits and vegetables, oilseeds, processed food, pulses, spices, condiments, sugar, tea and tuber products.The state exported 38,986 MT worth Rs 348.77 crore in 2020-21. The facts come to light in a reply of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare on a question of land under organic farming in the country in the Rajya Sabha on July 30. Punjab has a total of 7,021 hectares under certified organic farming involving 12,861 farmers. It exported 326.03 MT of organic foods worth Rs 2.73 crore and was ranked 19th in the country in 2020-21. Only Andaman and Nicobar (1,360 hectares), Ladakh (817.85 hectares), Lakshadweep (3,595.51 hectares), Puducherry (183.65 hectares), Daman and Diu (1,100 hectares) and Chandigarh (1,300 hectares) have a lower area under organic farming than Punjab and Haryana.The neighbouring Himachal Pradesh has 29,554 hectares under certified organic farming involving 60,891 farmers. Besides cereals and millets, dry fruits, fruits and vegetables, medicinal plant products, pulses, spices, sugar, tea and tuber products, it is also cultivating apple, basmati rice, coriander and ‘rajmah’.The state exported a mere 7.88 MT of products worth Rs 1.62 crore in 2020-21. Jammu and Kashmir has 31,179.82 hectares under organic farming involving 24,772 farmers. It exported 607.59 MT worth Rs 10.77 crore. Madhya Pradesh has the maximum area under certified organic farming in the country. It has 11.96 lakh hectares under cultivation and 6.26 lakh farmers are engaged in it.It exported 5 lakh MT of products earning Rs 2,683.58 crore in 2020-21, the highest in the country. It is followed by Maharashtra (Rs 913.74 crore), Gujarat (Rs 723.20 crore) and Kerala (Rs 355.34 crore). Haryana comes at fifth rank in exports. Experts say that this is because the traders in the state bought organic products from neighbouring states and exported them.The Agriculture Ministry’s reply says that the Centre has been promoting organic farming through dedicated schemes namely Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana and Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region since 2015-16.Both the schemes stress on end-to-end support to organic farmers — from production to certification and marketing. Post-harvest management support, including processing, packing, marketing is made an integral part of these schemes to encourage organic farmers. The government has also initiated the Large Area Certification programme since 2020-21 to certify large traditional organic areas such as hills, islands, tribal or desert belts with no history of genetically modified organisms and agrochemical uses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-5th-in-export-of-organic-products-293743
06-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Faridabad scientist Dr Yogita K Adlakha develops human models to study neurological disorders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5Human-based models to study neuron development and neuro-developmental disorders such as autism have been developed by a Haryana-based scientist, which can help design treatment strategies for such brain disorders.Since decades, animal models have been used to understand brain-related disorders and drugs which function in animal models have failed in clinical trials. The dearth of human models has led to the lack of knowledge of the patho-physiology of such disorders, an essential requirement for designing their treatment strategies.This gap has now been filled by Dr Yogita K Adlakha by generating human-based stem cell model to understand the brain development and dysfunction at the National Brain Research Centre, Manesar, Haryana.Currently, she is working as a scientist at the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad. Along with her research group, she established a protocol from India for the first time by generating and producing induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from human peripheral blood. They have further refined the protocol of differentiation of iPSCs into the brain-specific stem cells called neural stem cells (NSCs). Her group has contributed immensely in understanding the role of micro-RNA in the neural stem cell fate. This has revealed how certain small non-coding RNAs called micro-RNA, which do not form protein but regulate expression of other genes, can enhance differentiation of neural stem cells into neurons. This research has contributed to expanding the knowledge of neuron development and the role of small non-coding RNA in brain-specific stem cells fate, thereby changing the face of neuroscience and stem cells.Dr Yogita’s models can help in studying how the brain develops, particularly the neurons, and what goes awry during brain development leading to cognitive decline, impairment in language, and social interaction. The study provides the first evidence that a brain enriched miRNA-137 induces neuronal differentiation and inhibits proliferation using human neural stem cells derived from iPSCs, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-scientist-dr-yogita-k-adlakha-develops-human-models-to-study-neurological-disorders-293744
06-08-2021||Rohtak||Covid curbs hit regular court hearings in Haryana||The age-old legal maxim “justice delayed is justice denied” seems to ring true with thousands of litigants as well as lawyers suffering and cases lingering on as no regular hearings are being conducted at the district courts across the state owing to Covid restrictions.Sources point out that the Covid-related restrictions on regular court hearings imposed in March 2020 were lifted in the beginning of 2021, but were re-imposed with the advent of the second wave.Repeated adjournment of the hearings in their cases has been causing grave inconvenience and harassment to a large number of litigants, but no immediate relief seems to be in sight for them. As per an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court dated July 29, all cases, barring the time-bound ones and those urgent in nature, fixed/listed from July 31 to August 31, shall be adjourned. The order clarifies that the cases of bails, habeas corpus petitions, criminal writ petitions pertaining to protection/life and liberty/parole/furlough/premature release, applications for suspension of sentence would not be adjourned for future dates in accordance with a fixed schedule. “The litigants and lawyers have been suffering as regular hearings in the routine matters are not being conducted for a long time,” says Pawan Jangra, a lawyer.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-curbs-hit-regular-court-hearings-in-haryana-293745
06-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||An upset that left wrestler Vinesh Phogat’s kin shocked||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 5The family of wrestler Vinesh Phogat, who suffered an upset at the Olympics after being pinned by Belarus’ Vanesa Kaladzinskaya in the 53-kg quarterfinals today, is heart-broken by her performance as she was the brightest hope of India for a gold medal.Below-par showVictory and defeat are part of the game, but Vinesh’s performance was below our expectations. Her poor showing at this level was a shock for us. — Mahabir Phogat, Vinesh’s uncleVinesh’s uncle Mahabir Phogat, a Dronacharya awardee, lashed out at foreign coaches for her defeat. “Victory and defeat are part of the game, but Vinesh’s performance was much below our expectations. She is a skilful wrestler and has proved her mettle by clinching medals in a number of international competitions in the past. We never expected such a poor show from her at this level,” he said.Mahabir added that Indian coaches were better than foreigners. Vinesh’s hard luck continued in the Olympics. In the 2016 Rio Olympics, she was stretchered off the mat after suffering a knee dislocation during her quarterfinal bout. This time, she could not give her best, he added.Harvinder Phogat, brother of Vinesh, said: “Vinesh was so focused on winning the gold in the Tokyo Olympics that she did not attend social functions and weddings in the past two years. Her sole concern was her training. She was confident about winning the gold when we talked to her last evening. Unfortunately, it was not to be.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/an-upset-that-left-wrestler-vinesh-phogats-kin-shocked-293768
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||SOPs for family welfare scheme finalised in Haryana||The Haryana Government today finalised the SOPs for the implementation of the Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna (MMPSY). The government also fixed the responsibility of the official concerned to get the needful done in time.A decision in this regard was taken during a meeting of the Council of Ministers held under the chairmanship of CM Manohar Lal Khattar today. As per the official data, sanctions amounting to Rs 270.84 crore have been issued to 8.78 lakh families under the MMPSY. Residents can apply directly by following the link https://cm-psy. haryana. gov.in.Subsequent to the verification of income and other details by the Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), the payment process will be initiated by Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute for Fiscal Management (SJHIFM).Enrolment under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana has also been made mandatory for all eligible members of the family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sops-for-family-welfare-scheme-finalised-in-haryana-293769
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Retirement benefit for staff of 4 depts in Haryana||The Haryana Cabinet gave ex-post facto approval for granting extension in service to employees of four departments — Revenue and Disaster Management (for the rank of DRO, tehsildar or below), Medical Education and Research Department, Health and Family Welfare Department including state medical colleges and state medical universities and Development and Panchayats Department (for the rank of DDPO and BDPO) — for a period of one month, who were going to retire on April 30. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retirement-benefit-for-staff-of-4-depts-in-haryana-293770
06-08-2021||Karnal||NCC cadet brings laurels to Dyal Singh Public School in Karnal||Extension lecture organisedRohtak: Emphasising on the importance of folklore in literature, and highlighting its importance in higher studies and research, an extension lecture of Pro. Nandini Sahu (IGNOU, New Delhi) was organised by the Department of English and Foreign Languages of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Prof Nandini Sahu threw light on the folklore as an academic discipline. HoD Prof Loveleen said Prof Sahu's engrossing lecture was followed by an interactive session. Prof Rashmi Malik expressed the vote of thanks. Eza Deswal moderated the lecture session.2 professors elected to councilRohtak: Dr Surender Singh, associate professor, department of botany and Dr Sudhir Kumar Kataria, associate professor, department of zoology of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) have been elected to the executive council (EC) for a term of two years with effect from August 6, 2021. MDU Registrar ProfGL Taneja said the election for the membership of the EC was held on July 30, and these two candidates were elected. Registrar informed that faculty members Dr Anju Dhiman (Pharmacy Sc), Dr Govind Singh (Pharmacy Sc), Dr Kapil Malhotra (Commerce), Dr Rajesh Kumar (Public Administration) and Sunit Mukherjee (Journalism and Mass Comm) have been declared unopposed to the university court. Their membership of the university court is for a period of three years wef July 30.MoU signed for career opportunitiesFaridabad: The DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad has signed an memorandum of understanding with Avadna Services Private Limited, for providing career opportunities to students and a platform for students' assessment and their overall development. This is a strategic memorandum of understanding, which will facilitate collaborative learning and management of the campus placement drives. Revealing this Dr Ritu Gandhi Arora, Officiating principal of the DAVIM, said this would open new vistas for the aspiring students to go ahead with their career pursuits.Prof invited to join as TAC memberHisar: A Washington-based organisation Geology in the Public Interest (GPI) has invited professor R Baskar from Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, to join the technical advisory council (TAC) of the GPI. GPI's technical advisory council provides scientific and technical guidance and oversight of existing and proposed activities and programmes. The TAC members are highly respected and qualified geoscientists, who can address a wide variety of geologic issues in all environments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadet-brings-laurels-to-dyal-singh-public-school-in-karnal-293771
06-08-2021||Some senior citizens and members of the RWA of Sector 9 have been making efforts to develop a park and do away with other deficiencies related to civic amenities. The rusted board erected in the park in front of houses 1||Park lacks facilities, maintenance in Ambala||Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityRoad gullies not repaired, cleared in PanchkulaThe MC, Panchkula, had given Rs 1.25 crores for the cleaning and repair work of rainwater road gullies. So far, most of these have not been cleaned or repaired. Many residents have filled the road gullies in front of their houses, some have been reduced in size and many have broken slabs. No visible repairs have been done in most of the areas. The authorities should look into the matter.Ashok Kumar Goel, panchkulaNo relief from waterloggingResidents of Kheri Kalan village, a part of Greater Faridabad, have been a harassed lot due to poor drainage system and failure of the MC to address and redress the grievances of the people, even though the village comes under the civic limits. Due to the rain, the water from the nearby pond has entered the village lanes, commuting has become impossible due to waterlogging. Though the matter has been raised with the authorities concerned, no relief has come so far.Mohit Kumar, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/park-lacks-facilities-maintenance-in-ambala-293772
06-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat: Tokyo medal winner Sumit Kumar worked at dhaba, a free stick changed his life||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 5For Sumit Kumar (24), forward player in the hockey team that won a historic Olympic bronze today, the road to Tokyo was extremely tough and full of hardships in early days.Hailing from Kurad village in Sonepat district, Sumit was born to a landless Dalit family that couldn’t even afford two meals a day. His parents Pratap Singh and Darshna Devi worked as daily-wagers to feed their three sons, including Amit and Jai Singh who were elder to Sumit. “There were numerous nights when Sumit went to bed on an empty stomach. Sometimes, it would only be a piece of ‘roti’. Drinking milk was a luxury,” says Amit, his voice choking with emotions. After pursuing menial jobs in the Jat-dominated village, Sumit along with Amit started working at a food outlet—Mohan Kamboj Dhaba—on the NH-44 in Murthal when he was barely five. At times, the owner of the dhaba, where he worked for five years, would allow Sumit to take home the leftover food for his family.Sumit completed his primary and middle education at HK Senior Secondary School in their village. It was at the school’s hockey academy that Sumit, at the age of eight years, got an opportunity to enrol in the sport. Seeing his passion for the game, the coach gave him a free stick and a pair of shoes. “After cleaning the floor early morning, Sumit would rush to the academy around 5 am. Whatever spare time he got, he would practise on the ground. The hard work and hardships only made him stronger; more dedicated towards the game,” recalls Amit.Kurad village erupted in celebrations after India bagged the medal. The family and villagers now plan to accord a grand reception to their hero, whose achievement has catapulted a non-descript village onto the world stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-tokyo-medal-winner-sumit-kumar-worked-at-dhaba-a-free-stick-changed-his-life-293624
