07-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad’s industrial area roads cry for repair||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 6With a majority of bituminous (tar coal) roads damaged in the wake of recent rains, entrepreneurs here have raised the demand of immediate repairs of these broken roads in the industrial area housing nearly 25,000 manufacturing units.“Most of the roads in the industrial area are in bad shape, leading to problems for commuters. Often there are accidents,” says the representation submitted by the Faridabad Industries Association (FIA) to the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad (MCF). According to KC Lakhani, chairman, Infrastructure Panel , FIA, stretches in all main zones, including the NIT Industrial Area and Sector 24, are damaged and have potholes. The authorities are requested to repair the roads immediately. Revealing that the industrial units were mainly dependent on private tankers for water supply, FIA has also demanded piped water supply.Accident-prone areaAs we are at the receiving end due to the broken and potholed roads, it is high time that the problem is addressed at the earliest. Commuting has become extremely difficult and has been affecting the industrial activity, which was already down to subsistence levels due to the pandemic. Rajive Chawla, president, integrated association of small micro and medium enterprises of indiaProposal put on hold due to legal issuesA proposal of Rs190 crore submitted in 2017 for repair of several roads has been put on hold due to the legal issues since January 2019. —Rajeev Sharma, Superintending engineer, HSVP“As we are at the receiving end due to the broken and potholed roads, it is high time that the problem is addressed at the earliest as commuting has become difficult and has been affecting the industrial activity, ”says Rajive Chawla, president, Integrated Association of Small Micro and Medium Enterprises of India . “Many representations have been submitted to the authorities in the past few years, but relief is yet to come, he adds. Claiming that all roads in the sectors such as 4, 6, 24, 25, 58,59,27,33, 68 and 69 , the DLF and the NIT Industrial area have been lying damaged with no repairs for the past 10 years,” Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary , Manufacturers Association, Faridabad (MAF) said. He further says that the movement of goods and raw material has become difficult and often results in loss caused to vehicles and commodities due to the potholes. Despite an annual revenue contribution of Rs 1,600 crore, the industry has poor infrastructure.“A proposal of Rs 190 crore submitted in 2017 for repairs of several roads has been put on hold due to the legal issues since January 2019,” says Rajeev Sharma, Superintending Engineer, HSVP. MCF Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said roads would be repaired soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabads-industrial-area-roads-cry-for-repair-294068
07-08-2021||Parveen Arora||233 persons died in 402 accidents in seven months in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 6Rash driving, overspeeding, drunken driving are the main reasons behind fatal accidents. Due to these factors, 402 accidents have taken place in the district till August 5 from January 1, 2021. The accidents led to the deaths of 233 persons and injuries to 264 people. In 2020, 335 people lost their lives, while 443 sustained injuries in 626 accidents, while in 2019, 382 people died and 562 received injuries in 740 accidents.The police sources say 70 per cent of the accidents are due to overspeedind, drunken driving, rash driving, driving in wrong lanes. Blind spots along with faulty road engineering are also the reasons that have led to fatal accidents.As per the information, In January this year, 38 persons died in 63 accidents, while 35 in 48 accidents in February and 35 deaths in 60 accidents in March. Maximum 41 deaths had been reported in 63 accidents in April, while in May, 49 accidents took place that led to the death of 41 persons. In June 28 people died in 58 accidents, while in July 56 accidents resulted in the death of 30 people. Till August 5, 6 accidents took place that resulted in the death of four persons.As far as negligent driving in concerned, the Karnal police have issued 32,877 challans in the current year till July 31. Of them, 5,674 challans were of overspeeding. SP Ganga Ram Punia said they had been holding awareness camps to educate commuters to follow rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/233-persons-died-in-402-accidents-in-seven-months-in-karnal-district-294069
07-08-2021||---||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij tells IPS officer Bharti Arora to reconsider VRS  request||Chandigarh, August 6Home Minister Anil Vij has said senior IPS officer Bharti Arora is the pride of Haryana and she would be urged to reconsider her request for voluntary retirement from service.A week back, Arora, posted as the Inspector General of Police, Ambala Range, had sought voluntary retirement citing personal grounds, and had said she wants to dedicate the rest of her life to the service of Lord Sri Krishna.Vij said he has received Arora’s request for voluntary retirement, and added that she would be urged to reconsider her decision.“I have written a note on the file that Bharti Arora is a very good police officer. She is the pride of the Haryana Police,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-tells-ips-officer-bharti-arora-to-reconsider-vrs-request-294070
07-08-2021||---||One IAS, 29 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 6The Haryana Government today issued transfer and posting orders of one IAS and 29 HCS officers with immediate effect.Uttarn Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Sirsa has been posted as ADC Palwal, District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Palwal, and DTO-cum-Secretary, RTA, Palwal.Among HCS officers, Dinesh Singh Yadav has been posted as Additional Director (Admn) and Special Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Department while Vivek Padam has been given the charge of Special Secretary, Finance Department. Veena Hooda is new ADC Kurukshetra and District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Kurukshetra. Dr Munish Nagpal has been posted as Additional Registrar, Haryana Cooperative Societies and Mahabir Parsad has been given the charge of Additional Director (Admn.), Social Justice Empowerment, Department.Sushil Kumar is new ADC Sirsa and District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Sirsa, while Satyender Duhan has been posted as Additional Director (Admn.), Medical College, Nalhar (Nuh). Jaideep Kumar gets the charge of CEO, ZP, Rewari and CEO, DRDA, Rewari, and Manisha Sharma has been posted as Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Punhana.Rajesh Kumar is new OSD in the Office of Commissioner, Hisar Division, and Ajay Chopra is new ADC Fatehabad. Tarun Kumar Pawaria has been posted as Joint Secretary, Monitoring and Coordination Department and Joint Secretary Foreign Cooperation Department while Maj Gayatri Ahlawat (retd) is new District Municipal Commissioner, Jind. Jitender Kumar has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Gurugram-ll and Bijender Singh is new Joint Director, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, and Secretary, Haryana Traders Welfare Board.Ashutosh Rajan has been given additional charge of Joint Director, Mines and Geology Department while Ashwani Kumar has been posted as Deputy Secretary, Finance Department and OSD in the Micro Irrigation and Command Area Development Authority. Ved Prakash has been posted as CEO, ZP, Sirsa and CEO, DRDA, Sirsa, Vijay Singh is new Joint Director (Admn.) PGIMS, Rothak and Jaiveer Yadav has been given additional charge of Estate Officer, HSVP, Sirsa.Bhupendra Singh has been posted as Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Bahadurgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-ias-29-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-294072
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, pay Rs 299 for RT-PCR test in Haryana||The state government has asked all private hospitals and laboratories to charge Rs 299 for an RT-PCR test.Health Minister Anil Vij said, “Since the onset of the pandemic, the state has been providing free Covid testing facilities at the government health facilities.”‘Thailand wants to adopt Hry model’To prevent the third wave, the minister said the government was laying focus on the five-fold strategy — test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence of appropriate behaviour. At a meeting, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said, “The state has 659 ventilators, including paediatric and neonatal.”On the availability of oxygen, he said the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants had been set up in districts, especially in those with high incidence of Covid cases.Besides, liquid medical oxygen tanks are present in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Hisar, Jind, and Rewari. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-pay-rs-299-for-rt-pcr-test-in-haryana-294073
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana notifies policy to uplift abandoned kids||The state government has notified the HARIHAR (Homeless, Abandoned and Surrendered Children Rehabilitation Initiative Haryana) policy.The aim of the policy, notified by the Women and Child Development Department, is to provide abandoned and surrendered children with employment, education and financial benefits.The provision of jobs on compassionate grounds and on the basis of the economically weaker section (EWS) status to abandoned and surrendered children are the other highlights of the policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-notifies-policy-to-uplift-abandoned-kids-294074
07-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Tiranga Yatra held in Jagadhri||The BJP today held Tiranga Yatra in the honour of martyrs in the Jagadhri Assembly segment represented by Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.The chief guest of the programme was state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar.The yatra received a rousing welcome in the segment. Thousands of people joined the yatra. Starting from Pratap Nagar, the yatra covered more than 100 villages of the segment, Chhachhrauli, Jagadhri and Buria.While addressing participants, Dhankar said: “The Tiranga Yatra has been organised to pay homage to martyrs.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tiranga-yatra-held-in-jagadhri-294075
07-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Wrestler Bajrang Punia family pins hopes on bronze||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 6The defeat of wrestler Bajrang Punia in the semifinal bout at the Tokyo Olympics came as a shocker to his family members as they were confident of his victory.“Bajrang played well, but his opponent held his injured leg to score points in the bout. He suffered injuries a month ago when he was in Russia. We are a little bit disappointed, but defeat and victory are part of the game, hence we are now looking for the bronze medal bout. Bajrang will definitely win an Olympic medal,” said the wrestlers’ father, Balwan Punia, talking to the media.He said Bajrang had toiled hard for the Olympics, but unfortunately lost today, while his two earlier bouts were marvellous. “The blessings of all Indians are with Bajrang and I am sure he will emerge victorious in the bronze medal bout.”Bajrang belongs to Khuddan village, but his family shifted to Sonepat a few years ago when he was undergoing technical training in wrestling. He did not have any interest in studies that drove him towards “akhara” at his village in 2001 where he learnt the basics of wrestling and emerged the “Best child wrestler” of the region within a short span of time by winning several competitions held in various districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestler-bajrang-punia-family-pins-hopes-on-bronze-294078
07-08-2021||Professor Anita Saxena||New VC appointed at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak||IAS officer gets addl charge of Chief Executive OfficerChandigarh: The state government on Friday transferred IAS officer Saket Kumar, who is the Director General and Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department; Adviser and Secretary, Civil Aviation Department; and Managing Director, Haryana Medical Services Corporation. He has been given the additional charge of Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat, Haryana Health Protection Authority. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-vc-appointed-at-pandit-bhagwat-dayal-sharma-university-of-health-sciences-rohtak-294079
07-08-2021||Hisar||Tokyo Olympics: 4th spot no mean feat, hockey players' kin||Though the hockey team couldn’t win at the Tokyo Olympics, families of Udita Duhan and Sharmila Godara are satisfied with their performances. They said their daughters had made them proud.“We are glad that the team grabbed the fourth position for the first time in the Olympics. This is no mean feat. All girls played well and gave the country a reason to cheer,” said Udita’s younger sister Monty Duhan. She said they talked to Udita over the phone last evening and she told them they would give their best in the match”“It gives us immense happiness to know that people across India are appreciating the girls on the social media,” she added.Meanwhile, Sharmila’s father Suresh Godara, a farmer, said they had never imagined that their daughter would not only represent India in the Olympics but also become a part of the team that would create history.“We are happy with her performance but it would have been a double delight hadthe team won the bronze. Sharmila has made us proud by representing India inthe Olympics. We are now eagerly awaiting her arrival,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-olympics-4th-spot-no-mean-feat-hockey-players-kin-294083
07-08-2021||---||My daughter stood like a wall against Great Britain: Indian goalie Savita Punia's father||Chandigarh, August 6For goalie Savita Punia’s father Mahender Punia, the biggest challenge after the team’s defeat was to console his daughter.Mahender, a pharmacist at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Sirsa, had called Savita after watching her breaking down on the field, but she couldn’t respond then and called him back later. “Beta, why are you crying? You played exceedingly well. The entire country is proud of you and your teammates,” Mahender told his daughter.Like thousands of fans across the country, it was heartbreaking for Savita’s family to see her breaking down as the game ended.Later, Mahender told The Tribune that Savita, who earned the sobriquet of “The Great Wall” after the team’s quarterfinal win, held herself solely responsible for the team’s defeat today.“I told her that she played well and saved many goals. At the end of the day, one team has to lose. It was not our day. But the team’s performance during the entire Olympics has been laudable,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/my-daughter-stood-like-a-wall-against-great-britain-indian-goalie-savita-punias-father-294084
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, CM window, RTS panel to work together in Haryana||Following the directions of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, now the Chief Minister Grievance Redressal and Monitoring System (CM Window) and the Right to Service Commission will work together to address the grievances of the people of the state. This decision was taken in a meeting held under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-cm-window-rts-panel-to-work-together-in-haryana-294086
07-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Down but not out, say families after women hockey team’s defeat at Tokyo||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 6Spirited Indian women hockey team narrowly missed the Olympics bronze on Friday after it lost 3-4 to the Great Britain in a hard-fought match, but the girls have won a million hearts and respect with their laudable performance.Families of skipper Rani Rampal, forward player Navneet and midfielder Navjot of Shahabad said the girls made all efforts and their performance would inspire budding players. They said: “For us, they are winners.”Rampal, Rani’s father, said: “The girls created history when they stunned three-time champions Australia to enter the semifinals for the first time. They kept fighting till the last second and they will be welcomed as winners. A majority of the players come from humble background and if the government provides them good facilities, they will definitely bring laurels for the country.”Satnam Singh, Navjot’s father, said: “They played bravely, but it is a game and only one team can win. They have made us proud. Everyone is heartbroken at the moment but at the same time we are happy with their performance. They reached the semifinals this time and we are hopeful that they will achieve more in the next Olympics.”Meanwhile, Buta Singh, Navneet’s father, said “It was a hard-fought match. The government should continue to support the players to boost their morale. I talked to Navneet, they all are very emotional right now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/down-but-not-out-say-families-after-women-hockey-teams-defeat-at-tokyo-294087
07-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Marriage for hockey players Neha Goyal, Nisha Warsi can wait, say parents||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 6The defeat of the Indian women hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics has left families of Neha Goyal and Nisha Warsi disappointed but they said their daughters had won the hearts of the people of the country with their tough fight.They were confident about the team winning the bronze medal, but their hopes were dashed. The team would work hard in future to win the gold medal in the next Olympics, the family members claimed.Nisha and Neha have been trained at Commonwealth Games gold medallist Pritam Rani Siwach’s academy in the industrial area in Sonepat.Sohrab Ahmed Warsi, Nisha’s father, said: “Our team gave a tough fight, but it is a game and the other team played well in the second half and scored the winning goal.”“Though the team lost the match, they won the hearts of the country. Nisha was crying today when she rang us. She regretted losing the match but her mother Mahroon and I boosted her morale,” he added.About Nisha’s marriage, Sohrab said: “I want her to play freely and bring medals for the country first. After marriage, she would get busy in domestic affairs.”Meanwhile, Monika Goyal, Neha’s sister, said we were cheering for bronze and the team played so well till the last minute but unfortunately it lost.Her mother Savitri Devi got emotional and tears flowed down her cheeks.“We will not pressurise her for marriage because she wants to play in the next Olympics,” Monika added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/marriage-for-hockey-players-neha-goyal-nisha-warsi-can-wait-say-parents-294090
07-08-2021||When existing gaushalas refused to accept cows roaming everywhere||Gaushalas in poor condition in Narwana; no provision of food||Civic issues need quick redress in KurukshetraResidents of Sector 3, Kurukshetra, are facing several civic issues. The drains are blocked and water gets stagnant on roads in front of houses after rain. Garbage is seen scattered on roads. Sector roads are in damaged condition causing accidents. Stray animals are posing threat to commuters as they roam freely across Kurukshetra. The local administration should act immediately for healthy and safe living of residents. —SK Goyal, KurukshetraWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gaushalas-in-poor-condition-in-narwana-no-provision-of-food-294091
07-08-2021||Hisar||13th edition of Azadi Amritmahotsav at Guru Jambheshwar University||Online Art exhibitionKurukshetra: Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said art was a powerful medium of express expression. It acts as a medicine in today's stressful life and provides peace to the human mind. He said this while inaugurating an online national art exhibition 'Srijan 2021' organised by the department of fine arts. Kurukshetra University registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma appreciated this effort of the fine arts department. Chairperson of the fine arts department and coordinator of art exhibition, Dr Pawan Kumar said this exhibition would be there from August 5 to 15. A link is available on the KU website to view this online exhibition, informed Dr Pawan. The organising secretary of the online national art exhibition, Dr Gurcharan Singh informed that famous artists from different states of India were participating in the exhibition. Artifacts of Padma Shree Shyam Sharma, Padma Shree Sudhakar Olway, CS Krishna Setty (former president, Lalit Kala Akademi, Government of India) and 60 more renowned artists’s work will also being displayed in this exhibition.Van Mahotsav celebratedKarnal: The management, staff and students of Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, celebrated the 'annual Van Mahotsav Day' on Friday. A march was also organised with the mission to create, educate and motivate young minds to preserve and conserve our rich biodiversity. It is with this approach of making a difference, that the students of PPS planted and gifted saplings in a neighbourhood park. The locality residents thanked the management and staff of PPS for taking such good care of their park and enhancing the quality of the environment. Students gifted and explained the benefits of various medicinal plants to the members of the management and residents, present here.Webinar on advances in 4D printingHisar: Lasers and photonics group of department of physics, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar (GJUST) and the advanced optical materials research group (AOMRG) of University Technology Malaysia (UTM) and North-Cap University (NCU) organised a webinar on "Advances in 4D printing materials and technology" on Friday under a memorandum of understanding. The speakers Prof Dr. Sib Krishna Ghoshal of UTM, Prof Dr Devendra Mohan of GJUST and Dr Sunita Sharma of NCU deliberated on the concept of future 4D printing materials technology in the areas of healthcare, defence, aerospace, automobile, consumer goods, electronics mainly auto, airspace and medical with the need of self assembled materials, multi-materials, temperature driven materials, UV -driven materials, self-deformation/degradation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13th-edition-of-azadi-amritmahotsav-at-guru-jambheshwar-university-294092
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||CM announces Rs 50L each for nine women hockey players from Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced an award of Rs 50 lakh each to the nine members of the Olympics women’s hockey team representing the state.“I congratulate the Indian team for their praiseworthy performance at the Tokyo Olympics. The women’s team fought like Rani Jhansi till the end,” the Chief Minister said.In a hard-fought bronze play-off match the Indian team lost 3-4 to the Great Britain.The team had already created history and surpassed all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Games for the first time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-announces-rs-50l-each-for-nine-women-hockey-players-from-haryana-294093
07-08-2021||Sushil Manav||Players from Haryana will miss out on big prize money||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6The defeat in the match for bronze against the Great Britain today has not just the ended the run for a medal for some state players in the Indian women hockey team, but has also shattered their dream for a better future.The Olympic team has nine players from Haryana, with a majority of them coming from a humble background.A victory today could have earned them Rs 2.5 crore each as prize money, a job as senior coach in the Sports Department and a plot by HSVP on concessional rates.While some senior players like Rani Rampal and Savita Punia have been part of the teams that won the 2014 and 2018 Asian Games and got cash incentives under the state’s sports policy, there are others like Sharmila Devi and Neha Warsi, who were not part of the squad, who haven’t received any big rewards.“For long, Savita has remained without a job despite the fact that she was playing for India. The team won bronze in the 2014 Asian Games, but no job came her way. It was only after the team’s victory in 2018 that she got a job with the SAI. We were hopeful that a medal in Tokyo will ensure her a government,” said Savita’s father Mahender Punia.Though presently working with the Railways, Nisha and her family have seen many hardships. “We had plans to spend some amount of the prize money on house repair,” said her father Sohrab Warsi.Job too was on offerA victory on Friday could have earned players Rs 2.5 crore each as prize money, a job as senior coach in the Sports Department and a plot from Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran at concessional rates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/players-from-haryana-will-miss-out-on-big-prize-money-294096
07-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana sees spurt in child pregnancy cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6A 17-year-old mentally challenged girl, Monu (name changed), had to deliver a child born out of rape by a neighbour. Even as the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Faridabad pursued the case for abortion, crucial time was lost.In cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, which defines a person below 18 years as a child, 54 pregnancies (more than four per month) were reported in Haryana last year. The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) collected this data from CWCs at the district level. Fifteen cases were reported from Gurugram, followed by five each from Palwal and Sonepat.No abortion due to late reporting54 pregnancies were reported in Haryana last year37 in the first five months this yearIn the first five months this year, 37 cases were reported, which is more than seven per month. Only in 21 cases, the termination was carried out this year, either by the court order or by the CWC concerned.Prathna (name changed), who is visually impaired, was just 14-year-old when her stepfather sexually abused her. The crime came to light as she was complaining of stomach pain. But by that time, she was 24-week pregnant and had to deliver the child, whom she later surrendered for adoption. Her mother, who works as a maid and hails from West Bengal, stood by her and got the case registered in June 2020.  Jyoti Bainda, Chairperson, HSCPCR, said, “Most of the victims are poor migrants. The pregnancies are usually detected late. The victims remain in fear if the abuser is from their family. Sometimes delay happens at the level of the CWC or medical board.”Radha (name changed), 15, was sexually abused by her father for over two years. Her mother had died a few years ago. When her father was arrested, she along with her four siblings had to be shifted to a children's home in Gurugram. Her grandmother refused to take her.The case came to light in October 2020, in Palwal. As the length of pregnancy was over 24 weeks, HSCPCR had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for termination. After an opinion from the doctors of Fortis Hospital, Gurugram, the high court didn’t allow it. She delivered the child in February this year.  On the complaint of Bainda that in case of child pregnancies the medical board takes a long time in submitting its report_rendering medical termination not possible_the HC had ruled in October last year, that the medical board has to give an opinion within three days. Following the ruling, the health department issued instructions to all civil surgeons in the state. “I am happy at children's home (in Gurugram) as I am getting food on time. I am being provided new clothes too. I want to study further and want to become a teacher,” says Radha, during her counselling session. She has joined a school and has been taking classes online.  Unaware of crime with her, she sometimes presses for the release of her father. “Radha’s case set the precedent. We prefer abortions in case of child pregnancies born out of rape. The CWC of the concerned district has to pursue the case for abortion after taking consent. What is the future of a child born after sexual assault by a father or brother or cousin? We want CWCs and doctors to be sensitive to such cases. If the abortion is not carried out on time, then we prefer newly-born children to be surrendered and offer them in adoptions,” said Bainda.  Chandigarh-based gynaecologist Dr Nirja Chawla said, “Teenage body is not fit to bear pregnancy. Maternal mortality is high in them. They face a high risk of eclampsia, uterine infection, and diabetes. The biggest impact is psychological as a child is having a child.”  Ironically, the state is yet to set up medical boards for implementing the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2021, under which the pregnancy can be aborted up to 24 weeks instead of 20.Upasana Sachdeva, a Gurugram CWC member, said, “The cases of child pregnancies are on the rise. Such victims hardly know the difference between good touch and bad touch. They require multiple counselling sessions and follow-ups for mental wellbeing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sees-spurt-in-child-pregnancy-cases-294163
