08-08-2021||Chandigarh||CM Khattar visits Ravi Dahiya’s home in Sonepat; Vij meets Neeraj Chopra’s parents in Panipat||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met the family of wrestler Ravi Dahiya, who won silver medal at the Tokyo Olympics, while Home Minister Anil Vij went to Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra’s home in Panipat to congratulate his parents.Dahiya’s family and representatives of Nahri village in Sonepat expressed gratitude to Khattar for boosting the morale of sportspersons and creating a harmonious environment for them to grow and perform at the international platform, according to an official statement here on Sunday.The chief minister, while congratulating the parents of the wrestler at his native Nahri village, also resolved several issues of the area on the spot, it said.Among the family members present along with other representatives were Ravi Dahiya’s father Rakesh and uncle Mukesh Dahiya, members of the Nahri Gram Panchayat and former sarpanch of the village.At star javelin thrower Chopra’s home on Sunday, Vij congratulated the family, saying he has made the country proud.After honouring Chopra’s parents with a turban and a shawl, Vij bowed down and touched their feet.“I have come to touch the feet of the parents of the son-of-the-soil who has brought laurels to the entire nation,” he told reporters later.Vij said, “The country used to wait from one Olympics to the other in the hope of winning a gold in athletics. That wait is over now and Neeraj has fulfilled that dream. His performance will encourage more sportspersons to achieve heights of glory.” Replying to a question, he said if Chopra wants to set up an academy to train youngsters, the government will consider.Chopra’s father Satish said the Olympic champion will be arriving in India on Monday evening.He said once he is back in the country will the family know on which day he will reach his hometown.Meanwhile, during Khattar’s visit to Dahiya’s home, village representatives presented a demand letter to the chief minister in which grievances of the people of the area were listed.Khattar immediately took up the grievances and asked the officers concerned to resolve them on priority basis.Among the key issues, which the representatives shared with the chief minister, was the problem of water drainage in the area. Taking up the matter, Khattar spoke to the deputy commissioner, Sonepat and asked him to resolve the matter immediately.He also accepted the demand to open a model school in the area and directed the officers concerned to resolve other issues of the area on priority basis. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-visits-ravi-dahiyas-home-in-sonepat-vij-meets-neeraj-chopras-parents-in-panipat-294896
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till August 23, but lifts curbs on opening of shops, malls||The Haryana government on Sunday announced to lift all timing restrictions on the opening of restaurants, malls, shops and other such establishments, even as it extended the coronavirus lockdown by a fortnight till August 23.In an order, Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said the new guidelines will come into effect from 5 am Monday.The order said people without a face cover or a mask will be barred from boarding public or private transport, or from entering into any government and private establishment for availing services or goods.“It is also advised that no mask-no service will be strictly observed in the state,” said the order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order said there will be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of Covid—test-trace-track-vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The order said deputy commissioners may, if necessary, invoke the provisions of Section 144 (order prohibiting gatherings) of the CrPC.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another fortnight, that is from August 9 (5 am onwards) to August 23 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana,” said the order.The lockdown restrictions pertaining to the timings of opening of shops, bars, restaurants, malls, have been removed, the order said.                   Till now, shops in the state were allowed to open between 9 am to 8 pm and malls between 10 am to 8 pm. Restaurant and bars were allowed to operate between 10 am to 11 pm.While lifting the curbs on timing, the Sunday order said all Covid-related guidelines including on social distancing, sanitisation and seating capacity will have to be followed.The state government has termed the lockdown “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)”. It was initially imposed on May 3 and subsequently extended several times. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-august-23-but-lifts-curbs-on-opening-of-shops-malls-294875
08-08-2021||---||Rape accused held in Palwal||Palwal, August 7The local police have nabbed one of the accused in a gangrape incident that took place in May this year. The two other accused are still absconding.A police official said the accused identified as Imtiaz Ali (25), a resident of the district’s Malai village, was arrested after a raid on a tip-off from a spot near Kuslipur flyover on Saturday morning.He said Ali and two of his friends had raped a 20-year-old woman in May this year and had been on the run since then. He said the accused who committed the crime after giving the victim a drink laced with intoxicants had also clicked some obscene pictures and were blackmailing her.“On May 28, the girl lodged a police complaint after the accused made the pictures viral on the social media. Imtiaz has been sent to police remand,” said Vishva Gaurav, incharge, detective cell of the local police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rape-accused-held-in-palwal-294623
08-08-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni to boycott SKM meetings||Ambala, August 7Accusing the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) of discriminating against him, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has decided not to participate in the general body and nine-member committee meetings of the SKM.The differences among SKM leaders came to the fore once again, when Charuni accused the SKM leaders, especially those belonging to Punjab, of discriminating against him in a video message released on social media platforms.He said, “From the day one, they have been discriminating against me. They have taken action against me twice, but no action has been taken against Kakka (Shiv Kumra Kakka) for his remarks against me. In another case, Yogendra Yadav’s supporters contested in Uttar Pradesh’s zila parishad election and they even pasted posters claiming to be SKM-supported candidates, but no action was taken. At present, Kisan Sansad is being organised at Jantar Mantar, and a Bihar minister, who entered through Tikait’s union, was made president there. Again nothing happened.”Charuni said, “Punjab leaders have some issues with me. I have boycotted their meetings. I have decided not to attend the general body and nine-member committee meetings too in protest against their injustice. They try to demean us. However, to ensure that the agitation is not affected, our union will continue to accept their decisions. They have been trying to end this agitation, but we will continue to make this agitation stronger.”In July, taking a serious note of statements regarding launch of ‘Mission Punjab’, the SKM had suspended Charuni for seven days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-to-boycott-skm-meetings-294624
08-08-2021||Hisar||‘Facilities for Agroha medical college soon’||Appreciating the efforts of Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, in tackling the Covid crisis during the first and second waves, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday assured to provide all facilities to the institute.He announced a grant of Rs 82 lakh for the welfare of students and to upgrade the library in the medical college. He said the college was all geared up for the possible third Covid wave.Meanwhile, agitating farmers staged a protest outside the college and raised black flags during Dushyant’s visit.A farmer, Mahender Singh, 60, of Kuleri village died of heart failure during the march. The farmers demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job to the next of kin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/facilities-for-agroha-medical-college-soon-294626
08-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Woman moves HC to stop daughter’s assets worth Rs 2.7 cr from going to mother-in-law||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7A woman, who lost her daughter and son-in-law to Covid during the second wave, has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court to prevent her offspring’s “self-acquired property” from going to her mother-in-law because of the “patently discriminatory provisions of Section 15 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956”.The Section makes it clear that an issueless widow’s assets go to her spouse’s heir and not her parents.The HC, by issuing notice of motion on the mother’s petition, has made clear its intent to examine whether Section 15 was required to be declared unconstitutional/ultra vires the Constitution.When the issueless Gurugram-based couple succumbed to Covid in April-May, no one could have realised that their death would give birth to the unique litigation alleging that the Section discriminated on the basis of sex.Appearing on the mother’s behalf before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, counsel Viraj Gandhi, Sumeer Sodhi and Shreya Nair submitted that the Section made it clear that the property of a Hindu woman, dying intestate, would devolve on her husband’s heir in the absence of a surviving spouse or kids.The daughter’s self-acquired property, movable and immovable, amounting to Rs 2.7 crore would, as such, go to her husband’s heir and not her parents under the existing law, despite the fact that the assets were entirely self-acquired. This, the petitioner contended, would be extremely unfair and inequitable and, as such, in violation of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.Going into the technical aspects of the matter, the petitioner added the property of a male Hindu dying intestate devolved first upon Class I heirs, including sons and daughters, widow and mother under Section 8 (a) of the Act.In stark contrast, only sons and daughters and the husband had the first right to inherit her property under Section 15(1) (a). Her mother has not been given right to the same unlike the right of a male Hindu’s mother. As such, a Hindu woman’s mother was treated differently than a male Hindu’s mother.The Bench was told that the petition was of material import to women rights across the country and was a matter requiring to be laid to rest to achieve the goal of gender justice as constitutionally envisaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-moves-hc-to-stop-daughters-assets-worth-rs-2-7-cr-from-going-to-mother-in-law-294627
08-08-2021||---||Govt readies spl micro-irrigation scheme||Chandigarh, August 7The Haryana Government has prepared a special scheme for farmers using micro-irrigation.With this scheme, the farmers can ensure more production of crops by consumption of less water with the micro-irrigation system and expenditure on irrigation is also reduced.For all such farmers who wish to take advantage of the scheme, a portal has been developed by the state government, on which the farmers can register and apply for the installation of a micro-irrigation system.Sharing information in this regard, Chief Engineer, Micro-Irrigation, Bijender Singh Nara said the individual farmers would be given a 70 per cent subsidy on the construction of the water tank, 75 per cent on the solar pump and 85 per cent on mini-sprinkler or drill.PORTAL DEVELOPEDA portal has been developed by the state government on which the farmers can register and apply for the installation of a micro-irrigation system.Similarly, 85 per cent subsidy will be given to a group of farmers for the construction of a water tank, 75 per cent on the solar pump and 85 per cent on mini-sprinkler/drill.Nara further said 20 per cent subsidy would be given on completion of water tank excavation, 40 per cent on completion of the water tank construction and 40 per cent on the installation of micro-irrigation system. The land for ‘on-farm pond’ to be used in micro-irrigation will have to be made available to the farmers.He said 2 kanals of land would have to be made available for ‘on-farm pond’ for micro-irrigation on 25 acres of land. Under this scheme, 99 per cent of the expenditure for the construction and reconstruction of the Khal will be borne by the government provided the shareholder of Khal is ready to deposit 1 per cent of their share.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-readies-spl-micro-irrigation-scheme-294628
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Land bank policy to be notified soon||Financial Commissioner (Revenue) and Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue and Disaster Management) Sanjeev Kaushal today directed the Deputy Commissioners to ensure that the Haryana Government was mentioned as the owner of government land during the ongoing ‘girdawari’.  The department name would be mentioned under the column ‘khana kasht’ and complete details of the land would be given. The last column would contain details such as buildings on the land, vacant area and encroachment, if any.  He said land banks would be drafted in accordance with the recent decision of the state Cabinet. These would contain all information pertaining to all types of government land, which would help ensure speedy execution of government schemes. He also said the land bank policy would be notified soon. Expressing satisfaction over the pace of work for modernisation of record rooms and execution of various tasks under the SVAMITVA scheme, Kaushal directed the officers to ensure that the work was completed on time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-bank-policy-to-be-notified-soon-294629
08-08-2021||---||Boy killed in roof collapse, MLA announces aid||Kurukshetra, August 7Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha announced financial aid of Rs 2 lakh to the family of a minor boy who died after the roof of their house collapsed due to rain on Friday.The deceased was identified as Vansh (8). His cousin Amit suffered head injuries in the incident.After getting information, the MLA reached the house and announced financial aid for the family. He also directed Civil Surgeon, Kurukshetra, to ensure free of cost treatment for the injured child.Meanwhile, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini also visited the house today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-killed-in-roof-collapse-mla-announces-aid-294630
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Give relief for crop damage: Hooda to government||Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today raised the demand for compensation for crops damaged due to waterlogging. Hooda said crops of farmers in many districts had suffered losses due to incessant rain in the past few days.“Crops of cotton, bajra, maize, pulses and vegetables have been damaged due to waterlogging. The government should give proper compensation to the farmers by getting a special ‘girdawari’ of the loss done at the earliest. For the past several seasons, farmers have been facing crop loss due to unseasonal rains, locusts and other reasons, but the government is constantly shunning its responsibility of compensation,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-relief-for-crop-damage-hooda-to-government-294631
08-08-2021||---||Kabaddi player accuses cops of harassment, Vij orders inquiry||Ambala, August 7A minor girl, who is a junior national-level kabaddi player, today urged Home Minister Anil Vij to take action against some cops for allegedly harassing her and her family in connection with an assault case.The girl, her family members and dozens of residents of her village attended the Janata Darbar here today.She broke down while narrating her ordeal to the minister. The minor’s mother, alleged, “My daughter was beaten up just because she got selected for the junior national-level games and the girls from the other group were not selected. She has suffered multiple injuries, including a fracture in leg. One of the accused has not been arrested. The policemen have been threatening and harassing us. A false case has also been registered against us. Last night, seven policemen forcefully entered our house and threatened us.”On her complaint, the minister ordered an SIT, led by an IG, to investigate the matter, and issued directions to provide security to the family.In another case, the minister ordered officials to write to the Indian embassy for repatriation of a man from Canada, after his wife accused him of cheating him and not returning after he went abroad four years ago, a few days after their marriage. The woman alleged that her husband had got married there and she was being threatened.Complainants from different districts had reached Ambala to file their complaints with Vij, at the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantt.Talking to the media, Vij said, “The officials keep files pending for months. I have found several important pending complaints during the raid at a police station in Panchkula on Friday. Now I will be raiding other offices as well. The officials should clear their files on time otherwise action will be taken against them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kabaddi-player-accuses-cops-of-harassment-vij-orders-inquiry-294632
08-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat: Neeraj Chopra’s village Khandra erupts in joy||Tribune News ServiceKhandra (Panipat), August 7Celebrations started at Neeraj Chopra’s native village Khandra in the district soon after the athlete bagged the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday.His family members distributed laddoos as youth danced and waved the Tricolour. Neeraj also created history as he became the first Indian to bag a gold medal in a track and field event. Villagers, who started gathering at Neeraj’s house around noon, watched the javelin throw event live on a giant TV screen set up on a street.Deputy Commissioner Sushil Kumar Sarwan also watched the event with Neeraj’s family members and congratulated them on his success. Later, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar congratulated Neeraj’s father Satish Chopra and other family members.Notably, India was eyeing the gold medal since Neeraj topped the qualification round on August 4 with a throw of 86.65 m in his first attempt. “Choorma and peda (a sweet) is Neeraj’s favourite dish. He likes homemade food whenever he comes back from events,” said Neeraj’s mother Saroj Devi, adding that the family had full faith that he would win the gold medal. “Today is the best day for us as he won a gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics. This is the best gift he could give to us this Raksha Bandhan,” said Neeraj’s sister Sarita and Sangeeta.Best Rakhi giftThis is the best gift he could give to us this Raksha Bandhan. —Sarita and Sangeeta, Neeraj’s sistersBorn in a joint family of 17 members, Neeraj struggled with obesity in his younger days. The family enrolled him at a gym in Panipat, said Bhimsen Chopra, uncle of Neeraj. During his gym sessions, he also started visiting the nearby Shivaji stadium and came in contact with javelin thrower Jaiveer of Binjhol. It was on Jaiveer’s suggestion that Neeraj started participating in the javelin throw events, he added.Surender, his uncle said, Neeraj had completed his studies up to Class IX from a school at Bhalsi village. After that he continued studies through the open school system. After winning the world championship in 2016, he was appointed as Naib Subedar in the Army and now he had been promoted to the post of Subedar Major, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-neeraj-chopras-village-khandra-erupts-in-joy-294636
08-08-2021||---||Police job paper leaked, HSSC cancels exams||Chandigarh, August 7The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) has cancelled the constable recruitment exams held on Saturday and those scheduled for Sunday.On Saturday evening, HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh said: “We have cancelled the exams as the paper has been leaked.”Earlier in the day, Congress national general secretary Randeep Surjewala had questioned whether the constable recruitment exam got leaked. “If it is true then who is this ‘paper mafia’ and with whom they are connected. Whether CM would come forward and explain the situation,” he had tweeted.In a video statement on Twitter, Surjewala said, “Since morning, several reports have started pouring in about the paper leak. The future of lakhs of youth who want to join the police service is at stake.”CM SHOULD GIVE EXPLANATION If it is true, then who is this ‘paper mafia’ and with whom they are connected. Whether CM would come forward and explain the situation. —Randeep Surjewala, Congress leaderDemanding a proper inquiry into the matter, he said, “Media reports have informed that paper solvers were caught on the spot in Kaithal. Whether they had the answer key or from where they got it, no fact is coming out.”Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Saturday demanded the dismissal of the HSSC with immediate effect due to the paper leak.She said under the BJP-JJP government, Haryana had become a stronghold of the paper leak mafia. “Papers are leaked in Haryana every day and then they are cancelled. This government has set a new record in paper leaks. To do justice to the state youth, a judicial inquiry should be conducted to investigate all paper leak cases during the first and second terms of the BJP-JJP government,” Selja added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-job-paper-leaked-hssc-cancels-exams-294639
08-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Dream fulfilled: Wrestler Bajrang Punia dad||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 7Wrestler Bajrang Punia, a resident of Khuddan village here, made India proud by clinching bronze after defeating Daulet Niyazbekov of Kazakhstan in the repechage round of the men’s 65 kg category at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday.Balwan Singh Punia, proud father of Bajrang, said his son had fulfilled his dream. “I dreamt of an Olympic medal for Bajrang and he knew about it. That day came today. My son turned my dream into reality. Though we were confident about Bajrang’s gold in the Olympics, the bronze medal is also no mean feat for us as he played brilliantly despite suffering a knee injury,” he added.He said, “We talked to Bajrang on the phone in the morning. He again assured us that he would give his best today and would not return empty-handed. I am glad that he kept his word. We are so happy that it can’t be expressed in words.”Harvinder, brother of Bajrang, said they would give a grand reception to Bajrang on his return to India. “We will go to the Delhi airport with drums to welcome him. This medal is not only for my brother but for the entire nation. His performance in the Olympics is the outcome of blessings of all Indians.”Meanwhile, the wrestler’s relatives, friends, people of his native village and mediapersons in large numbers assembled at his house to watch his bout live on television. They cheered and clapped when Bajrang scored points. They started dancing, bursting crackers and distributing sweets after his victory. Similarly in Khuddan, villagers distributed sweets and burst crackers at an ‘akhara’ where Bajrang initially had tried his hand at wrestling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dream-fulfilled-wrestler-bajrang-punia-dad-294641
08-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 18 cases, 1 death in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 7With 18 fresh cases and one death in Sirsa, the Covid tally of Haryana reached 7.7 lakh today.The maximum cases were recorded from Gurugram (9), followed by five from Faridabad and two from Rohtak. Seventeen districts recorded no case.With 22 recoveries in the past 24 hours, active cases reached 685 in the state. There is no active case in Nuh, just one in Mahendragarh and two in Palwal. So far, 9,648 people have died in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-18-cases-1-death-in-haryana-294642
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab announce cash awards for Olympic gold medallist Chopra||Cash rewards to the tune of Rs 9 crore poured in for star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who on Saturday won India’s first ever track-and-field Olympic medal with a gold-medal winning feat at Tokyo Games.After Chopra secured India’s second individual gold in Olympic history with a sensational performance, chief minister of Haryana and Punjab M L Khattar and Amarinder Singh announced cash rewards of Rs 6 crore and Rs 2 crore, respectively.The BCCI also announced that Rs 1 crore has been reserved for Chopra, who produced a second round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world and end India’s 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics.Khattar also announced that Chopra will be made head of upcoming Centre for Excellence in Athletics in Panchkula.“As per our sports policy, Neeraj Chopra will get a cash reward of Rs six crore, a Class-I job and a piece of plot of land at concessional rates,” said Khattar.Singh also recognised the stupendous achievement of Chopra and announced a special cash reward of Rs 2 crore in an official statement.On Saturday, Chopra, who hails from Khandra village in Panepat district, won the country’s seventh medal, barely an hour after wrestler Bajrang Punia from Sonepat had won a bronze medal.Earlier, wrestler Ravi Dahiya had also made the country and Haryana proud by winning an Olympic silver medal.Congratulating Chopra and other medal winners, Khattar said: “Today is a golden day in the chapter of our sports history. It is a big achievement for the country our athletes have made us proud. People of Haryana and the country are happy today at the feat of our sportspersons,” Khattar said.The Chief Minister said that a grand felicitation function will be held in Panchkula On August 13, in which the players from the state who took part in Tokyo Olympics will be honoured.“Haryana’s contribution in medal tally is significant. We have 30 players from Haryana in the country’s Olympics contingent.” He spoke to the parents of Chopra and Punia on Saturday and congratulated them.In Panchkula, Khattar said the state government is setting up a  Centre for Excellence for Athletics and Chopra will be made its head.“Panipat is his native place and Panchkula is the city where he honed his skills,” he said.Earlier, he had announced an indoor wrestling stadiums in native village of wrestlers Ravi Dahiya and Bajrang Punia in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts, respectively.“We have made several announcements to encourage other talented players. We want to make Haryana the biggest sports hub,” said Khattar.For his bronze medal winning effort, as per the state’s sports policy, Punia will get a cash reward of Rs 2.5 crore, a piece of plot at concessional rates and a state government job.Earlier, Khattar had praised Dahiya for his effort after he became only the second Indian wrestler to win a silver medal at the Olympics.Dahiya will get Rs 4 crore prize money, Class-I job and a piece of land of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran at concessional rates as per state government’s policy for winning silver at the Olympics.The Haryana government will also honour the nine history-making women’s hockey players of the state with cash reward of Rs 50 lakh each, while an equal amount would be given to each sportsperson of the state who stood at the fourth position in any event in the Olympics. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-punjab-announce-cash-awards-for-olympic-gold-medallist-chopra-294474
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Neeraj Chopra's Haryana village erupts into celebrations; chant 'Chak De India', dance to Punjabi songs||The nondescript Khandra village in Haryana's Panipat district erupted into celebrations when the news flashed that its talented son, Subedar Neeraj Chopra, VSM, had become the first Indian track and field athlete to win a gold medal at the Olympics since the time India officially gained entry into the Games in 1928.Friends and fans started gathering around the golden boy's family home, where 19 members if his extended family live, as soon as news spread that he had secured his place in the final of the javelin thrown event in Tokyo.His family said the entire village and even people from neighbouring villages had been watching his performance for the past few days on television sets installed at public places.As the news of his victory was televised, people gathered at his residence, distributed sweets and danced to the tunes of Punjabi songs. 'Chak de India' slogans rent the village air when the 'golden news' was flashed on television.His emotional father Satish Kumar, a farmer, said, "I feel elated that my son brought glory to the country."From Khandra Village, home of #NeerajChopra @WorldAthletics pic.twitter.com/6Kgz76qzJjHe then added, brimming over with fatherly pride: "Yes, we were confident from day one that he will bring a gold medal for the country."Chopra's elated mother, Saroj Devi, said the entire village would extend a grand welcome to her son on his return to his native village.Neeraj's uncle Bhim Chopra said not just the family, but the entire village watched his marvellous performance to reach the podium.Interestingly, India's two gold medal-winning Olympians have a Chandigarh connection—Neeraj Chopra and shooter Abhinav Bindra. The shooter, who won the gold in Beijing in 2008, grew up in the Chandigarh suburb Zirakpur and Chopra studied at the DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh.Congratulating Chopra on his triumph, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a cash reward of Rs 6 crore and a Grade A government job for Chopra. He said: "The country was waiting for this moment for a long time."Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also congratulated Neeraj for his historic feat."Gold! Neeraj Chopra ... you have created history and made the whole country proud," the Chief Minister tweeted."Your 87.58 m winning throw today will be a part of the legends of the Track and Field arena. India owes you! Jai Hind," Singh added.The Punjab Chief Minister has also announced a special cash reward of Rs. 2 Crore for him.The Chief Minister also stated that it was a proud moment for all Punjabis since the family of Neeraj traces its roots to Punjab.In a rare gesture, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, who's normally seen to be letting his hair down, was seen dancing and distributing sweets among his staff when Neeraj scripted history. Vij was articulating the sentiment of the nation. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neeraj-chopras-haryana-village-erupts-into-celebrations-chant-chak-de-india-dance-to-punjabi-songs-294458
