09-08-2021||New Delhi||Faridabad: Congress MLA urges Union Minister Sonowal to expedite proposed project of new Unani medicines institute||Congress MLA from NIT (Faridabad) Neeraj Sharma met Union Minister for Ayush, Sarbananda Sonowal, and urged him to expedite the proposed project of setting up a national institute of Unani medicines along with a 120-bed hospital in his constituency.Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar had also taken up the issue with the Ayush Ministry in the past.The project is to be fully financed by the Centre.The Haryana government had transferred an eight-acre land of panchayat in village Khedi-Gujran in NIT constituency, more than four years back, to set up “National Institute of Unani Medicines for Non-Communicable Diseases” with an attached 120-bed hospital.The institute would be the country’s first research institute for Unani medicines and non-communicable diseases.During the meeting on Saturday, Sharma said the institute would be a feather in the cap of Haryana, especially Faridabad district.“I informed the Union minister about the importance of the project,” Sharma said.He said the minister has assured him to look into the matter.NIT constituency and its surrounding areas is highly populated and preponderated by working class people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-congress-mla-urges-union-minister-sonowal-to-expedite-proposed-project-of-new-unani-medicines-institute-295209
09-08-2021||---||Venkaiah Naidu lauds Punjab and Haryana for providing infrastructure to sportspersons||New Delhi, August 9While complimenting the Indian contingent for their “commendable performance” in the Tokyo Olympics, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday lauded Punjab and Haryana for providing right kind of infrastructure for sportspersons.“Forty per cent of the members of the Indian contingent were from Punjab and Haryana,” Naidu said, adding that “other states should emulate Punjab and Haryana” in creating infrastructure for sportspersons.Earlier, Naidu paid homage to the martyrs of the Quit India movement saying Gandhiji had given a call for the movement this day (August 9) in 1942. Members of the House observed a two-minute silence in memory of the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for liberating country from the British rule.Later, senior Congress member Anand Sharma said Naidu should have mentioned that the resolution to give call for the Quit India movement was first passed in the Congress session in Mumbai.Naidu said all these were facts of history and urged the members to cooperate for the smooth conduct of the House. He also announced that he had received notices from “seven/eight members” under Rule 267. Some of these notices were for discussion on Pegasus, some were for discussing farmers’ issue while some were for discussing floods caused by heavy rains in certain parts of the country.Naidu said that he had admitted notices under Rule 267 for discussing farmers’ issue and had already informed the government regarding his decision. This led to repeated cries from opposition members, saying, “Pegasus, Pegasus…”Naidu then adjourned the House till noon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/venkaiah-naidu-lauds-punjab-and-haryana-for-providing-infrastructure-to-sportspersons-295202
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana-cadre IAS officer Nitin Kumar Yadav’s wife ends life in Chandigarh||An Indian Postal Service officer, wife of a Haryana-cadre IAS officer, reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at a government accommodation in Sector 18 this evening. She was 45 and posted in Chandigarh.The victim has been identified as Meenakshi Yadav, wife of Nitin Kumar Yadav. She was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.Sources said the victim was depressed. Nitin’s name had been recommended for the post of Home Secretary by the UT Administration to the Ministry of Home Affairs for approval. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 19 police station.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cadre-ias-officer-nitin-kumar-yadavs-wife-ends-life-in-chandigarh-295145
09-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Ensure all staffers, pupils vaccinated, Haryana universities told||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 8The Department of Higher Education (DHE) has asked all government and private universities in the state to ensure that all hostel students, day scholars, teaching and non-teaching staffers, including outsourced ones, are vaccinated against Covid.It has also sought status report from the universities about their already vaccinated students and employees.In fact, the department is gearing up for re-opening of universities from the next academic session in a planned manner keeping in view the probable third wave of Covid. So, it wants to do proper groundwork before issuing orders in this respect.It has also asked Vice Chancellors of all universities to share their plan for reopening of the institutions with it by August 9. The government had ordered closure of universities in May when the second Covid wave started wreaking havoc in the state. The situation forced the teachers again to conduct online classes. Later, universities were opened for teaching and non-teaching employees with compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Adhering to the DHE’s directives, Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has begun preparing a status report about already vaccinated employees and students. It has also scheduled a meeting of its officers on Monday to chalk out a plan for the reopening of the university from the next academic session.“We are collecting information about the already vaccinated staffers and students to send it to the DHE. Heads of all university teaching departments have been asked to submit a report about the status of vaccination in their department concerned. The information will be uploaded on the university portal. Those employees and students who have not yet got vaccinated will be asked to get vaccinated,” said Gulshan Taneja, Registrar, MDU.Taneja said over 2,500 doses of Covid vaccine had been administered to employees and their family members in the camps organised on the university campus.He said there were around 11,000 students enrolled in various courses being run by the MDU. At present, offline exams were being conducted in various departments. Only those students having some valid reason had been allowed to take the exams online. A meeting of officers concerned would be held on Monday to finalise the plan for reopening of the university, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-all-staffers-pupils-vaccinated-haryana-universities-told-295007
09-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Nine head of cattle die in roof collapse in Yamunanagar||Nine head of cattle — five buffaloes and four cows — died after the roof of adairy farm collapsed in the district’s Aurangabad village on Saturday. Dairy farm owner Rajinder Rana said 15 head of cattle were buried under the debris. “Four buffaloes and three cows died on the spot. Another cow and buffalo, injured in the incident, died today.” It is suspected that the roof collapsed because of heavy rainfall in the past days. After getting information, officials of fire brigade and the Municipal Corporation reached the spot. Mayor Madan Chauhan, who also visited the dairy farm, assured help to Rana. Happy Gill, chief,  Aurangabad Dairy Complex Association, said members of the association would help the affected dairy owner financially. “We will meet Mayor Madan Chauhan on Monday, requesting him to extend financial help to Rana,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-head-of-cattle-die-in-roof-collapse-in-yamunanagar-295008
09-08-2021||Ambala||Haryana Home Minister  Anil Vij takes part in Tiranga Yatra||Taking part in the Tiranga Samman Yatra, state Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said the flag was the symbol of a country.“We want to give a message through the yatra that we live for the nation and we can also die for the nation,” he said while addressing a gathering at Subhash Park here.Vij said, “Hundreds of soldiers of the nation have sacrificed their lives for the flag. The Tricolour is also a symbol of patriotism.”Earlier, Vij paid floral tributes to the statue of Subhas Chandra Bose at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Park. He led the yatra through various markets and areas of Ambala Cantt. In Kurukshetra, BJP MP Nayab Saini and MLA Subhash Sudha took part in the yatra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-takes-part-in-tiranga-yatra-295009
09-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Drug cases: 
Punjab and Haryana HC  divided over interpretation of search provision||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8More than three decades after the NDPS Act came into being, the Punjab and Haryana High Court is divided over the interpretation of a provision on searching the apprehended person.One opinion suggests only the empowered police officer is required to apprise the apprehended person of his right to be searched in the presence of a magistrate or a gazetted officer. Another opinion is that the gazetted officer or the magistrate, too, are required to give a fresh option to the apprehended person.In view of the difference in opinions, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the HC has referred the matter to a larger Bench for adjudication. “The matter needs to be examined by a larger Bench in view of a different opinion held by this Bench. The matter, as such be referred to the Chief Justice for referring the matter, if same deemed appropriate, to a larger Bench to settle the controversy,” Justice Gill asserted.Taking up two regular bail pleas, he observed the court was of the opinion that the provisions of Section 50, NDPS Act, would stand complied with once the empowered cop apprised the apprehended person of his right to be searched in the presence of a magistrate or a gazetted officer.Such gazetted officer/magistrate would come to the spot. He, at best, was required to introduce himself. He would then apprise himself of the facts by generally questioning the cops or the apprehended person. But he was not required to extend fresh offer in terms of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. In case the section was to be interpreted to mean that even the gazetted officer and the magistrate were required to give a fresh option, it would be an endless exercise. The accused may every time give his option to be searched from some other cop.Justice Gill said a coordinate Bench, in Joginder Singh versus the State of Punjab, expressed the other opinion. It said: “The gazetted officer or magistrate before whom any such person is brought shall also comply with the provision of Section 50 of the NDPS Act by apprising the person of his/her right.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drug-cases-punjab-and-haryana-hc-divided-over-interpretation-of-search-provision-295010
09-08-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Ghost candidates take online tests in Haryana; students suffer||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 8In what has proven the online exams being held in the state a sham, the papers are allegedly being attempted by “ghost” candidates. In some cases, teachers are trying to achieve good results while in others, classroom rivals are attempting the papers wrongly to make their fellow students fail.Settling scores the wrong way Parents have been complaining how their wards’ friends are attempting their papers wrongly as a prank or to settle scores... We’ve apprised the higher-ups. principal, government school, GurugramUnique ID codes for all students We’ll mark a probe. Anyone found taking exams fraudulently will be taken to task. Unique codes will be given to all students to maintain secrecy of their IDs. Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education MinisterThere have been numerous such complaints across the state, including in Gurugram. Moreover, a glitch in the login of the official Avsar app has also added to the chaos.The students who log in on the app are in for a rude shock as many find their papers already attempted and assessed. With the student’s date and year of birth being their login key, the app is accessible to anyone in the knowledge of the same.In Nuh, parents alleged that while teachers were not taking classes, they were attempting their children’s papers to get 100% results.“The maths teacher didn’t teach anything to my son to date. I have spent thousands on tuition fee. However, when my son opened his unit test, it had been already attempted and he had secured a perfect score of 100. I spoke to the teacher, who said I shouldbe happy as my son gotgood marks without even doing anything,” said Ismail Khan of Punhana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ghost-candidates-take-online-tests-in-haryana-students-suffer-295011
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar: Governance associates have their task cut out||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said young professional associates in the CM’s Good Governance Associates Programme (CMGGA) will make efforts to improve governance as per priorities of the state government.“Good governance associates will help the government deliver benefits of welfare policies to persons living on the margins,” he said while addressing the sixth cohort of the CMGGA here today.The CM said: “The government’s main target is to ensure a monthly income of Rs 10,000 to each of the 1 lakh poor families identified under the Parivar Pehchan Patra. Six departments — Local Bodies, Labour, Skill Development, Industrial Training, Health and MSME — are working together to make this happen.”He further said the government’s priority was to create employment and self-employment opportunities for every family by 2024. “Nuh district needs a positive transformation in the field of education, health and employment.”Khattar said good governance associates should make efforts to implement constructive thoughts for the welfare of society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-governance-associates-have-their-task-cut-out-295012
09-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat village gears up to welcome its son Neeraj Chopra||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 8Celebrations continued at the Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra’s Khandra village on Sunday, as members of the family and villagers danced to the beats of “dhol”.Hard work paid offNeeraj talked to us for only 15-20 seconds after winning the gold medal. He said, ‘I did what I had said.’ The struggle of all family members and Neeraj’s hard work have paid off. — Bhimsen Chopra, Neeraj's uncleA stream of people visited Chopra’s house all day long to congratulate his family. The 23-year-old javelin thrower secured India’s second individual gold in the Olympic history with a sensational performance at Tokyo. Meanwhile, the village is gearing up to welcome its son.Home Minister Anil Vij, local legislator Pramod Vij and district BJP president Archana Gupta visited Neeraj’s village, and congratulated his parents and relatives.“I have come here to congratulate and salute the parents of gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, who brought laurels to the country at the world arena. For many years, the country yearned for the gold medal. Neeraj has done it. He has created history,” said Vij, who touched the feet of Neeraj’s parents. He lauded the family for imparting good values to Neeraj, who dedicated the gold medal to the legendry Milkha Singh.Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and other dignitaries also visited Neeraj’s home to congratulate the family.On the question of marriage, Bhimsen Chopra, Neeraj’s uncle, said: “He is only 23 years old. There’s no hurry. Besides, there’s one condition before he gets married. Play two more Olympic Games and win more medals. ”Neeraj will reach India on Monday evening. “The programme to welcome him back to the village willbe decided only after the official events,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-village-gears-up-to-welcome-its-son-neeraj-chopra-295013
09-08-2021||---||HSSC chief writes to Haryana DGP, seeks thorough probe into paper leak||Kaithal/Karnal/Hisar, Aug 8The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) has written to the Director General of Police, Haryana, for a thorough probe into the paper leak of the police constable (male) examination conducted by the HSSC on Saturday.HSSC chief Bhopal Singh Khadri wrote to the DGP after six persons were arrested in Kaithal on Saturday.“As per the information provided by Kaithal Superintendent of Police (SP), the answer key of the exams held on August 7 was seized from the accused. So there is a need to investigate the matter and take necessary action,” said Khadri.As many as 17 persons have been arrested so far. The Kaithal police produced six accused arrested on Saturday in a court on Sunday. Three accused have been sent to judicial custody. The remaining three have been sent to nine-day police remand. The Kaithal SP has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by a DSP and involving two teams of the CIA-1 and CIA-2 to crack the case.The HSSC had scheduled the examination for the post of constable (male) on August 7 and 8 in two shifts —morning and evening. After the paper got leaked, the HSSC cancelled the exams.Confirming the update, Kaithal SP Lokendra Singh said the CIA-1 team arrested six persons. These included Sandeep, Gautam, residents of Khand village in Jind and Naveen of Pyonda village with the answer key. Later, the police arrested Ramesh of Thua village, Rajesh of Kichana village and Narinder of Hisar.Ramesh was the kingpin who used to provide answer key and also sent fake candidates instead of original candidates. For the exams on Saturday, he made deals at Rs 12 lakh per candidate. The police had registered a case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC.During investigation, it came to light that they had circulated the answer key to several aspirants through WhatsApp. Some were provided hard copy of the answer key. The payment would be made only after the answer key was to be found correct. They had taken advance cheques from some aspirants, said the SP.The answer key was delivered to the aspirants one night prior to the examinations.“We produced all six accused in the court. Ramesh, Sandeep and Narinder were taken on nine-day police remand,” the SP added.About the involvement of any insider from the HSSC, Lokendra said it was a partof the investigation.Meanwhile, the Karnal police have arrested sixpersons allegedly impersonating as candidates.Four accused — Ronak, Vicky of Sonepat district, Mohit of Rohtak and Bijender of Jhajjar district — have been taken on five-day police remand. Ajay of Rohtak district has been taken on three-day police remand and Ranjan Alok from Lucknow has been sent to police custody.Meanwhile, the Fatehabad police have arrested three persons in connection with the case. They have been identified as Bhan Singh of Kaithal district, Kunal and Satish of Fatehabad district.The police have registered a case under Sections 417, 420, 511 and 120B of the IPC at Fatehabad police station. Sanjay Dahiya and Amit Sodhi were arrested on Saturday.DSP Daljeet Beniwal said that Kunal runs a coaching centre in Fatehabad town and the police got a tip-off that the coaching centre owner had procured the answer key. The police raided the coaching centre and found the answer key in the mobile phone of the accused.Satish was also detained from the coaching centre. During interrogation, the arrested accused revealed that they had got the answer key from one Bhan Singh, a resident of Kaithal district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-chief-writes-to-haryana-dgp-seeks-thorough-probe-into-paper-leak-295015
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar meets wrestler Ravi Dahiya’s kin||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met the family of Olympic silver medallist wrestler Ravi Dahiya late Saturday evening.The family and representatives of Nahri village expressed their gratitude to the CM for boosting the morale of the sportspersons and creating a harmonious environment for them to grow and perform at the international platform. They even invited the CM to visit Nahri village, which was promptly accepted by him. He said the information regarding the visit would be shared soon.After congratulating the wrestler’s parents, the CM resolved several issues of the area on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-meets-wrestler-ravi-dahiyas-kin-295016
09-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Kaithal hospital grapples with shortage of doctors, paramedics||Tribune News ServiceKaithal, August 8The Kaithal District General Hospital (DGH) is facing shortage of doctors, paramedical staff as nearly half of the sanctioned posts of medical officer, and senior medical officer are lying vacant. The situation is the same for the posts of staff nurse, due to which the patients have to suffer a lot.Matter taken up with higher authoritiesWhile working as the officiating Civil Surgeon I had met the Director General, Health Services, and requested that vacant posts be filled, especially that of specialists, so that the patients did not suffer. I have also sent a letter to the higher authorities and the Deputy Commissioner in this regard. — Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly, Principal Medical Officer2 of 5 posts of senior medical officer vacantAs per the information gathered by The Tribune, 26 of 55 sanctioned posts of medical officer are yet to be filled in this 200-bed hospital, while two of five posts of senior medical officer are also lying vacantAs per the information gathered by The Tribune, 26 posts out of 55 sanctioned posts of medical officer are yet to be filled in this 200-bed hospital, while two of five posts of senior medical officer are lying vacant. The hospital has one post each of senior dental surgeon, clinical psychologist, audiometrist, matron, assistant matron, dental hygienist, senior lab technician but the posts are still waiting to be filled.One of three posts of dental surgeon, nine of 10 nursing sister, 45 of 90 staff nurse are lying vacant, leading to inconvenience to the patients.Moreover, the hospital is working without a physiotherapist and an opthalmic assistant as both the sanctioned posts each are yet to be filled, said the data collected from the Principal Medical Office (PMO).One of 10 posts of pharmacist, 7 of 14 posts of lab technician, two of three dental assistant-cum-mechanic, four of six sanctioned posts of radiographer are lying vacant.The operation theatre is also facing shortage of staffas five of 10 sanctioned posts of operation theatre assistant are not filled. Two of three posts of ECG technician, both the posts of plaster technician, one sanctioned post of each dietician, bio-medical engineer and quality manager are lying vacant.The official claims that letters have been sent to the higher authorities to fill the posts. Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly, Principal Medical Officer (PMO), said, “I have also sent a letter to the higher authorities and the DC in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-hospital-grapples-with-shortage-of-doctors-paramedics-295017
09-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Jeweller’s staffer flees with gold in Haryana's Yamunanagar||An employee of a jeweller allegedly fled with 600 gm scrap of gold.On the complaint of Samresh Baira of Jagadhri, a case was registered against Chandan Mayati of West Bengal under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at Bilaspur police station on August 7. The complainant said that he runs a jewellery shop in Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar district. “My employee Chandan Mayati took 600 gram scrap of gold from me on August 7 saying that he would get jewellery made from it from a known jeweller. He said he would return to the shop by 5 pm. But he didn’t return,” alleged Baira. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jewellers-staffer-flees-with-gold-in-haryanas-yamunanagar-295018
09-08-2021||---||Traffic chaos, waterlogging after rain in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 8Several parts of the city were waterlogged after showers on Sunday evening. Though in some parts it rained for only 10 minutes, it was sufficient to cause waterlogging and derail the traffic movement.28 mm Gurugram19 mm Rohtak15 mm Ambala10.6 mm KarnalThe affected areas were Naharpur, Expressway, IFFCO Chowk, Sector 17 and Udyog Vihar. Due to the rain, a footpath on the IFFCO Chowk caved in.The traffic remained affected for nearly an hour. Many underground parking lots were also waterlogged.City residents took to the social media to mock the monsoon chaos. Civic agencies swung into action to pump out water from many areas.While Gurugram recorded 28 mm rainfall, other cities in the state also reported rain. According to the Meteorological Department, Ambala recorded 15 mm rainfall, Karnal 10.6 mm and Rohtak 19 mm.Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 32°C during the day. Ambala recorded a high of 33.2°C, Karnal 34°C and Rohtak 31.5°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-chaos-waterlogging-after-rain-in-gurugram-295019
09-08-2021||---||Interstate gender test racket busted; 5 arrested||Faridabad, August 8A joint operation by officials of the district’s Health Department and their counterparts in New Delhi has led to the arrest of five persons involved in the illegal pre-natal sex determination racket.The team also recovered Rs 32,000 from the owner of an ultrasound centre in New Delhi. A case under the PNDT Act has been lodged. Revealing this, a spokesperson for the district Health Department said on a tip-off about a racket being run in the Ranhola area of Vikas Nagar locality in New Delhi, a raid was conducted on Saturday. “The accused were charging a huge amount from customers coming from other states.” Posing as the kin of the decoy patient, a member of the raid team contacted a woman tout and fixed the deal at Rs 32,000 for the test. Before taking the decoy patient to Balaji Hospital at Ranhola, one of the touts identified as Poonam took her to Sunlife Lab, where a person named Dr Ankit got her ultrasound test done. They revealed the sex of the foetus in coded language, saying ‘All is okay’ meaning that it was boy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interstate-gender-test-racket-busted-5-arrested-295020
09-08-2021||Faridabad||Repair work tardy, new report on damaged Faridabad school buildings sought||A fresh report on dilapidated government school buildings in the district has been sought. This comes in the wake of alleged poor progress of the replacement or repair work of buildings and rooms declared unsafe in a survey carried out three years ago, it is revealed.The district has around 370 schools of primary, middle, high and senior secondary levels. “Though a survey carried out in 2017-18 had found the buildings of 36 schools damaged and a process of replacement and repairs had been launched soon after, the work of demolition and construction of new rooms has been found to be slow. It has hit studies as students were either forced to sit in the rooms declared condemned or in the open due to non-availability of rooms,” claim sources in the department concerned.“While the number of students attending schools at present is limited to those enrolled in Class VI to XII, the safety of students and staff cannot be compromised, especially during the rainy season,” said District Education Officer Ritu Chaudhary, who said an updated report had been sought from all schools here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/repair-work-tardy-new-report-on-damaged-faridabad-school-buildings-sought-295021
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||5K stores to be opened in Haryana under Har Hith scheme||Nearly 5,000 stores under the Har Hith Store Yojana will be opened in the state to promote the sale of quality products of daily need at reasonable prices.Rohit Yadav, Managing Director, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Limited, has confirmed this. In the first phase, 2,000 stores will be opened — 1,500 stores in rural areas and 500 in urban areas. The government has set a target of opening 100 stores by October 2. Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Limited will allot a retail outlet on 200-sq-ft land in a village with a population of 3,000 or more. The Municipal Committee shall allot one retail outlet in the council to wards having a cumulative population of 10,000. The government will provide a platform to youth franchisees as well as MSMEs, government cooperatives, Farmer Producer Organisations and Self-help Groups to increase their business. Under the Parivar Pehchan Patra, youths of families whose annual income is less than Rs 1.8 lakh will be given priority under the yojana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5k-stores-to-be-opened-in-haryana-under-har-hith-scheme-295022
09-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University: Online workshop concludes||Seminar on tax savingAmbala: A seminar was organised on the topic "Tax savings and smart investment" at Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantt. The spokespersons for the day were Rishi Jiwan Gupta, a financial planner and Naman Ahuja. The programme was initiated with the welcome of the guests by presenting a beautiful bouquet by the Principal, Munish Jain. The spokespersons informed the faculty about various schemes of public and private sectors through which they could do tax saving and smart investment. Some of the schemes were equity link saving scheme (ELSS) in which investment could be in lumpsum amount or in systematic investment plan (SIP) also, public provident fund (PPF), sovereign gold bond etc.Varsity to work in area of researchHisar: Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, newly appointed Vice-Chancellor of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar (GJUST), said GJUST and CCSHAU would work together in the area of research, academics, basic sciences, media and management, etc. Prof. Kamboj was addressing the deans, directors, chairpersons and officers in the committee room of the Vice-Chancellor office after taking over the additional charge as the VC of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar. Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university and Prof Jagbir Singh, Chairman, Board of School Education, Haryana were also present on the occasion. Prof. Kamboj said that the new education policy emphasised on the sharing resources and interdisciplinary research.4 weightlifters selected for contestYamunanagar: Four players of Khelo India Centre established by the Sports Authority of India in Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, have been selected for national weightlifting competition. Principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said these selected players would play in the upcoming national weightlifting competition of youth, junior and senior categories to be held at Patiala from August 9 to 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-online-workshop-concludes-295035
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet reshuffle? Ask Haryana CM Khattar||Credit war over Metro stationFaridabad: Political one-upmanship is common when it comes to taking credit for projects. Two MLAs — one from the ruling party and the other from the Opposition — claim it is because of their effort that one more station was added to the Metro rail corridor between Faridabad and Gurugram. The MLA from the Opposition claims the new Pali-Hardware chowk station has been added to the project after he had raised the demand at several platforms. The other MLA credits the ruling party for it. “The MLAs can claim credit, but it is the common man who will benefit from the project,” says a local resident.Disputes harming farmers’ stirAmbala: As differences among farmer leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have come to the fore again, a sense of uncertainty has prevailed among them and their supporters at the local level. Concerned with the repeated disputes, local leaders believe that personal feud and aspirations have started harming the agitation and sending a wrong message among the supporters. Besides, keeping the flame of struggle burning, the farm leaders have to make extra efforts to put up a united face, which seems to be a difficult task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cabinet-reshuffle-ask-haryana-cm-khattar-295036
09-08-2021||Ironically||Indifferent attitude of Panchkula administration||Vinayak G, PanchkulaFill potholes with debris collected from Khori colonyAs a majority of the roads in the city have developed deep craters and potholes in the wake of recent rains and the civic authorities claiming to be facing financial crisis in taking up the repair work, officials are requested to use the debris or the concrete rubble recovered after demolition in Khori Colony. This rubble will prove a better option to fill the potholes. The soil results in acute dust pollution.SK Sharma, FaridabadHaphazardly parked vehicles a nuisanceLack of awareness regarding road safety, poor road sense and haphazardly parked vehicles have become a nuisance for commuters of Ambala Cantt. Due to the ongoing Ambala-Saha road work, there are diversions at different locations due to which the traffic moves at a slow pace, and despite that people leave their vehicles unattended, which further creates jams. The administration must come out with strict measures and provide safe roads and hassle-free commuting.Rohit Verma, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indifferent-attitude-of-panchkula-administration-295038
09-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||No principal in 60% Haryana govt colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8All posts of government college principal are vacant in Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar’s home district Yamunanagar. The situation in CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s home turf, Karnal, is not much different with 80 per cent posts of college principal lying vacant.Present scenarioAcross the state, over 60 per cent sanctioned posts of principal are vacant in 157 colleges. Fifteen colleges in the state have no such sanctioned post.Information sought by Pinjore-based education rights activist Deepanshu Bansal painted a sorry state of affairs in the run-up to the beginning of academic session 2021-22.Bansal, who is also national convener of the RTI cell of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), has sent a representation to the state Governor, who is the chancellor of all state universities, to intervene in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-principal-in-60-haryana-govt-colleges-294968
09-08-2021||What’s allowed||Haryana extends lockdown till Aug 23||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-aug-23-294972
