11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 16 fresh cases, 1 death||Haryana on Wednesday reported 16 new coronavirus cases and one death, taking the total number of infections and fatalities in the state to 7,70,130 and 9,653 respectively.According to health department’s daily bulletin, the latest death was reported from Charkhi Dadri district.It said, four cases were reported from Gurugram while two cases each were from Faridabad, Sirsa, Rohtak and Yamunanagar districts.The total number of active cases in the state stands at 670. The number of recoveries was 7,59,807 so far. The recovery rate was 98.66 percent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-16-fresh-cases-1-death-296257
11-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: In Aravallis, razing of marriage palaces, farmhouses begins||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 10Exactly six days after the end of the demolition drive at Khori, where over 9,500 constructions were razed, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) today initiated action against the illegal occupation of the forestland, in the form of farmhouses and marriage gardens (palaces), in the Aravallis here.Area along Surajkund road clearedJCBs deployed by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad demolished structures located close to the Surajkund road here on the first day of the drive on Tuesday. The drive came to an end without any protest or resistance around 5 pmIt comes in the wake of the Supreme Court (SC) order of July 23 in which the apex court had directed the removal of all unauthorised structures on the forestland.Constructions in at least four banquet gardens, occupying 20 acres, were razed on the first day today, it was claimed.Launched around noon, JCBs, deployed by the MCF, demolished the structures located close to the Surajkund road here. Hundreds of acres are dotted with farmhouses, marriage places and commercial activities in the area. The drive today came to an end without any protest or resistance around 5 pm.Claiming that the action came after the owners failed to remove the structures after the issuance of the notice, Yashpal Yadav, commissioner, MCF, said it would continue in compliance with the court order. A total of 130 such constructions, spread on several hundred acres, have been identified by the Forest Department for demolition.Though the authorities are set to submit a report of all such constructions on August 20 in the apex court, the latter, in its order on July 23, had directed to remove all encroachments within four weeks.Claimed to be a challenge bigger than the drive in Khori, the authorities had been charged with failure in curbing the land mafia, which is reported to have occupied around 1000 acres of the forestland here. Revealing that the drive on Tuesday was taken up by the civic body against the constructions located on the forestland, Rajkumar, DFO, said a survey to detect all such constructions was expected to be over shortly. A notice had been issued to the farmhouses or illegal constructions that had come up on the panchayat land of Lakadpur, Kot, Manger, Bhankri, Anangpur, Mewla Maharajpur, Ankhir, Dhauj, Silakhari, Pali, Jamalpur, Gothra Mohabtabad and Badkhal villages, he said. The land was protected under Sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-in-aravallis-razing-of-marriage-palaces-farmhouses-begins-295943
11-08-2021||---||Haryana Governor honours 25 gallantry awardees||Ambala, August 10Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today honoured 25 gallantry awardees during a felicitation ceremony at Raina Auditorium, Ambala Cantonment.The awardees included 10 officers and jawans who are still in service, 10 retired officers, four widows and mother of a martyr.Dattatreya was the chief guest at the ceremony organised as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. In his address, he said the Centre had equipped the Indian armed forces with state-of-the-art weapons, adding that if anyone looked at India with wrong intention, the Indian Army would give a befitting reply.He also paid homage to war heroes at Kharga War Memorial. The Governor said, “The nation will always remain deeply indebted to martyrs for their supreme sacrifice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-honours-25-gallantry-awardees-295944
11-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Same-caste wedding: Groom’s father beaten up in Yamunanagar village||A 62-year-old man was allegedly beaten up in the district’s Damauli village on Sunday as his son had married a woman of the same caste. The victim, identified as Jangsher, was tied to a tree by the woman’s family and held hostage by the woman’s family.On his complaint, the police booked eight members of the woman’s family — her father Sharvan Kumar, mother Chandro Devi, brother Gagan Kumar, Shiv Kumar, Balinder, Angrejo, Kala Devi and Sinder Devi, all residents of Damauli village — under Sections 148, 149, 323, 341 and 506 of the IPC at Chhachhrauli police station on August 8.Jangsher’s son Ankit Kumar had a love marriage with the woman of his village on April 26. They belong to the same caste or community.“A few months after the wedding, members of the community held a panchayat in Damauli village and decided that the woman would be handed back to her family. Later, she was married off to another man. Her parents, however, nursed a grudge against my family,” the complainant said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/same-caste-wedding-grooms-father-beaten-up-in-yamunanagar-village-295945
11-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Minor delivers girl, kin booked for abuse||A minor girl (16), who delivered a premature girl at a private hospital here on August 8, was allegedly sexually abused by her cousin.On the complaint of the mother of the victim, a zero FIR was registered against the accused under Section 6 of the POCSO Act at City police station, Yamunanagar, on August 9.The complainant said her family belonged to Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh, but for some years now, they had been living in Chandigarh where she worked as a maid.She said that her sister-in-law (her husband’s sister) along with her family had also been living in Chandigarh.She said that some members of her family and some members of the family of her sister-in-law had gone to their villages in Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown.She said her two daughters and the son of her sister-in-law didn’t go to their villages and stayed in Chandigarh during the lockdown.She added her daughters and the son of her sister-in-law lived in a room together until both families returned to Chandigarh from their villages.“One of my daughters told me that she had been sexually abused by her cousin for months and she became pregnant,” the complainant said.Anju Bajpai, director of Child Helpline, Yamunanagar, said that she got information that a minor girl had delivered a child at a private hospital of Yamunanagar.She said the condition of the minor was fine, but the premature baby (delivered in the seventh month) was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, due to her critical condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-minor-delivers-girl-kin-booked-for-abuse-295946
11-08-2021||---||Man who sold HSSC answer key for Rs 1 crore arrested||Kaithal, August 10In the police constable paper leak case, the police today arrested one more person taking the number of the arrested accused to 14.The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had conducted the paper on Saturday in two shifts and it was scheduled for August 8 also. But after the Kaithal police reported that the paper was leaked, the HSSC cancelled the paper.The accused was produced in court and was taken on 10-day police remand as the police are yet to ascertain the name and location of the person who leaked the answer key to man held today.The police did not disclose the name of the person held today, but he belongs to Khandakheri village in Hisar and he allegedly provided the answer key to accused Narinder Kumar for Rs 1 crore.“Based on the information provided by the persons arrested earlier, we arrested one more person. He is of Khandakheri village in Hisar district,” said Lokendra Singh, SP, Kaithal.Meanwhile, the Karnal police also arrested a person identified as Lokesh Kumar of Sonepat district for his alleged involvement in sending a fake candidate to take the exam, confirmed Ganga Ram Punia, SP Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-who-sold-hssc-answer-key-for-rs-1-crore-arrested-295947
11-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Hockey stars get rousing welcome in hometown Sonepat||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 10Hockey players Neha Goyal, Nisha Warsi and Sharmila, who put up a stellar performance by reaching the semi-finals in the Tokyo Olympics, returned home today to a rousing welcome.OverwhelmedWe are overwhelmed by the kind of response we have got in spite of not winning a medal. The experience that we have gained will stand us in good stead. — Rani RampalHigh on ConfidenceAfter having lost the first three matches, the team was demoralised. But the team bounced back. The confidence level was high after defeating Australia. —  Neha GoyalFuture looks brightThe team played well, but lost by a whisker. We defeated the world’s second best team. The future of women’s hockey looks bright.—  Nisha WarsiTheir parents, hundreds of budding hockey players and members of the Sonepat Samaj Panchayat gathered at Maharana Pratap chowk on the Sonepat-Delhi road to welcome the hockey stars.A procession was taken out from Maharana Pratap Chowk to the hockey academy in the industrial area here, covering a distance of 10 km. Several vehicles, tractors and two-wheelers decorated with flowers were part of the procession.A beaming Nisha said, “We did not think that we would get such a grand welcome. The team played well, but lost by a narrow margin. We defeated the world’s second best team. The team has made a good start. The future looks good.”Neha chipped in. “We three were very excited as it was our first Olympics. After having lost the first three matches, the team was demoralised. But the team bounced back. The confidence level was high after defeating Australia,” she said.Neha felt sorry for not bringing a medal. She, however, was hopeful that the team would win a medal in the next tournament.Sharmila thanked people for the warm welcome. “We reached the semi-final after 41 years. It was a great moment for the team members. We will start training after a break of 15 to 20 days.”The three visited the house of their coach Arjuna awardee Pritam Siwach before visiting the hockey academy, where they had practised for years.Hisar: Udita Duhan, who is among the rising stars in the Indian women's hockey, returned home tonight to a warm welcome by her mother Geeta Devi, relatives, friends, fans and city based hockey coach Azad Singh Malik.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hockey-stars-get-rousing-welcome-in-hometown-sonepat-295948
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Follow Covid norms at I-Day events, Haryana Govt tells officials||The state government has asked all administrative secretaries, the DGP and DCs to organise Independence Day functions with the requisite Covid measures.An official spokesperson said as per the guidelines for the Independence Day function, gatherings of invitees/spectators at the district/sub-divisional level functions should not be more than 1,000 persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-covid-norms-at-i-day-events-haryana-govt-tells-officials-295949
11-08-2021||tish Sharma||Leading the Indian hockey team an honour: Rani Rampal||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 10Three Indian women’s hockey stars — skipper Rani Rampal, Navneet Kaur and Navjot Kaur — tonight reached Shahabad in Kurukshetra after their memorable performance in the Olympics.Though the team missed a medal by a whisker, the players got a warm welcome as they won millions of hearts and respect with their laudable performances.The team members first reached Rani Rampal’s house, where a rousing reception was given to the players. Then they went to Navjot’s house, followed by felicitation by the Shaheed Udham Singh Trust. Later, the players were welcomed at Navneet’s house where a big screen was arranged to relive their Olympics moments.Rani Rampal said, “It was an honour for me to lead the Indian team. It was a team effort. We are overwhelmed with the kind of response we have got in spite of not winning a medal. The experience we have gained will stand us in good stead.”Navjot said, “Compared to the last Olympics, we have done better this time. We are hopeful that more players from Haryana will make it to the Indian team.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leading-the-indian-hockey-team-an-honour-rani-rampal-295950
11-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||MDU employees decry online transfer policy, announce stir||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 10Teaching and non-teaching employees at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here are up in arms against the state government for framing online transfer policy that is applicable for the posts having cadre strength of 80 or more.They have announced that they will launch a campaign against the policy by wearing black flags on August 11 and 12 to register their protest. All employees will observe a pen-down strike on August 13 while a gate meeting and partial strike will be organised on August 16. Thereafter, a joint meeting of the teaching and non-teaching employees’ bodies will be held virtually to decide further course of action.The decision to launch the agitation campaign was taken at a joint general body meeting of the MDU Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees Associations held on the campus today. The employees at the meeting announced that they wouldnot to let the government implement the policy on the universities.“Besides government departments, all universities in the state have also been included in the online policy, which is nothing but an attempt to attack the autonomy of the universities. It will facilitate the government to transfer employees to other universities. If this happens, then students and researchers will suffer the most. The functioning of the universities will also remain disturbed,” claimed Randhir Kataria, president, MDU Non-teaching Employees Association.At the meeting, Vikas Siwach, president, MDU Teachers Association, raising questions on the policy and said the association would continue to fight the battle in the employees’ interest.Later, the leaders of teaching and non-teaching employees submitted a memorandum to the MDU registrar, Dr Gulshan Taneja, demanding withdrawal of the online policy stating that it was against the interest of the university employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-employees-decry-online-transfer-policy-announce-stir-295951
11-08-2021||---||Karnal cop arrested for taking Rs 20,000 bribe||Karnal, August 10A team of the State Vigilance Bureau, Karnal, arrested an exemptee head constable (EHC) allegedly for accepting bribe of Rs 20,000. He was posted at the Sector 4 police post in the city.Ram Niwas, a resident of Sector 4, filed a complaint, alleging that he has financial dispute with a person, who had filed a police complaint against him.The EHC had demanded Rs 20,000 from him to settle the complaint filed against him.Confirming the arrest, Ramdutt, DSP, Karnal, said on the complaint, they had laid a trap and arrested the accused red-handed. “We have registered a case against him under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. He was taken in police custody and later produced in the court whichsent him to judicial custody,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-cop-arrested-for-taking-rs-20-000-bribe-295952
11-08-2021||Gurugram||First-of-its-kind: Blood donation for canines launched at Gurugram's CGS Hospital||CGS Hospital located in DLF Phase-III, Gurugram, has launched a first-of-its-kind canine/feline blood donation programme. Addressing the persistent issue of blood shortage for vet patients, the hospital said the initiative would help save many lives and make blood donation a part of life of pets.The initiative was launched by Dr BS Laura, Director-General, Animal Husbandry, Haryana; Dr Tejinder Rana, Registrar, Haryana Veterinary Council; Dr Punita, deputy director of Gurugram Animal Husbandry Department; and Dr Yash Garg, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner. “The initiative will help save lives of animals in need. Interested pet parents can get their pets enrolled in the programme. The donations will be hassle-free and based on requirements,” said an official spokesperson. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-of-its-kind-blood-donation-for-canines-launched-at-gurugrams-cgs-hospital-295953
11-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Gym vandalised in Gurugram, 2 booked||Gurugram, August 10A local gym was vandalised by over 30 men as it allegedly refused to refund the fee of two persons who wanted to leave after a few days of joining.According to the complaint filed by Ankush Yadav, owner of Hype located in South City 2, two persons, identified as Amit and Sahil, worked out at the gym for two days, after which they demanded a refund. Even after refunding them their fee, they used the premises forcefully, he added.“We refunded the members their amount but yesterday around noon, they came to the gym with around 20-30 men and vandalised the gym. They threatened and beat up the staff as well. I have the CCTV footage of the incident with me,” the complainant said.An FIR has been registered against the two accused under Sections 323, 506, 34 and 427 of the IPC at Sector 50 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gym-vandalised-in-gurugram-2-booked-295954
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Voluntary programme Samarpan to be launched: Haryana CM||The state government is set to launch a unique volunteer programme ‘Samarpan’ soon. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this while presiding over a review meeting here today. “The ‘Samarpan’ programme is aimed at building a better society. Volunteers will play an important role in curbing crime through counselling programmes,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/voluntary-programme-samarpan-to-be-launched-haryana-cm-295955
11-08-2021||---||2 minor sisters raped, killed; 4 held||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 10Two minor sisters were allegedly gang-raped by four youths in front of their mother at a village in Kundli area of the district. After raping the girls, the youths poured some poisonous substance in their mouth forcibly. The girls died during treatment at a hospital in Delhi.The police have registered a case on the complaint of the victim’s mother and arrested accused Arun, Phool Chand and Dukhan Pandit of Darbhanga district of Bihar and Ram Suhag of Samastipur in Bihar.As per the police, the incident occurred on the night of August 6. A widow from Bihar was living along with her two daughters and two sons in a rented accommodation at a village in Kundli area. The four accused also stay in the same building.At 2 am, the four youths entered their house and caught hold of the girls. When the victims opposed, they poured some insecticide into their mouths forcibly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-minor-sisters-raped-killed-4-held-295975
11-08-2021||Ambala||Teej festival celebrated at Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantt||Girls outshine boysYamunanagar: Dr RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said girls were breaking the conventional barrier of society by outperforming boys in every fields at Chandigarh University. Be it academics, sports, campus placements research or entrepreneurship, the girls from Haryana are shining and proving their mettle with their outstanding achievements. While interacting with mediapersons, he said gone were the days when girls used to study only to bag a degree for improving their matrimonial prospects. Not only the girls are taking up careers in male-dominated areas but are also reaching at the top giving boys a tough competition. This can be ascertained by the fact that out of the total 1,140 students from Haryana who have bagged campus placements at Chandigarh University in 2020, girls accounts for 33 per cent of the total placed students from the state.KU signs two pactsKurukshetra: To uplift entrepreneurship, start-up and innovative activities Kurukshetra University Technology Incubation Center (KUTIC), a component of Kurukshetra University RUSA Project Society (KUPRS), entered into an agreement with Chandigarh Angel Networks (CAN), Chandigarh, and Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer (FITT), IIT, New Delhi.While congratulating the teams of KURPS and KUTIC, Professor Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, KU, said these agreements would help in developing cordial and amicable ecosystem for start-ups as well as encourage our alma-maters, students and faculties to build competencies in the areas of creativity-based IP and technology transfer through these agreements.Inter-school poem recitation contestAmbala: An inter-school poem recitation competition was organised by the Sanskriti Garima Manch, Ambala, in which approximately 10 schools participated. The theme was patriotism. Aarushi of Class XI (Arts) secured first position. Vikas Shukla of Class XII also gave excellent performance. Khushi Pal of Class X-M stood first and Wasvi of Class X-J received a consolation prize for their participation in the essay-writing competition on the cultural significance of their state. School Principal Ruchi Sharma appreciated the students and also the teachers of the Hindi department for the success.Kite decoration at Teej celebrationsRohtak: Shiksha Bharti Senior Secondary School celebrated Teej with great pomp and show. Activities such as cultural dance, kite decoration, kite flying, mehandi design, and spoon-and-sack race competition were organised. Indian traditional games were also organised during the celebrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teej-festival-celebrated-at-bhartiya-public-school-ambala-cantt-295976
11-08-2021||After highlighting of the potable water leakage||Restore Paver blocks lying scattered in Sector 8, Panchkula||House owners occupy public land in PanchkulaPanchkula has become a civic mess. Many pavements have been constructed by the administration but the malba and soil is never removed making it ugly and unsuitable for walkers. In the posh Sectors 6 and 7, several owners of the two kanal kothis have taken over public land and erected permanent structures, forcing other people to park their vehicles on roads and walk on roads. They do not own the land and are being allowed illegal possession. Municipal officials must be held accountable for turning a blind eye to this occupation of public land.Vijay, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/restore-paver-blocks-lying-scattered-in-sector-8-panchkula-295977
11-08-2021||Chandigarh The state government has decided to provide free travel facility to women and children up to 15 years of age this year on Rakshabandhan. Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said Chief Minister Manohar Lal had approved a proposal to this effect. The Transport Minister said this time||Free bus ride for women in Haryana on Rakhi||Vij issues order on common landChandigarh: Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij has asked officials to transfer the ownership of common places such as parks, roads, community centres and sports grounds in the recently approved colonies in the government name. “Common places are still in the name of property dealers in the revenue records. This can lead to legal complications later,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-bus-ride-for-women-in-haryana-on-rakhi-295978
