12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Minors’ gangrape: SC panel wants action taken report by August 19||Taking strong note of the brutal incident in which two minor sisters were gangraped and killed by four men in Haryana’s Sonepat, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has sent a notice to the Haryana government to submit an action taken report.To ensure that justice is provided to the victims, the commission, on the directions of its Chairman Vijay Sampla, sent notices to the Chief Secretary, the Director General of Police and DC and SP of Sonepat.The commission asked the authorities to investigate the matter and to submit an immediate report through post or email, based on the facts and information on the action taken on the allegation/matter, before August 19.Sampla cautioned the officers that if action taken report was not received within the stipulated time, then the commission might exercise the powers of the civil court conferred on it under article 338 of the Constitution of India and issue a summon for personal appearance before the commission in Delhi.As per the information received by the NCSC, four men allegedly gangraped two minor sisters and then forced them to drink pesticide.The mother of the victims, who was present at the spot during the incident, was threatened by the accused of dire consequences. Fearing the consequences, the mother hospitalised her two daughters at the hospital after claiming that a snake bit them.The doctors of the hospital later confirmed that the girls were raped and had died due to pesticide poison and not snake bite.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minors-gangrape-sc-panel-wants-action-taken-report-by-august-19-296731
12-08-2021||Ambala||Over 100 farmers protesting near Haryana minister Vij's residence detained; released later||The police on Thursday detained over 100 farmers who were protesting near the residence of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij against the rounding up of a local farmer leader in connection with showing black flags to the convoy of the minister.However, the farmers were later released.According to police, the minister was coming back to his residence after attending a meeting in Chandrapuri Colony at Ambala Cantonment on Wednesday evening. When he was crossing the place, some of the protesting farmers showed black flags to his convoy. Stones were also thrown on one of the vehicles of the convoy, police said.Police later rounded up farmer leader Navdeep Singh in connection with the incident following which a large number of farmers gathered near Vij's Ambala residence on Thursday.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) senior leader Wajinder Kamboj said they were protesting in a peaceful way, but the police detained them at police line premises.More farmers later gathered at the police line area at Ambala City and demanded release of all those who had been detained, including one of their leaders.Although the district administration officials and police tried to persuade the protesters to disperse, they did not relent.A large number of police force was also deployed in the police line area to deal with any untoward situation.In the meantime, a meeting was organised by the district administration officials and farmer leaders to defuse the situation.The administration later assured the farmers' delegation that all the detained farmers will be released.Later all the protesters, including Navdeep, were released. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-100-farmers-protesting-near-haryana-minister-vijs-residence-detained-released-later-296716
12-08-2021||New Delhi||Govt accommodation meant for serving officials, not retirees as benevolence: SC||Government accommodation is meant for serving officials and not retirees as a “benevolence” and distribution of largesse, the Supreme Court has said while setting aside an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowing a retired public servant to retain such premises.Right to shelter does not mean right to government accommodation, the apex court said, observing that direction to allow a retired public servant to retain such premises for an indefinite period is distribution of state largesse without any policy.While allowing the appeal filed by the Centre, a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and A S Bopanna set aside the high court order and directed the retired Intelligence Bureau officer, a Kashmiri migrant, to hand over vacant physical possession of the premises on or before October 31, 2021.The bench also directed the Centre to submit a report of action taken against retired public servants, who are in government accommodation post their retirement by virtue of orders of the high courts, by November 15, 2021.The officer, who was transferred to Faridabad where he was allotted a government accommodation, had attained the age of superannuation from service on October 31, 2006.“The right to shelter does not mean right to government accommodation. The government accommodation is meant for serving officers and officials and not to the retirees as a benevolence and distribution of largesse,” the bench said in its judgement passed last week.The top court was hearing a plea against the July 2011 order of a division bench of the high court which had dismissed a petition against its single judge order.The single judge had said it was not possible for the retired officer to return to his own state due to which the order of eviction shall be kept in abeyance. The high court had also said the authorities were at liberty to provide alternative accommodation to him on nominal licence fee in Faridabad.The officer had earlier given representation to the concerned authority to allow him to retain the government accommodation and he was allowed to retain the house for another one year.Later, he submitted another representation in June 2007 to allow him to retain the house allotted to him on a nominal licence fee till the circumstances prevailing in Jammu and Kashmir improve and the government makes it possible for him to return to his native place.He was served with a notice under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupant) Act, 1971 and later, an order for eviction was passed but it was stayed by a district court in Delhi.When an objection was raised about territorial jurisdiction of Delhi court, he withdrew his appeal and filed it in Faridabad court which dismissed it in August 2009. Later, the matter reached the high court.In its verdict, the apex court referred to several judgements delivered earlier and said it was held that government accommodation is only meant for in-service officers and not for the retirees or those who have demitted office.“The compassion howsoever genuine does not give a right to a retired person from continuing to occupy a government accommodation,” it said.It noted that according to a policy framed by the government, a displaced person is to be lodged in a transit accommodation and if it is not available, then cash compensation is to be provided.“There is no policy of the central government or the state government to provide accommodation to displaced persons on account of terrorism in the state of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. “The hardship faced by them does not lead to a corresponding duty of the state to provide them alternative government accommodation.”It noted that a section of society, more so retired public servants who have earned pension and drawn retirement benefits, cannot be said to be in such condition where the government should provide government accommodation for an unlimited period.“A section of the migrants cannot be treated as preferential citizens to give them the right to shelter at the cost of millions of other citizens who do not have a roof over their heads,” it said.The bench said right of shelter to a displaced person is satisfied when accommodation had been provided in the transit accommodation.The bench said in terms of the policy, which was considered in an earlier verdict of the apex court, Kashmiri migrants are entitled to transit accommodation and if transit accommodation could not be provided then money for residence and expenses.It said the retired officer in the matter and such persons are not from the poorest section of migrants and have worked in the higher echelons of the bureaucracy.“To say that they are enforcing their right to shelter only till such time the conditions are conducive for their safe return is wholly illusory. No one is sure that at what point of time the condition will be conducive to the satisfaction of the migrants. Such benevolence and preferential right to section of the citizens is unfair to the serving officers,” it said.It set aside the high court’s order and restored the writ petition challenging the order under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupant) Act, 1971. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-accommodation-meant-for-serving-officials-not-retirees-as-benevolence-sc-296713
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||No relief from sultry weather in Haryana, Punjab||Hot and humid weather conditions prevailed at most places in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday, with maximum temperatures hovering above normal limits.According to the Meteorological Department here, Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 35.7 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 37 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 35.8 degrees Celsius, while Bhiwani registered a high of 37.8 degrees Celsius. Gurugram recorded a high of 35.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.6 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 36 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius, while Patiala's maximum settled at 36.1 degrees Celsius.Bathinda recorded a high of 35.5 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-relief-from-sultry-weather-in-haryana-punjab-296711
12-08-2021||This road in Industrial area||Panchkula roads in a pathetic condition||Residents of Ambience Lagoon await RWA electionsThe Ambience Lagoon is waiting for the RWA elections since June 2020. Representations were made to the new DR twice. All she has to do is nominate an RO, as the previous RO's term has expired. The members list is all in place and the last order of the DR says the elections to be held as per the members list submitted to the office. There are no objections from or within the members of the community. For a change all want elections. Despite this, the DR is not letting the elections take place. Sanjay Lal Mathur, GurugramPoor sanitary conditions in Kaithal townDespite expenditure of lakhs of rupees per month, the poor sanitary conditions in Kaithal town are a major irritant for residents. Heaps of garbage can be seen in almost every locality posing a question mark on the efficiency of municipal council officials who have failed to chalk out a strategy to provide a neat and clean environment to the people. Senior officials of the Local Urban Department should visit towns and provide relief to the residents who continue to suffer. Satish Seth, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-roads-in-a-pathetic-condition-296538
12-08-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University gets new ambulance||Quality assurance cell meetingFaridabad: The 29th meeting of internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh was organised. The meeting was chaired by Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta. Dr Gupta welcomed the external experts and highlighted the achievements of the college in various fields. The meeting was attended by college faculty members and external experts, including Prof SK Chakarvarti, Prof Sandeep Grover, Dr Rekha Goyal, Jaya Goyal and Romesh Chaudhary. The house discussed the action taken on past initiatives and also gave their suggestions for improving the quality of teaching and learning.BA in digital journalismSirsa: Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, introduced BA in digital journalism from the current academic session i.e. 2021-22. The programme is under the four-year degree scheme. This was disclosed by university Vice-Chancellor Professor Ajmer Singh Malik while addressing the media. He said the syllabi of the course would meet the requirements of the new media industry. Professor Malik said the programme would run under the umbrella of the newly established university school for graduate studies. Besides, this seven job oriented and value added four year degree programmes of BCom and BSc in different streams like banking and insurance, data science, physics, mathematics with intake of 30 seats per programme, has also been introduced. The Chairperson of Haryana Higher Education Council Prof BK Kuthiala appreciated the efforts of the CDLU regarding the speedy implementation of the NEP 2020 by introducing such programmes.MoU between college, hospitalFaridabad: Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, has signed an MoU with SSB Heart Multi specialty Hospital here for the facilitation of medical services for staff and students. Dr Krishan Kant, principal, Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, and Paras Bhatia, Manager Marketing, SSB Heart Hospital, signed the MoU. The hospital will conduct health awareness talks for students and faculty from time to time, besides holding the general health checkup camps on the college campus and in adopted villages and schools , said Dr Krishan Kant. He said the hospital would give a significant discount for OPD fees, general test and hospitalisation services as per the agreement.National webinarKurukshetra: Under the aegis of the KU, the department of physical education organised a national webinar on the theme "Emerging importance of sports universities to strengthen sports." Besides four VCs of different sports universities, distinguished scholars from across the country attended the seminar. They emphasised on the need to make physical education and sports compulsory at all levels of education and signing of MoU for optimum utilisation of resources. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, VC of the KU, inaugurated the webinar and highlighted the contribution of KU at the national and international level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guru-jambheshwar-university-gets-new-ambulance-296537
12-08-2021||Gurugram||Man posing as cop nabbed  in Gurugram||The police on Wednesday nabbed an imposter posing as an inspector at a naka set up in Sector 14 here.Dressed as a cop, the accused, Prince Madan of Palwal, was roaming in his car.Originally a dry fruit businessman, Prince was also carrying a fake ID card. He told the police he wanted to evade toll and yield power following which he hatched the plan.An FIR has been registered against under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 170 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-posing-as-cop-nabbed-in-gurugram-296536
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Government will try to open shops for women self-help groups: Haryana Deputy Chief Minister||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said his government would make efforts to open two shops for women self-help groups in every secretariat to promote their products.It is our endeavour to brand the products of these self-help groups (SHGs), he said. Of the two shops, one will be for food items and the other for general commodities, Chautala said addressing an event on the Teej festival at Pinjore Gardens in Haryana. Chautala inspected an exhibition of handicrafts by the SHGs. According to an official statement, he appreciated the Gurgaon self-help group, which launched its products in the market after registering with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-will-try-to-open-shops-for-women-self-help-groups-haryana-deputy-chief-minister-296535
12-08-2021||---||Oxy van in Jhajjar village inaugurated virtually||Chandigarh, August 11On the occasion of Hariyali Teej, CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday virtually inaugurated ‘Lado ki Bagiya’, an oxy-van built on five acres at Khanpur Khurd village in Jhajjar district.About 500 saplings were planted by as many daughters, who have decided to take care of these trees. The CM said, “At present, trees are planted on about 7 per cent of the state’s area. A target of 10 per cent has been set. For this, 3 crore saplings will be planted during the monsoon season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxy-van-in-jhajjar-village-inaugurated-virtually-296534
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Chief Minister issues directions on special eye surgery||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar headed the 7th general body meeting of National Health Mission, Haryana, today.During the meeting, he asked the officials concerned to conduct a survey to have an estimate regarding people in the state in need of keratoplasty surgery, a surgical procedure to replace part of cornea with corneal tissue from a donor, and then get them the treatment accordingly. The CM asked the officials to conduct a survey in schools on children having a squint in their eyes so that they can receive treatment under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram. He was told that eye banks had been set up in 22 districts under the Blindness Control Programme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-issues-directions-on-special-eye-surgery-296533
12-08-2021||---||Over 4K farmers in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts seek relief for crop loss||Rohtak, August 11More than 4,000 farmers in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts have filed claim applications with the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare to get compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) for the damage caused to cotton and bajra crops due to waterlogging.Sources said over 2,000 farmers from Rewari, as many as 1,100 from Jhajjar, 700 from Mahendragarh and 200 from Rohtak had sought compensation. Thousands of acres of agricultural land in various districts was still submerged under water, with farmers making rounds of government offices to get accumulated water cleared.Rewari, Jatusana and Nahar are the worst-affected blocks. Vedpal, a farmer from Khuddan village, said his bajra crop spread over two acres remained submerged for over 20 days now. “Water is stagnant in over 500 acres of agricultural land in our village. Farmers enrolled in the PMFBY have moved claim applications to get compensation while others are waiting for the government to order special girdawari to assess losses,” he added.In Mahendragarh, farmers from Kanina block have suffered huge losses to cotton crop while Lakhan Majra, Sampla and Rohtak blocks in Rohtak district have reported damage to paddy, bajra and cotton crops. “Since losses to paddy due to waterlogging are not covered under the PMFBY, the number of claim applications from Rohtak is not high,” said an official from the Agriculture Department.Dr Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rohtak, said: “Claim applications were uploaded to the government portal. A joint team of the Agriculture Department and the insurance company will conduct a survey to assess losses for the compensation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-4k-farmers-in-rohtak-jhajjar-rewari-and-mahendragarh-districts-seek-relief-for-crop-loss-296532
12-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Karnal man gets 20 years for raping minor||A fast-track court has sentenced a man to 20 years of imprisonment for sexually abusing an 11-year-old girl.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 on the convict, Pradeep, resident of Gumto village of Karnal. If the convict failed to pay the fine, he would have to undergo an imprisonment of eight months more.The father of the victim had lodged a complaint on May 11, 2019, alleging that his 11-year-old daughter went missing under mysterious circumstances from near their residence in a colony of Jagadhri. A few days later, the police recovered the girl and arrested Pradeep.In another case, a minor girl of a colony in Yamunanagar has allegedly been sexually abused by a man several times in the past three years.On the complaint of the father of the victim, a case was registered against Rocky (35) at Women Police Station, Yamunanagar.“My daughter told me that Rocky has been raping her for past three years. He threatened her that he would kill us if she told anyone about the crime,” the father said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-man-gets-20-years-for-raping-minor-296531
12-08-2021||---||Sonepat gangrape: 4 accused in police remand||Sonepat, August 11The Kundli police today produced the four accused, who allegedly gangraped two minor sisters in front of their mother at a village in Kundli area, in the court. The court has sent them to a five-day police remand.The incident occurred on the night of August 6. After raping the girls, the accused poured a poisonous substance in their mouth forcibly. The victims’ mother admitted the girls in a hospital in Narela of Delhi. Both girls died during treatment.After the postmortem, it was revealed that the girls were gangraped and died of consuming some poisonous substance and not by snake bite.Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar said the mother did not tell the police the truth as the accused had threatened to kill her two sons.After counselling, she was ready to give a statement and a case was registered. All four accused — Arun, Phool Chand and Dukhan Pandit of Darbhanga district of Bihar and Ram Suhag of Samastipur in Bihar — were arrested, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-gangrape-4-accused-in-police-remand-296530
12-08-2021||Gurugram||Man ends 17-year marriage with triple talaq in Gurugram||A 35-year-old woman, mother of three, approached the police, accusing her husband of illegally handing her triple talaq. She also alleged her husband and in-laws had thrashed her and kicked her out of the house.An FIR has been registered at the Pataudi police station.According to the complaint filed by the victim, who is a native of Faridabad district, her husband ended their marriage of around 17 years in a minute over a trifle matter on July 29. She said her two teenaged children were witnesses to this.The woman filed a complaint with the Faridabad police which forwarded it to the Gurugram police. A case against her husband and in-laws was registered under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Muslim Women Protection of Right on Marriage Act 2019. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-ends-17-year-marriage-with-triple-talaq-in-gurugram-296529
12-08-2021||---||10 served notices for defacing public property in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 11Taking a serious note of defacing of the public property in the city, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has issued notices to 10 persons for displaying illegal advertisements on lamp posts, electric poles, walls, buildings and structures in various parts of the city without obtaining permission from the authority concerned.Besides, the KMC also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of them, otherwise, they would be imprisoned for six months.“The act of displaying advertisement without taking permission is an act of violation under Section-3A of the Haryana Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1989/the provision of Sections 121 and 122 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and it is a violation of directions issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and it is also hazardous to the vehicular movement,” said the notice.“I have observed several people get their advertisements displayed in the city. I have formed a team and got these pamphlets, boards removed and notices have been issued to 10 persons in the first phase. In the coming days, more persons will be served notices,” said Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC. A tender for the advertisements is yet to be floated by the Urban Local Bodies Department, after which a permission can be given for displaying advertisements, he said, adding that nobody is allowed to display their hoarding, banner, pamphlets. “We will take action if any public property is defaced,” the Commissioner added. “We have also sought the name of the printing press from where they got their advertisement published,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-served-notices-for-defacing-public-property-in-karnal-296528
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Child rights panel notice to Hisar DC over liquor shop near school||Chairperson of the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) Jyoti Bainda today issued a notice to Hisar Deputy Commissioner over a liquor shop situated near Government Primary School, Kishangarh, in Adampur.Bainda has asked the DC to submit a status report of the action taken on the liquor shop’s removal within the next 15 days.The commission took a suo moto cognisance against the illegal liquor shop in the view of a media report. It noticed that the shop is located at a distance of less than 100 m from the school contrary to the excise policy of the state and the Haryana Liquor License Rules, 1970. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-rights-panel-notice-to-hisar-dc-over-liquor-shop-near-school-296527
12-08-2021||---||Cong to raise HSSC paper leak in Haryana Assembly session starting from August 20||Chandigarh, August 11As the Opposition is gunning for the BJP-JJP government over a series of paper leaks during their regime, including the constable recruitment exam on Sunday, the state government maintains that they are strict against corruption and cheating.Following the constable recruitment paper cancellation, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said at least 28 recruitment papers had leaked in the BJP-JJP regime.The Congress will raise the issue in the upcoming Haryana Assembly session starting from August 20.In January this year, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) cancelled the Gram Sachiv recruitment paper for 700 posts after allegations of paper leak.In May 2019, Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC)’s Naib Tehsildar entrance exam was leaked while in December 2019, HSSC’s ITI instructor exam got leaked. Haryana Teachers’ Eligibility Test (HTET) exam was cancelled in November 2015, following the answer key leak while the HCS (judicial) paper got leaked in 2017.Some papers of Class 10 and 12 of the Haryana Board were also leaked in 2020.Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the series of paper leak scams had forced the youth to leave their education and take to the streets. He said the voice of these youth would be raised in the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-to-raise-hssc-paper-leak-in-haryana-assembly-session-starting-from-august-20-296526
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij meets women hockey players in Chandigarh||Home Minister Anil Vij met women hockey players at his office here on Wednesday. The players included team captain Rani Rampal, Monica, Nisha, Navneet Kaur, Navjot Kaur, Uday, Sharmila and Neha. Vij welcomed the players with shawls and sweets. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-meets-women-hockey-players-in-chandigarh-296525
12-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Crackers, dhol beats welcome hockey player Sumit Kumar in Sonepat||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 11Amid dhol beats and bursting of crackers, hockey player Sumit Kumar returned to a rousing welcome to his native village Kurad in the district today. The Indian men’s hockey team created history by clinching a medal in the Tokyo Olympics after a gap of 41 years.Members of Sumit’s family, villagers, friends, budding players and school students welcomed the hockey star, showering flower petals on him and honouring him with a garland of currency notes.Villagers and relatives danced to dhol beats at Bahalgarh Chowk, Murthal Chowk and in Kurad village.Proved a pointAt the start of the Olympics, the team was written off because it had several young lads, but we silenced the detractors. — Sumit KumarOverwhelmed with the rousing welcome, Sumit said, “I am missing my mother. Her blessings are always with me.”He further said, “The hockey team has given a strong message to the world by winning a bronze medal in the Olympics. Initially, the team was written off because it had several young lads, but we silenced the detractors.”Sumit said the team’s next target was to win gold medal in the upcoming tournaments. “The camp for Asian and Commonwealth Games will start soon,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crackers-dhol-beats-welcome-hockey-player-sumit-kumar-in-sonepat-296524
12-08-2021||---||Hockey star gets hero’s reception in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, August 11Indian men’s hockey team defender Surender Kumar, member of the bronze medal-winning squad in the Tokyo Olympics, today reached Kurukshetra where he was accorded a rousing welcome by his family, coach Gurvinder Singh and city residents.A roadshow was organised here in his honour, which concluded at the Dronacharya stadium here.Surender said, “I am overwhelmed by the kind of response that I have got in the country. The medal is not only mine, it is of the entire country. I want to apologise for not winning the gold medal, but want to assure that we will make all efforts to win gold in the next Olympics.”Will Aim for gold in ParisThe medal does not belong to me alone. It belongs to the entire country. I want to apologise for not winning gold this time, but the team will make efforts to win it in the Paris Olympics. — Surender KumarSurender raised the demand for Astroturf at the Dronachrya stadium, adding that he had struggled a lot in the absence of Astroturf and did not want the budding players to face similar iproblem.His coach Gurvinder Singh said, “Surender’s struggle and hard work have paid off. The way the team has been performing, I am confident that the team will win gold in the next Olympics.”Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “I have repeatedly raised the issue of Astroturf. I will send a proposal to Chief Minister Manohar Lal to name one of the two proposed stadiums, a stadium which is to be constructed near the Dronacharya stadium and the second one at Palwal village, after Surender Kumar.He said he would raise the matter in the upcoming Assembly session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hockey-star-gets-heros-reception-in-kurukshetra-296520
12-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court castigates Judge for ‘grave judicial indiscipline’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11The Punjab and Haryana HC has castigated an Additional Sessions Judge for “grave judicial indiscipline warranting disciplinary action”.Justice Manoj Bajaj has also directed the placing of the matter before the High Court Chief Justice through the Registrar General for “further orders on administrative side”.The admonition by Justice Bajaj came in a case where Nuh Additional Sessions Judge, vide order date June 18, 2020, granted anticipatory bail to six respondents-accused declared proclaimed persons in a criminal complaint.‘Proclaimed persons favoured’The admonition by Justice Manoj Bajaj came in a case where Nuh Additional Sessions Judge had granted anticipatory bail to six accused declared proclaimed personsJustice Bajaj observed the Judge exercised discretion in favour of the persons in an illegal manner after a delay without explanation for their absence from trial proceedingsJustice Bajaj asserted that the trial proceedings were very much within knowledge of the private respondents initially summoned by trial court for July 21, 2017. They also contested a revision petition filed by the petitioner-complainant. Admittedly, the respondents preferred two successive petitions for anticipatory bail. But the claim was not pressed and both pleas were withdrawn in July 2019 and January 2020.The accused continued to remain absent from the trial proceedings and made third attempt at pre-arrest bail. This time, Nuh Additional Sessions Judge extended interim concession to the proclaimed persons. Acting on a plea challenging the order, the HC remanded the matter back to the Judge with a direction to consider and deal with the petitioner’s contentions. Thereafter, the Judge finally decided the third application and “made absolute” his previous order.Justice Bajaj observed concededly the third application was founded on the same cause of action without any change in the circumstances. The Judge accepted the prayer without analysing its maintainability or discussing the merits of the case.Justice Bajaj observed the impugned order made it clear that the Judge exercised discretion in favour of the accused without dealing with the objections raised by the state counsel, who opposed the prayer by highlighting the applicants were proclaimed persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-castigates-judge-for-grave-judicial-indiscipline-296518
12-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Survey: 1,235-acre land encroached upon in Aravallis||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 11At least 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of forestland encroached upon by farmhouses, marriage places and other commercial institutions has been identified for the demolition drive launched on Tuesday in compliance with the SC order.Though the drone survey is on to detect the number of encroachments, around 5,300 hectares of land in the district has been designated as protected under the PLPA Act.Revealing this, officials of the department concerned said the previous surveys carried out in the district had found around 130 major constructions on the forestland located in the vicinity of villages falling in the Aravalli belt.“Despite the demolitions in the past, the encroachments continue to crop up, mainly due to the involvement of influential persons having political patronage,” say sources.In Faridabad, two more farmhouses razedContinuing its drive for the second day, the MC demolished two more farmhouses located near Ankhir village, Faridabad, on Wednesday. On Tuesday, three farmhouses and marriage places were razed to reclaim around 20 acres of land.Claiming that while a majority of the farmhouses were being used for commercial activities such as weddings and social gatherings with the rent scaling up to Rs 7 lakh per day, Subhash Sharma, a social activist, said a monthly lease rent between Rs 5 and Rs 25 lakh was being collected by the owners of the marriage places or gardens. He said the number of total farmhouses could be around 250.“A detailed survey is on and a final report regarding the total area under encroachments is likely to be revealed after a week,” says Rajkumar, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/survey-1-235-acre-land-encroached-upon-in-aravallis-296516
12-08-2021||---||Policy notified for creating land bank in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 11Seeking to serve the twin objectives of preventing the land owners from resorting to distress sale of land and making land available to different departments of the state government for setting up essential public services, the Haryana Revenue and Disaster Management today notified the policy for creating land bank.According to the policy, the Revenue Department will consolidate such chunks of surplus land as had been acquired by the departments under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, but do not need now, and provide it to the departments that need them most. It will also make things easy for the state government which has been experiencing a lot of difficulty in making land available to the departments.To facilitate governmentThe Revenue Department will consolidate such chunks of surplus land as had been acquired by the departments under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, but do not need now, and provide it to the departments that need them mostFinancial Commissioner Revenue and Additional Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal said it had been observed that landowners, at times, had to make distress sale of their land, especially those living abroad due to slump in market or due to pandemic and pressure of middlemen in the market. The bank will offer a win-win situation for departments and land owners/farmers, and the state government. While the former will be able to sell land at a competitive price, the latter would not have to look the other way when any department knocks at their door for land for setting up public utilities.He said the land bank would provide land to departments for setting up essential services, including waterworks, power sub-stations, colleges and other specialised institutions of higher learning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/policy-notified-for-creating-land-bank-in-haryana-296515
12-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana reported 2nd highest tax fraud, 118 cases in 2020-21||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Haryana has recorded the second-highest fake Input Tax Credit (ITC) fraud in 2020-21 involving an amount of Rs 4,742.15 crore. Only Maharashtra is ahead of the state with fake ITC claims of Rs 5,303.80 crore.At the time of paying tax on its output, a firm can reduce the tax it has already paid on inputs but fraudsters claim higher ITC based on fake invoices.Fraud claimsGST Intelligence registered 30 cases in Haryana in 2019-20 involving an amount of Rs66.98 cr fake ITCIt jumped to 118 cases in 2020-21 and the amount involved was Rs4,742.15 crAs per the information provided by the Finance Ministry in Rajya Sabha in reply to a question on Tuesday, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence registered 30 cases in Haryana in 2019-20 involving an amount of Rs 66.98 crore fake ITC. It jumped to 118 cases in 2020-21 and the amount involved was Rs 4,742.15 crore, which is 71 times what was recorded in 2019-20.Till June, six cases were registered involving fake ITC of Rs 155.15 crore but only a fraction could be recovered.As per the information submitted in Rajya Sabha, Rs 9.86 crore was recovered in 2019-20 and 10 people arrested while in 2020-21, Rs 33.56 crore was recovered and 26 people arrested. This financial year till June, Rs 2.69 crore was recovered but with no arrest.Maharashtra witnessed 160 cases in 2019-20, where fake ITC involved was Rs 1,845.81 crore. It jumped to 301 cases in 2020-21 while the amount involved was Rs 5,303.80 crore.This financial year, 87 cases were registered involving fake ITC of Rs 984.48 crore. However, Rs 269.52 crore was recovered in 2019-20, Rs 343.42 crore in 2020-21 and Rs 25.44 crore till June of 2021-22.The neighbouring states of Haryana are far behind in ITC frauds.Punjab witnessed fake ITC worth Rs 64.39 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 153.17 crore in 2020-21 and this financial year till June, it is Rs 235.81 crore but only Rs 22.75 crore was recovered in 2019-20, Rs 3.93 crore in 2020-21, and Rs 4.76 crore this financial year.Himachal Pradesh witnessed fake ITC claims of Rs 6.69 crore in 2019-20, Rs 36.20 crore in 2020-21 and Rs 3 crore so far this financial year. However, Rs 2.03 crore was recovered in 2019-20, Rs 5.20 crore in 2020-21, and Rs 1.80 crore in 2021-22.The Finance Ministry says several steps have been taken to check the misuse of ITC, including integration of FASTag with e-way bill, Aadhaar-based authentication for new applicants, e-invoices being made mandatory for all B2B transactions with turnover above Rs 50 crore and generation of e-way bill by those taxpayers who have not furnished return for a consecutive period of two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reported-2nd-highest-tax-fraud-118-cases-in-2020-21-296513
12-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Teachers use ladder to scale wall, enter waterlogged school in Jatusana||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 11Teachers of Government Senior Secondary School in Jatusana town here have been using a wooden ladder to scale the outer wall to enter the campus as it has been submerged in rainwater for the past 10 days. Neither the classes are being conducted due to waterlogging nor any arrangement has also been made to hold classes at another place.Significantly, offices of the Block Education Officer (BEO) and Block Resource Coordinator (BRC), are also located on the school campus and the officers too are compelled to take a wall route to come to their office due to the waterlogged entrance. The BEO and a teacher slipped off the ladder after losing balance but fortunately, no one suffered injury. A government degree college is also being run on the school campus, which had to conduct the exams at another institution due to the flood-like situation.“The school has been closed for students for the past 10 days as the rainwater inundated not only the classrooms but also the entire campus on August 2. The school's entrance is also flooded hence a ladder has been placed at the back wall of the campus. All staffers use it to come in and go out of the campus. Two pumps have been installed so water is likely to be pumped out by this evening. Staffers will be able to use the entrance path from tomorrow,” said Jagdish Kumar, principal of the school.He maintained the BEO had been requested to make alternative arrangements for the classes but all in vain. “We will now be able to resume the classes after August 15. At present, all staffers sit at the BRO office as my office too is submerged. The peon wades through the water to bring documents from my office" he added. A teacher said the ground level of the school campus was lower than that of the village pond located adjacent to it, hence water entered the school whenever the pond overflowed. “We also placed sand outside the school to stop water coming from the pond but the villagers removed it as water started flowing towards the village. A permanent solution to the issue is needed otherwise water will again accumulate whenever it rains,” he added.BEO Parvesh Dhankar claimed the staffers would not have to use the ladder to enter the school campus from tomorrow as water had been pumped out from the entrance and the classrooms. “The campus is situated in a low-lying area so water accumulates here," he added.Campus inundated when pond overflows||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-use-ladder-to-scale-wall-enter-waterlogged-school-in-jatusana-296512
12-08-2021||---||Won’t contest Punjab election: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Karnal, August 11A couple of days after Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni joined hands with business fraternity in Ludhiana where a political party was launched, the farmer leader on Wednesday clarified that he neither formed a political party in Punjab nor joined any outfit.“I was invited by Punjab traders to attend a seminar, in which they supported my idea of ‘Mission Punjab’. I will not contest elections in Punjab,” Charuni told the media at Dera Kar Sewa here.He was in the city to attend a state-level meeting to chalk a plan for the Tiranga Yatra on August 15.“I went to Punjab to attend a seminar organised by traders. I did not form a party. The seminar was presented in a wrong light, leading to rumours. It was a conspiracy to defame me,” the BKU leader said, adding he was a protester fighting for the rights of farmers. “Farmers will continue to protest until the three laws are revoked.”Charuni said farmers will hold Tiranga Yatra across the state on August 15 to pay tribute to freedom fighters, martyrs and farmers who sacrificed their lives during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-contest-punjab-election-gurnam-singh-charuni-296511
12-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana Chief Secretary to departments: Replace ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in 154 Acts by August 31||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Nearly 55 years after Haryana was carved out of Punjab, the word “Punjab” will finally be replaced with “Haryana” in 154 laws governing the state all these years.The Chief Secretary’s office has set August 31 deadline for the departments to replace “Punjab” with “Haryana” and send a compliance report.The Chief Secretary asked administrative secretaries and heads of the departments (HoDs) to direct officers under them to complete the exercise by the deadline so that the necessary amendments could be made. Haryana was part of undivided Punjab until November 1, 1966. After the new state was formed, laws named after Punjab continued to govern Haryana although an exercise to effect necessary charges was supposed to begin within two years of the inception of the new state.Word ‘Punjab’ Creates confusionDespite lapse of more than five decades, the laws applicable to Haryana… still carry the words ‘Punjab’ and ‘East Punjab’, creating confusion. — Kanwar Gujjar, Parliamentary Affairs MinisterIn September last year, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had set up a committee, comprising the Chief Secretary and the Legal Remembrancer, to work out the modalities for the effecting necessary changes. In its report, the committee had recommended replacing “Punjab” with “Haryana” in the title of 154 Acts.In the Budget session of March this year, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar had tabled the Haryana Short Titles Amendment Bill, 2021.“The people of Haryana have always taken immense pride in their unique identity, both cultural and linguistic. However, despite lapse of more than five decades, the laws applicable to the state of Haryana… still carry the word “Punjab” and “East Punjab” in the laws applicable to the state of Haryana. In a cursory reading, it creates confusion among masses at the grassroot level with regard to application of such laws in Haryana,” Gujjar had said.“There is a pressing need that ‘Punjab Acts’ and ‘East Punjab Acts’ should be amended to ‘Haryana Acts’,” he had said.Compliance report sought||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-secretary-to-departments-replace-punjab-with-haryana-in-154-acts-by-august-31-296510
12-08-2021||Ludhiana||Haven’t joined traders’ party: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has clarified that he had not joined the newly launched Bhartiya Aarthik Party (BAP).BAP leaders had recently announced that Charuni would be the party’s CM face for the Assembly poll.“Traders had recently announced to contest the upcoming elections, but I want to make it clear that it’s not our party. I have not joined them. Actually, they had invited me to Ludhiana as they wanted to support me for our ‘Mission Punjab’,” Charuni said.“Currently, we are spreading awareness about electing good leaders. We have not made any further strategy. Whenever we will take any decision, it will be announced,” he said. On if he would contest the poll, Charuni said: “It has not been decided yet.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/havent-joined-traders-party-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-296368
12-08-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana plans to link school fee hike with price index||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Amid protests by parents against “unprecedented” fee hike by private schools in Haryana, the state Education Department is planning to link the hike to the Consumer Price Index (CPI).While the department is working on a formula, the private schools maintain that they will be forced to shut shop in case it is implemented.Mahavir Singh, ACS (School Education), said, “At present, schools are free to have their own fee structure. But the rules are being amended. We are exploring the possibility of linking it to the CPI.” No fee hike was allowed last year following the intervention of the court amid the pandemic. Anil Kaushik of the Progressive Private Schools Association said, “Since we suffered heavy losses last year and are unable to meet our expenses, we increased the fee by 15 per cent this year.”Balancing actWe are mulling 8-10% annual hike or linking it to inflation so that nobody feels the pinch — Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education MinisterWill challenge moveThe government has no business regulating fee in private schools... will take legal recourse — Anil Kaushik, private schools’ associatioOn the said proposal, he said, “The government has no business regulating the fee charged by private schools. We will take legal recourse. Earlier also the government tried to set up a fee regulatory authority, but it was stayed by the court. Moreover, the salaries are not linked to inflation. We give annual increments to our staff.”According to Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education Minister of the state, school fee hike must be regulated. “The opinion of the school managements will be considered before taking any decision,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-plans-to-link-school-fee-hike-with-price-index-296441
