13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records two Covid-19 deaths, 26 fresh cases||Haryana on Friday reported two Covid-19 related fatalities taking the cumulative death toll to 9,656 while 26 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 7,70,172.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths were reported from Hisar and Bhiwani districts.Among the districts, eleven cases were from Gurugram while four cases each were from Faridabad and Yamunanagar districts.The total active cases in the state were 664 while the total recoveries so far were 7,59,852, the bulletin stated.The recovery rate was 98.66 percent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-two-covid-19-deaths-26-fresh-cases-297157
13-08-2021||New Delhi||Delhi HC restrains telecast of documentary based on death of student in Gurugram school in 2017||The Delhi High Court has restrained Netflix and Channel News Asia (CNA) from streaming, broadcasting and telecasting a documentary ‘A big Little Murder’, based on the alleged killing of a 7-year-old student in a Gurugram school in 2017, unless all references to the school are deleted. Justice Jayant Nath, who was hearing a plea by the school’s trust, said that the documentary, in its original form, violated a court order on the protection of privacy and the reputation of the parties involved in the case.“The defendants (Netflix, CNA, the filmmaker and unknown parties) are restrained from streaming, broadcasting, telecasting etc. the documentary titled “A Big Little Murder” or any of its abridged versions.“I may clarify that the defendants may stream the said documentary after deleting all references to the plaintiff school in question and deleting the portion, where the building of the school is depicted”, ordered the judge in his order passed on August 10.The court passed the ex-parte order after opining that the school’s trust made out a prima facie case in its favour.The trust, represented by senior counsel Rajiv Virmani and Karanjawala & Co’s Senior Partner Sandeep Kapur informed the court that the documentary was available for viewers on the website of CNA and on the platform of Netflix since earlier this month.It was submitted that while the case is presently pending before a Sessions Court in Gurugram, which has passed an order directing parties to the proceedings as well as the public at large to not use the real names of the parties in the case, the name of the school and its visuals have been used elaborately and frequently in the documentary without any permission.A Class 2 student was found with his throat slit in the washroom of a school in Gurugram in September 2017.Investigation in the case was transferred from Haryana Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation.The matter would be heard next on October 10. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-hc-restrains-telecast-of-documentary-based-on-death-of-student-in-gurugram-school-in-2017-297128
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM's brother passes away||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's younger brother Gulshan Khattar died of pneumonia at a private hospital in Gurugram on Friday morning.The 56-year-old is survived by wife and three children.The chief minister shared the information on his Twitter handle, and said, “This is an irreparable loss for me.”              Manohar Lal Khattar is the eldest of seven siblings.Gulshan Khattar, who lived near Bhiwani Chungi area in Rohtak district, was earlier admitted to PGI Rohtak and was shifted to a private hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday.His cremation will take place at 3 pm in Rohtak. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-brother-passes-away-297108
13-08-2021||---||Haryana CM inaugurates 40 soil testing labs at block level||Chandigarh August 12Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today inaugurated 40 soil testing laboratories set up at the block level in the state through video-conferencing.The laboratories have been set up under the state government’s “Har Khet Swasth Khet”.In the first phase, soil testing of 25 lakh acres of land will be done this year through these labs. Haryana Agriculture Minister, JP Dalal and chairman, Marketing Board, Nayanpal Rawat were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-inaugurates-40-soil-testing-labs-at-block-level-296952
13-08-2021||---||Two killed in road mishap on Panipat-Rohtak highway||Panipat, August 12Two youths were killed in an accident near Dahar village on the Panipat-Rohtak highway on Thursday after a tractor hit their motorcycle.The victims were identified as Deepak (28) of Alupur village in Panipat district and Rakesh of Rabhra village in Sonepat district.Balwan Singh, father of Deepak, said the duo had gone to Panipat for some work. While returning home, a tractor coming from wrong side hit their motorcycle near Dahar village, resulting in their deaths on the spot.A case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-road-mishap-on-panipat-rohtak-highway-296955
13-08-2021||Mahendragarh||ASI gets 5-year jail in graft case||Salary of ESI nurses, MPHWs raisedChandigarh: The state government has revised the pay structure of staff nurses and multi-purposes health workers (MPHWs) of the Employees State Insurance (ESI), bringing them on a par with their counterparts in the Health Department. The monthly salary of staff nurses has been revised from Rs 35,400 to Rs 44,900 and that of MPHWs from Rs 25,500 to Rs 35,400. TNS IAS, HCS officers transferredchandigarh: The government has transferred one IAS and one HCS officer. Abhishek Meena, ADC, Mahendragarh, has been posted as Additional Commissioner, MC, Faridabad. Veena Hooda, ADC, Kurukshetra, has been posted as ADC, Panipat, and District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Panipat. TNS Nigam staffer held taking bribepanipat: A VB team caught an employee of the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam reportedly accepting a bribe of Rs19,000 for releasing a loan amount. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asi-gets-5-year-jail-in-graft-case-296956
13-08-2021||A sewer in a park near Chhota Shiv Mandir||Damaged sewer in park a nuisance||Broken roads, garbage a common sightBroken roads and garbage dumped on roadsides has become a common sight in majority of the residential areas in the city. Since many roads, including the passage connecting Sector 3 and Sector 8, have not been repaired for years, commuters face the risk of accidents and traffic chaos during peak hours every day. The Municipal Corporation has failed to address the issues of roads, choked sewage and disposal of waste from almost colonies located in Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad and NIT zone. The living conditions are turning pathetic in view of poor maintenance. —Sk Sharma, FaridabadOpen entries for all for state songLimiting entries from poets and writers native to Haryana only for composing the state song is tantamount to blocking talent. The CM should intervene to do away with the bigotry, give wide publicity and extend the August 15 deadline. —Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGMDA to start repairing key sector-dividing roadsIt was pleasing to know that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start repairing four key sector-dividing roads a part of the larger road repair project following several complaints of potholes and partial constructions. The repair has been pending for the past three years .Tenders for the project have been floated. It is indeed a good for the development of Gurugram. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion oughtto be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damaged-sewer-in-park-a-nuisance-296957
13-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University professors turn book editors||Music workshop concludesKurukshetra: An eight-day workshop organised by the Department of Music of Kurukshetra University (KU) on skill development concluded. Prof Manjula Chaudhary, Dean (Academic Affairs), KU, said there was a major emphasis on skill development in the New Education Policy 2020 and the university was taking a lead in the area. KU Registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma was the guest of honour on the occasion. He congratulated the department for a successful workshop.Principal gets special service awardAmbala: Hindustan Scouts and Guides Association, New Delhi, honoured Dr Vikas Kohli, principal of Police DAV Public School, Ambala City, with a special service award during the national executive meeting held in Delhi. He has been honoured for his meritorious services in the field of education. Dr Kohli was honoured by JK Yadav, regional officer at CBSE, and Delhi DCP Manoj Pant.Prof nominated law committee memberKurukshetra: Prof Amit Ludri of the Department of Law at Kurukshetra University has been nominated as a member of the law committee of the Animal Welfare Board of India, Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India. Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated Prof Ludri for his achievement and said it was a matter of pride for the university that its faculty was making important contributions at the national level.Ambala prof’s poems translatedAmbala: Selected poems of Prof Sudarshan Gasso, head, Department of Punjabi, GMN College, have been translated into Nepali language as ‘Khushiko Indrani’. The translator is Dehradun-based principal Uday Thakur, who himself is a well-known poet in Hindi and Nepali. Dr Gasso has authored as many as 17 books and is the recipient of the Bhai Santokh Singh award given by the Haryana Punjabi Sahitya Academy. Dr Gasso believes his book will help in spreading peace, harmony, cooperation and humanistic ideals globally. College authorities congratulated him for this accomplishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-professors-turn-book-editors-296963
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 Haryana cops chosen for medal of excellence||Four police officers of the Haryana Police have been chosen for the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for 2021.Amit Dahiya, DSP; Aman Kumar, inspector; Poonam Kumari, lady inspector; and Kamlesh, lady sub-inspector, were among the 152 awardees selected from across the country this year for the award.Dahiya will be honoured for speedy investigation in the rape and murder of a woman, in which the accused was later held guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment in Rohtak.Besides, the remaining will also receive the honour in recognition of their innovative methods and outstanding contribution in the field of investigation. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-haryana-cops-chosen-for-medal-of-excellence-296949
13-08-2021||---||In Rohtak, Haryana Dy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa leads Tiranga Yatra||Rohtak, August 12BJP leaders and workers, led by Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, took out a Tiranga Yatra in the city today.MP Arvind Sharma, former minister Manish Kumar Grover, BJP state organising secretary Ravinder Raju and Municipal Corporation Mayor Manmohan Goyal also took part in it.The yatra started from Maharaja Agrasen Chowk at the new grain market and ended at Gohana Adda after passing through Bhiwani stand, Durga Bhawan Temple, Pratap Bazar, Quilla Road and Delhi Gate. The leaders garlanded the statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Lala Lajpat Rai en route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-rohtak-haryana-dy-speaker-ranbir-gangwa-leads-tiranga-yatra-296950
13-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram: Four arrested for online fraud||Gurugram, August 12Gurugram police today nabbed four persons for duping people on the pretext of selling cars online. A car has been recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Shivam Panwar (26), resident of Bahalgarh village in Sonepat; Mohammad Imran (21) of Delhi, Ravi Upadhyay (26) and Kaji Mohammad (26), all natives of Uttar Pradesh.An FIR was registered on the complaint of Lobin Kumar, a resident of Rewari, on June 16, at Sector 50 police station. He told the police that he came across an online advertisement for the sale of a car and contacted the number given in the advertisement on June 10.“The man told me his name was Shivam Panwar and I went to meet him at Isco Spaze IT Park on June 10. When I reached the meeting spot, two men — Rohit Shah and Ravi — met me. They told me they had talked to Shivam and had come to take the token money,” Kumar said.“On June 16, I met Shivam in his office at Isco IT Spaze Park and gave him Rs 3 lakh cash and transferred Rs 55,000 in their bank account. He then asked me to wait while he got the owner’s signature on the sale letter. Shivam did not return and switched off his phone. I knew I was duped,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-four-arrested-for-online-fraud-296951
13-08-2021||---||100 farmers protesting near Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij's house detained; freed later||Ambala, August 12The police on Thursday detained more than 100 farmers, who were protesting near the residence of Home Minister Anil Vij, against the rounding up of a local leader in connection with showing black flags to the convoy of the minister.The farmers, however, were later released.According to police, the minister was returning to his residence after having met his ailing personal assistance Chandrapuri Colony at Ambala Cantt last evening. When he was crossing the place, some of the protesting farmers showed black flags to his convoy. Stones were also thrown on one of the vehicles of the convoy, the police have said.Not scared of FIRs: TikaitRegistering cases against farmers is a pressure tactic, but this cannot scare away farmers. We are not going to end the agitation. —Rakesh Tikait, BKU leaderThe police later rounded up farmer leader Navdeep Singh in connection with the incident, following which a large number of farmers gathered in front of the Parao police station, which is near to Vij’s residence. Subsequently, farmers were detained and taken to the Police Lines.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “In spite of protesting peacefully, farmers were detained.”More farmers later gathered at the Police Lines and demanded release of all those who had been detained, including one of their leaders.Although district administration officials and the police tried to persuade the protesters to disperse, they did not relent. A large number of police force was also deployed at the site.In the meantime, a meeting was organised between officials and farmer leaders to defuse the situation.Police station gheraoed Panipat: BKU (Charuni) activists on Thursday gheraoed the Israna police station, demanding cancellation of a case registered against 80 farmers two months ago. A delegation of five farmers held a meeting with officers, who assured the matter will be resolved within 20 days. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-farmers-protesting-near-haryana-home-minister-anil-vijs-house-detained-freed-later-296942
13-08-2021||---||Continue stay on trial court proceedings in AJL case: Punjab and Haryana  HC||Chandigarh, August 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered the continuation of stay on trial court proceedings against former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Associated Journal Limited (AJL) in a case regarding allotment of a plot in Panchkula to AJL.The controversy revolves around institutional plot number C-17 in Sector 6, Panchkula. Allotted by HUDA to AJL in 1982, it was taken back in 1992 as construction was not carried out in 10 years. The appeal and revision filed by AJL against resumption of plot were also dismissed by HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner (town and country planning) in 1995 and 1996. However, when Hooda become the CM in 2005, he allowed re-allotment of the plot to AJL.Next hearing: Sept 6After Manohar Lal Khattar came to power in October 2014, an FIR was registered by the VB into alleged irregularities in the allotment “causing huge financial loss to HUDA”.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the counsels for the petitioners prayed for time to file counter to the reply filed by the CBI.Justice GS Sandhawalia directed that the needful be done by September 6 — the next date of hearing. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and RS Cheema with counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema appeared before the Bench through videoconferencing on the petitioners’ behalf.The CBI submitted one of the reasons cited by Hooda was that the publication of the Hindi newspaper “Nav-Jivan” from Panchkula would add another feature to the town and serve public interest. It stood defeated as the newspaper was not being published from the plot. The institutional plot and its premises were mortgaged by M/s AJL to Syndicate Bank, New Delhi. The loan availed against the mortgage of the plot was used for commercial purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/continue-stay-on-trial-court-proceedings-in-ajl-case-punjab-and-haryana-hc-296943
13-08-2021||Kaithal||HSSC paper leak: 2 more held||The police on Thursday arrested two more persons in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) constable paper leak case. So far, 16 persons have been arrested.The police have also seized two mobile phones, which were used in obtaining the answer key from accused Narinder, who was arrested on Saturday evening.The accused — Vikas (24) and Ankit (21), both residents of Jind district — have been sent to judicial custody.“The CIA-2 team led by Inspector Sombir arrested the two accused who had obtained the answer key from Narinder,” said Lokendra Singh, Kaithal SP.On August 7, the HSSC had conducted police constable (male) written exams. However, the exam was cancelled after the paper was leaked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-paper-leak-2-more-held-296944
13-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Amid pandemic, Haryana sees 2% rise in dormant Jan Dhan a/cs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12Reflecting poor financial literacy, Haryana has seen almost a 2 per cent rise in inoperative Jan Dhan accounts during the Covid period and is one of the few such states in the country. On the other hand, many states have seen a dip in inactive accounts.As per information of the public sector banks, there were 70.22 lakh Jan Dhan accounts as on March 25, 2020, in Haryana. Of them, 10.93 lakh (16 per cent) were inoperative accounts. As of July 28 this year, there were 75.78 lakh Jan Dhan accounts, but 13.40 lakh (18 per cent) of them are inactive.Daman and Diu, Delhi, Ladakh, and Mizoram are the other states that have seen a rise in inoperative accounts. In Delhi, the inoperative accounts increased from 18 per cent to 19 per cent while in Mizoram, it jumped from 33 per cent to 47 per cent, which is the maximum.On March 25 last year, the overall inoperative accounts stood at 6.7 crore, but they dipped to 5.82 crore till July 28, 2021. Of the total, the inoperative accounts of women are approximately 2.02 crore. This constitutes around 35 per cent of total inoperative accounts. The inoperative accounts, however, have dipped from 18 per cent to 14 per cent during the Covid period in the country.The facts come to light in reply to a question by the Finance Ministry in the Rajya Sabha on August 10.Moreover, in neighbouring Punjab, 11.68 lakh accounts (19 per cent) were inactive of total 61.27 lakh on March 25, 2020. However, on July 28, 2021, it got reduced to 11.30 lakh (17 per cent) of a total of 66.32 lakh accounts.In Himachal Pradesh, there were 1.78 lakh (14 per cent) inactive accounts of total 12.80 lakh on March 25, 2020. These reduced to 1.68 lakh (11 per cent) of a total of 15.06 lakh accounts. Chandigarh also witnessed a dip from 24 per cent to 23 per cent.The Finance Ministry informed the House that as per the RBI circular dated September 17, 2013, banks have been advised to ensure that the direct benefit transfer payments to accounts are not rejected due to the savings bank accounts being classified as inoperative or dormant.The ministry added that the RBI had advised the financial literacy centres and rural branches of banks to conduct outdoor camps for customers in collaboration with the ground-level stakeholders at the district, panchayat or village level for Jan Dhan accounts. They also conduct specific camps for target audiences like farmers, small entrepreneurs, self-help groups, senior citizens and women.About the schemeThe Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana is a flagship programme of the NDA government on financial inclusion.Its objective is to ensure access to financial services like availability of basic savings bank account, need-based credit, remittances facility, insurance and pension to the excluded sections — weaker and low-income groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-pandemic-haryana-sees-2-rise-in-dormant-jan-dhan-a-cs-296945
13-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Panel submits report on Jind civic infra to Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 12A subject committee of five MLAs that visited Jind to take stock of the civic infrastructure has submitted its report to the Assembly Speaker in Chandigarh.Sources said the team was sent to Jind after local BJP MLA Krishan Middha complained to the Speaker about the poor condition of the civic infrastructure in the town. Middha has said that despite crores spent for development, the recent rains left a trail of destruction as many portions of the newly constructed roads got washed away.On August 4, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta deputed a subject committee of the MLAs to inspect the town. The team inspected various sites and even interacted with the locals, who complained about the alleged corruption that had resulted in the poor condition of the civic works carried out in the town.Funds misused: MLAThe CM has availed ample funds for the town’s development but hasn’t utilised these properly. The report is likely to disclose laxity in works and funds’ bungling. Officials responsible for the mess in the town will have to face the music. —Krishan Middha, Jind MLARajkumar Goyal, president of NGO Jind Vikash Sangthan, alleged that the recent rains had exposed the poor civic infrastructure in the town as corruption had allegedly marred the developmental activities. Goyal alleged that huge funds injected in the town in the name of developing civic facilities like drainage system and roads had gone down the drain. He also demanded an inquiry into the misuse of funds for the development of the city.Talking to The Tribune, Middha said the committee had submitted its report to the Speaker and further action would be taken after discussing it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-submits-report-on-jind-civic-infra-to-haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-296946
13-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Command centre set to go live for traffic monitoring by August||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 12Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), from where real-time monitoring of the city traffic would be carried out round the clock, is all set to go live for traffic monitoring by the end of August.The software is ready and trials are underway. For the manpower, a training session will also be held from August 15 for the police and Karnal Municipal Corporation.The centre has been set up at the cost of Rs 152 crore and the company will bear the cost of maintenance for seven years. The company will also provide 20 operators for the project for the same duration.State-of-the-art infraThe ICCC has been set up with the best-in class video wall for large display, along with a data centre with latest servers, storage and security systems. This centre will manage surveillance of the city and host various smart solutions. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DCThe authorities believe that through the video management solution, constant monitoring of public spaces for traffic-related issues, accidents or others will be made possible as a red-light violation detection (RLVD) system, speed-violation detection system (SVDS) and automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system have been installed at all traffic lights with high resolution CCTV cameras.“The ICCC has been set up with the best-in class video wall for large display, along with a conference room to be used for task forces, data centre with latest servers, storage and security systems. All field equipment is connected with the centralised system with optical fibre. This centre will not only manage safety and surveillance of the city from the perspective of police/traffic police but will also host various smart solutions for the city,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.The centre will be manned by the stakeholders of various line departments such as police, Karnal MC and fire department and supported by command center operators.“Field sensors and edge devices will capture and generate real-time data from various utilities such as mobility, surveillance cameras, water, waste management, energy, mobility, environment, healthcare and safety. It will also help in real-time data of the air quality as environmental sensors have been installed at the old vegetable market and Namstey Chowk. It will also collect information on air pollution and other environmental conditions,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-command-centre-set-to-go-live-for-traffic-monitoring-by-august-296947
13-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC to remove illegal hoardings, publicity material||The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation will soon start a drive to remove illegal hoardings, banners and other publicity material in public spaces.This decision was taken during a meeting of the MC held under the chairmanship of Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar today.“I have issued instructions to remove all illegal hoardings and other publicity material from the MC area,” said Tomar.He said despite carrying out anti-hoarding drives, illegal hoardings still came up in the MC area. “Hoardings will be erected only on allotted sites with the permission of MCYJ,” he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-to-remove-illegal-hoardings-publicity-material-296948
13-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: NHAI official booked for causing traffic jam||An official of NHAI’s Concessionaire Company M/s Pink City Expressway Pvt Ltd has been booked for allegedly creating chaos near Rampura.Sources said the official, engineer Anil Rathi, closed an underpass late last evening without informing the police, leading to a jam spanning five hours. The traffic police opened the underpass today, an FIR was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-nhai-official-booked-for-causing-traffic-jam-296953
13-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak PGIMS doctors up in arms over common cadre, addl duties||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 12The creation of common cadre for all A, B, C and D group employees, online transfer policy framed by the state and additional duties assigned by office of Director (Medical Education and Research) (DMER) to faculty members of pre and para-clinical departments at clinical wards and trauma centre at the PGIMS have forced doctors to adopt the way of agitation.PGIMS doctors under the aegis of the Haryana State Medical Teachers Association (HSMTA) today announced to wear black badges from August 16 and observe token strike on August 19 to register their protest against the issues. They also threatened to go on indefinite strike if their demands are not met soon.Significantly, the HSMTA has also got the support of UHS Non-Teaching Employees Association, Nursing Association and Resident Doctors Association.“We strongly condemn the creation of a common cadre for online transfer as it will revoke the autonomous status of the university. The transfer of doctors and other paramedical staffers to other institutions will not only hamper the functioning of the PGIMS and UHS but also affect the healthcare of patients. This is a planned conspiracy to demolish the medical education structure in the state,” said Dr RB Jain, chief, HSMTA, adding that transfer would also complicate the issues of teaching, training and research.Dr Jain said the DMER office’s recent order assigning additional duties to teachers of various pre and para-clinical departments to various clinical departments had further fuelled the resentment among doctors. “The duty of pre and para-clinical departments is looking after MBBS, BDS, nursing, physiotherapy and many other allied courses and not working at clinical departments.”Meanwhile, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of many outfits engaged in health awareness and advocacy, has also termed the DMER office order as illogical and violation of the rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-doctors-up-in-arms-over-common-cadre-addl-duties-296954
13-08-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||UPSC sends 3-name panel for picking new Haryana DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The committee for the selection of new DGP of Haryana today sent back a panel of three IPS officers to the state government after a meeting at the Union Public Service Commission’s office in New Delhi. The selected names include PK Agrawal (1988 batch), Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra (both 1989 batch). The state government will now pick one officer from the panel to head the police force.Sources said the UPSC went strictly by seniority. “When the UPSC drops a name or picks the name of an officer down the line while selecting the DGP, it often leads to litigation. To avoid that, the UPSC usually takes the ‘safer road’ and recommends names of the senior-most officers,” sources maintained.However, in a last-minute twist, outgoing DGP Manoj Yadava could not attend the meeting for the constitution of the panel of officers because of a “faux pas” that listed him as one of the candidates for the post.Sources in the police said there seemed a “deliberate design” in keeping the only police officer on the empanelment panel out of the meeting since there was no logical explanation on how the name of the DGP appeared on the list as a “candidate” when the vacancy was created because Yadava had expressed his desire to return to the IB.Yadava had even written to the Union Public Service Commission to say he did not want his name to be considered since he had sought repatriation. However, on the ground that his name was on the list of candidates, he was kept out of the meeting held in Delhi today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upsc-sends-3-name-panel-for-picking-new-haryana-dgp-296855
