14-08-2021||---||Two cops among four killed in road accident in Ambala||Ambala, August 14Four persons, including two policemen, were killed after they were mowed down by a truck on the National Highway-44 in Ambala on Saturday morning.The deceased cops were identified as ASI Nasib Singh and constable Balvinder Singh, while the other two victims were identified as Manish and Pradeep of Yamunanagar.As per the information, Manish and Pradeep were on their way towards Ambala City when their car collided with a Canter. Following a complaint in the control room, a police PCR reached the spot and started investigation. Meanwhile, a truck mowed down the four victims. While Nasib, Manish and Pradeep died on the spot, Balvinder was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to injuries. The bodies were shifted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City.Meanwhile, the accused truck driver managed to flee. After getting information, IGP Bharti Arora and SSP Hamid Akhtar reached the Civil Hospital. Later, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij also visited the hospital to meet the kin of victims. A case has been registered at the Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-cops-among-four-killed-in-road-accident-in-ambala-297553
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||14 Haryana cops to receive Police Medals on Independence Day||Fourteen Haryana police officers and personnel have been selected to receive Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medals for Meritorious Service.Giving this information on the eve of Independence Day, a Haryana Police spokesperson said the medals were announced by the Union Home Ministry on Saturday.While two Haryana police officials— ASI Rakesh Kumar and constable Pawan Kumar—will be conferred with the Police Medal for Gallantry, one has been selected to be decorated with the prestigious President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 11 other cops are to be awarded with Police Medal for Meritorious Service.Besides, Dr. C.S. Rao, ADGP, Director, Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban, will be awarded with the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.Those who have been selected to be decorated with the Police Medal for Meritorious Service include Dr. Hanif Qureshi, IGP, IRB, Bhondsi; Raj Kumar, ACP, Panchkula; Ramjit Singh, DSP, State Crime Record Bureau, Madhuban; Sanjeev Balhara, DSP, Traffic Gurugram; Chaman Lal, Inspector, 4th Battalion HAP, Madhuban; Nirmala Devi, Inspector, CID, Panchkula; Manoj Kumar, Sub-Inspector, Police Headquarters, Panchkula; Mewa Singh, Sub-Inspector, Police Headquarters, Panchkula; Jasbir  Singh, Sub-Inspector, GRP, Ambala Cantt.; Sukhpal Singh, E/SI, State Vigilance Bureau, Panchkula; and Gurnam Singh, ASI, 4th IRB, Manesar.Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava, while congratulating all the police officers and officials, said that it is a great honour for the entire police force that 14 of its officers have been selected for these prestigious awards. The recognition of their bravery, untiring and relentless efforts at national level would go a long way to further boost their morale as well as of others, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-haryana-cops-to-receive-police-medals-on-independence-day-297552
14-08-2021||New Delhi||2 Haryana sites added to Ramsar list as wetlands of international importance||Four more Indian sites - two each from Haryana and Gujarat - have been recognised as wetlands of international importance under the Ramsar Convention, taking the number of such sites in the country to 46, the Union Environment Ministry said on Saturday.According to the ministry, for the first time, two wetlands in Haryana - Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram and Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary in Jhajjar - have been included in the Ramsar list.The aim of the Ramsar list is "to develop and maintain an international network of wetlands which are important for the conservation of global biological diversity and for sustaining human life through the maintenance of their ecosystem components, processes and benefits".Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav tweeted, "PM Shri @narendramodi ji's concern for the environment has led to overall improvement in how India cares for its wetlands. Happy to inform that four more Indian wetlands have got Ramsar recognition as wetlands of international importance.""Thol and Wadhwana from Gujarat and Sultanpur and Bhindawas from Haryana have made the cut for Ramsar recognition. The number of Ramsar sites in India is now 46," he added.Haryana's Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary is a human-made freshwater wetland. It is also the largest in Haryana. Over 250 bird species use the sanctuary throughout the year as a resting site.The site supports more than 10 globally threatened species, including the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Steppe Eagle, Pallas's Fish Eagle, and Black-bellied Tern.The Sultanpur National Park in Haryana supports more than 220 species of resident, winter migratory and local migratory waterbirds at critical stages of their life cycles.More than 10 of these are globally threatened, including the critically endangered sociable lapwing, and the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Saker Falcon, Pallas's Fish Eagle and Black-bellied Tern.The Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat lies on the Central Asian Flyway and more than 320 bird species can be found here.The wetland supports more than 30 threatened water bird species, such as the critically endangered White-rumped Vulture and Sociable Lapwing, and the vulnerable Sarus Crane, Common Pochard and Lesser White-fronted Goose.The Wadhvana Wetland in Gujarat is internationally important for its birdlife as it provides wintering ground to migratory water birds, including over 80 species that migrate on the Central Asian Flyway.They include some threatened or near-threatened species such as the endangered Pallas's fish-Eagle, the vulnerable Common Pochard, and the near-threatened Dalmatian Pelican, Grey-headed Fish-eagle and Ferruginous Duck.The Ramsar Convention is an international treaty for the conservation and wise use of wetlands. It is named after the Iranian city of Ramsar, on the Caspian Sea, where the treaty was signed on February 2, 1971.The 46 Ramsar sites in India include the Chilika Lake in Odisha, Keoladeo National Park in Rajasthan, Harike Lake in Punjab, Loktak Lake in Manipur and Wular Lake in Jammu and Kashmir. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-haryana-sites-added-to-ramsar-list-as-wetlands-of-international-importance-297514
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Duty on exchange of farmland drops in Haryana||The Revenue and Disaster Management Department has reduced the duty levied on the exchange of agricultural land subject to the condition that the land should be in the same revenue estate.A notification in this regard was issued on Friday. Now, nominal duty at the rate of Rs 5,000 per registration deed would be charged.A department spokesperson said agricultural or cultivated land, as defined in para 259 of the Punjab Settlement Manual, comprises Barani, Sailab, Abi, Nahri and Chahi lands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/duty-on-exchange-of-farmland-drops-in-haryana-297342
14-08-2021||---||Olympics stars receive Rs 23-cr awards from Haryana Govt||Panchkula, August 13Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today distributed cheques amounting to more than Rs 23 crore to Tokyo Olympics athletes, but the star attraction of the state-level felicitation ceremony — gold medallist Neeraj Chopra — was missing from the event owing to high fever.He joined the ceremony online and urged the state government to keep supporting athletes and “they will win more medals”.The Governor gave cheques worth Rs 6 crore, Rs 4 crore and Rs 2.5 crore to Neeraj Chopra, Ravi Dahiya and Bajrang Punia for winning gold, silver and bronze medals, respectively. Men’s hockey team player Surender Kumar was presented a cheque of Rs 2.5 crore each. Sumit, another team member, remained absent from the event. The players were given job offer letters along with a proposal to get HSVP plots on concessional rates. The athletes were also given job offer letters as per state’s sports policy during the ceremony, which was held to honour 32 players from Haryana.The ceremony was marred by the absence of many of the awardees despite the government showering on them cash awards, jobs and gift hampers.Left in a tight corner, state government officials said the awards would be delivered to those athletes who could not make it to the event.Wrestler Vinesh Phogat; tennis player Sumit Nagal; shooter Manu Bhaker; boxers Amit Panghal, Vikas Krishan and Manish Kaushik; and discus thrower Seema Poonia were also not present at the function.Manu Bhaker, through video conferencing, said she could not join the event due to “unavoidable circumstances”. Their family members, however, collected the cheques on their behalf.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/olympics-stars-receive-rs-23-cr-awards-from-haryana-govt-297343
14-08-2021||Gurugram||Eight-month-old raped in Manesar||An eight-month-old infant was raped at a village near Manesar, the police have said.The police registered a case under the POCSO Act and are investigating the matter. The accused has not been arrested yet.The mother of the victim in a complaint filed with the police said it was on Thursday evening that a young man, living in her neighbourhood, committed the crime and fled from the spot after threatening to kill her.Following the complaint, the girl was rushed to hospital for medical examination. Cops informed the child welfare committee about the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-month-old-raped-in-manesar-297344
14-08-2021||---||BJP takes out Tiranga Yatra in Gharaunda||Karnal, August 13 Seven months after farmers “vandalised” the venue of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s “kisan mahapanchayat” at Kaimla village in Gharaunda block, the BJP took out a Tiranga Yatra in same block today to “boost the morale of the cadre”. Sources in the party say workers’ morale after the Kaimla incident had been low. The yatra bolstered their confidence, they say. On January 10, Khattar was scheduled to address the “kisan mahapanchayat” to highlight the “benefits” of the three agricultural laws passed last year. Before he could address farmers, protesters ransacked the venue. The police had to use water cannons to disperse the protesters. Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan, who had organised the kisan mahapanchayat, took responsibility for the yatra, in which hundreds of persons participated. State BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar led the yatra, while Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, MLA Kalyan and other senior leaders accompanied him. Dhankar claimed the yatra was a success. “People are in high spirits on the 75th anniversary of the Independence Day. The Tiranga Yatra charged people up.” He referred to Haryana as a “land of bravehearts”.  “About 10 per cent of the defence personnel are from Haryana and 25 per cent of those who laid down their lives for the country are from here,” he said. Meanwhile in Kaithal, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini led the Tiranga Yatra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-takes-out-tiranga-yatra-in-gharaunda-297345
14-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Faridabad: Month on, repair of flats for Khori oustees yet to begin||Tribune News Service Faridabad, August 13 It’s been a month since the announcement of a policy to rehabilitate the oustees of the recently demolished Khori village colony, but the local civic body has failed to make any progress on its implementation.  The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) is yet to release the tender for the repair of about 2,500 EWS flats at Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar which are lying in poor condition. The oustees had been offered flats at these places against payment. The demolition drive carried out in compliance with the SC order has resulted in the razing of all constructions in the colony which had come up on forestland. “Though the then Commissioner Garima Mittal had announced the rehabilitation policy on July 13, a day before the demolition of the 9,500 houses was taken up, nothing has come up on the ground so far,” sources in the district administration say, adding that the process may take more than six months.  “I haven’t got any update regarding the application submitted last month for rehabilitation,” says Pritam Kumar, who had to shift to a rented accommodation in a colony in neighbouring Delhi after he lost his two-room house in the demolition.  “The allotment of flats is a cumbersome process. A majority of the oustees have either taken up rented accommodation in neighbouring colonies or have been staying in tents pitched on the debris,” he said.  Nirmal Gorana of the Majdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti, a body seeking rehabilitation of the oustees, said oustees should be given housing free of cost. He demanded that a monthly rent of Rs 4,500 be paid till the affected people were rehabilitated. Ramji Lal, Chief Engineer, MCF, said tender for repairs of the EWS flats would be floated soon so that the work could be completed within four months. “A budget of Rs 18 crore has been earmarked for it,” he said.  The oustees had been offered flats in Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar against a down payment of Rs 17,000 and monthly instalments of Rs 2,500 till the recovery of total cost (Rs 3.7 lakh). The MC had offered Rs 2,000 per month to the applicants for six months as the flats need repair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-month-on-repair-of-flats-for-khori-oustees-yet-to-begin-297346
14-08-2021||---||Four Bills to be tabled during monsoon session in Haryana Assembly||Chandigarh, August 13Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today said nine calling attention notices had been received for the upcoming monsoon session, while the government would introduce four Bills.The Bills are related to the urban local bodies, industries, proposed Maharshi Valmiki Sanskrit Vidyalaya and the Lokayukta Act. Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad and Deputy Congress Legislative Party leader Aftab Ahmed would bring private member’s Bills too.The Speaker took out a draw of questions for the three-day session. A total of 238 starred and 120 unstarred questions were received. Of them, questions related to 60 MLAs were chosen.“The draw is taken out to bring transparency,” said the Speaker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-bills-to-be-tabled-during-monsoon-session-in-haryana-assembly-297347
14-08-2021||Karnal||Rs 4,642-cr toll collected at Panipat-Jalandhar NH||The toll collection agency at the Bastara, Sambhu and Ladowal toll plazas on the Panipat-Jalandhar section of NH-44 has collected Rs 4,642 crore in 12 years. The estimated cost of the Panipat-Jalandhar project was Rs 5,572 crore.The information was sought under the RTI Act by Sandeep Rathee, a Panipat-based activist, from the NHAI.The NHAI said a penalty of Rs 415.63 crore had been imposed on the company for non-compliance of provisions. It was assigned the project on the build, operate and transfer basis for 15 years in 2009. The agreement was terminated on March 5.Rathee alleged even after collecting a huge amount as toll, the condition of the Panipat-Jalandhar highway was miserable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-4-642-cr-toll-collected-at-panipat-jalandhar-nh-297348
14-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana schools reopen, but only 14% govt staff fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Even as the state government has reopened schools for class VI and above, the inoculation of teaching and non-teaching staff remains a concern for the Education Department. Only 14 per cent employees in state government schools are fully vaccinated.26 new cases, two deathsChandigarh: With 26 fresh cases and one death each in Hisar and Bhiwani, the Covid tally reached 7.7 lakh on Friday. The maximum cases came from Gurugram at 11, followed by four each from Yamunanagar and Faridabad. No case came from 12 districts. With 32 recoveries, the active cases fell to 664. TNSVaccination statusOfficial data show that of the total 1,03,886 teaching and non-teaching employees, 14,790 are fully vaccinated, while 26,763 have taken the first shot.Certain districts have “very poor” vaccination record. These include Bhiwani and Panipat (7 per cent), Kaithal (8 per cent) and Charkhi Dadri (11 per cent). Gurugram (25 per cent), Panchkula and Karnal (24 per cent), and Rewari (20 per cent) have slightly better vaccination record than other districts.Taking strong exception to the poor performance on the vaccination front, the Directorate of School Education has now told field-level officials, including district education officers and district elementary education officers, to coordinate with chief medical officers to organise special inoculation camps for the school staff. After the number of Covid-19 cases started dropping recently, the state government last month decided to reopen schools for classes IX to XII. Later, schools were thrown open for classes VI to VIII also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-reopen-but-only-14-govt-staff-fully-vaccinated-297349
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s younger brother passes away||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s younger brother Gulshan Khattar passed away today. He was 56.Gulshan Khattar was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram two days ago after he suffered a heart attack, where he breathed his last this morning.Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Gian Chand Gupta, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, the entire council of ministers and MLAs expressed grief and prayed for peace to the departed soul. In a message issued today, the CM said it was an irreparable loss for him and prayed for peace to the departed soul. The CM said after attending the funeral in Rohtak, he would be in Chandigarh on August 14. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattars-younger-brother-passes-away-297350
14-08-2021||Karnal||Reduce market fee: Haryana rice traders||The state government’s decision to increase the market fee to 2 per cent from 0.5 per cent has not gone down well with the All India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA). Members of the association have demanded the state government to review its decision.The association wrote to CM Manohar Lal Khattar and the Secretary Agriculture, New Delhi, demanding uniform tax structure across the country.The association has also requested for a rollback in the hike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reduce-market-fee-haryana-rice-traders-297351
14-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||33 months on, approach road to Ambala's Umrao Singh Flyover awaits repair||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 13Nearly 33 months on, but an approach road leading to Umrao Singh Flyover, earlier known as Kali Platoon Railway Bridge, is yet to be repaired and opened for commuters in Ambala Cantt.In October 2018, a section of the approach road caved in after the soil along its retaining wall was removed. From then onwards, the road has been completely closed for commuters. It is now blocked with barricades and stones.The approach road links a road along the Ambala-Chandigarh highway with Umrao Singh Flyover, which connects two parts of Ambala Cantonment. With the approach road non-functional, commuters have to take a longer route to reach the flyover.Munish Kumar, a resident of Jandli in Ambala City, said the flyover was an important link for thousands of residents of several villages, including Jandli and Kanwla, students of Kendriya Vidyalaya number 3, employees of the Railways, various government departments and Army units.“The flyover was reopened in December 2018 after a gap of three years but people are still forced to take a longer route to reach it as the approach road from the highway is closed. It will be beneficial for all if the approach road is repaired soon as it will save time for commuters,” he added.Jagmohan Sukhija, a commuter, said: “The approach road is a very important link for commuters travelling on the Ambala-Chandigarh National Highway. The flyover is required to reach Jandli and other parts of the city. In the absence of the road, commuters are forced to take a longer route to reach their destinations.”Ashim Bansal, manager (technical), NHAI in Ambala, said: “A tender has been awarded and the agreement is likely to be signed in the next seven to 10 days. The project will cost around Rs 1.40 crore. We are expecting that the work will begin by the end of this month and will be completed in six months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-months-on-approach-road-to-ambalas-umrao-singh-flyover-awaits-repair-297353
14-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Players’ performance at Olympics inspires youth to take up sports||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 13Seven medals at the Tokyo Olympics have inspired the state youth to take up sports and prepare themselves for the national and international games.The recent trend showed that around 15 boys and girls got themselves enrolled in hockey, while the similar number of youngsters also joined other games, including wrestling.“The interest of youth in sports has increased and new players, including children aged 6-7, have also taken up hockey. The performances of players at the Olympics have given a new lease of life to hockey,” said Brij Bhushan, hockey coach.“The pandemic, however, did impact the number of players coming for practise sessions. Prior to the Covid outbreak, around 80 players used to come to the ground for practice, but the number reduced to 30 even before the start of the Olympics,” he added.Meanwhile, Wazir Malik, wrestling coach, said the performance of the Indian wrestlers at the Tokyo Olympics had boosted the morale of budding players here. “It has also changed the mindset of parents as well, who are now sending their wards to take up sports. As many as 12 new players have enrolled for wrestling and we are hopeful around 40 more will join in coming days,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-players-performance-at-olympics-inspires-youth-to-take-up-sports-297354
14-08-2021||---||Open school kids can apply for improvement: Haryana Board||Chandigarh, August 13After the result of Secondary and Senior Secondary (Open School) Examination April-2021 was announced by Haryana Board of School Education, Bhiwani, the candidates who are willing to go ahead with partial marks improvement and full subject marks improvement can apply for these categories from August 17 to 27 on the link given on the official website of the board.Chairman, Haryana Board of School Education, Dr Jagbir Singh, said that the candidate who is not satisfied with the result declared (re-appear or fail cases) for Secondary and Senior Secondary (Open School) Examination April-2021 and appears for the examination of September-2021 without fee, the September-2021 result of the candidate would be considered valid.He said the candidates, who are satisfied with the result of April-2021 and want to appear in the examination of partial marks improvement and full subject marks improvement category of September-2021, would have to pay Rs 900 for secondary and Rs 1,050 for senior secondary examination as fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-school-kids-can-apply-for-improvement-haryana-board-297355
14-08-2021||---||IPS officer Bharti Arora asked to rethink VRS decision||Ambala, August 13Additional Chief Secretary Home Department, Haryana, has requested IPS officer Bharti Arora, presently posted as IGP, Ambala Range, to reconsider her VRS decision.Bharti had, in July, sought voluntary retirement from service “to serve Lord Krishna”.The letter sent to Bharti Arora read: “You are requested to reconsider the decision regarding voluntary retirement as you are a good officer and the pride of the Police Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ips-officer-bharti-arora-asked-to-rethink-vrs-decision-297357
14-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Air Taxi closes down operations from Haryana's Hisar||Tribune news serviceHisar, August 13The Air Taxi service, which was launched with fanfare about seven months ago from the Hisar airport, has been closed down by the agency concerned due to the “problem” of low visibility.Officials of the Air Taxi, said there had been no flight from Hisar after August 3. The operator agency said due to weather conditions, the visual flight rules of 5,000 m visibility could not be adhered to.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the service on January 14, a start-up in the aviation sector. Air Taxi had got the rights for operating routes under the Regional Connectivity Scheme (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) – (RCS-UDAN) from Hisar to Chandigarh, Dehradun and Dharmshala.A four-seater aircraft, Tecnam P2006T, including the pilot seat, was in operation for providing services. It had brought down the travel distance between Chandigarh and Hisar to 45 minutes at Rs 1,755 per seat.The service had been started under the “Udaan” scheme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Varun Suhag, founder-director of the start-up firm, confirmed to mediapersons about the suspension of the air traffic.He said about 70 per cent flights had got cancelled due to the visibility requirement of 5,000 m. "Passengers had to deboard aircraft after waiting for hours together in the hope of improvement of visibility. The DGCA condition of visibility of 5 km is very tough due to the prevailing weather conditions," he said.The Hisar airport was recently named Maharaja Agresen airport by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-taxi-closes-down-operations-from-haryanas-hisar-297363
14-08-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University's campus recruitment training begins||Admission for distance learning startsHisar: The admission process for distance education courses at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology has begun. Vice Chancellor Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj inaugurated the online admission portal. He stated that during the testing times amidst the pandemic, online education was the need of the hour. The last date to apply for courses without late fee is September 30.World Youth Day celebratedGurugram: The Vice Chancellor of Starex University, Prof MM Goel, said for commemorating World Youth Day, the multi-faceted challenges faced by the Indian youth had to be addressed for them to take the role of leaders in all walks of life, including politics. The Vice Chancellor was addressing the rural youth on the occasion of World Youth Day.Admissions invited for foreign pupilsFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, has invited online applications for admissions under foreign category to its various undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the academic year 2021-22. The last date to apply is September 15. A total of 15 per cent seats in engineering courses and 5 per cent seats in non-engineering courses have been made reserved for foreign students. The prospectus is available on university website www.jcboseust.ac.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guru-jambheshwar-universitys-campus-recruitment-training-begins-297430
14-08-2021||The Ambala Cantt Municipal Corporation has been completely ignorant of hygiene conditions in Defence Colony. Garbage is being dumped along the road||Garbage dumping a nuisance at Defence Colony in Ambala Cantt||Rajat, Ambala CanttDevelopment work takes toll on greeneryThe construction of a medical college in Bhiwani near Civil Hospital is taking a toll on the greenery in the area as hundreds of trees are being axed by the authorities. The officials concerned should ensure that new trees are planted to compensate for the trees being felled for the construction of the college. Development activities should be carried out keeping in view environmental protection.Rajender Duhan, BhiwaniWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-dumping-a-nuisance-at-defence-colony-in-ambala-cantt-297431
14-08-2021||Archit Watts||Third Front? Om Prakash Chautala meets Parkash Singh Badal twice in a fortnight||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 13INLD supremo-cum-former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, who is likely to announce the third front on September 25, has met SAD patron-cum-former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal twice in the past fortnight at the latter’s Badal village residence here.Chautala accompanied by grandson Karan came to meet Badal late last evening. The two enquired about well-being and discussed the current political scenario, said sources. No other politician was present at the meeting, which was kept under wraps. The Badals have so far maintained silence over the meetings.The SAD and INLD were alliance partners during the Haryana Assembly elections in 2019. Both families have strong bonding. A few days ago, Chautala had met former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav in Delhi to discuss the formation of the third front. Earlier, he had met the Bihar CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/third-front-om-prakash-chautala-meets-parkash-singh-badal-twice-in-a-fortnight-297290
14-08-2021||---||Not considering appointing independent administrator for Chandigarh: MHA||Mukesh RanjanTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 13The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday clarified that the Centre has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator and also there is neither any such proposal under contemplation.An MHA spokesperson’s clarification has come in view of a Twitter post of SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal in which he said: “Met & urged Home minister Amit Shah to review the Union govt’s decision to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandigarh by divesting Punjab governor of this charge. It’s another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city, which is totally unacceptable”.In another tweet Badal said: “Have conveyed to the HM that there is no reason to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the UT from outside Punjab. Till the UT is not transferred to Pb, the officer should be appointed from the state. Chandigarh is inseparable from Pb & must be transferred to it ASAP”.The MHA spokesperson, while countering the claims made by the SAD leader, said it was clarified that Sukhbir Singh Badal “has not raised this issue with the Union Home Minister “. He went on to add: “The apprehension expressed in Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal’s tweet that he met and urged the Union Home Minister to review the Union Government’s decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting the Governor of Punjab of this charge, is unfounded.”The MHA official further said, “It is clarified that the Union Government has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-considering-appointing-independent-administrator-for-chandigarh-mha-297129
14-08-2021||---||Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, unable to attend Haryana felicitation ceremony; Vinesh Phogat skips event||Panchkula, August 13Olympics gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra was unable to join the Haryana government's felicitation ceremony due to high fever.Also read: Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, tests Covid negativeHe joined the ceremony online from his home in Khandra, Panipat. In his message, he urged the government to keep supporting athletes.Wrestler Bajrang Punia was present at the function. Haryana Chief Minsiter Manohar Lal Khattar too could not attend the function due to bereavement in the family as his younger brother Gulshan Khattar past away due to an illness on Friday.Wrestler Vinesh Phogat, tennis player Sumit Nagal, shooter Manu Bhaker and boxers Amit Panghal, Vikas Krishan and Manish Kaushik, discus thrower Seema Poonia, who could not perform upto their expectations in the Tokyo Olympics, did not attend the function.Manu Bhaker said she could not join the function due to ''unavoidable circumstances''. Their family members, however, collected the cheques worth lakhs and gift hampers on the stage.The ceremony was marred by the absence of many of the awardees despite government showering cash awards, jobs, gift hampers. Only Neeraj Chopra disclosed the exact reason for his absence.One of the two hockey men's team player Sumit Kumar too was not present. Left embarrassed with the several absences, the Haryana government officials said the awards will be delivered at the athletes home. Vinesh Phogat’s brother had attended on her behalf.  The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) has temporarily suspended star grappler Vinesh Phogat from all wrestling activities for ‘gross indiscipline’ during the Tokyo Olympic Games. Vinesh, who lost in the quarterfinals of the 53kg freestyle category in Tokyo, has been issued a notice in this matter and has been given time until August 16 to reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neeraj-chopra-suffering-from-high-fever-unable-to-attend-haryana-felicitation-ceremony-vinesh-phogat-skips-event-297110
