15-08-2021||Karnal||Condolence meet held on death of Haryana CM’s brother||Relatives of freedom fighters honouredAmbala: Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja lauded the role of the freedom fighters in independence of the country. She said it was mentioned in history books that the first freedom movement started in Ambala. Selja was addressing families of freedom fighters during an event to honour them at Agrawal Bhawan in Sector 9, Ambala city, on Saturday. She said along with the brave fighters, the Congress also played an important role in the freedom of the country. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/condolence-meet-held-on-death-of-haryana-cms-brother-297700
15-08-2021||Hisar||SP takes action against 3 cops after complaint in Hisar village||An SHO of the Sadar police station and the chowki in-charge at Balsamand village were transferred to the Police Lines and an investigation officer was placed under suspension on the charges of delay in taking appropriate action on a complaint.Sources said Hisar SP Balwan Singh Rana took the step on the complaint of a Khokha villager who alleged that the police had delayed action on a plaint. The SP sent SHO Mandeep Singh and chowki in-charge Sikander to the police lines and suspended investigation officer Dayaram. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sp-takes-action-against-3-cops-after-complaint-in-hisar-village-297694
15-08-2021||---||Select committee formed for sports university Bill||Chandigarh, August 14After a gap of three decades, the Haryana Legislative Assembly has constituted a select committee to discuss objections of the Opposition related to a sports university Bill.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta formed the committee under the rules of procedure of the Assembly.When the Bill was introduced on March 18 this year, Congress members had alleged it sought to give a raw deal to Haryana domicile candidates in admissions and jobs in the proposed university.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had demanded that it be sent to the select committee. Congress leader Kiran Choudhry had said on the one hand, the state government had passed a Bill to provide 75 per cent quota in the private sector for Haryana residents, and on the other, there was no special privilege for state residents in the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/select-committee-formed-for-sports-university-bill-297698
15-08-2021||---||Vinod Tawde, OP Dhankar lead Tiranga Yatra in Karnal||Karnal, August 14Hundreds of BJP workers participated in the Shaheed Samman Tiranga Yatra taken out by the local party unit today. BJP Haryana affair in-charge Vinod Tawde and state president OP Dhankar led the yatra which started from Ramlila Ground in the city.Tawde praised Prime Minister Narinder Modi for providing real freedom to farmers and the poor by initiating several schemes like Jan Dhan Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme and others for their welfare.Paying tribute to martyrs, the state in-charge urged people to remember the sacrifice of the freedom fighters who laid down their lives for the country.Dhankar said to mark the 75th Independence Day and also to enthuse spirit of patriotism among youngsters, the BJP had launched the yatra. He charged the Congress leaders with ignoring the contribution of freedom fighters.In Narnaul too, BJP leaders and workers took out a Tiranga Yatra. Social Justice and Empower Minister Om Prakash Yadav led the yatra while former minister Ram Bilas Sharma was present on the occasion. The yatra started from Subhash Chandra Bose Park and it passed through Mahabir Chowk, Pul Bazar, Manak Chowk and Azad Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vinod-tawde-op-dhankar-lead-tiranga-yatra-in-karnal-297697
15-08-2021||---||Women police cell in Jhajjar comes to rescue of 353 couples||Jhajjar, August 14The women cell of the police has come to the rescue of 353 families having problems between husband and wife. The women cell resolved their differences through counselling and persuaded them to live together happily by forgetting all old issues.“A total of 576 complaints, a majority of them pertaining to dowry, manhandling, misbehaviour, domestic feud, etc., were received in the past seven months. The cases were handed over to the women cell set up in Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh towns. The cell in-charge called both the parties for investigation. Women cops deputed in the cells heard the couples sympathetically and conducted their counselling on every hearing,” said Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police (SP).Duggal maintained the women cops finally succeeded in ironing out their differences after several rounds of counselling. The Jhajjar women cell helped 231 families while the Bahadurgarh women cell managed to resolve the issue of 122 families. Remaining 206 complaints are under investigation.As many as 17 complaints were of serious nature hence FIRs against the accused were filed, he added.The SP maintained the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Centre had also played a vital role in disposing of the cases of domestic feud. The cases were sent to the ADR Centre for further counselling when it was not resolved at the level of the women cell, he added.Sub-Inspector (SI) Sarita, in-charge, women cell, Jhajjar, said misunderstanding, lack of coordination and ego were responsible in a majority of the cases of strained relationship between husband and wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-police-cell-in-jhajjar-comes-to-rescue-of-353-couples-297696
15-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Poor infrastructure, Gurugram residents start dharna||Gurugram, August 14Residents of Emaar Gurgaon Greens in Sector 102 here have started an indefinite protest against the builder, alleging poor infrastructure and overcharging of services.According to residents, the services in the society are in a poor state even after paying huge common area maintenance charges.ResidentsMany complaints madeThe builder has misused the buyers’ money by forming a dummy association. When legal notices were sent to the builder, he illegally nominated new office-bearers. After two years of repeated complaints, we have now started an indefinite dharna.“The builder has earned crores in the name of minimum monthly and common power charges. He has taken the bulk supply connection, which is costing us a lot,” they alleged.The residents have made repeated complaints on the CM’s window but none was ever addressed.Affected buyers have also complained to the District Registrar Firms and Societies, Gurugram, several times. Even the District Registrar has issued notices twice on June 17, 2020, and February 17, 2021, but no further action has been taken.“Builder Emaar India has misused the buyers’ money by forming a dummy association. When legal notices were sent to the builder, he illegally nominated new office-bearers. After two years of repeated complaints, we have now started an indefinite dharna that will continue till the builder and his dummy association move out,” the residents said.Despite several attempts, the official concerned in the builder’s office could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-infrastructure-gurugram-residents-start-dharna-297695
15-08-2021||---||Congress leader moves private member Bill on lynching in Haryana Assembly||Chandigarh, August 14Deputy Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Aftab Ahmed, who represents Nuh constituency, has moved a private member Bill for protection from lynching.The Bill can come up in the upcoming Monsoon session. Sources informed that the Haryana Legislative Assembly has sent the Bill for legal opinion.Life term in case of victim’s deathn In case of hurt, the punishment is up to seven years with a fine up to Rs 1 lakh.The punishment is same for abetting or aiding or conspiring.The ‘Haryana Protection from Lynching Bill 2021’ aims to punish acts of lynching, provide for designated courts for expeditious trial of such offences and calls for the rehabilitation of victims and their families. “The rising spate of vigilantism and mob lynching based on one’s identity and choices threatens the notion of an all-embracing India and is a direct threat to the Constitutional ethos of our country,” reasoned Ahmed for bringing the Bill.The Bill defines acts or series of acts of violence by a mob on the grounds of “religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth, language, dietary practices, sexual orientation, political affiliation and ethnicity”.In the case of the death of a victim, it calls for punishment of life term with a fine of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. In a case of grievous hurt, the punishment prescribed is up to 10 years with a fine from Rs 25,000 to Rs 3 lakh. In case of hurt, the punishment is up to seven years with a fine up to Rs 1 lakh. The punishment is the same for abetting or aiding or conspiring.The Bill even calls for punishment for disseminating offensive material for a term from one to three years and also for “enforcing a hostile environment” for up to five years.“Hostile environment” is defined as an intimidating or coercive environment that is created against the victim or the family members of the victim or witnesses.The DGP shall appoint a state coordinator of the rank not below IGP to prevent lynching. The district SP shall be the District Coordinator, who shall be assisted by one of the DSPs.For the trials, courts will be designated. The designated judge can keep the identity and address of a witness secret. In all court proceedings, a victim has the right to be heard.The Bill also calls for compensation and rehabilitation of the victims and the establishment of relief camps for them in case of displacement.Haryana has witnessed alleged mob lynching of 17-year-old Junaid on June 22, 2017 in Faridabad. He was returning home after Eid shopping from Delhi. Pehlu Khan (55), a resident of Nuh, was lynched in Alwar (Rajasthan) over suspicion of cow smuggling on April 1, 2017. Also, Rakbar Khan (31), a resident of Nuh, was lynched by a mob in Alwar over suspicion of cow smuggling on July 20, 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leader-moves-private-member-bill-on-lynching-in-haryana-assembly-297693
15-08-2021||Ambala||Lord Krishna’s 40-foot statue in Kurukshetra by September||As the work to build a pedestal for the installation of a 40-ft “Virat Swaroop” of Lord Krishna is under way at a good pace, the pieces of the much-awaited statue have started arriving at Jyotisar in Kurukshetra.The Virat Swaroop, made of ‘Ashtadhatu’, is being installed at a cost of Rs 10 crore.A nearly 40-foot tall statue of Lord Krishna has been designed at a workshop of Ram Vanji Sutar in Noida, who also designed the Statue of Unity. The excavation work to build the pedestal had started in June this year.Sculpture Anil Sutar, son of Ram Vanji Sutar, told The Tribune: “The pedestal will be ready in the next 20 to 25 days. The height of the pedestal will be around 10 feet from the ground. Stones and murals will be first installed on the pedestal and then the statue. It is being sent to Kurukshetra in eight pieces in trucks. We will try to complete the project by September.”Madan Mohan Chhabra, honourary secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board, said: “The pieces of the statue have started reaching Jyotisar. So far, three trucks have reached Jyotisar and another one will reach soon. All efforts are being made to get the statue ready at the earliest and get the landscaping done so that it could be inaugurated during the International Gita Mahotsav later this year.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lord-krishnas-40-foot-statue-in-kurukshetra-by-september-297692
15-08-2021||---||In Hisar, farmers show black flags to BJP MP Ramchander Jangra||Hisar, August 14The farmers staging dharna at the Ramayan toll plaza on the Hisar-Delhi road today stopped BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ramchander Jangra and asked him to tender an apology on his derogatory remarks against farmers.Jangra was coming to Hisar from Rohtak when the farmers forced him to stop the car at the toll plaza today. A group of protesters showed him black flags. Some youths in the group recalled that Jangra had called farmers as alcoholics and those who want to dharna sites for free food. The BJP MP had allegedly made such utterances in March this year in a video which had gone viral on the social media. The BJP MP, however, clarified that he had already taken back his words.The protesters had also stopped Minister of State Anoop Dhanak, who is an MLA from the Uklana Assembly segment, and BJP’s Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta yesterday and showed them black flags. The farmers had asked them to support their agitation.Kuldeep Singh, a farmer leader, who is heading the protesters at the Ramayan toll plaza, said they kept a watch on the vehicles crossing the toll and stopped the vehicles of BJP and JJP leaders, to urge them to support their agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-farmers-show-black-flags-to-bjp-mp-ramchander-jangra-297690
15-08-2021||---||14 Haryana cops to get police medals||Chandigarh, August 14On the eve of Independence Day, 14 Haryana Police officers and personnel have been selected to receive Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) and Police Medals for Meritorious Service (PMMS).The medals were announced by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs today.ASI Rakesh Kumar and Constable Pawan Kumar will be conferred with Police Medal for Gallantry.ADGP Dr CS Rao, Director, Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban, has been selected for President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.Those who will get Police Medal for Meritorious Service included IGP IRB Bhondsi Dr Hanif Qureshi, ACP Panchkula Raj Kumar, DSP State Crime Record Bureau Madhuban Ramjit Singh, DSP Traffic Gurugram Sanjeev Balhara, Inspector 4th Battalion HAP Madhuban Chaman Lal, Inspector CID Panchkula Nirmala Devi, Sub-Inspector Police Headquarters Panchkula Manoj Kumar, Sub-Inspector Police Headquarters Panchkula Mewa Singh, Sub-Inspector GRP Ambala Cantt Jasbir Singh, ESI State Vigilance Bureau Panchkula Sukhpal Singh and ASI 4th IRB Manesar Gurnam Singh.Meanwhile, Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said it was a great honour for the entire force that 14 of its personnel had been selected for the medals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-haryana-cops-to-get-police-medals-297685
15-08-2021||---||Anganwaris, creches shut till August 31 in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 14The Haryana Government on Saturday extended the lockdown till August 23, with directions that anganwari centres and creches run by the Women and Child Development Department will remain closed till August 31.The earlier announced relaxations, including functioning of restaurants and bars with 50 per cent capacity, and operation of gyms, clubs and spas with 50 per cent capacity, will continue.Also, all shops and malls, and swimming polls have been allowed to function.Meanwhile, with 14 fresh cases and one death in Panipat, the Covid count reached 7.70 lakh on Saturday.The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram at four, followed by two each from Panchkula and Palwal. No case was recorded from 13 districts.With 23 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the active cases reached 654.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwaris-creches-shut-till-august-31-in-haryana-297689
15-08-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Proposed dumping yard in Gurugram village raises hackles||tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 14Residents of Basai village and environmentalists are up in arms against the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) decision to convert a five-acre stretch in the village into a construction and demolition waste dump yard.The MC’s latest move has left them baffled because they are already fighting a battle to get the solid waste treatment plant moved out of the village.Suraj Bhan Yadav, Basai residentMC had Earlier identified 5 sites in cityEarlier, the five spots identified for a dump yard were in Gurugram city. Residents protested and the MC shelved the idea of dumping the debris there. Now, the MC has set its sight on Basai village. Don’t our lives matter? Villagers say the proposed dump yard would not only aggravate land and water pollution, but also pose a threat to the fragile ecosystem of Basai wetlands.Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS), concessionaire of the solid waste treatment plant, has allegedly dumped 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of debris on the land proposed for the dump yard without paying rent. The land belongs to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).The MC has sought the land from the GMDA, taking the plea that it wants to “store” construction and demolition waste there.“The MC identified five spots for storing solid waste, but for protest by the public, the idea could not be materialised. As discussed with you in the meeting, the GMDA will lease five acres of its land opposite the treatment plant for sorting waste,” reads a letter by the MC Executive Engineer to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), GMDA.Basai resident Suraj Bhan Yadav said, “The five spots that the MC had identified were in the city. Residents protested and the MC shelved the idea of dumping the debris there. Now, the MC has set its sight on Basai village. Don’t our lives matter?”He further said villagers had written to Home Minister Anil Vij and sough his intervention.Meanwhile, Bird conservation activist Sujjan Sharma said, “The debris is dumped in the wetland, which is home to migratory birds during the winters. If the dump yard comes up, it will kill the ecosystem. Villagers have submitted a complaint to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board.”Councillors have questioned the MC for proposing a dump yard in Basai village. “IL&FS has sub-let the plant to another contractor in violation of the contract. The matter is under investigation, while the MC is out to accommodate the company again. Councillors will meet the MC Commissioner,” one of the local councillors said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposed-dumping-yard-in-gurugram-village-raises-hackles-297691
15-08-2021||---||Doctors threaten mass leave over common cadre, e-transfer policy in Rohtak||Rohtak, August 14Doctors and other staffers at the University of Health Sciences (UHS) have threatened to go on mass leave/strike if the state government does not roll back its decision of creating a common cadre, online transfer policy and assigning additional duties to pre and para-clinical faculty at clinical departments.The warning was issued at an emergency meeting of the joint action committee (JAC) of the Haryana State Medical Teachers’ Association (HSMTA), UHS Non-Teaching Employees’ Association and Nursing Association of the PGIMS held here on Saturday. They have already announced to wear black badges from Monday over the three issues.“We had to call an emergency meeting on getting information that the state government had asked the UHS authorities to upload the details of all its doctors and other employees on the portal by August 16. The move aims at creating a common cadre for implementing an online transfer policy that is not only against the interest of doctors and other employees but also unfavourable for patients. Moreover, it will adversely affect the academic activities as well,” said Dr RB Jain, president, HSMTA.He said they would wait for the government’s stand towards their demands for the next few days. “If it remains adamant on its decision and does not pay heed then we will not have any other option except to go on mass leave or strike. Besides, we are also taking a legal opinion as the university is an autonomous body and the government cannot transfer its employees to other places,” Dr Jain added.Meanwhile, Dr Ranbir Dahiya, state core committee member of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, also expressed solidarity with the JAC in terms of additional duties assigned to pre and para-clinical faculty. “They are engaged in teaching students, other academic and administrative work besides performing laboratory duties hence there is no use of such teachers in clinical duties hence we demand withdrawal of the orders with an immediate effect,” Dr Dahiya added.Loudspeakers banned on UHS campusThe UHS authorities have warned of action against persons found using loudspeakers without permission on the campus. Sources said the warning came in the backdrop of the proposed agitation by doctors from Monday. The doctors had on Thursday, held a meeting against the three issues using loudspeakers sans permission, which irked the UHS authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctors-threaten-mass-leave-over-common-cadre-e-transfer-policy-in-rohtak-297686
15-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 10L; 3 booked in Yamunanagar||A man was duped of Rs 10 lakh by three persons on the pretext of sending his son to Australia.On the complaint of Harbhajan Singh of Prem Nagar, a case was registered against Kamaljit Singh of Subhash Nagar, Yamunanagar, his wife Bharti and Ravinder of Sirsama village, Kurukshetra district, at the City police station here on Friday.Harbhajan said he wanted to send his son Sarvajeet Singh abroad. He said he met Kamaljit Singh, Bharti and Ravinder through a known person in 2018. “They assured me that they would send my son to Australia and it would Rs 15 lakh. They took Rs 10 lakh from me, but didn’t send my son to Australia,” alleged the complainant.He alleged that now they were not returning his money and threatening him with dire consequences. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-10l-3-booked-in-yamunanagar-297687
15-08-2021||---||J&K resident nabbed for HSSC paper leak in Karnal||Karnal, August 14In the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable paper leak case, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has arrested a mediator who is considered to be close associate of the paper leak kingpin. So far, the police have arrested 17 persons in this case.The accused has been identified as Nazir Ahmed of Pulwama district in Srinagar. He was arrested from Pulwama district and was taken on transit remand by SIT members for three days, said Lokendra Singh, Superintendent of Police (SP).“The team members are yet to arrive in Kaithal. The team members are making efforts to find out the main accused,” said the SP.Nazir was known to Raj Kumar, arrested three days back and now on 10-day police remand. He finalised the deal between Raj Kumar and the person who provided the answer key, the SP maintained.Raj Kumar had later sold the answer key to Narinder, arrested last Saturday, for Rs 1 crore. Narinder had provided the answer key to Ramesh, who runs a coaching centre in Kaithal and was arrested on Saturday, and others for Rs 10 lakh per candidate.Ramesh and other accused further finalised the deal for the answer key at the rate of Rs 12 lakh to Rs 18 lakh per candidate. They provided hard copy of the answer key to the candidates and their relatives and also sent it through WhatsApp.The HSSC conducted the police constable paper on August 7 in two shifts and it was also scheduled for August 8. After the report of paper leak, the HSSC cancelled the paper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jk-resident-nabbed-for-hssc-paper-leak-in-karnal-297688
15-08-2021||---||Two cops among 4 mowed down by truck in Ambala||Ambala, August 14Four persons, including two policemen, were mowed down by a truck near Jaggi City Centre on the National Highway-44 in Ambala on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as ASI Naseeb Dass (52) of Ambala, Constable Balwinder Singh (42) of Kurukshetra along with farmers Manish (35) and Pradeep (32) of Yamunanagar.As per the information, around 4 am, Manish and Pradeep were on their way to the Ambala City vegetable market to sell their produce when their car met with an accident with a canter.Following a complaint in the control room in Panchkula, a PCR (Dial 112 vehicle) reached the spot and beat in-charge Naseeb, Balwinder and another constable Pawan started the investigation.In his complaint, Pawan, who survived the accident, said he was managing the traffic when a speeding truck coming from the Ambala Cantonment side hit them. He said he jumped away in time but the rashly driven truck rammed into the car, crushed the policemen and two other persons. After the accident, the driver fled the spot, leaving his truck on the spot.Naseeb, Manish and Pradeep died on the spot, while Balwinder was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed. The bodies were shifted to the Civil Hospital in Ambala City.After getting the information, IG Bharti Arora and SSP Hamid Akhtar reached the hospital.A case has been registered against an unidentified truck driver under Sections 279, 336, 304A and 427 of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station.SHO Balbir Singh said: “The overloaded truck was being rashly driven and the driver failed to control the vehicle. The accused fled after the accident. The truck has been seized and the driver will be arrested soon.”DGP visits mishap site in AmbalaChandigarh: DGP Manoj Yadava on Saturday reached the accident site in Ambala, where ASI Naseeb Dass and Constable Balwinder Singh were mowed down by a truck. In a condolence message, the DGP expressed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. He also prayed for eternal peace to the departed souls. TNSRs 50L, job for slain policemen’s kinHome Minister Anil Vij reached the Ambala City Civil Hospital to meet the kin of the road mishap victims on Saturday. He said: “The families of both the slain policemen will be given Rs50 lakh compensation and a job each.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-cops-among-4-mowed-down-by-truck-in-ambala-297684
15-08-2021||New Delhi||2 Haryana sites on Ramsar list||Four Indian sites — two each from Haryana and Gujarat — have been recognised as wetlands of international importance under Ramsar Convention, taking the number of such sites in the country to 46. The Haryana sites are Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram and Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary in Jhajjar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-haryana-sites-on-ramsar-list-297611
15-08-2021||Ambala||Haryana tells DCs, SPs to hold ‘Janta Durbar’ daily||The deputy commissioners (DCs), commissioners of police (CPs) and superintendents of police (SPs) in Haryana will soon hold ‘Janta Durbar’ daily to resolve local issues in their respective areas.Anil Vij, Home MinisterWill act against non-performersStrict action will be initiated against officers who keep files pending and harass the publicState Home Minister Anil Vij today directed his staff to issue letters to all officers in this regard. The directions came during his ‘Janta Durbar’ at Ambala Cantonment, where he was listening to complaints of people who had reached the venue from across the state. He received around 3,000 complaints.“People from across the state reach here with high hopes. We have to resolve their grievances,” said Vij. He ordered the officers to send action-taken reports regarding complaints marked by him so far. He also directed them to apprise the complainants about the status of their complaints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-tells-dcs-sps-to-hold-janta-durbar-daily-297619
15-08-2021||New Delhi||Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, tests Covid negative||Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra is suffering from high fever for the past two days. He even didn't attend the felicitation function organised by the Haryana government on Friday. Following doctor's advice, his Covid-19 test was done. The report came negative.Also read: Neeraj Chopra suffering from high fever, unable to attend Haryana felicitation ceremony; Vinesh Phogat skips eventSpeaking to IANS, a person close to Chopra said the athlete is recovering now."His temperature was 103 till yesterday. But he is getting better now. His (Covid) report also came negative. Doctor has advised him rest. He had a hectic schedule and that is the reason he fell ill," the person said."Neeraj might attend the function at Rashtrapati Bhawan this evening. He will come there directly. Rest (all the other) players are currently at Ashoka Hotel," he added.  IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neeraj-chopra-suffering-from-high-fever-tests-covid-negative-297546
