17-08-2021||Parveen Arora||50-year-old lawyer ‘shoots himself dead’ in Haryana’s Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 17A senior lawyer allegedly shot himself dead here on Tuesday morning.Vijay Kumar Chopra allegedly shot himself in the head with a licensed revolver at his chamber in the lawyers’ complex.Chopra was around 50 years old and a resident of Sector 13 here.His body was found at his chamber. Police and forensic experts reached the spot. The Civil Lines police sent the body for post-mortem.The Karnal Bar Association suspended the work for Tuesday. Lawyers said Chopra was a nice man who cooperated with others.Investigating officer Jatinder Kumar said no suicide note had been found and they were investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-year-old-lawyer-shoots-himself-dead-in-haryanas-karnal-298489
17-08-2021||A temporary pumping set has been installed in the main market to clear storm water||Ambala sector battling civic issues||— Gian P Kansal, Ambala CitySportspersons must be encouragedThe Tokyo Olympics Games have proved that there is ample talent in Haryana and our youngsters can not only complete at the international level, but are also capable of winning medals. However, it is unfortunate that the attitude of the government towards sports at the school level has not been encouraging, which is evident from the fact that 1983 PTI teachers have been dismissed from service. The government should have protected their jobs. I urge the authorities to pay attention of their grievances.— Dilbag Singh Jangra, HisarRoads leading to tourist spots encroached uponThe state government has been boasting of bringing Kurukshetra on the tourism map for quite a while, but the truth is that stray cattle continue to pose threat to residents and illegal constructions have encroached upon roads leading to several tourist attractions. All along, the administration has remained a mute spectator, perhaps under political compulsions.— Ravinder Malik, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-sector-battling-civic-issues-298451
17-08-2021||Karnal||Colleges, varsities hoist Tricolour in Karnal||Admissions open at CUHMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) has started the admission process for the 2021-22 academic session. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice Chancellor, said admissions to all 1,670 seats of undergraduate and postgraduate courses would be made through Central Universities Common Entrance Test. “The last date to apply online is September 1 and the entrance exams will be conducted on September 15, 16, 23 and 24,” he added.Freedom run marks I-Day eventFaridabad: Aggarwal College Ballabgarh celebrated ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ by organising a race under the Fit India Freedom Run campaign. Volunteers from the NSS, NCC and St John Ambulance Brigade participated in the event. State Cabinet Minister Mool Chand Sharma was the chief guest, while Jitendra Yadav, Faridabad Deputy Commissioner, was the special guest on the occasion. A 'Wall of Heroes' was set up to honour soldiers of the nation.KU holds career workshopKurukshetra: The WIS Forum, KU, organised a short-term online workshop on careers and opportunities for women in STEM-2021. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice Chancellor, said the workshop would motivate women teachers and scholars to enhance the quality of research and teaching in higher education. The workshop was inaugurated by Prof Manjula Chaudhary, dean, academic affair, KU.School honours its achieversYamunanagar: Mukand Lal Public School celebrated a felicitation ceremony to honour toppers. Dr Ramesh Kumar, manager, Mukand Institutes, and Shashi Bathla, director, were the chief guests on the occasion. Dr Mamta Verma, principal, said the ceremony was held to bid a warm adieu to students of Class XII. Dr Ramesh Kumar exhorted the students to work hard to achieve their goal.13 hired during campus placementYamunanagar: Two placement drives were organised by the placement cell of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar. Teams from Bajaj Capital and Oscar Remedies Limited visited the college for the selection of students. The drives primarily targeted students from commerce and science streams. Eight students from the department of commerce were shortlisted after two rounds of selection process by Bajaj Capital. Five students were selected by Oscar Remedies Limited.Rs70-cr projects inaugurated at varsityFaridabad: Several projects worth over Rs 70 crore were inaugurated at the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, on the occasion of Independence Day. The foundation stones of most of the projects were laid by the Chief Minister in 2017. The projects include two multistoried buildings, a science block and a residential complex, golden jubilee gate, central instrumental laboratory, state-of-the-art digital studio and royal enfield training centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/colleges-varsities-hoist-tricolour-in-karnal-298450
17-08-2021||Hisar||‘Operation Khukri’ example of bravery: Maj Gen Punia||Major General Rajpal Punia, who led the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sierra Leone as a Major, today stated that the 75-day-long ‘Operation Khukri’ carried out in the West African country in 2000 was a story of exemplary courage.Major General Punia recently penned ‘Operation Khukri’, which is co-authored by his daughter, Damini. The book was published by Penguin Random House India and is set to be republished in Hindi by Rajkamal Prakashan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/operation-khukri-example-of-bravery-maj-gen-punia-298449
17-08-2021||---||In two months, 2,000 caught jumping red light in Gurugram||Sanjay YadavGurugram, August 16Jumping red light continues to be a menace in the city with over 2,000 vehicles caught on camera violating the traffic norm over two months.Traffic officials say over 20,000 challans have been issued since January.“Cameras and e-challaning are helping us keep a check on traffic violations,” said Sanjeev Balhara, ACP, Traffic.Gurugram is progressing towards coming completely under CCTV surveillance and has so far been equipped with cameras at all major roundabouts and city points.“The key reason behind aggressive e-challaning is creating awareness on traffic rules. It also acts as a deterrent when cops are not around. Commuters need to follow traffic rules in order to prevent mishaps. We appeal to people to be aware and follow the traffic rules,” added Balhara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-two-months-2-000-caught-jumping-red-light-in-gurugram-298448
17-08-2021||---||Soon, land bank to be set up in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 16Financial Commissioner, Revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal said a land bank would be set up in the state and training would be imparted to all patwaris and kanungos for the effective implementation of the Svamitva Scheme.Addressing Deputy Commissioners through videoconferencing on Monday, Kaushal said with the setting up of the bank, the owner would be able to sell the land at a competitive price. “On the other hand, the land will be available to the state departments for setting up public utilities,” he added.He also directed the DCs to work on a mission mode to achieve the objectives set out under the scheme. Kaushal said under this ambitious ownership plan of the state, revolutionary steps were being taken to make all villages and some parts of the city free from Lal Dora, another flagship scheme of the government. He directed the DCs to ensure that the work under the scheme was completed by September without fail.He also discussed the registration of deeds and took district-wise reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-land-bank-to-be-set-up-in-haryana-298447
17-08-2021||---||HSSC paper leak: 4 more in police net||Tribune News ServiceKaithal, August 16The special investigation team (SIT), formed by Kaithal SP Lokendra Singh to investigate the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable paper leak case, has arrested four more persons, taking the total to 21 so far.The accused have been identified as Baljit Singh of Hisar’s Khumba Kheri, Aman Kumar of Hisar’s Kapdon, Naresh Kumar and Sushil Kumar, both from Kaithal district.On Friday, the SIT had arrested a mediator identified as Nazir Ahmed of Pulwama district in Srinagar, who is considered to be the close associate of the paper leak nexus kingpin, who is still at large. Nazir, who is on five-day police remand, can help in tracing the main accused.“These four accused had taken the answer key from Narinder of Hisar district, who was arrested on August 7. The police have also seized their mobile phones on which they received the answer key,” the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-paper-leak-4-more-in-police-net-298446
17-08-2021||---||Curbs on media briefing inside Haryana Vidhan Sabha complex during monsoon session||Chandigarh, August 16No press briefing will be allowed inside the Haryana Vidhan Sabha complex during the upcoming monsoon session.Mediapersons have to cover the session from Haryana Niwas, where they can see the live telecast.Even the CM or Leader of Opposition or any minister have to go to Haryana Niwas if they have to interact with the media.These decisions were taken at a meeting held under Speaker Gian Chand Gupta for the security of the House during the session.During the last session, Akali Dal MLAs had breached the CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s security during a press briefing.Now, a six-member committee has been formed to fix accountability for any breach in security. It will comprise SP-level officers from Punjab, Chandigarh and Haryana, besides security heads of both Haryana and Punjab Legislative Assemblies and a nodal officer from Chandigarh.There will be barricading on the seven common entrances to both houses.During the meeting today, Gupta cautioned he wouldn’t tolerate breach in security again. The Chandigarh Administration said a duty magistrate would be appointed during the session and he would report to the control room every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-on-media-briefing-inside-haryana-vidhan-sabha-complex-during-monsoon-session-298445
17-08-2021||Kurukshetra/Karnal||Farmers led by Gurnam Singh Charuni hold Tiranga Yatra||A large convoy of BKU (Charuni) activists led by their chief Gurnam Singh Charuni took out Tiranga Yatra here on the Independence Day and joined farmers protesting at the Singhu border against the three agricultural laws.Carrying the Tricolour and BKU flags, the activists raised anti-government slogans.In Karnal, farmers started their yatra from the grain market on tractors, motorcycles and in cars. They travaersed Taraori, Indri, Assandh, Gharaunda, Nissing and Jundla. Bhahdur Singh Mehla, district president of the BKU’s IT cell, said BJP’s yatra was a show off, but the real Tiranga Yatra was carried out by farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-led-by-gurnam-singh-charuni-hold-tiranga-yatra-298444
17-08-2021||---||SKM expels four for ‘anti-morcha’ stance||Sonepat, August 16The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has expelled four of its members belonging to Haryana for “anti-morcha activities”. The decision was taken during a meeting on Saturday.The exeplled members are Pradeep Dhankar, Vikal Pachar, Jagbir Ghasola and Dr Shamsher. They had reportedly issued a press release at the Tikri border last week, taking a stance opposite to the SKM’s.The SKM said the four expelled persons would neither be allowed to enter the morcha site nor address gatherings at any protest site.Meanwhile, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni retracted his statement on “Mission Punjab”. Some other pending issues were also resolved in a dialogue between the SKM and Charuni, farmer leaders said.They further said the SKM would mark nine months of farmers’ protest by holding a national convention on August 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-expels-four-for-anti-morcha-stance-298443
17-08-2021||Rohtak||MDU, Rohtak, non-teaching staff protest e-transfer policy||Non-teaching employees (regular) at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here today boycotted their work in protest against the online transfer policy framed by the state government. They also organised a meeting outside the administrative block of the university and decried the policy, claiming that it would end the autonomy of the universities.Addressing the meeting, Randhir Kataria, president, MDU Non-Teaching Employees Association, said the government intended to end the autonomy of the universities by implementing the online policy and recruiting class C and D employees through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), causing great resentment among non-teaching employees of the university.“The state government should roll back the decisions of the online transfer policy and recruitment by the HSSC at the earliest, otherwise we will have to announce the campaign against it. Teachers and students are also with us over the issues,” said Kataria.Varun Saini, spokesman of the association, said the Sarva Karamchari Sangh Haryana had also expressed solidarity with their demands. “Moreover, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda and Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra too endorsed their demands in a programme held at the Faculty Club of the university on Sunday,” Saini added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-rohtak-non-teaching-staff-protest-e-transfer-policy-298442
17-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal parking project under Smart Cities Mission hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 16Even though Karnal was included in the Smart Cities Mission four years ago, the promised multi-storey car parking project exists only on paper. The city was included in the Smart Cities list on June 23, 2017, giving high hopes to city residents.Under the project, a multi-storey parking project had to come up at three places – old vegetable market, old building of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) and near the city bus stand. The project, however, is hanging fire.The authorities have now cancelled the old MC building site and finalised the old grain market for the plan, but the detailed project report (DPR) of the new site is yet to be prepared.The earmarked sites, including the old vegetable market, old grain market and the city bus stand, would have car parking space for 232, 234 and 200 vehicles, respectively. The DPR of the old vegetable market has been prepared and government approval is awaited. The DPRs of the other two is yet to be prepared. Officials claimed that the multi-storey parking facility would decongest the city. “Traffic congestion is a major issue in the city. We have planned three multi-storey parking sites, which will be help decongest Karnal,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal Smart City Ltd.Taking a dig at the progress of the project, former Speaker and senior Congress leader Kuldeep Sharma said Karnal city was smart only on paper as nothing had been done on ground. “The government should to release a white paper on the projects taken up under this mission,” he demanded. “This government announces projects, which are never carried out,” he added.New site finalised||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-parking-project-under-smart-cities-mission-hangs-fire-298441
17-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||In less than 7 yrs, Faridabad gets 17 MC chiefs||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 16With the recent posting of Yashpal Yadav as the Commissioner of the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, he has become the 17th incumbent on the post since December 2014.With an average tenure coming to less than six months, the postings claimed to have adversely affected the work efficiency and delivery of civic amenities.In the past decade, the Faridabad MC, the largest civic body in the state, has failed to get a stable Commissioner with a posting for a period of two to three years. Garima Mittal, who was transferred on July 30, held this post for about three months. This is the third transfer on this post in the past seven months.Reduced to transit stationThe Faridabad MC has become a transit station as officers are transferred out before they even begin to understand the functioning. — AK Gaur, social activistRevealing that the DC has been given the additional charge of this post four times in the past six years, sources in the administration say a maximum of six transfers took place in the one-year period between December 2014 and December 2015. The maximum and minimum tenure has been 373 and 15 days, respectively, the sources adds.“Facing acute financial crunch and other issues, the MC needs an administrative head for a longer tenure,” says Yogesh Dhingra, a former municipal corporator, who claimed that the post had become a musical chair, with no stability. Claiming that the civic amenities were in a bad condition, AK Gaur, a social activist, said frequent transfers had left the residents at the receiving end. “The MC has become a transit station as officers are transferred out before they even begin to understand the functioning,” he added.  Postholders since December 2014Commissioner Period||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-less-than-7-yrs-faridabad-gets-17-mc-chiefs-298440
17-08-2021||---||CM Khattar inaugurates Haryana's first e-auto ecosystem in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 16The state’s first e-three-wheeler ecosystem project was launched by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today.Called project “Parivartan”, a joint effort of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Gurugram Traffic Police and Haryana Transport Department in collaboration with the Smart E company, it shall help in phasing out diesel and CNG autos, replacing these with economical and environmentally friendly electric autos. The CM flagged off 600 autos in the MCG zone 3 on the occasion. Khattar also inaugurated two other projects, including a water supply project of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), for sectors 81 to 99 of Gurgaon and a waste-to-energy plant for Sonepat and Panipat.Haryana Roadways begins trial run of electric bus serviceFaridabad: The Haryana Roadways (HR) has started the trial run of the first electric bus. Its operation was inaugurated by state Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma from the General Bus stand here on Sunday. Stating that the bus will operate between Faridabad and Gurugram cities on a trial basis, Rajiv Nagpal, general manager, HR, here, said the bus had been started by the JBM company under a lease agreement under which the bus would be operated for at least two months before any decision to incorporate it into the state transport department was taken. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-inaugurates-haryanas-first-e-auto-ecosystem-in-gurugram-298439
17-08-2021||---||Haryana Guv, CM pay tribute to Vajpayee||Chandigarh, August 16Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today paid tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his third death anniversary, calling him a true nationalist, patriot and ideal statesman.Dattatreya said, “Vajpayee was the ‘Ajatashatru’ (a man with no enemies) of the Indian politics, who as the country’s first non-Congress Prime Minister not only successfully ran the government with the cooperation of 23 other parties, but also provided a strong leadership to the country.”Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended the prayer meeting organised at the memorial “Sadaiv Atal” at Raj Ghat in New Delhi and paid tribute at the memorial of the former Prime Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-guv-cm-pay-tribute-to-vajpayee-298438
17-08-2021||---||Take lessons from freedom fighters: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Ambala, August 16Home Minister Anil Vij has said Indians breathe in a free country because of the sacrifices made by freedom fighters. “We need to take lessons from the brave warriors, and serve the nation and society,” he said after hoisting the national flag at the Police Lines here on the Independence Day.The minister reminded the gathering that the First War of Independence started from Ambala on May 8, 1857.Vij praised the Indian Army for protecting the borders of the country. “Every 10th soldier in the Army is from Haryana. The state government is proud of them. The heroes of the state never shied away from sacrificing their lives for the nation’s unity and integrity,” he said, adding that Covid warriors did a great service to society in curbing the spread of the virus.The Home Minister said the state government had taken several steps for good governance.Vij announced Haryana would host Khelo India competitions for the first time. “To ensure employment for sportspersons, 550 posts have been created in the Sports Department,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-lessons-from-freedom-fighters-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-298437
17-08-2021||---||Govt to focus on good governance: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 16“The entire world has been acknowledging India’s progress under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and revolutionary development is now visible on various fronts in the country,” said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while addressing the gathering on the occasion of the Independence Day function here on Sunday.Earlier, the CM hoisted the national flag, took the salute of the parade and paid floral tributes to the martyrs at the state-level function. He said his government was working towards making Haryana a happy and prosperous state with the principles of good governance and equitable development.He honoured several officials and individuals for commendable work in various fields.Congratulating the people, the CM said the occasion had not only emerged as a festival of freedom but had also become an integral part of self-respect and self-esteem of every Indian. He also recalled the supreme sacrifices made by thousands of martyrs during the freedom struggle.Kurukshetra: Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar hoisted the national flag at the district-level Independence Day function at the sports ground of Kurukshetra University on Sunday.He said, “We, the people of India, are living in a free country because of the sacrifices of freedom fighters and revolutionaries. The country is constantly moving forward to realise the dreams of martyrs.”Jhajjar: Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda unfurled the Tricolour during the Independence Day function here on Sunday. She felicitated representatives of social outfits and employees of government departments for their commendable work during the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-to-focus-on-good-governance-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-298436
17-08-2021||---||Weekly positivity rate dips further to .067% in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 16The weekly cases of Covid infections in Haryana have dipped further to 129 during the past seven days, but the R Naught value or the reproductive rate of the virus has not come down from 1 for the past nine weeks.After seeing 137 cases during the week ending August 8, the state witnessed 129 fresh cases in the week that ended Sunday.The Health Department tested 1,91,137 samples during these seven days with a positivity rate of 0.067 per cent. This is the lowest number of weekly infections after May 3 last year when 146 new cases were recorded in the state.Five people succumbed to the virus during the past seven days. The deaths this week are the lowest since the week ending February 21 this year when 3 persons lost their lives to the infection.The new weekly cases have witnessed a dip every week since the week ending May 9, when 1,01,009 cases were reported in the state, barring week ending August 1, when fresh infections jumped by 3 from the preceding week.Just like the dip in number of news cases and deaths, the positivity rate of Covid-19 also continues to be low in the state. It has a current positivity rate of less than 0.7 per cent, though the cumulative positivity rate is 6.84 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-positivity-rate-dips-further-to-067-in-haryana-298435
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will improve police-public ties: Haryana DGP||Senior IPS officer Prashanta Kumar Agrawal today assumed charge as the Director General of Police (DGP). He replaced Manoj Yadava, who had sought repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau.Talking to the media, Agrawal said crime and drug menace eradication and ensuring the safety of women, children and weaker sections were his priorities. “We will also ensure police-public relationship improves,” he said.The state government on Sunday announced the appointment of Agrawal, a 1988-batch officer from Bihar, as the new DGP. His name was among the three empanelled by the UPSC from a panel communicated to it by the state.He said cybercrime was a new challenge for the police. “Amid the growing use of smartphones and online banking, fraudsters have been adopting new technologies to commit crime. We will train our staff such that cybercrime is tackled effectively.”He has earlier served in various positions, including DGP, Crime and Vigilance Bureau. Agrawal is a recipient of Police Medal for Meritorious Services in 2004 and President’s Police Medal in 2015. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-improve-police-public-ties-haryana-dgp-298434
17-08-2021||---||Jind driver who rammed Patiala cop nailed||Patiala, August 16The police today arrested a 26-year-old man who allegedly rammed an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Patiala Police when he tried to stop the car for checking on August 14.The suspect has been identified as Gurbaj Singh, a resident of Jind district in Haryana. The police claimed that the suspect was arrested during a special checking near the traffic light at the Thapar University chowk. He confessed to the crime after he was grilled by a police team.Gurbaj had hit the ASI after he was stopped for a routine check in the Leela Bhawan area on Saturday. The incident was captured on camera. In the incident, ASI Suba Singh suffered a fracture in a leg. The police said Gurbaj had been booked under section 307, 186, 353, 333 and 332 of the IPC. The police would seek his remand for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-driver-who-rammed-patiala-cop-nailed-298314
17-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Post VRS plea, IG Bharti Arora told to explain SLP in Supreme Court||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 16Days after IPS officer Bharti Arora, who is currently posted as IG, Ambala range, sought voluntary retirement from service, then state DGP Manoj Yadava sought information regarding a Special Leave Petition filed by Arora in the Supreme Court. Arora had challenged an order issued by the Punjab and Haryana HC in a matter related to an NDPS case of 2005.The DGP had sought the background of the case to ascertain if it had any bearing on her request for VRS. The letter issued on August 13 by the office of DGP reads: “It has been brought to my notice that an SLP (Criminal) No. 8738/2010 has been filed by you in the Supreme Court… you have challenged an order dated 14.10. 2010 of the Punjab and Haryana HC issued in the matter of Criminal Revision Petition No. 2194/2008 in the matter of Bharti Arora versus State of Haryana.”“You are requested to inform the background of this case within three days with particular reference to whether it has any bearing on your request for voluntary retirement from the Indian Police Services,” the letter further reads.When contacted, IG Arora said: “I haven’t received the letter yet. I have filed an SLP in the Supreme Court against the orders of Punjab and Haryana HC. The SLP was admitted in the SC. It was a matter related to an NDPS case and it doesn’t have any bearing on my retirement as the notice was issued to three people, out of whom two (Inspector and DSP) have already retired. In this matter, an inquiry was conducted on the orders of the trial court by the DGP and that report of the DGP had held the investigation of the Kurukshetra police to be correct. The state of Haryana has also filed in the High Court an appeal against the orders of the trial court, which is admitted. ”When contacted, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said Yadava’s letter was yet to be brought to his knowledge.In July, Arora had sought voluntary retirement from service “to serve Lord Krishna”.In her request to Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan through then DGP Manoj Yadava, Bharti Arora, a1998-batch IPS officer, had on July 24 submitted that she sought retirement from service with effect from August 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-vrs-plea-ig-bharti-arora-told-to-explain-slp-in-supreme-court-298151
