18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana bans use of phrase 'Gorakh Dhanda'||The Haryana government has banned in official communication the use of expression "Gorakh Dhanda", generally used to describe unethical practices.The decision was taken by CM Manohar Lal Khattar after a delegation of the Gorakhnath community met him, according to an official statement on Wednesday.The delegation urged Khattar to ban the use of the expression as it hurts sentiments of followers of saint Gorakhnath.The CM said Gorakhnath was a saint and using this term hurts sentiments of his followers.Therefore, the use of the word in whatsoever context has been completely banned, the CM said according to the statement.Gorakhnath was a saint and a temple dedicated to him is located at Gord village, 20 km from Sonepat. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bans-use-of-phrase-gorakh-dhanda-299010
18-08-2021||---||Former dera manager murder case: CBI court reserves order for August 26||Panchkula, August 18The special CBI court in Panchkula on Wednesday reserved its order for August 26 in the former dera manager Ranjit Singh murder case.Jailed Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim is the prime accused in the case which is more than 19-year-old.The court, however, set the next date of hearing on August 23 when the prosecution will present its rebuttal arguments.During the last hearing, the defence lawyers had concluded their arguments against jailed dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and other accused in the case.Gurmeet Ram Rahim is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his women disciples in his ‘ashram’ in Sirsa and life imprisonment for the murder of Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.Along with Dera chief, Krishan Lal, Jasbir, Avtaar, and Sabdil are accused in the case.The caseFormer Dera manager Ranjit Singh was murdered in 2002. The CBI registered the FIR in 2003 and charges were framed in 2007-2008. Since then, the trial has been going on. According to the CBI chargesheet, Dera chief had thought that Ranjit Singh was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter alleging sexual exploitation of female followers in Dera and hatched a conspiracy to kill him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-dera-manager-murder-case-cbi-court-reserves-order-for-august-26-298997
18-08-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Road from Kalarheri village to Panjokhra Sahib cries for attention||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Road cries for attentionThe road from Kalarheri village to Panjokhra Sahib is in a bad shape, having big potholes, broken edges and puddles. Even riding a cycle on this road is a Herculean task. Moreover, the threat of accident looms as commuters suddenly steer to avoid pits and craters. It is, however, surprising that a road on which hundreds of people commute daily is not being maintained. There is an immediate need to repair the road to avoid inconvenience to the public. Moreover, garbage dumps on the roadside need to be cleared too along with the restoration of broken streetlights. Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CantonmentRoad work causing pollutionThe work of filling up potholes with earthen material and repairing broken patches on the roads is leading to pollution in Faridabad. The stop-gap measures to fill up the potholes on the roads have failed to provide any relief to the commuters, but have increased the pollution. With Faridabad already placed among the most-polluted cities in the country, using earthen material like stone dust or construction waste has led to more problems. This act of the MC is not only a violation of the pollution control norms, but it also exposes the tall claims of development. Neeraj Sharma, Faridabad MLAHealthcare crumbling, Poor patients sufferThere are tall claims that under the Chief Minister’s Health Mission, doctors in all civil hospitals of the state will prescribe only those medicines that are available in their pharmacies and will supply them free of cost to deserving patients. However, the fact is that doctors prescribe only those medicines, which the patients are forced to buy from private chemists. Doctors and pharmacists have no sympathy with the poor patients. There should be some mechanism to ensure that at least poor patients get free medicines from the hospital itself. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaConfusion on Same sector NumbersDifferent urban estates in Panchkula town — main sectors, Mansa Devi Complex and extensions on Yamunanagar Road — have duplicate sector numbers confusing the locals and visitors alike. The Town and Country Planning Department needs to exhibit visibility and vision to shun such an enigma. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-from-kalarheri-village-to-panjokhra-sahib-cries-for-attention-298696
18-08-2021||Rohtak||Workshop on natural products at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak||Three MDU alumni felicitatedRohtak: Three prominent alumni of the University Campus School (UCS) — Devshree Nain, Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer; Dr Sarika Rajan, leading radiologist, and Saurabh Lathwal, table tennis player — were felicitated at the Independence Day function of the MDU. UCS director Prof Sonia Malik said MDU Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh felicitated the alumni. Later, alumna Devshree Nain interacted with school students and briefed them about career in the IRS. She also shared the roadmap of preparing for the Civil Services examination.Students donate clothes for needyFaridabad: A special drive to donate clothes among the needy was organised by the DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM) from August 10 to 15. Officiating principal Ritu Gandhi Arora said the drive was held under the aegis of the DAVIM Centre for Environment in association with the Rotary Club of Faridabad District-3011 as part of the project titled “Pride Clothing”. All faculty members and students came forward and donated clothes, shoes, stationery and games accessories for the noble cause. The items collected were handed over to The Earth Saviours Foundation, Gurugram.DCRUST gets 3,554 admission formsSonepat: Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology (DCRUST), Murthal, received 3,554 applications for admission to various academic programmes for the session 2021-22. The university received 615 applications against 96 seats for PhD in 13 disciplines and 2,939 for 1,120 seats for other courses, including MTech, MSc, March, MPlan, MBA, MHA and MA and some dual degree programmes. Mahabir Dhankhar, Controller of Examinations, DCRUST, said all admissions would be made on the basis of entrance exams, except in the MHA course. Tests will be conducted on August 20, 21 and 23 in three shifts per day and the results will be out on August 25. The detailed schedule is available on the university website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workshop-on-natural-products-at-maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-298697
18-08-2021||Gurugram||Security supervisor kills self in Gurugram||A security supervisor at a local private school —Akhilesh Kumar Patel (37) of Madhya Pradesh — died by suicide, accusing his wife and mother-in-law of forcing him to take the extreme step. In the suicide note recovered from him, the man alleged his wife’s illicit relations with three men. An FIR of abetment to suicide was lodged at the Sector 50 police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-supervisor-kills-self-in-gurugram-298676
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Army officers meet Haryana minister Anil Vij over civil airport construction||Two officers from the Western Command, Major Gen Harinder Singh and Col Bhupinder Singh, today called on Home Minister Anil Vij in connection with construction of the civil airport under the UDAAN scheme at Ambala.The matter regarding handing over of the land of the Cantonment Board to the state would be sent to the Centre, Vij said. He also shared that the Ambala DC has been appointed as the Nodal Officer in this regard.During the meeting regarding the civil airport at Ambala Cantonment, Vij said recently, the Defence Secretary held a meeting of the officials concerned via videoconferencing. The officers had a discussion regarding giving land of the Army’s camping area to the state. On that, Vij said the state government had set up a land bank to implement various projects and such pieces of property would be acquired through it only. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-officers-meet-haryana-minister-anil-vij-over-civil-airport-construction-298677
18-08-2021||---||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya makes surprise visit to Panchkula's Saket Hospital||Chandigarh, August 17Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Tuesday made a surprise visit to Mother Teresa Saket Orthopaedic Hospital, Panchkula, and took stock of medical facilities. He also interacted with patients.He directed the hospital authorities to start an online registration facility for patients and fix the timings of OPD from 3 pm to 5 pm for senior citizens.The Governor said there was need to expand the surgery OPD and the physiotherapy facility. “Saket Hospital and Physiotherapy College needs to be upgraded. I will take up the matter with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar,” said Dattatreya.Hospital Director Dr Aparajita Saundh said, “About 1,000 operations are conducted in the hospital every year. Besides, 150 persons avail the X-ray facility every day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-bandaru-dattatreya-makes-surprise-visit-to-panchkulas-saket-hospital-298679
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Closure of Haryana schools with less than 20 students unfair: Kumari Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja has said that the state government has been adopting various strategies to stop students from moving forward. The order to fix the number of class XI and XII students in government schools is also part of this strategy.Kumari Selja, HPCC PresidentRural kids to sufferGovt’s intention is clear from the closure of science stream in schools so that children from rural areas could not make a career in the field of medical and engineering.In a statement issued here today, Selja said privatisation was being promoted even in government schools, which was “very unfortunate”. She cornered the state over the availability of only around 2.11 lakh seats in government and private colleges for undergraduate courses. She said about five lakh students pass out every year in Haryana, then where would the remaining three lakh children go?Selja said the state had decided to close government schools having less than 20 students in Classes XI and XII science stream. These students will be accommodated in other schools. That is, the distance of the new school from the existing one can be between 20-25 km or even 30 km.“How will poor students travel this far every day. Considering the safety of girls, many families may refrain from sending them to school. Their studies will suffer,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/closure-of-haryana-schools-with-less-than-20-students-unfair-kumari-selja-298680
18-08-2021||---||Integrated admission portal launched at Kurukshetra University||Kurukshetra, August 17Kurukshetra University Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva on Tuesday inaugurated the Integrated University Management System (IUMS) portal for undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD online admissions.Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, KU VCAim to make KU student-friendly There will be transparency and accountability in the work along with saving of time and paper. Our vision is to be a student-friendly university and complete digitisation is a step in that direction.Prof Nath said, “From Tuesday onwards, the admission process in all departments of the university will start from the IUMS portal and students can easily complete the entire process from their homes. All processes starting from course admission to the preparation of marksheets of the students, records of the employees and the institutes, office-related work, hostel admissions, room allotments, PR services, necessary online services and those related to finance or examination will be gradually fully digitised by March 2022.”“The online portal will play an important role in providing all services to the students and there will be transparency and accountability in the work along with the saving of time and paper. Our vision is to be a student-friendly university and complete digitisation is a step in that direction,” the VC added.Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) Nodal Officer Prof Manjula Chaudhary said the work on the project was going on since 2019. “With the formation of this system, admissions will be done on a single platform. Students enrolling in the university will get all information online from their admission till the completion of their studies.”Meanwhile, coordinator Dr Pradeep Kumar said the admission to 171 courses of 49 departments of the university had been integrated on a single platform. “With this, the student can apply for various courses by registering once on the portal,” Dr Kumar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/integrated-admission-portal-launched-at-kurukshetra-university-298681
18-08-2021||Nitish Sharma & Deepender Deswal||Our families want us to stay put: Afghan students||Tribune News ServiceAmbala/Hisar, August 17As the situation in their country remains tense, the Afghan students studying at the NIT, Kurukshetra University and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) in Hisar are worried about their families back home.The students said their families want them to stay safe in India. Mohammad Nadeem Rahimi, an Afghan student, said: “The situation is really bad there and we all are concerned about the safety of our family members. I have completed my MBA and my study visa is about to expire on August 31. I request the government to extend my visa and provide accommodation as all my savings are also getting exhausted. The ICCR provided the scholarship to me and as my course completed last month, I won’t be getting any further financial assistance. It will be good if the government allows me to get enrolled in a short-term course and provides stipend.”Arifa Ebrahimi of the Ghazni province said: “I have just received my degree in MSc (Botany) and my visa is about to expire. I had also got my ticket booked but the flights were cancelled and my family too wants me to stay here in India till the situation improves. My father doesn’t have any regular job and my elder sister was supporting the family, but she is also out of work now. The situation is bad, especially for girls. I will request the government to continue my scholarship as my family is in no position to send any money.”Another student Habibullah Altin shared a similar story and urged the government for help.In Hisar, 15 students hailing from Afghanistan, including 12 in the HAU and three others in Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, are a worried lot.Zia ul Haq, an MSc student in the HAU, said they were keeping a track of the developments back home through the social media. “We are in regular contact with our families. So far, it has been peaceful in the city. The public is not concerned about the political shift. All we want is peace.”Another student Mohammad Rafi said they were feeling safe on the HAU campus in Hisar. “We have been approached by fellow students and the university authorities for any kind of assistance. We have got immense moral support,” he added.Meanwhile, Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) and the HAU have come forward to provide assistance to students. HAU Dean Student Welfare (DSW) Devender Singh Dahiya said he met the students on Tuesday and assure them of all help in the hostels until the situation normalises in their country.Urging the government to ensure visa extension and facilities for housing the students, who were scheduled to return soon due to completion of their studies, INSO national president Pradeep Deswal said he had talked to Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in this regard.“Afghan students enrolled in the Indian universities but presently staying in their country should also be issued bonafide certificates by the respective institutes so that they can return here and complete their courses,” he added.INSO lends a helping handIndian National Students Organisation (INSO) has come forward to provide assistance to Afghan students. INSO national president Pradeep Deswal said he had deployed activists in Hisar to get in touch with these students and provide all kinds of help to them. He said the INSO had also released the helpline numbers and email ID for the students studying in Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and other places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/our-families-want-us-to-stay-put-afghan-students-298682
18-08-2021||---||Delhi-Panipat corridor: Rapid transit system awaits final nod||Karnal, August 17Even though the state government had given its nod to expand the proposed Delhi-Panipat corridor of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) to Karnal, the detailed project report (DPR) of the Delhi-Panipat corridor, which was announced earlier, is pending with the Union government for final approval.The DPR of the corridor was submitted by National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), an executive agency for the project, in December 2020 after the approval from the state government.Puneet Vats, Chief Public Relations Officer, NCRTCFive years to finish projectThe DPR of the Delhi-Panipat corridor is under consideration of the Centre for approval. The National Capital Region Transport Corporation will be able to finish the corridor within five years from the sanction date.As per sources, the project of expansion will be taken up once the DPR of the Delhi-Panipat corridor was finalised and work on this corridor was started.However, the NCRTC has started the feasibility survey to expand the project to Karnal. It had conducted the drone survey along with soil testing.“The DPR of the Delhi-Panipat corridor is under consideration of the Government of India for approval. With the experience gained in the past years, team NCRTC would be able to implement the corridor within five years from the sanction date,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NCRTC.“The expansion of this corridor from Panipat to Karnal is currently in feasibility stage,” said Vats.The length of the corridor up to Panipat from Delhi is 103 km, comprising 11.5 km underground stretch and 91.5 km elevated length with 17 stations. This corridor will remain inter-operable with the Delhi-Meerut corridor and the Delhi-Alwar corridor for high-speed connectivity across the NCR, said Vats.The elevated stations would be at Sarai Kale Khan, Indraprastha, Burari Crossing, Mukarba Chowk, Alipur, Kundli, KMP, RGEC, Murthal, Murthal Depot, Barhi, Gannaur, Samalkha, Panipat South, and Panipat Depot, while underground stations would be at Kashmere Gate and Panipat North, the CPRO added.It will be constructed on the right side of the National Highway-44 while going towards Delhi. He claimed that this corridor will not only cut down the travel time but also bring environmental and economic benefits to the NCR residents.After expansion, the length of the project will increase to 130km with three more stations, including Gharaunda, Karnal (South) near Madhuban and Karnal (North) near the new bus stand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-panipat-corridor-rapid-transit-system-awaits-final-nod-298683
18-08-2021||Hisar||Ajay Chautala defends son Dushyant Chautala over farm laws||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) president Ajay Chautala has said the demand for the resignation of his son, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, over the farmers' agitation was a political conspiracy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajay-chautala-defends-son-dushyant-chautala-over-farm-laws-298686
18-08-2021||Hisar||3 booked in social boycott case in Hisar||Three men have been booked in connection with the social boycott of a man, a resident of the district’s Data village, who had participated in the BJP’s Tiranga Yatra on August 11.A case under IPC Sections 153-A and 34 has been registered against Jaibeer, Jagroop and Barish, all residents of Data village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-in-social-boycott-case-in-hisar-298684
18-08-2021||Karnal||Senior lawyer shoots self in Karnal||A senior lawyer of the Karnal Bar Association allegedly shot himself dead in his chamber today, the police have said. The deceased was identified as Vijay Kumar Chopra (50), a resident of Sector 13 here.The cause of suicide could not be determined.“The body has been over to the bereaved family. The reason behind the suicide will be determined after the post-mortem report. As of now, all we know is that Chopra was mentally upset,” said Roshan Lal, SHO, Civil Lines police station.As per lawyers, Chopra’s licensed revolver was found near his body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/senior-lawyer-shoots-self-in-karnal-298685
18-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Six JEs, 5 others get 4-year jail in graft case in Yamunanagar||Amarinder Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, District Court, Jagadhri, yesterday sentenced 11 persons, including six Junior Engineers (JEs) of the UHBVN, to four years’ imprisonment along with varying fines for the misappropriation of damaged transformers.They were convicted under Sections 120-B and 409 of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act.The convicts had sold the transformers to private persons for pecuniary advantage instead of returning these to the department.Parveen Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar, Parveen Kashyap, Anil Kumar, Gurmeet Singh and Rakesh Kumar, all Junior Engineers, Sachin Kumar, Raman Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Ajay Kumar, alias Mintu, and Radhey Shyam were held guilty on August 13, 2021.The UHBVN received information that Ajay Kumar, owner of Subham Electrical, Yamunanagar, had been purchasing damaged transformers from its employees and using their parts in private transformers, causing losses to the department.As per the rules, no UHBVN employee can sell transformers to a private person and no person can purchase government transformers from a private person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-jes-5-others-get-4-year-jail-in-graft-case-in-yamunanagar-298687
18-08-2021||---||INLD seeks inquiry into paper leaks in Haryana over 6 years||Chandigarh, August 17The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) today demanded a commission of inquiry into several paper leaks, including the recent one concerning the HSSC exam for constables, during the past six years of the BJP government in the state.An 11-member delegation of the party led by INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala raised the demand in a memorandum submitted to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya.The INLD claimed there had been at least 12 paper leaks in the past six years and the government did not take action even in one case.The memorandum alleged the rampant corruption in the state government.HSSC case: Cheque books seizedThe Kaithal police have recovered passbooks of eight bank accounts and four cheque books from one of the accused arrested in connection with the HSSC paper leak case. So far, 21 persons have been arrested, but the kingpin is still at large. One of the accused, Sandeep, was sent to judicial custody, while the police remand of his accomplices Narinder and Ramesh was extended till August 21, said SP Lokender Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-seeks-inquiry-into-paper-leaks-in-haryana-over-6-years-298688
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1 death, 1.96L vaccinated in Haryana||With 1,96,954 more persons getting vaccinated against Covid on Tuesday, the total number of vaccinations are pegged at 1,40,84,737 in the state. Meanwhile, 7,57,924 persons have so far recovered from the infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-1-death-1-96l-vaccinated-in-haryana-298689
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Police verification must for outsourced employees in Haryana||The state government has made character verification must for the employees to be engaged under the outsourcing policy in different departments.The decision would be applicable for engagement of the persons under Outsourcing Policy (Part-1) and Outsourcing Policy (Part-2) and go a long way in instilling transparency and uniformity in the contractual appointments.“The persons engaged under these two policies should be issued identity cards by the department concerned only after police clearance about their character and antecedents,” an order of the Chief Secretary to the administrative secretaries, heads of the departments, managing directors of the boards and corporations and deputy commissioners said.Meanwhile, the service providers, through which these employees are employed, shall recommend only those persons whose police verification/clearance about their character and antecedents had been obtained. An officer said the decision had been taken as the contractual employees perform the duties and functions of the regular employees for all intents and purposes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-verification-must-for-outsourced-employees-in-haryana-298690
18-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||To protest water crisis, 6 Haryana villages to boycott parties||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 17Residents of six villages in the Ellenabad Assembly segment in Sirsa district have decided to boycott all political parties, alleging that the successive governments had failed to resolve the shortage of water for drinking and irrigation purposes for nearly two decades.Since May 28, the residents of Mithanpura, Karamshana, Dhani Shera, Khari Surera, Nimla and Dhani Sindhu villages have been sitting on a dharna in support of their demands. The villagers alleged that they had been facing perennial water shortage and they had taken up the issue with successive governments but to no avail.Mithanpura village sarpanch Ramkumar Godara said the Shera Wali canal, the only source of water in the area, was not able to fulfil the needs of the population due to its low capacity. “There is some technical glitch. We had taken up the demand for another canal in the area, which the BJP-JJP government had approved. It even released a grant of Rs 16 crore for this purpose,” he added.The sarpanch, however, said the proposal was shot down due to low capacity of water at the source. The grant was also reverted to the government, he said, adding that the work to clean the existing canal was then taken up and Rs 45 lakh was spent on it. “But it failed to increase the water capacity in the canal,” the sarpanch alleged.Meanwhile, farm leader Ramesh Saharan said they had decided to boycott all political parties in the pending Ellenabad Assembly bypoll. “Political leaders will not be allowed to enter these villages for canvassing during the bypoll,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-protest-water-crisis-6-haryana-villages-to-boycott-parties-298691
18-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||If claim not proved, court can’t pass ex parte decree: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the trial court cannot pass an ex parte decree if the evidence adduced by one of the parties did not support its claim. The Bench also made it clear that the trial court cannot shut its eyes and remain a mute spectator in the matter of ex-parte proceedings.The ruling by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on an appeal by a Canada-residing husband. He had challenged the judgment and decree dated February 3, 2020, whereby the Principal Judge of a family court had dismissed his petition against respondent-wife under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act for the decree of divorce.Among other things, the petitioner’s counsel had contended that the evidence led by the appellant before the trial court remained uncontroverted. The respondent-wife remained absent during the proceedings even after service through publication and was proceeded against ex-parte vide order dated December 3, 2019. The Bench asserted it did not find any substance in the submissions by appellant’s counsel. The divorce petition was filed through a special power of attorney on the grounds that appellant-husband was residing in Canada and was unable to come to India.The trial court rightly came to the conclusion that the allegations levelled in the petition regarding cruelty were general in nature. Such general and bald assertions were not enough to establish “cruelty” as envisaged in the Act. The allegations were not supported by cogent evidence and the witnesses examined were themselves not present. Even the appellant chose not to appear in the witness box to explain how and in what manner the respondent-wife meted out cruelty and deserted him.His submission that the evidence remained un-rebutted as wife failed to appear even after the publication of the notice was misconceived and misleading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/if-claim-not-proved-court-cant-pass-ex-parte-decree-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-298692
18-08-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Stop staff’s pay if personal data not uploaded on portal: Haryana Govt||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 17Resentment brews against the Haryana Government’s move to upload the personal/service data of all employees of the government departments, boards, corporations, commissions as well as the autonomous bodies, including the state universities.In a recent communique to the state’s administrative secretaries, heads of government departments, managing directors/chief administrators of boards and corporations, divisional and deputy commissioners and registrars of universities, the Haryana Chief Secretary has asked them to ensure that the employees’ data is uploaded on the Human Resources Management System (HRMS) web portal by August 31.“The administrative secretaries shall also ensure that the salary of all employees for the month of August (to be paid in September-2021) is not released unless their data is entered in the HRMS,” states the orders.The communique further maintains that all transfers orders shall be issued under the HRMS only, adding that the transfer orders not carrying the HRMS QR code will not only be treated as invalid, but also invite disciplinary action upon the issuing authority.The associations of teachers as well as non-teaching employees of the state universities have termed the Haryana Government’s move as an attack on the universities’ autonomy and decided to oppose it tooth and nail.POOLING FUNDS FOR LEGAL BATTLEThe associations of teachers as well as non-teaching staff of state universities have termed the state govt’s move as an attack on the universities’ autonomy and decided to oppose it tooth and nail. The Haryana State Medical Teachers Association (HSMTA) has already launched a campaign to pool funds for a legal battle against move on creation of common cadre of medical faculty and online transfer policy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stop-staffs-pay-if-personal-data-not-uploaded-on-portal-haryana-govt-298693
18-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Golden boy Neeraj Chopra gets rousing welcome at native village in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 17Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra got a rousing welcome on his arrival at his native village, Khandra, in Panipat today, 10 days after he bagged the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics.Hundreds of people welcomed their “golden boy” at various places in the district with a cavalcade of vehicles bearing the Tricolour, bursting crackers, a special band, beats of ‘dhol’ and by raising slogans of “Neeraj Zindabad” and patriotic songs.Neeraj ChopraMEDAL WILL INSPIRE OTHERS It feels good to receive so much love. I hope that this support and love for javelin throw continues. And, I will keep working hard. This medal will inspire many more children who want to pursue the sport.But the programme at Khandra was cut short after he felt uncomfortable in the middle of the welcome ceremony. Neeraj didn’t even meet his family members due to his hectic schedule.“It is not my medal alone because it is the medal of the country. So many players from across the world took part in the Games and they had prepared so well. But due to the love and blessings of the country, this medal came,” Neeraj told the gathering.Earlier, hundreds of youths on two-wheelers and four-wheelers reached Haldana border (border of Panipat and Sonepat district) to welcome Neeraj.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sushil Kumar Sarwan welcomed him at Samalkha. The welcome procession was taken out from Haldana border to Khandra, covering 38 km in five hours. Neeraj and his uncle Surender travelled in the car of DC Sarwan.At various places, flowers were showered on him and garlands were presented to him. The people of Khukhrain village honoured Neeraj Chopra with a silver javelin. The children of the school where he studied at an early age also welcomed him by showering flowers on him.Ajmer Singh Chopra, former basketball player of Khandra, Arjuna Awardee Bhim Singh of Bhiwani, Dalel Singh, veteran players and other senior players accorded him a grand welcome and blessed him.Even people from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand reached Khandra to welcome Neeraj. Besides, two youths from Sholapur in Maharashtra reached Neeraj’s village to welcome him.But he left the village after he got uncomfortable in the middle of the welcome ceremony. His family members took him to the doctor. He left for Chandigarh in the evening.Programme cut shortThe programme at Khandra village was cut short after Neeraj Chopra felt uncomfortable in the middle of the welcome ceremony. Neeraj didn’t even meet his family members due to his hectic schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/golden-boy-neeraj-chopra-gets-rousing-welcome-at-native-village-in-panipat-298694
18-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Monsoon session of Haryana Legislative Assembly set to be stormy affair||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The monsoon session of the Haryana Legislative Assembly, which starts on Friday, is set to be stormy as Congress MLAs today submitted calling attention motion on the registration of sedition cases against farmers in Sirsa and Hisar, autonomy of universities, fuel price hike, unemployment and crop loss, and an adjournment motion on the paper leak case of the HSSC constable recruitment exam.On Cong agendaEarlier in the day, the Congress MLAs met here today and finalised the issues to be raised in the House.Deputy Congress Legislative Partly (CLP) leader Aftab Ahmed, chief whip BB Batra, former education minister Geeta Bhukkal, and MLAs Varun Chaudhary, Amit Sihag, Mewa Singh, Rao Dan Singh, BL Saini, and Jaiveer were present on the occasion.Batra said, “The government is trying to kill democracy by registering sedition cases against farmers. Are farmers not allowed to carry out their movement?”He added the BJP had been registering sedition cases against all dissenting voices in the country.The adjournment motion on the HSSC male constable paper leak case read that it was shameful on part of the government that the paper had been leaked and amounted to criminal offence on the Commission. The paper was conducted on August 8.On the autonomy of varsities, Bhukkal said, “The power of making or amending the Act of state varsities lies with the legislative Assembly of the state. The employees are protesting on the imposition of the online transfer policy on them. It is not good for education system.”A separate calling attention has been moved on the inclusion of teaching and non-teaching employees of the Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, and PGIMS, Rohtak, for online transfer and common cadre policy. The party claims it is a conspiracy to demolish the medical education structure in the state and would affect the teaching and research at the PGIMS, Rohtak.“There is a strong resentment in medical and paramedical staff over the policy,” added Bhukkal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-session-of-haryana-legislative-assembly-set-to-be-stormy-affair-298699
18-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Pictures: Day after he gifts his Olympic javelin to PM Modi, locals in Panipat jostle to get a glimpse of Neeraj Chopra||Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra was accorded a rousing welcome on his arrival at Panipat, a day after gifting his javelin to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.People on way jostled to get a glimpse of Neeraj as he waved to the cheering crowd through the roof of a car.Speaking with reporters, Neeraj said: "With so much love and respect, it feels good to be home." People on their way jostled to get a glimpse of Neeraj. — Tribune PhotoIndian athletes returned from Tokyo with the country's best ever haul of seven medals, including javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra's historic gold in track and field.Modi had invited them over to the Independence Day ceremony at the Red Fort on Sunday, where in his address he had lauded them for their performance.Modi made this appeal at an over two-hour interaction with the players at his residence, where he had hosted them for breakfast.Chopra has been attending various felicitation functions in Delhi. Finally, he returned home to his native Khandra village, around 15 km from Panipat, on Tuesday to a rousing reception from the locals."A lot of people turned up, and he reached the venue of the welcome function near his village on a cavalcade. It took time to reach the venue of the function," the source said."But midway into the function, he was feeling exhausted and started having a slight fever. So, he left the function and had taken rest at a house nearby," the source said."There are some rumours that he has been taken to a hospital. It is not like that. He is all right, it's not a serious issue. Basically, he is feeling exhausted due to attending many functions non-stop after arrival from Tokyo. He is taking rest at a place not very far from his house."Asked why Chopra has not gone home, the source said, "He will go home, that is for sure, but he does not want a frenzy from people, including the media."A source close to Chopra told PTI that the star athlete should be fine after a good rest and that he left the function as a precautionary measure.The day Chopra returned from Tokyo, he and other Olympic medal winners were felicitated by the sports ministry.The next day, he attended a felicitation function organised by the Athletics Federation of India.After that, Chopra developed high fever and missed the felicitation functions organised by the Punjab and Haryana governments on Thursday and Friday. He was tested for Covid-19 but returned negative. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pictures-day-after-he-gifts-his-olympic-javelin-to-pm-modi-locals-in-panipat-jostle-to-get-a-glimpse-of-neeraj-chopra-298482
