19-08-2021||Noida||Man who took police recruitment exam in place of actual candidate held||A Haryana-based man who was allegedly taking the Delhi Police recruitment exam in place of the actual candidate has been arrested, the Noida police said on Thursday.                 The accused, who hails from Sonepat in Haryana, had taken the exam for recruitment to the post of the sub-inspector in Delhi Police on Tuesday, it said. “He fraudulently sat for the exam at its centre at the CISF-SSG camp in Sutyana, Greater Noida, on the basis of a forged admit card. He is part of a gang (who take recruitment for competitive exams in place of actual candidates in exchange for money),” a police spokesperson said. The forged admit card, its photocopy and an Aadhaar card that were used by accused Shekhar Deshwal for the exam have been seized and an FIR lodged against him at the Ecotech 3 police station, the spokesperson said.Searches are on to nab his other associates as well, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-who-took-police-recruitment-exam-in-place-of-actual-candidate-held-299437
19-08-2021||Ravi S Singh||Nitin Gadkari directs ministry officials to look into the delay in completion of Manjhawali flyover project in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 19Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has directed the ministry officials to look into the delay in completion of the Manjhawali flyover project in Haryana which aims to connect Faridabad with Noida in Uttar Pradesh.The project site is located near Manjhawali village in Faridabad.This was after Congress MLA from NIT (Faridabad) Neeraj Sharma met Gadkari and urged him to expedite completion of the project. The Rs 120 crore project, sponsored by the Centre, has not been completed even after seven years of laying the foundation stone.The delay is there despite Faridabad being included in the Centre's Smart City project list.The states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are involved in the project."The Union minister directed the officials to look into the matter and clear the impediments regarding the project," Sharma said after meeting Gadkari.Sharma also urged Gadkari to make Faridabad-Ashram (Delhi) stretch on the related highway traffic-light free. Heavy traffic density and stoppages of vehicles due to a number of traffic lights clog the stretch.Traffic snarls on the highway take a toll of time on people as thousands of students, businessmen and office-goers from Faridabad use the road.Sharma also batted for linking up Faridabad with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway which passes through Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.He pitched for speedy completion of the Bharatmala Pariyojana, which is also related to Faridabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nitin-gadkari-directs-ministry-officials-to-look-into-the-delay-in-completion-of-manjhawali-flyover-project%C2%A0in-haryana-299343
19-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||MC notice to 3 Faridabad firms for recovery of Rs 8 cr ad revenue||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 18The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has issued notice to three advertising firms for not paying Rs 8.08 crore revenue for using the advertisement sites in the city, allotted to them since September 2019. Defaulters have been warned of legal action for non-compliance.Hit by lockdown As the pandemic-induced lockdown resulted in income loss, we have sought rebate. — spokesperson of an ad firmIllegal advertisements menaceIn 2018, the Faridabad MC had released an e-tender for the first time in which the annual revenue collection of Rs 7.32 crore was estimated. With the complaints of illegal advertisements and hoardings pouring in, the authorities had issued 110 notices and had lodged 87 FIRs against the offenders in 2018 and 2019.“The MC had leased out the outdoor space to these agencies in September 2019. Three firms had been leased out the contract in all three MC zones, all of which have defaulted in clearing the dues in time. The pending amount includes Rs 3.97 crore in the NIT zone for 92 sites, Rs 3.46 crore in the Old Faridabad zone for 110 sites and Rs 65.15 lakh in the Ballabgarh zone for 13 sites,” said a senior MC official.Claiming that the MC was due to get monthly revenue of Rs 48 lakh in all three zones, the official said the total annual revenue from the advertisement sites was estimated to be Rs 5.76 crore.“Though dues had been cleared partially, the firms allotted the space have failed to clear all pending amount,” the official added.It is claimed that a legal action will be taken against the defaulters if the pending amount is not cleared within the given time period.Notably, the matter of delayed recovery or pending payments had also been taken up in the meeting of the civic body last year in which an inquiry had been ordered leading to the issuance of the notice.However, a spokesperson of one of the firms said as the pandemic-induced lockdown resulted in income loss, they had sought rebate.In 2018, the MC had released an e-tender for the first time in which the annual revenue collection of Rs 7.32 crore was estimated. With the complaints of illegal advertisements and hoardings pouring in, the authorities had issued 110 notices and had lodged 87 FIRs against the offenders in 2018 and 2019.Admitting that illegal advertisements in the city were a menace and were causing losses, officials claimed that a system was being made to curb such a practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-notice-to-3-faridabad-firms-for-recovery-of-rs-8-cr-ad-revenue-299170
19-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal MC to adopt new process to change property owner’s name||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 18To make the system of change of name of property transparent, the Karnal Municipal Corporation is going to adopt a new mechanism in a couple of days. According to the authorities, the new mechanism would help in reducing fraudulent change of name.How it will workIn the recent past, several litigations over name change through “fake documents” were filed, affecting the image of the MC as well as the employees.In the new mechanism, the power to change of name of the owner or occupier for the purpose of tax will be upgraded to a higher official. It is presently with the executive officer.Besides, before changing the name, notices would be served to all the persons who have remained owners or occupiers of the property to file any objections and claims regarding change of name within 15 days of receiving the notice, said Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, Karnal MC.The seller and buyer will have to submit affidavits along with the copy of the registration. The affidavits should be attested by notary or the oath commissioner.Before changing the name of the owner or occupier, a fact-finding report will also be submitted by the Tehsildar or Kanungo of the civic body after visiting the site.In case notice could not be served, the applicant will have to publish a proclamation notice in two daily newspapers in two languages Hindi and English.Meanwhile, the Commissioner further said withthis system, there wouldbe no chance of the fraudu-lent change of the nameof any property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-to-adopt-new-process-to-change-property-owners-name-299171
19-08-2021||Hisar||Immediately reopen Haryana schools, urges Sampat Singh||Former state minister Sampat Singh has demanded the immediate reopening of all schools in the state.In a statement issued here today, Sampat said lakhs of school students were facing the prospect of wasting two years due to the continued closure of the schools since the outbreak of Covid.He said it was beyond logic that while all crowded places, including markets, railway stations, bus stands and industrial units, were open, the schools were still closed. The government should reconsider its policy to close schools first and reopen these at last, he said, adding that the online classes were serving little purpose as students were unable to comprehend their lessons. “Besides, generally it has been noticed that the students who are kept away from gadgets like cellphones did better in their exams.”“Sero surveys had revealed that 58% of the kids up to nine years and 62% in 10 to 17 years had developed antibodies. They haven’t been vaccinated yet. Therefore, antibodies had been formed by exposure to Covid,” he added.He said Dr NK Arora, head of the National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group, had stated that only 3 per cent of the children under the age of 10 had symptoms of Covid, which was a negligible figure.The Niti Aayog had asked the Ministry of Education to reopen primary schools with certain conditions. It had stated that if the number of cases was less than 10 in a population of 10 lakh, schools should be reopened. Accordingly, schools should have been reopened on June 16 when the state reported only 249 cases, which amounted to an infection rate of 0.76%. Presently, the rate was only 0.11%.He appealed to the government to reopen schools immediately as any further delay would set the country back by two years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/immediately-reopen-haryana-schools-urges-sampat-singh-299172
19-08-2021||---||16-yr-old ends life in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, August 18A student of Class XI ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Basant Bihar Colony of Yamunanagar.The deceased has been identified as Kamal Singh (16). The reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained.Kamal died by suicide at his house on Tuesday when no family member was at the house.The incident came to light when Kamal’s sister returned home after taking tuition. After getting information, the police reached the spot.Ratan Singh, father of the deceased, said that Kamal was an intelligent student and he got 95 per cent marks in Class X. “We are unable to understand why Kamal took this step,” said Ratan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-yr-old-ends-life-in-yamunanagar-299173
19-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Started 8 days ago, Aravalli demolition drive loses pace||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 18With the power supply network still intact for the farmhouses located in the forest area of the Aravalli belt here, the drive against the unauthorised constructions has been claimed as tardy in comparison to the drive that was taken up against the residential colony at Khori last month.Action only after request by deptWe’ll be able to act only after we receive a request from the department concerned. power department officialOnly six farmhouses have been razed against the target of 130 constructions that have been identified as illegal by the Forest Department. These have come up in the form of farmhouses, marriage palaces and other constructions in violation of the PLPA Act.“Though the drive was launched onAugust 10, the authorities concerned have been able to remove only six structures, suggesting that the speed of the drive is too slow and lacks the steam that was exhibited during the Khori drive,” claim sources in the district administration.While the authorities had removed the power supply network prior to demolition at Khori, it is surprising that nothing like that has been done in the case of farmhouses so far, said Gowra Prasad, a member of the Majdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti Khori.Divisional Forest Officer Rajkumar said action would be taken in compliance with the SC order. “Notices have been given to the constructions that have come up on the land of Lakadpur, Kot, Pali, Bhankri, Dhauj, Sirohi, Khori Jamalpur, Anangpur, Mewla Maharajpur, Ankhir, Gothra Mohabtabad and Badkhal villages protected under Sections 4 and 5 of PLPA Act.”Ordering the removal of all illegal structures standing on forestland last month, the SC is due to hear a petition regarding these constructions on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/started-8-days-ago-aravalli-demolition-drive-loses-pace-299174
19-08-2021||Sanjay Yadav
||Gurugram: Auto drivers up in arms against e-auto zoning||Gurugram, August 18 A day after the Chief Minister converted the Gurugram MC zone 3 into electric three-wheelers zone only, CNG auto drivers staged a protest here, fearing they will go out of job. The zone includes high-paying hotspots like the MG road, Galleria etc, which house maximum markets and malls etc. The area is currently the one with highest demand for public transport.  A memorandum was submitted to the DC by the Samast Auto Rickshaw Union, demanding permission to ply their autos in the same zone.  The MC had launched 600 e-rickshaws in the city on Monday and carved the city’s first electric three-wheelers zone. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the initiative and a declaration was made barring the plying of the diesel and CNG auto-rickshaws here. The auto drivers, when not allowed even today, took to roads to stage the protest.  “First, the government asked us to switch to the CNG autos. Most of us changed our autos by taking loans. Now, CNG autos has a validity for 15 years and diesel autos are valid for 10 years. But without thinking about us, they went on barring key earning zone for us. Most of us will be left virtually unemployed. The new orders are not in our favour,” said Tek Chand, vice-president of the union.  “We are worried about our families as they change their stand every six months. We are poor people and jobless for almost a year and a half owing to Covid. Now when things are returning to normal they are reserving zones for new e-autos.” said auto union leader Dharm Singh.  Meanwhile, the auto-drivers threatened a district-wide strike if the ban was not lifted soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-auto-drivers-up-in-arms-against-e-auto-zoning-299175
19-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Five months on, pulmonology unit for kids yet to be started at Rohtak UHS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 18Though the Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) authorities claim to have made adequate arrangements to deal with the probable third Covid wave that may infect kids, it has not established the department of paediatrics pulmonology and intensive care even after five months when its executive council approved a proposal in this respect.Total nine posts from senior resident to senior professor have been created to run the department, but none has been filled so far.Dr Rohtash Yadav, director, PGIMS, said the minimum qualification for the post was fixed before the appointment, hence a case had been sent to the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) for the same. “We will appoint the faculty immediately after the finalisation of the qualifications. Moreover, a 64-bed paediatrics Covid ICU is also being set up in the PGIMS and another proposal for the creation of several others post has also been sent to the DMER to ensure adequate number of child specialists at the PGIMS,” Dr Yadav added.A higher officer at the DMER said the case was under process. “The post qualifications will be finalised soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-months-on-pulmonology-unit-for-kids-yet-to-be-started-at-rohtak-uhs-299176
19-08-2021||---||Post meet with Haryana Health MinisterAnil Vij, UHS doctors, staff call off strike||Rohtak, August 18Doctors and other staffers of Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) announced to call off their proposed strike on Thursday after their delegation met Health Minister Anil Vij in Chandigarh on Wednesday.“The Health Minister listened to us sympathetically and assured not to transfer any doctor and other employees of the UHS and PGIMS Rohtak to other institutions without their consent. Hence, we have decided not to strike work tomorrow against the creation of common cadre and online transfer policy,” said Dr RB Jain, president, Haryana State Medical Teachers Association (HSMTA).He maintained the Health Minister also assured that the UHS and PGIMS would not be included in the common cadre/online transfer policy.However, in case any employee was willing to get transferred, an option would be sought from him/her, but it is clear that no employee would be transferred against his/her will, he claimed.Meanwhile, Department of Medical Education and Research, Haryana, has withdrawn its letter issued on August 13 directing colleges to provide details about staff strength and vacancy position for online transfer policy. Sources said the letter had to be rolled back in view of acute resentment prevailing among doctors and other staffers of all medical colleges in the state against the common cadre and online transfer policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-meet-with-haryana-health-ministeranil-vij-uhs-doctors-staff-call-off-strike-299177
19-08-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula: CBI court fixes Aug 26 for final order in Ranjit Singh case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 18The special CBI court in Panchkula on Wednesday fixed August 26 for the pronouncement of the final order in the former dera manager Ranjit Singh murder case.IN 2019, JUDGE HAD NOTED...As many as 233 interim orders, including the two on Wednesday, have been passed in the case so far. In November 2019, then special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh, in his interim order, had observed that “it is one of the oldest matters in this court and needs to be decided expeditiously”.Jailed dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim is the prime accused in the case which is more than 19 years old.The dera chief will appear through video-conferencing from Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail on the day of the verdict.However, the court set the next date of hearing in the case on August 23 when the prosecution can present its rebuttal arguments.The court, in its previous order, today had fixed August 24 as the date for the pronouncement of order in the case, asking the jail authorities to ensure the physical presence of Ram Rahim in the court.However, on the request of the Haryana Government, the special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg adjourned the case to August 26 for the final order.The District Attorney, Panchkula, had moved an application before the court, asking it to adjourn the order for any convenient date after August 25 and allow the presence of Ram Rahim through video-conferencing in view of the law and order situation.“As the Vidhan Sabha session is scheduled to be held from August 20 to August 25, the law and order machinery shall remain busy during this period as the present case is highly sensitive. The date already fixed may kindly be adjourned for any convenient date after August 25,’’ Pankaj Garg, Panchkula District Attorney, told the court.Along with the dera chief, Krishan Lal, Jasbir, Avtaar, and Sabdil are accused in the case. Another accused Inder Sain had died in October 2020.The murder took place on July 10, 2002. Ranjit Singh was shot dead when he was returning from his fields in his native village in Kurukshetra district.The CBI registered the FIR in 2003 and charges were framed in 2007-2008. Since then, the trial has been going on. According to the CBI chargesheet, the dera chief had thought that Ranjit Singh was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter, alleging sexual exploitation of his female followers in the dera and had hatched a conspiracy to kill him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-cbi-court-fixes-aug-26-for-final-order-in-ranjit-singh-case-299178
19-08-2021||Hisar||Former Haryana CM OP Chautala takes matric paper in Sirsa||Former Chief Minister (CM) and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala, 86, appeared in the supplementary examination, being conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, here today.Though Chautala had done matriculation, he also needed to clear a mandatory language paper for pursuing further studies.Since he had applied for Class XII and was declared successful by the Board without holding of the examinations due to the Covid crisis, his result was kept on hold due to the precondition of passing a language paper in matriculation. As per the rules of the Board, it is mandatory to pass one language paper in matriculation to pursue further studies.The former CM was allotted the centre of examination in room number 13 in Arya Girls Senior Secondary School in Sirsa town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-op-chautala-takes-matric-paper-in-sirsa-299179
19-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Monsoon session: Panchkula development authority among 10 Bills to be taken up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Important legislative agenda is on the cards for the monsoon session, which begins on Friday. In all, 10 Bills, including the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) Bill, 2021, will be tabled in the Haryana Assembly.The office of the Chief Secretary, in a communication to the Secretary, Vidhan Sabha, has sent the proposed list of the Bills to be taken for discussion.Of the 10 Bills, three will be new. The other seven Bills will be brought before the House to amend the existing legislations.Besides the PMDA Bill, the Haryana Enterprises Registration Bill, 2021, and the Haryana Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Bill, 2021, will be the new Bills.The Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority will be patterned on the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority.The PMDA Bill is being brought for swift execution of the district’s integrated development plan.“Once the PMDA Bill is passed, Panchkula’s development will be fast tracked,” Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is also the Panchkula MLA, told The Tribune.The other Bills to be taken up are the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, the Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal (Amendment) Bill, the Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Amendment) Bill, the Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (Amendment) Bill, the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill, and the Goods and Services Tax (Second Amendment) Bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-session-panchkula-development-authority-among-10-bills-to-be-taken-up-299180
19-08-2021||Karnal||Famers protest at event of BJP's Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap||Situation remained tense for a couple of hours at the Indri police station today after the police detained farmers for allegedly protesting the visit of Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap to the district’s Gudha village. The MLA was in the village to distribute wheat at a PDS (Public Distribution System) ration depot during the Annapurna Utsav. Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a BKU (Charuni) leader, said: “BJP-JJP leaders have been warned against organising programmes, but they don’t pay heed to our word.”  The farmers were opposing the MLA’s programme peacefully when they were detained. On getting information, BKU leaders gave a call to gherao the Indri police station. Around 11.30 am, farmers started assembling outside the police station. One of protesters, Bhahdur Singh Mehla, said: “Farmers have filed a complaint against Kashyap for hitting farmers on Tuesday in Chaugama village. No action has been taken against him.” Farmers were released after a couple of hours of protest by BKU activists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/famers-protest-at-event-of-bjps-indri-mla-ram-kumar-kashyap-299181
19-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana Agro industry chairman moves pvt member’s Bill||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Badshahpur MLA and Haryana Agro Industries Corporation (HAIC) chairman Rakesh Daultabad has moved a private member’s Bill for amendments to the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012, for “enhancing accountability” of public officers and general bodies of residential societies.One of the main features of the Bill is the setting up of appellate tribunals for hearing appeals arising out of directions or orders of district registrars. After a decision of the appellate tribunal, an aggrieved party can move the HC. There will be a Bench for each district.The appellate tribunal is required to dispose of the appeal within 60 days.Daultabad says the 2012 Act is deficient in resolving disputes relating to misappropriation, memberships, and elections to societies. “The Bill will enhance the accountability of officers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agro-industry-chairman-moves-pvt-members-bill-299182
19-08-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Clueless, Afghanistan medical tourists make desperate calls back home||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 18“Taliban are here. I will try to save myself and call. If not, then move on. Don’t ever think of returning.”This was the last text message Mohseen Quereshi (38) received from his wife, who is in hiding at a village near Kabul, while he is here to get his father treated for a liver ailment.“I have a six-year-old daughter and three sons. My daughter had asked me to get a doll for her from Delhi, which I had bought last week. I had never imagined that I would not be able to return. I am desperately trying to get in touch with my wife, but in vain. None of us saw this coming,” says Quereshi.He is among many medical tourists left high and dry in the city, worried about families in Afghanistan after the takeover by the Taliban.An Afghan MP, who is in the city to get her mother treated for blood clot, says: “My brother sent a one-line message — ‘Taliban are here’. I came with my mother leaving my twenty-month-old daughter behind. I am numb and don’t know where to go and what to do.”She insists on remaining anonymous. She has been making efforts to get in touch with Indian MPs or someone else in the Central government.United by grief, Afghan nationals are seen huddled together at international lounges of hospitals, making desperate calls and messages to loved ones back home. Many of them were scheduled to return this week, but now they have nowhere to go.Sakima Wahid, who came here for a cardiac procedure for her two-year-old son, says: “I have no clue what my next step is going to be. My visa expires this month. I went to the embassy, but there was a huge rush. I could not get help. The hotel, where I am staying, is ready to keep me for some more days. But for how long? I want to know about the well-being of my family.”Not just medical tourists, Afghan translators and students here are terrified. They are reaching out to social media communities for the elusive help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clueless-afghanistan-medical-tourists-make-desperate-calls-back-home-299184
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||1.3L vaccinated in Haryana||With 1,30,434 more persons vaccinated against Covid today, the total number of vaccinations are pegged at 1,42,15,171 in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-3l-vaccinated-in-haryana-299233
19-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Tenants owe Rs 1.96-cr rent to Yamunanagar MC||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tenants-owe-rs-1-96-cr-rent-to-yamunanagar-mc-299235
19-08-2021||Karnal||Karnal teen’s drive against drugs a hit||College alumni visit alma materKaithal: On the occasion of Amrit Mahotsav, 35 alumni of the 1975 batch of the commerce department of the RKSD College visited their alma mater. Principal Sanjay Goel, alumni association convener Prof Anil Jindal and other members welcomed and informed them about the developmental work done in the college. They visited the administration block, language research institute, library and newly constructed seminar hall. Meanwhile, DC Arya donated Rs50,000 to the college development fund and announced to do it every year.Students shine in poster-makingRohtak: The Women’s Studies Centre of Maharshi Dayanand University has declared the results of the online poster-making and elocution contest on the theme “Gender equality: the way ahead”. Centre director Prof Pushpa Dahiya said Mohit of Pt JL Nehru Government College, Faridabad, came first, Upasna of the microbiology department, second and Inayat Malik of the sociology department stood third in the poster-making contest. In elocution, Simran of the microbiology department won the first position followed by Pinki of IMSAR and Saloni of Pt NRS Government College, Rohtak, who came second and third, respectively.Conference on English literatureRohtak: Baba Mastnath Universityhere organised a two-day online international conference on “Emerging trends and challenges in English literature”. Dr Obinna Ibezim from Nigeria was the key speaker. Dr Alkesh Dalal, who chaired the conference, said Dr NK Vats of the GGSIP University, New Delhi, Dr Carolyn Heising of Iowa State University, US, and Dr Ram Sharma of the CCSU, Meerut, highlighted the significance of the recent trends in English literature. Over 120 delegates from various countries participated in the meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-teens-drive-against-drugs-a-hit-299236
19-08-2021||It is heartening to hear that the Gurugram Municipal Corporation has launched the city’s first electric three-wheeler zones. At present||Electric three-wheelers a boon for environment||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramDemand to install Prominent leaders’ statuesThe district administration should install the statues of great leaders, including Chhotu Ram, Rao Tula Ram and Maharaja Daksh Prajapati among others, on the entry points and public places like Mini-Secretariat and roundabouts. The statues will be an inspiration for the youngsters. Several prominent persons of the town and social organisations have raised this demand to the district administration.Kamal Singh Pradhan, BhiwaniWastage of taxpayers’ moneyIn a function held at Panipat in 2018, the Chief Minister had announced to install ‘Gaurav Patt” (pride board) in each village where the visitors could know about the history of the place. On each board of 5-ft height, the history of village, its sportspersons, martyrs and educationists were to be painted. Despite the tall claims of the government, the boards have not been installed in at least 30 villages so far while the ones which are in place are in an extremely bad shape. This is utter wastage of taxpayers’ money as most of such boards are in a dilapidated condition.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/electric-three-wheelers-a-boon-for-environment-299238
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Written exam for  Sub-inspectors put off in Haryana||Use of word ‘gorakh dhanda’ bannedChandigarh: The government has banned the word “gorakh dhanda” generally used to describe unethical practices. A decision to this regard was taken by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar after a delegation of the Gorakhnath community met him and urged him to ban the use of the word as it hurt the sentiments of the followers of saint Gorakhnath. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/written-exam-for-sub-inspectors-put-off-in-haryana-299239
19-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Haryana announces rehab centre in Panchkula, Chandigarh project hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18While the Haryana Government has honoured its Olympic medal winners by announcing that a sports injury and rehabilitation centre will be set up at Panchkula, the similar project of the UT Administration is biting the dust.Faculty member, GMCH, Sector 32Haryana's javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and wrestler Bajrang Punia were injured and recovered in a foreign rehab centre. After this, the Haryana Government decided to build a rehab centre in Panchkula. This will be a loss for Chandigarh. Despite having everything in place, the Administration is turning out to be a mute spectator.“Our players will no longer have to go abroad for rehab. We will open four rehab and sports injury centres in Haryana. The four centres will cover the whole of Haryana. The first of these rehab centres will be set up in Panchkula and the construction will start soon,” said Sandeep Singh, Sports Minister, Haryana.He added: “There will be doctors and physiotherapists in the centre along with sports science facilities for efficient and successful rehab of athletes. There will be a dietician for the athletes, along with the injury management facility.”Meanwhile, despite earmarking 1.4 acres in 2017 at Sector 32, the sports injury centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, is yet to see the light of the day. The centre, which was supposed to be India’s second sports injury centre, is yet to grab authorities’ attention. As per the blueprint approved in 2018, the new building was supposed to have six floors with CT scan and MRI facilities and diagnostic facilities and emergency services would be offered at nominal rates. Space for a hydrotherapy lab and physiotherapy units was also proposed. Research in the field of sports psychology would be started to help sportspersons recover from the shock of an injury.“The Indian government had established a sports injury centre in New Delhi during the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Thereafter, this (Chandigarh) centre was proposed. The land has been earmarked; however, so far, no development work has started on the site. In 2017, it was announced that the project would be completed in eight years. However, till now, it’s just a piece of land dedicated to building a centre,” said a senior GMCH-32 doctor.“After a steering performance by Haryana’s javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra and wrestler Bajrang Punia, who were injured and recovered in a foreign rehab centre, the Haryana government had decided to build one here. This would be a clear loss for Chandigarh. Despite having everything in place, the Administration is turning out to be a mute spectator,” added another senior faculty member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-announces-rehab-centre-in-panchkula-chandigarh-project-hangs-fire-299082
19-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Upload all orders on courts’ websites: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Bringing verdicts and directions to the mobile screens and computers of the people, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the subordinate judiciary across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to upload all judgments, interim and other orders, on the official websites of the courts.The HC also made it clear that the orders and judgments were required to be finalised and uploaded within 72 hours of pronouncement.In the absence of uploaded orders, the litigants were until now primarily depending upon the counsel and clerks for information. At times, the information was not readily available or it came with inaccuracies.The directiveThe decision on “uploading all judgments and orders, including zimni”, was communicated by the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to all District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The communication said the issue was placed before the HC “executive committee” at its meeting on August 6.The committee, among other things, observed: “The District and Sessions Judges in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh should ensure that all judgments and orders, including zimni orders, are uploaded immediately after the presiding officer of the court concerned signs the same, within the outer limit of 72 hours of its pronouncement.”The HC is already uploading its final and interim orders on its official website, besides information as regards rules, regulations, procedures and functioning of the justice delivery mechanism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upload-all-orders-on-courts-websites-punjab-and-haryana-hc-299108
19-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Haryana ex-CM OP Chautala appears in matric exam in Sirsa||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 18The former chief minister and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala, 86, appeared in the supplementary examination being conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, on Wednesday. Though Chautala had passed the matriculation, he also needed to clear a mandatory language paper for pursuing further studies.Since he had applied for class 10+2 and was declared pass by the Board without holding the examinations due to Covid crisis, his result was kept on hold due to the precondition of passing a language paper in matriculation. As per the rule of the Board, it is mandatory to pass one language paper in matriculation to pursue further studies.The former Chief Minister was allotted centre of examination at room number 13 in the Arya Girls Senior Secondary school in Sirsa town. Chautala was given writer – a class 9 girl student -- to assist him in the examination as he had suffered injury in his hand.He emerged from the examination centre smiling but avoided interacting with mediapersons waiting outside the school.Sources in the BSEH revealed that Chautala had applied for 10+2 through open mode of learning earlier this session. He was declared pass in the examination as per the formula devised by the Board for the 10+2 students. But the former CM’s result was withheld due to the pendency of the mandatory paper of language in matriculation.Board chairperson Jagbir Singh said the supplementary examinations for the matriculation and senior secondary started today. He said 129 cases of use of unfair means and one case of impersonation were detected by the flying squads of the Board during the first day of examination in the state. A total of 15,554 students appeared at 80 examination centres today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ex-cm-op-chautala-appears-in-matric-exam-in-sirsa-299031
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||After skipping honour ceremony by Haryana, Neeraj Chopra arrives in Chandigarh, meets CM Khattar||Indian javelin thrower and Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra reached Chandigarh on Wednesday to meet Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Chopra, who had skipped the state government’s honouring ceremony held on August 13 in Panchkula, was received by state Sports Minister Sandeep Singh.“I am happy to come here. It gives me immense pleasure to start my career here,” said Chopra.While revealing his plans on taking over as head of Centre of Excellence, in Panchkula, in a post offered by the state government, Chopra said: “I will think about this. I will try my best to promote sports in the country. Right now, my target is to bring a medal in the World Championship next year. I have tournaments scheduled including Commonwealth Games.”Asked if he has plans to leave the Indian Army and join Haryana government, Chopra said: “As I said, my plan is to bring more laurels for the country, nothing beyond that.”“I thank Haryana government for taking proper care of players. I must appreciate the state sports policy. It was a dream come true and I hope this gold medal would motivate youngsters and coming generation,” added Chopra.“My health is fine. I am taking proper care and will take all necessary precautions. I am looking forward to restart practice,” added Chopra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-skipping-honour-ceremony-by-haryana-neeraj-chopra-arrives-in-chandigarh-meets-cm-khattar-298941
