21-08-2021||---||Child rights panel writes to Chandigarh DC for FIR against Hooda, other Cong leaders||Chandigarh, August 21  Chairperson of Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Jyoti Bainda, on Saturday wrote to the Chandigarh DC for registration of FIR against Congress leaders, including former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, for using a child in their march on August 20. Hooda had led a march of MLAs from High Court chowk to Vidhan Sabha on variety of issues, including paper leak scams and fuel price hike.   “In the said protest, the leaders of the Indian National Congress -- Shakuntla Khatak, Kuldeep Vats acting on the behest of Bhupinder SIngh Hooda are seen using a minor in their protest and in a video it could be seen when the child who is a student of class 3 was asked about the reason of the protest he had no answer to it which shows the child was involved in the protest without his will and forcefully. The act of the leaders of the Haryana Congress party i.e. Shakuntla Khatak, Kuldeep Vats acting on the behest of Bhupinder Singh Hooda is a sheer violation of the child rights...,” wrote Bainda to DC.  Bainda has taken a suo motu congnisance of the incident too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-rights-panel-writes-to-chandigarh-dc-for-fir-against-hooda-other-cong-leaders-300300
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vacancy of over 33 per cent lecturers and 29 per cent TGTs in Haryana||There is a vacancy of over 33 per cent lecturers and over 29 per cent Training Graduate Teachers (who teach up to Class 10th) across Haryana.  The facts came to light during a reply by the education department to a question of Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary on Friday.  There is a requirement of 39,289 lecturers in Haryana but only 26,216 are working, as on July 1. There is a vacancy of 13,073, which comes to 33.3 per cent.  Among Training Graduate Teachers (TGTs), there is a vacancy of 11,041 which amounts to 29.3 per cent of the total workload of 37,719 posts. However, despite the higher workload, the sanctioned posts are just 35,454.  In the case of Primary Teachers/JBTs (Mewat cadre), there is a shortage of 28.6 per cent. Against a requirement of 3,562, just 2,544 are working. There is a shortage of 1,018 teachers.  Till July 1, a total of 1,045 posts of principals were vacant out of a sanctioned strength of 2,226, but 711 were filled on August 4. So, 15 per cent are still vacant.  In the case of headmasters of high schools, there were 155 vacancies out of a sanctioned strength of 1,078 on July 1. But 98 were filled on August 12, leaving a vacancy at 5.3 per cent.  There is a shortage of non-teaching staff too in the education department.  At headquarters, there is a shortage of 34.6 per cent, as there are vacancies of 212 against sanctioned posts of 612. In field offices, there is a shortage of 45.8 per cent of non-teaching staff as there are vacancies of 9,423 against sanctioned posts of 20,586.  The government says that it has written to the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for filling up 3,646 posts of Post Graduate Teachers in various subjects, 2,636 posts of TGTs, and 952 posts of primary teachers for Mewat cadre.  It added that the demand to fill up 6,695 posts of peons has also been sent to Chief Secretary, Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vacancy-of-over-33-per-cent-lecturers-and-29-per-cent-tgts-in-haryana-300244
21-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Badkhal Lake revival  sees poor progress||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 20There has been poor progress in the revival work of the Badkhal lake due to the delay in forest clearance and alleged sloppy work. Only 25 per cent work has been done on the Rs 26 crore STP (sewage treatment plant) meant for refilling the dried up water body.located in ecological sensitive zone The work on the Rs 79-crore Badkhal lake revival project was launched in April 2018, sources in the district administration said. Eeven after 40 months, the project had failed to get the nod from the Environment and Forest Department, they said. The spot is located in the ecological sensitive zone of the Aravallis. The STP, a vital component, is aimed at supplying 10 MLD of treated water daily into the lake bed lying dried up for the past two decades. The refill plan had been prepared on the basis of reports by experts who had said the STP was the only dependable and permanent source of supplying water to the lake.According to officials, the lake will be able to be filled only after the STP becomes functional and given the progress, the project may take at least one more year. The lake, a famous tourist spot in the NCR till 2000, has gone dry due to large-scale mining and lack of upkeep. “The work remained suspended till December 2019 due to no clearance from the Forest and Pollution Control Department”, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-badkhal-lake-revival-sees-poor-progress-300080
21-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Bill to speed up land acquisition tabled in Haryana Assembly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Land acquisition, especially for ongoing projects, is set to be put on the fast track in Haryana.What’s in the BillFive other Bills tabledThe BJP-JJP government today introduced a Bill in the Haryana Assembly proposing major changes in the land acquisition Act, including dispensing with the need for Parliament’s approval and social impact assessment study for infrastructure projects.The Right to the Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment), Bill, 2021 also makes provision for the payment of lump sum compensation to the farmers in case there is written agreement between the state government and the farmers.“To ensure that the existing infrastructural projects do not suffer and are completed on time, the state government intends to amend the Principal Act of 2013 to exempt certain development projects, including rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors, health, education and urban metro rail projects, from the preview Act pertaining to conducting Social Impact Assessment Study,” Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said while introducing the Bill.Dushyant Chautala said in case of written agreement between the state government and the farmers, the Bill made a provision of the payment of the lump sum amount of 50 per cent of compensation as rehabilitation and resettlement cost.Meanwhile, the words “approval of Parliament” are to be substituted with the words “to comply with the direction given by the state legislature to the state government” in the Bill meaning that the state government would have the final say in land acquisition matters.Dushyant Chautala asserted that the Act of 2013 had given rise to a new approach to the issue of land acquisition for development purposes with a view to ensure that the farmers, who part with their lands, were enabled to share the benefits of progressive development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-to-speed-up-land-acquisition-tabled-in-haryana-assembly-300081
21-08-2021||---||Congress MLAs ‘pushed around’ at Haryana Vidhan Sabha check post, privileges committee to probe||Chandigarh, August 20  As the Congress MLAs complained that they were stopped at Vidhan Sabha check post and were pushed around in a scuffle with security personnel, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta referred the matter to the privileges committee to investigate.  Leader of Opposition and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “I was stopped. I told them (security personnel) it was my right to go inside Vidhan Sabha. Despite telling that they know me, they stopped us and pushed us.”  Earlier, Congress MLAs led by Hooda marched from the High Court Chowk to the Vidhan Sabha on the issues of paper leak scam, atrocities on farmers, rising unemployment, inflation and rising crime graph in the state. The party MLAs raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government and raised placards and balloons with slogans like ‘Scam ki baat hai, BJP-JJP sarkar hai’, ‘paper leak ki gold medallist sarkar’ and ‘Take back the cases filed against farmers’. A child carrying a placard while sitting on a rickshaw was also part of the protest march.  Talking to reporters, Hooda said the present government was trying to suppress all the scams including liquor, registry, mining, electricity meter and paddy purchase. “The government also wants to cover up the recruitment paper leak scam but the Congress demands that there should be a CBI inquiry into the matter under the supervision of the sitting judge of the High Court,” he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mlas-pushed-around-at-haryana-vidhan-sabha-check-post-privileges-committee-to-probe-300082
21-08-2021||---||Milkha Singh remembered||Chandigarh, August 20The monsoon session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha commenced with passing of obituary resolutions to pay tributes to prominent personalities who expired recently.The House placed on record its sense of sorrow on the demise of ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh.Those remembered included former Haryana Governor Jagannath Pahadia, former Speaker Satbir Singh Kadian, former minister Kamla Verma, former Deputy Minister professor Maha Singh, former Minister of State Rao Dharam Pal, former Minister of State Bahadur Singh and former members of Haryana Legislative Assembly Kitab Singh, Dariyao Singh Rajora, Chaudhary Zile Singh and Puran Singh. Tributes were also paid to four freedom fighters and 24 soldiers who were martyred recently.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda urged the House to pass a resolution to pay tributes to farmers who during the agitation in the past several months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/milkha-singh-remembered-300083
21-08-2021||---||Tokyo medal winners hailed||Chandigarh, August 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar congratulated all sportspersons who represented the country in the Tokyo Olympics-2020 on behalf of the House today.He said the House was proud that this time 30 out of 127 players who participated in the Olympics were from Haryana. The House takes special pride in sharing that out of the seven medals won, three were bagged by the state players.Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “The state government should recommend Neeraj Chopra to be given the post of Honorary Colonel in the Army and Ravi Dahiya, Bajrang Punia and hockey players should be directly appointed DSPs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-medal-winners-hailed-300084
21-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||136 cases filed against farmers in Haryana during agitation against farm bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20A total of 136 cases have been registered till date against protestors or farmers during the agitation against farm bills across 17 districts of the state.The government submitted these details in reply to a question of Congress chief whip BB Batra today.In Sonepat alone, 26 FIRs have been registered, which are the maximum, followed by 15 in Ambala, 14 in Kurukshetra and 12 in Sirsa.In total, 731 accused have been mentioned by name while close to 33,000 have been mentioned as unknown. The maximum accused by name have been mentioned in Kurukshetra, where the figure is 147, followed by 114 in Ambala.In Sirsa, an FIR registered on November 27 mentioned 10,000 unknown accused, which is the maximum.Out of the 136 FIRs, sedition charges were pressed in two cases, one in Sirsa and another in Bahadurgarh (Jhajjar). In these two cases, three people are mentioned by name and 80-90 accused are unknown.The Sirsa case was registered on July 11, on the complaint of the duty magistrate, after farmers attacked the cavalcade of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa when he was leaving the Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU).The Bahadurgarh case was registered on January 15, on the allegations that an accused, Sunil Gulia, had uploaded a video on social media wherein he vowed to launch a cannon attack against the government if it did not listen to the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/136-cases-filed-against-farmers-in-haryana-during-agitation-against-farm-bills-300085
21-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC raps former judicial officer for ‘trying to play mischief with court’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped its former judicial officer for “trying to play mischief with the court” and for his “clandestine approach”.The admonition by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came after judicial officer Dinesh Kumar sought the recalling of an order passed in September 2014, whereby his petition was ordered to be dismissed with liberty to seek revival.The petitioner contended the delay in filing revival application occurred following his lawyer’s death. The Bench asserted: “A perusal of the application shows the applicant is trying to play mischief with this court by covertly putting the entire blame on his previous counsel’s death. The applicant took a conscious decision to resign in view of the registration of an FIR at Delhi and now has come up with this application because he has been acquitted by criminal court vide order dated December 8, 2017, duly affirmed by Appellate Court vide order dated December 24, 2019.”The Bench observed the applicant joined as judicial magistrate second class in May 1998. A letter dated July 20, 1998, was received from the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime & Railways, Delhi, seeking permission to arrest him in a cheating and forgery case under Sections 177, 193, 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 448 and 120-B of the IPC, registered at the Hauz Khas police station in New Delhi. The Full Court, while granting permission for investigation, placed the petitioner under suspension.Apprehending arrest or dismissal from service, he submitted a month’s notice for resignation in August 1998 on medical grounds, which was accepted on October 14, 1998. A telegram for resignation withdrawal was received on October 12, 1998, much after notice period expiry.Consequently, order dated October14, 1998, was challenged. The Bench asserted that the applicant was not only well educated, but thoroughly conversant with law. The litigant was expected to be vigilant of his rights, especially when he remained a judicial officer. It was not expected from the litigant to sleep over his rights for nearly seven years and then wake up from slumber to file an application, alleging he could not pursue his petition following previous counsel’s death.The Bench asserted that the plea regarding the previous counsel’s death was made-up/false story. The petition was signed by two counsels and argued by a senior counsel. As such, he was represented by two counsels, both working in the senior counsel’s chamber. The associates/assisting counsel were representing him till September 18, 2014, when the petition was dismissed. As such, the applicant did not come to the court with clean hands and had tried to mislead the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-raps-former-judicial-officer-for-trying-to-play-mischief-with-court-300086
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij put on oxygen support, misses House session||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij was today put on oxygen support after his oxygen level dipped in the morning. The minister had to give a miss to the proceedings of the first day of the monsoon session of the state Assembly because of his condition. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of Pulmonary Medicine Department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, rushed to Ambala to monitor Vij’s condition, who was put on oxygen support at his Ambala residence. Vij, who had contracted Covid after getting the first dose of Covaxin during its human trials, has not been able to fully recover from the after-effects of Covid. His oxygen level suddenly dipped below 80 in the morning. By the evening, the oxygen saturation had reached 89, but it was still much less than normal parameters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-put-on-oxygen-support-misses-house-session-300087
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress corners govt on varying income figures||The per capita income in ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ has come out to be Rs 61,558 per annum while per family income is Rs 2.48 lakh per annum. CM Manohar Lal Khattar submitted the facts in reply to a question of Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma.Khattar replied that till August 18, 2.2 crore people belonging to 54.74 lakh families in the state have given their signed consent by registering themselves in PPP.Khattar said that the verification process for income data was currently underway.He said that self-declared income is verified through digital medium from other available databases maintained by the Central government or state government and through physical verification by specially constituted committees.The verification of income is also done through digital medium with the income tax database of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).However, as per the state’s economic survey, per capita income at constant prices is estimated to be Rs 1.64 lakh during 2020-21 and Rs 2.4 lakh at current prices.Sharma questioned that if per capita income of the state as per PPP is as low as Rs 61,558, then no one would come to the state to work here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-corners-govt-on-varying-income-figures-300088
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Question hour to be held on all 3 days: Speaker||Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today said that one hour would be reserved for Calling Attention every day during the Monsoon session. Holding a press conference today, he said that it was decided in Business Advisory Committee (BAC) today that question hour would be held on all the three days of the session. He added that zero hour was being conducted for the first time where MLAs could raise their issues. He said that Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had demanded extending the session to a week but other members in the BAC opined that three days were sufficient for carrying out legislative work. The other members of BAC are CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa and the Speaker. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/question-hour-to-be-held-on-all-3-days-speaker-300089
21-08-2021||Parveen Arora||75% posts of ADO vacant in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 20The Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare is struggling to spread awareness about the schemes of the Union and state government as around 75 per cent posts of agriculture development officers (ADOs) are lying vacant in the district.About the postAgriculture Development Officers (ADOs) are a major link between farmers and the Department of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, in regard to implementation of various schemes, including Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Soil Health Card, ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’, crop mapping and other schemes of the Union and state governments.As per the data collected by The Tribune, the district has 41 sanctioned posts of ADOs but only 10 are filled. The others are lying vacant for the past couple of years, hampering the department’s field work.Sources in the department said recruitment for the post had not been done due to the delay in implementation of service rules.An official said in 2008-09, the post of ADO was turned to gazetted officer from non-gazetted officer. Earlier, their recruitment was done by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission, but now their appointment had come under the Haryana Public Service Commission (HSPC).In the absence of ADOs, who educate farmers about crops, insecticides, pesticides, fertilisers, weather and other technologies, the field work of the department had been affected badly, the officer said.One of the ADOs said due to lack of officers, they had been given extra areas to cover, that led to extra burden on them.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), admitted that the posts of the ADOs were lying vacant, but against them, they have deployed supervisors having qualification of B.Sc Agriculture so that the work of the department was not affected.He said the supervisors were reaching out to the farmers to educate them about different schemes.On the other hand, an official said the supervisors were only assisting the existing ADOs and they could not replace them.Dabas said service rules had been framed to appoint the officers and soon the government would recruitment over 500 ADOs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-posts-of-ado-vacant-in-karnal-300090
21-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||1,782 Rohtak farmers yet to return aid||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 20Not even a single ‘ineligible’ farmer in Rohtak district has refunded the monetary aid received under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, even after one and a half months of being put on notice to deposit the amount. The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department is now gearing up to serve them the second notice.A total of 1,782 income tax payee farmers in Rohtak had managed to get monetary aid under the yojana that aims at providing Rs 6,000 per annum in three instalments for agricultural works.Only those farmers having land in their name in the revenue records are entitled to get the aid. The beneficiary should not be an income tax payee, doctor, advocate, engineer or chartered accountant. He/she should also not get a monthly pension over Rs 10,000. But the farmers received three-to-six instalments of Rs 2,000 each and eight instalments of Rs 2,000 each have so far been credited to the beneficiaries’ bank accounts.Similarly, 74 (4.3 per cent) of the total 1,710 ‘ineligible’ farmers in Mahendragarh and 121 (5.8 per cent) of 2,072 such farmers in Jhajjar have so far refunded the amount.Sources said the ‘ineligible’ farmers were detected when the Centre sent details of all beneficiaries to the I-T Department for verification. Thereafter, the state government was directed to recover the amount.Dr Inder Singh, deputy director agriculture (DDA), Rohtak, said “Some beneficiaries have submitted affidavits, claiming that they are not income tax payees. Their affidavits have been sent to the head office for verification, while one more chance will be given to other farmers for returning the amount before taking action against them,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-782-rohtak-farmers-yet-to-return-aid-300091
21-08-2021||Palwal||Priest refuses to pay back Rs 5,000, killed||The local police have arrested a person on the charges of murdering a priest (mahant) of Kondla mandir in Hodal subdivision of the district.A spokesperson for the Police Department said Shatrudyas (35), hailing from Himachal Pradesh but currently residing in Kamar village of Mathura district, had killed Baba Charangiri Maharaj (50) on the night of August 18 after a dispute over money. The accused, in a fit of rage, attacked the Baba with a Trishul (prong) kept inside the temple after the latter declined to return an amount of Rs 5,000 taken from him several months ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/priest-refuses-to-pay-back-rs-5-000-killed-300092
21-08-2021||---||Yamunanagar: Teacher turns up drunk, suspended||Yamunanagar, August 20The Education Department has suspended a teacher, who reportedly came to school in an inebriated condition. On the complaint of Pawan Kumar, a former member of Azizpur Kalan panchayat, the teacher was booked at Bilaspur police station on August 18.In his complaint, Kumar stated that the teacher, posted at Government Middle School of their village, used to come in an inebriated condition. They asked him several times not to do so, but he paid no attention to their requests.On the complaint of village residents, the teacher was taken for a medical examination, which confirmed that he was in a drunken conditionRamdiya Gagat, District Elementary Education Officer, Yamunanagar, said “I have suspended the JBT teacher on August 19”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-teacher-turns-up-drunk-suspended-300093
21-08-2021||Sonepat||Mining officer found dead at rest house||The District Mining Officer was found dead at the PWD rest house here on Thursday morning. His family members took away the body to Ambala without postmortem.The deceased was identified as AK Chauhan. He was posted to the city around a month ago. Chauhan’s driver Naresh Kumar said he reached the rest house on his call but found him unconcsious. Chauhan was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-officer-found-dead-at-rest-house-300094
21-08-2021||Hisar||Couple kills landlord  over Rs 500 in Hisar||The local police have solved the murder case of a 60-year-old woman with the arrest of a couple from Punjab’s Mansa district. The accused, identified as Jai Bhagwan and his wife Pinky, were tenants at the victim’s house and had a dispute with her over electricity bill.The police said they had recovered the body of Sarita, a resident of Shastri Nagar of Hisar, from her house on August 14. There was a dispute between Sarita and the couple on outstanding balance of Rs 500 on account of electricity bill. During the scuffle, one of them hit her with a wooden stick, leading to her death. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-kills-landlord-over-rs-500-in-hisar-300095
21-08-2021||People continue to suffer due to the stray cattle menace in the district. The cattle roaming freely on roads not only pose a serious threat to road users but also prove a hindrance in smooth flow of traffic. The municipal authorities are aware of the issue but no action is being taken.||No check on stray cattle menace in Rohtak||Parveen Kumar, RohtakWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-check-on-stray-cattle-menace-in-rohtak-300106
21-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No death due to oxygen shortage in Haryana: Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Haryana Government today told the Assembly that no death due to lack of oxygen was reported in the state. The government was replying to a query raised by Congress legislature party’s deputy leader Aftab Ahmed.136 FIRs against farmersHouse told that 136 cases had been filed against farmers protesting against three farm laws across 17 districts.Speaking during the question hour, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the government did not receive any report of death due to shortage of oxygen from hospitals in the state. He said the state had initially got a quota of 150 MT of oxygen, which was later increased to 285 MT, although the demand was of 350 MT.He said adequate arrangements were made for the supply of oxygen. “There was no discrimination of any kind. During the second wave, the daily oxygen supply and requirement were calculated thoroughly,” Khattar said.The House was told that among the government facilities, the maximum 323 Covid deaths took place at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal. It was followed by Government Medical College, Nalhar (299), and Civil Hospital, Panchkula (287).Till July 31 this year, 26 health officials — 11 doctors, eight paramedics, two Asha workers and five other staff members — lost their lives. They were eligible for life insurance of Rs 50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded that a high-level committee be constituted to find out the actual number of Covid deaths in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-haryana-manohar-lal-khattar-300001
21-08-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Punjab, Haryana, PGI yet to pay advance for high-end flats at Chandigarh IT Park, alleges housing board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20Despite repeated reminders, the Punjab and Haryana governments and the PGI are yet to pay 25 per cent advance money for high-end flats to be constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology (IT) Park.The CHB had proposed a scheme to construct luxurious flats at IT Park in September 2019 and had sought suggestions from both the governments to buy the flats for their officers and MLAs. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the PGI had also shown interest in the project.After finalising the drawings of the project, the CHB had demanded 25 per cent of the total amount in advance for starting the construction of the flats. However, even after sending several reminders, the CHB was yet to receive the advance payment from the Punjab and Haryana governments and the PGI, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB. Recently, officials of the CHB gave a presentation in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan and officials of the Engineering Department.Garg said the Income Tax Department had recently sought information regarding the scheme, but they were yet to get a confirmation from the department.The CHB has decided to construct 10 towers with 28 flats each having a base price of Rs2 crore for each flat. Both governments and the PGI are expected to pay Rs66 crore each for their share of the flats. The project will come up on 6.73 acres at IT Park.Meanwhile, the CHB will soon launch a new self-financing general housing scheme at IT Park. It has submitted the building plan to the Plan Approval Committee of the UT, but is yet to receive the approval.After getting the approval from the committee, environment clearance would be required to launch the scheme, an official said, adding that the board had already submitted the necessary documents to obtain environment clearance in order to save time, but would not get it until they got the building plan approved.The CHB has planned to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers for the general public.In the project, the towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat Rs1.90 crore and a two-bedroom flat Rs1.30 crore. As per the proposed plan, the IT park project will have 28 4BHK, 448 3BHK and 252 2BHK flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-pgi-yet-to-pay-advance-for-high-end-flats-at-chandigarh-it-park-alleges-housing-board-299976
21-08-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI, Chandigarh, death rate way more than AIIMS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20At the PGI, one in every 13 patients admitted to the hospital this year died, accounting for a death-patient ratio of 1:13.42. Last year, one in every 14 patients had died at the institute. The death-patient ratio has worsened during the past two years at the PGI, courtesy Covid.On the contrary, AIIMS, New Delhi, saw lesser deaths in 2021 and its death-patient ratio was 1:20.8 till June.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “The institute has been admitting serious and critical patients of Covid-19 since March last year. The death rate among severe Covid patients was very high. The PGI is the only tertiary care hospital in Punjab, Haryana and HP. Mostly, the PGI is flooded with patients from various quarters through referrals. We cannot send patients to other hospitals, unlike AIIMS, Delhi, which has an option of referring patients to other hospitals such as Safadarjung Hospital. That is why, AIIMS has a better death-patient ratio than the PGI.”Around 7,122 Covid patients have been admitted to the PGI so far, of whom 1,221 belonged to Haryana and 2,864 to Punjab. A total of 1,713 patients have died due to Covid-19 at the PGI — a mortality rate of 24 per cent.The details of the patients who died during the past three years and the current year in hospitals under the Centre and its associated institutes, along with the death-patient ratio, was presented by the Health Ministry in the Rajya Sabha recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgi-chandigarh-death-rate-way-more-than-aiims-299982
21-08-2021||Sushil Manav ||Haryana Home Minister Vij on oxygen support after condition deteriorates||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 20 Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij was on Friday put on oxygen support after his oxygen levels dipped in the morning. Vij had to give a miss to the proceedings of the first day of monsoon session of the state Assembly because of his health condition. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, Head of Pulmonary Medicine Department of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, rushed to Ambala to monitor Vij’s condition, who was put on oxygen support at his Ambala residence. Vij, who had contracted coronavirus after getting first dose of Covaxine during its human trials, has not been able to fully recover from the after-effects of Covid-19. His oxygen level suddenly dipped below 80 in the morning. By the evening, the oxygen saturation had reached 89, but it was still much less of the normal parameters. When contacted on phone, Vij said that though he had post-Covid complications in the past, he had almost recovered of late. “On August 13, I had gone to Rohtak to attend the cremation of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s younger brother. While returning, I boarded the chopper with the CM. No doctor had ever warned me against taking a flight. But the low air pressure in the chopper on a high altitude suddenly deteriorated my condition during the 54-minute journey. I started feeling dizzy. When I checked my oxygen level, it was 86. While returning to Ambala from Chandigarh, my oxygen saturation dipped further to 76. Since then, I have been experiencing problem of low oxygen level intermittently,” Vij said when contacted by The Tribune on phone.Dr Chaudhary said that even before the chopper ride, the minister had started experiencing body aches. He was diagnosed with iron deficiency, too. However, Vij’s condition worsened, since his oxygen level dipped drastically during the chopper journey, Dr Chaudhary said.He said that the minister had been put on antibiotics and steroid therapy.“We will monitor his condition for 48 hours and if need be, we will hospitalise him so that he could be kept under constant observation,” said Dr Chaudhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-vij-on-oxygen-support-after-condition-deteriorates-299867
