22-08-2021||---||Days after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij's raid, elderly ‘beaten up’ at Panchkula's Raipur Rani police station||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 21Raipur Rani SHO Yashdeep Singh and ASI Devi Dayal have been sent to the Police Lines for allegedly beating up a 70-year-old Dalit man from Hangola village.He was called to the police station yesterday for questioning over a land dispute between two parties.Question mark over police workingThe incident has put another question mark over the functioning of the local police who are already under fire from critics for several reasons such as deteriorating law and order situation, inaction and negligent attitude by its officers, flourishing hookah bars and illegal mining. The surprise inspection conducted by Home Minister Anil Vij recently at the Sector 5 police station had put the spotlight on the working of police officials in dealing with complaints.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh has also ordered an inquiry into the matter. ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra will lead the probe.Gurnam Singh, a retired head teacher, has alleged that they had sought the police’s intervention in a matter pertaining to illegal occupation of shamlat land (village common land) but the police, rather than addressing their grievance, beat him up.‘’We had filed a complaint to the SHO, Raipur Rani police station, over the matter, asking the police to stop those trying to occupy the shamlat land. As per a police notice, we went to the police station where the other party was already present. ASI Devi Dayal didn’t listen to me and those accompanying me but hit me on the head with a wooden stick.’’Hours after the incident, members of the Bhim Army gathered outside the police and raised slogans against the Panchkula police and the SHO. Nehra said: ‘’As of now, prima facie, we have transferred both police officials to the Police Lines. A detailed inquiry is pending. The matter will be thoroughly investigated.’’When asked about the matter, Nehra said: ‘’The matter pertains to a dispute between two parties over 170-180 acres of shamlat land in Hangola village in Raipur Rani block. While one party claims the land belongs to them, the other says they are illegal occupants.”Saurabh Singh said: ‘’Because of the complexity of the matter, both the SDM and the Tehsildar of the area inspected the disputed land on Saturday. An open meeting with both parties in the upcoming week will take place in the presence of officials concerned to resolve the matter at the earliest.’’Meanwhile, Inspector Yashdeep Singh termed allegations levelled against him as ‘’false’’.“When both parties started fighting inside the police station itself, a police official tried to intervene which led to Gurnam falling on his head and hitting the edge of a bench placed right behind him,’’ he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/days-after-haryana-home-minister-anil-vijs-raid-elderly-beaten-up-at-panchkulas-raipur-rani-police-station-300459
22-08-2021||Hisar||Ex-serviceman shot in Hansi||An ex-serviceman was shot by unidentified assailants in Hansi last night. The victim was identified as Rituraj Yadav (35). He was in his shop here when assailants opened fire at him.The police have said the reason for murder has not been ascertained.He was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. The victim had served as a Special Police Officer (SPO) with the police after he had retired from the Army. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-serviceman-shot-in-hansi-300476
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 19 new cases, 1 more dead in Haryana||With 19 new cases and one death in Karnal, the Covid tally of the state reached 7.7 lakh. So far, 9,666 deaths have taken place. The maximum cases came from Gurugram. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-19-new-cases-1-more-dead-in-haryana-300376
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to bear life insurance premium of women SHGs||In a gesture towards the women self-help groups (SHGs) associated with the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission, the state government has decided to pay their premium of the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) using the funds under the Mukhyamantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana.About 3.25 lakh women will be benefitted by this decision.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolio of rural development, said the economic condition of rural women had been affected due the pandemic.The data collected has revealed that of 4.91 lakh women, who are associated with the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission in the state, 1.64 lakh have got themselves covered under the PMSBY. But about 3.25 lakh women are still unable to take benefit of the said scheme due to Covid.Dushyant said poor people get accident, life and health insurance cover under the PMSBY at a premium of only Rs 12 per annum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-bear-life-insurance-premium-of-women-shgs-300378
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Book Congress leaders for using child in protest: Panel to Chd DC||Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Jyoti Bainda today wrote to the Chandigarh DC for registration of an FIR against Congress leaders, including former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, for using a child in their march on August 20.Hooda led a march of MLAs from the High Court chowk to Vidhan Sabha on a variety of issues, including paper leak scams and fuel price hike.“In the protest, Congress leaders Shakuntla Khatak and Kuldeep Vats acting at the behest of Hooda are seen using a minor in their protest. In a video, it could be seen that when the child, who is a student of Class III, was asked about the reason for the protest, he had no answer for it. This shows the child was involved in the protest without his will,” Bainda wrote to the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-congress-leaders-for-using-child-in-protest-panel-to-chd-dc-300380
22-08-2021||---||More than 33% posts of school lecturer vacant in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 21There is a vacancy of more than 33 per cent Post-graduate Teachers or lecturers (who teach Class XI and XII) and over 29 per cent trained graduate teachers (who teaches up to Class X) across Haryana.The facts came to light in a reply of the Education Department in reply to a question of Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary.There is a requirement for 39,289 lecturers in Haryana, but only 26,216 are working. There is a vacancy of 13,073, which comes to 33.3 per cent.Among the TGTs, who teach up to Class X, there is a vacancy of 11,041 which amounts to 29.3 per cent of the total workload of 37,719 posts. However, despite higher workload, the sanctioned posts are just 35,454.In case of primary teachers/JBTs (Mewat cadre), there is a shortage of 28.6 per cent. Against the requirement of 3,562 just 2,544 are working. There is a shortage of 1,018 teachers.The government says that it has written to Haryana Staff Selection Commission for filling up 3,646 posts of Post Graduate Teachers in various subjects, 2,636 posts of TGTs and 952 posts of primary teachers for Mewat cadre. It added the demand to fill up 6,695 posts of peons has also been sent to Chief Secretary.Precarious position||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-than-33-posts-of-school-lecturer-vacant-in-haryana-300377
22-08-2021||---||Sack, book 7 officials for fraud: Kaithal DC||Kaithal, August 21Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Dahiya has recommended sacking of seven officials of the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission for alleged financial irregularities. He has also recommended that an FIR be registered against them.He made the recommendations on the investigation report submitted by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Satbir Kundu. “I have written to the CEO, Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission, for immediate action against the seven officials,” said the DC.As per the report, District Project Manager Rajat Bhaskar, Siwan block project manager Ramphal Sharma, women’s self-help group president Renu, treasurer Sunita, Dhand block data entry operator Neeraj, Pundri block data entry operator Sunaina and Rajaund block data entry operator Rakesh Sharma had allegedly been involved in financial irregularities.The matter was raised by members of a women’s self-help group at the CM window, accusing some officials of Punjab National Bank of having misbehaved with women members.“The inquiry report found irregularities in issuing loans and funds to self-help groups,” said the DC.As per the ADC’s report, the seven erring officials had shown in the records that self-help groups were given Rs 2.88 lakh for making anti-dust masks, while Rs 79,814 was shown as labour cost. However, masks worth only Rs 99,934 were sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sack-book-7-officials-for-fraud-kaithal-dc-300379
22-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside order sending orphan to child care institute||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana HC has set aside the orders of Gurugram Child Welfare Committee whereby a minor who had lost her parents and grandparents to Covid was sent to a child care institute.The HC also ordered the restoration of the child’s custody to relatives she was staying with after the tragedy.Taking up the matter, Justice Vikas Bahl of the High Court also expressed hope that the petitioner-“blood brother of the minor’s father” and respondent-“real paternal aunt and uncle” would stand firm on their undertaking of not selling her share in property and “put it in her name once she attains majority”.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after the petitioner submitted that the minor was staying with them since April 24. He had even had filed a petition under the provisions of the Guardians and Wards Act before the competent court and the matter was pending.He also submitted that the committee, on the asking of the respondent-relatives, sought the child’s production. It then ordered sending the child in the custody of a child care institute.The respondent-relatives, on the other hand, stated they too had extreme love for the minor and had filed custody case before the competent court at Gurugram.Justice Bahl asserted the court had considered the entire matter and was of the opinion that impugned orders deserved to be set aside and custody handed over to the petitioner.“Her continuance in the shelter home would cause great mental and psychological harm to the child, more so when there are two close relatives and both wanting to take care of the child and have sufficient means to do the same… Since, the minor child was admittedly residing with the family of the petitioner when her custody was taken by respondent-committee, this court feels that till the time the matter is not adjudicated by the Guardian Court/Civil Court with respect to custody of the minor child, the custody of the minor child should be given to the petitioner so as to observe status quo ante…,” Justice Bahl concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-sets-aside-order-sending-orphan-to-child-care-institute-300383
22-08-2021||---||Chief of Western Command visits Kharga Corps||Ambala, August 21Lieutenant General RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, visited Kharga Corps on Friday to review the operational preparedness of the formation.He was received by Lieutenant General NS Raja Subramani, General Officer Commanding, Kharga Corps.The Army Commander was briefed on various aspects of operational and administrative preparedness of the formation. During the visit, Lieutenant General Singh interacted with senior officers of the formation and expressed satisfaction with the high standards of professionalism.He commended the formations for its sustained strife towards force preservation during the Covid pandemic without losing focus on professional training. Lieutenant General Singh exhorted all ranks to continue working with zeal and be prepared for any future operational challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-of-western-command-visits-kharga-corps-300381
22-08-2021||Gurugram||Street vendors’ scam: 4 rehabilitation agencies booked in Gurugram||Following a complaint by the MC in the ongoing street vendors’ scam, the Gurugram police have registered an FIR for fraud against four rehabilitation agencies for duping the civic body of its revenue.The MC had earmarked places in the city for street vendors under the Street Vendor Act 2014. The responsibility of street vendors’ registration, police verification and work for the installation of CCTV cameras was given to four agencies — M/s Spick and Span services Pvt Ltd, Leo Mediacom, Egmac Pvt Ltd and Nasvi Street Food Pvt Ltd. The registration charge was decided at Rs 1,500 for per vendor in which the agency was to deposit Rs 500 per person into the MC account, but it was never paid.“We received many complaints that these agencies were charging Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh from street vendors and didn’t even provide them the stall or return their money,” said R C Bishnoi, ADC.“As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered,” said Inspector Krishan Kumar, SHO, city police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/street-vendors-scam-4-rehabilitation-agencies-booked-in-gurugram-300382
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya felicitates hockey players||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday felicitated hockey stars of Tokyo Olympics at a function organised by Hockey Chandigarh.The five players were given a cash award of Rs 5 lakh each while the two coaches were given a cash award ofRs 2.5 lakh each. Those felicitated included Rupinder Pal Singh, Gurjant Singh, Monika Malik, Sharmila Devi, Reena Khokhar, Shivendra Singh and Gurminder Singh.The Governor said under the new sports policy, the state government was giving Rs 6 crore to gold medallists, Rs 4 crore for silver andRs 2.5 crore to bronze medallist Olympians. He said all states should prepare a sports policy to encourage players so that they could perform better. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-felicitates-hockey-players-300384
22-08-2021||---||2 more held in HSSC exam leak case in Kaithal||Kaithal, August 21The Kaithal police have arrested two more people allegedly involved in Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable paper leak case. Earlier, the police had arrested 23 persons.The accused have been identified as Sonu of Uklana in Hisar and Dharambir of Malikpur of Bhiwani. As per the police, Sonu was involved in the circulation of the answer key and had arranged some candidates for accused Narinder Singh. Dharambir had allegedly taken Narinder along in his car to give the answer key to candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-held-in-hssc-exam-leak-case-in-kaithal-300385
22-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram woman accuses cousin of rape, nabbed||Gurugram, August 21The Gurugram police nabbed a private company executive for allegedly raping his cousin sister after forcibly making her consume alcohol.The accused was produced in a city court today from where he was sent to judicial custody.According to the complaint filed by the victim, a resident of Sector 52, she is working with a private company and regularly visited her cousin’s home near Jharsa village.On February 16, she visited her cousin’s home where he allegedly made her drink alcohol and raped her. When she became conscious, she objected to it. But he threatened to kill her and start blackmailing her. He repeatedly raped her after that. Finally after a long silence, she moved the police.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused at women police station. He was nabbed and later confessed to the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-accuses-cousin-of-rape-nabbed-300386
22-08-2021||Gurugram||Man stabs friend to death in hotel in Gurugram||A man stabbed his friend to death in a hotel and fled away. The CCTV footage that went viral showed the man running out followed by a bleeding woman who collapsed on the stairs.The 36-year-old woman was brutally stabbed 12 times in the throat and chest by the man who brought her to this Sector-14 hotel.The incident was captured in the CCTV camera installed in the hotel. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified man at Sector 14 police station.According to the police, the deceased woman has been identified as Imrana, a native of Agra in UP. She had been living in Rajiv Nagar colony with her husband and three children since 2019.According to the complaint filed by her husband Mohammad Shahid, at around 8 pm on Friday, his wife went to IFFCO chowk in an autorickshaw to meet her friend Sachin. He took her to Deeksha Hotel. They checked-in in room 206 and, within 15 minutes, Sachin came rushing out.Seeing his blood-stained clothes, the hotel staff tried to nab him but he fled away. Within a few minutes, the victim came out stumbling and fell on the stairs. She soon succumbed to her injuries and the hotel staff called the police who took the body into custody.In the preliminary investigation, the police have found that the ID submitted by the accused was fake. The CCTV footage showed him covering his face and putting a knife in a bag.According to forensic expert Dr Deepak Mathur, the woman died within three minutes of being stabbed. The police are questioning auto driver Rinku. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-stabs-friend-to-death-in-hotel-in-gurugram-300374
22-08-2021||---||Discom officer booked for sexual abuse in Yamunanagar district||Yamunanagar, August 21A woman employee has levelled allegations of sexual harassment against a senior officer of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL).The woman employee is posted on the post of assistant line man (ALM) under the outsourcing policy in an office of UHBVNL of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of the victim (25), a case was registered against the senior officer of Yamunanagar Circle of UHBVNL (operation) under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 354-A (sexual harassment of the nature of unwelcome physical contact and advances or a demand or request for sexual favours etc) of the IPC at women’s police station, Yamunanagar, on August 20.The complainant said that the officer called her twice to his office on July 30. “When I went to his office, he asked me to sit on the chair and I sat on it. After a while, he asked me to bring the chair closer to the table and I moved the chair a little closer,” the victim alleged in her police complaint.She alleged that the officer caught her hand both times in his office. She alleged that the officer also asked her to meet him at 11 am at Jagadhri’s Matka Chowk on July 31, but she refused to do so.“He caught my hand and asked me to come to his side of the table, but I refused. I was afraid and I left the office immediately,” alleged the victim.She further alleged that now, he was threatening to kick her out of her job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discom-officer-booked-for-sexual-abuse-in-yamunanagar-district-300387
22-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Wrestler Deepak Punia gets rousing reception at native village||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 21Though wrestler Deepak Punia could not win a medal in the Tokyo Olympics, residents of his native Chhara village here accorded him a hero’s welcome on Saturday.Deepak Punia, WrestlerNow Eyeing medal in CommonwealthIt’s the result of love, motivation and support from the people of my country that I reached close to the bronze medal. I'll make all efforts to win a medal in Paris. At present, my target is to win gold in the Commonwealth Games next year.Youths danced to dhol beats and chanted ‘Deepak Zindabad’ as the wrestler was brought to the village in an open car. Elated locals also garlanded him and said he had brought laurels to the village by winning a million hearts by his brilliant performance in his maiden Olympics appearance.Deepak had lost the bronze medal to San Marino’s Myles Nazem Amine in the 86 kg category by a whisker.“It was the result of love, motivation and support from the people of my country that I could reach close to the bronze medal. I’ll make all efforts to win a medal in Paris. Due to injuries, I am taking rest these days. My next target is to win gold in the Commonwealth Games scheduled next year,” Deepak said while talking to the media.His coach Virendra Arya said Deepak could not bring a medal from Tokyo but had gained a lot of experience, which would help him in coming events. “He is a talented wrestler and will definitely bring medal for the nation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestler-deepak-punia-gets-rousing-reception-at-native-village-300388
22-08-2021||Sunit Dhawan||In 7.5 months, 601 online fraud cases in five districts in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 21Cheating cases, especially related to cyber crime, are on the rise in the city, with online fraudsters employing new tricks to dupe people.Of the 601 cases of cheating and online fraud registered in five districts falling under the Rohtak range between January 1 and August 15 this year, 305 pertain to Rohtak district alone. It is followed by Sonepat (113 cases), Bhiwani (112), Jhajjar (56) and Charkhi Dadri (15).Senior citizens have become the soft target as they easily fall for the glib talk of fraudsters. For instance, Vijay Luxmi, a retired schoolteacher residing in Sector 1 here, tried to recharge her mobile phone’s network service online through her savings bank account. The recharge failed, but the amount was deducted from her account.When the money was not refunded to her account within the stipulated period, she called up, what she believed, bank’s customer care number that she got from a Google search. The person, who posed as the bank executive, sought her bank account details and a one-time password (OTP) sent on her mobile phone.Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Cyber Crime Tricks of the gameConmen posing as bank officials or customer care executives commit online fraud. They defraud persons on the pretext of OLX deals and welfare schemes.The unsuspecting elderly woman gave the information. Subsequently, Rs 2 lakh was deducted from her account. It was later learnt that the money was transferred to two bank accounts — one in Chhattisgarh and the other in Telangana — in 20 transactions of Rs 10,000 each.Vijay Luxmi’s husband Om Prakash said, “I got an FIR registered and also lodged a complaint at the CM window. No action has been taken to date.”Jitendra Prasad, a retired professor of sociology, also became a victim of an online fraud more than two years ago. He is still running from pillar to post to get his money back.Inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO of cyber crime police station here, said: “Online fraudsters operating from far-off states pose a challenge to investigators. Physical verification of official records takes time and unavailability of trains is challenge.”In all, 44 cases of online fraud registered in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts have been referred to the cyber crime police station, which caters to the Rohtak range.“Conmen posing as bank officials or customer care executives of companies commit online fraud. They defraud unsuspecting persons on the pretext of OLX deals and government welfare schemes,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-7-5-months-601-online-fraud-cases-in-five-districts-in-haryana-300389
22-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram flooded, traffic hit||A few hours of heavy rain in the morning and evening today led to waterlogging in Gurugram, affecting vehicular and pedestrian movement.It left many parts of the city, especially the expressway waterlogged. The worst-hit areas were Delhi-Gurugram expressway, service lane near Jharsa Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Galleria Market, Iffco Chowk, Posco red light, AIT Chowk, Sector-54, Jawala Mill, Udyog Vihar and Basai Road.The morning rush-hour traffic was affected and the police struggled to keep the vehicles moving. Waterlogging was also reported from areas like the Old Delhi road in front of Maruti Gate-1 andPalam Vihar roundabouts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-flooded-traffic-hit-300371
22-08-2021||Panipat||Downpour affects life in Panipat, Sonepat||Heavy rainfall in the region on Saturday morning threw life out of gear. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed at various places on the National Highway-44.Continuous rainfall since Friday night left Sonepat and Panipat waterlogged, exposing the tall claims of the Municipal Corporations of having cleaned the drains.In Panipat, 125 mm rainfall was recorded in the past 24 hours, which led to waterlogging in several localities, including NH-44, Model Town, Bishan Saroop Colony, Sukhdev Nagar, SD College market road, Sanjay Chowk, Insaar Market, Chaura Bazaar, Gurdwara Market, Sectors 11-12 and Tehsil Camp, causing inconvenience to locals. Blocked sewers in the markets added to the chaos.In Insaar market, water entered inside shops while the condition in outer colonies in low-lying areas of the city was similar with sewage water flowing into houses. Houses were flooded in Samalkha too.In Sonepat, 108 mm rainfall was recorded in the past 24 hours, due to which several areas, including Sectors 14 and 15, Old DC Road, near Shani temple, Kakroi Chowk, Geeta Bhawan Chowk, Atlas Road, Double Storey area, Bandepur, Rohtak Road, Old Industrial Area and Delhi Road, were waterlogged. The power supply was also disrupted in some areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/downpour-affects-life-in-panipat-sonepat-300375
22-08-2021||---||Power theft raid goes awry in Hisar village, team held hostage||Hisar, August 21A team of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) was held hostage by residents of Sisar village in the district on Saturday. After several hours, the villagers let off the team members after senior administrative officials intervened.The team comprising Junior Engineer Ravinder Singh, five other staff members and two police personnel had gone to the village early morning to conduct raids following complaints of power theft in the village.However, the villagers objected to the team’s functioning as they visited some houses. The residents gathered in the village and took the team members to the ‘chaupal’ located in the middle of the village.Vikash Sisar, a farmer leader, alleged that there were no written instructions with the visiting team to carry out raids in the village. “Besides, certain team members misbehaved with our women. It has become routine for the electricity officials to harass the villagers,” he alleged.Later, a villager called up a Sub-Divisional Engineer of the DHBVN to inform him that the villagers had held the team members hostage in the village. After that, Hansi police station SHO Paramjeet Singh went to the village to placate the villagers.The villagers agreed to release the team after SDM Hansi talked to the villagers. The Station House Officer (SHO) said that the villagers had taken the electricity officials to the ‘chaupal’ for talks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-theft-raid-goes-awry-in-hisar-village-team-held-hostage-300370
22-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Net addiction pushing youth to depression, says study||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 21Over 40 per cent of college students are addicted to the Internet and many of them are showing symptoms of depression. This was revealed by a study conducted jointly by the University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre, (BMHRC), Bhopal, PGIMER, Chandigarh, and AIIMS (Jodhpur, Bhubaneswar and New Delhi).“The study has shown that Internet addiction (IA) is higher among male students who stay away from their homes. They spend more than three hours a day surfing the Internet mostly at night,” said Jaison Joseph, a faculty member at College of Nursing, UHS. Abin Varghese of the Bhopal centre said, “We analysed 50 studies published during 2010-20 in which students in the age group of 17-35 were surveyed in 19 states.”The study suggested there was a need to develop a national policy on the use of Internet among young adults. If this was not done on priority, the country would see a large population dependent on the Internet requiring medical attention, said co-investigators Prof Sandeep Grover and Dr Manju Dhandapani of the PGIMER, Chandigarh.40% college-goers hooked on the web||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/net-addiction-pushing-youth-to-depression-says-study-300327
22-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Over 51% posts of staff nurse vacant in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21With the fear of third wave of Covid-19 looming large and Opposition seeking answers on preparation, shortage of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians has come to the fore during the question hour of the Haryana Assembly.In reply to a query by Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary, the Health Department said, “There is a shortage of 27.3 per cent medical officers as against the sanctioned strength of 3,596, 980 positions are vacant. Among senior medical officers, it is 35.4 per cent as 209 of 590 positions are vacant.“The vacancies should be filled soon. We need more specialist doctors,” said Dr Jasbir Parmar, president, Haryana Civil Medical Services Association. There is a vacancy of 79.3 per cent in case of matrons and 57.1 per cent at the level of assistant matrons. There are 436 sanctioned posts of nursing sister, but out of them 228 are vacant, which is 52.3 per cent. Among public health nurses, there is a vacancy of 82.1 per cent as 96 posts are vacant out of 117.There are 4,403 sanctioned posts of staff nurse, but just 2,143 are working (shortage of 51.3 per cent).“In the times of Covid, what have we learnt? The data shows we are sitting like ducks before the third wave. What corrective measures have we taken? The huge shortage reflects poor preparation. That was why this question was asked,” said Chaudhary. The government reply mentioned that “the filling of vacancies is a continuous process”.The situation is similar among dental surgeons. There are 703 sanctioned posts, but 110 are vacant (15.6 per cent). Among senior dental surgeons, the vacancy is 49.1 per cent as 26 posts are vacant out of 53. Among dental assistant-cum-mechanic, there is shortfall of 61.8 per cent.There are 1,082 sanctioned posts of pharmacists, but 716 are on job. There is a shortfall of 366, which is 33.8 per cent. Similarly, there is a shortfall of 16 chief pharmacists against 36 posts.Only 78 ophthalmic assistants are employed against the sanctioned strength of 195. The vacancy is 60 per cent. Only 90 radiographers are working in the health department against the sanctioned strength of 322. There is a vacancy of 232 (72 per cent).A total of 711 posts of lab technicians are vacant out of the sanctioned strength of 1,057. It amounts to 67.3 per cent.Similarly, among senior lab technicians, there is a shortfall of 71.7 per cent as 33 posts are vacant out of 46. Just four lab attendants are working against the sanctioned strength of 32. As many as 67 posts (70.5 per cent) of ECG technicians are vacant out of 95. Among physiotherapists, 55 posts are vacant out of 62 (88.7 per cent).Shortfall in health dept27.3% shortage of medical officers79.3% vacancy in case of matrons90 radiographers working against sanctioned strength of 322711 posts of lab technician vacant out of 1,057||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-51-posts-of-staff-nurse-vacant-in-haryana-300329
22-08-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Caught on CCTV: ‘Friend’ stabs woman to death in Gurugram hotel, flees||Gurugram, August 21In a shocking incident, a man stabbed his friend to death in a hotel and fled. The CCTV footage that went viral showed the man running out of the hotel and the bleeding woman collapsing on the stairs.The 36-year-old woman was brutally stabbed 12 times in throat and chest by the man who brought her to the Sector 14 hotel. An FIR has been registered against the accused at Sector 14 police station. Teams of Sector 14 police station and crime unit are conducting raids to nab the accused who is still at large.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Imrana, a native of Agra in UP, and was living in Rajiv Nagar colony with her husband and three children since 2019.As per the complaint filed by her husband Mohammad Shahid, on Friday night around 8 pm, his wife went to IFFCO chowk in an autorickshaw to meet a friend, Sachin. He took her to Deeksha Hotel. They checked in room 206 and within 15 minutes Sachin came rushing out. Seeing his blood-stained clothes hotel staff tried to stop him but he managed to dodge them. Within minutes, the victim tumbled down the stairs. She soon succumbed to her injuries and hotel staff called police who took the body in custody.In the preliminary investigation, police have found the ID submitted by the accused to the hotel as fake. The CCTV showed him covering face and stuffing a knife in a bag.According to forensic expert Dr Deepak Mathur, the women died within 3 minutes of being stabbed. The police, meanwhile, have been questioning autorickshaw driver Rinku.“A case of murder has been registered. Investigation is on to identify the accused and to arrest him. Only after his arrest it will be revealed that why he murdered the woman,” said inspector Satender Singh, SHO of sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/caught-on-cctv-friend-stabs-woman-to-death-in-gurugram-hotel-flees-300292
22-08-2021||---||Panipat: Heavy rain in region throws life out of gear||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServicePanipat, August 21Heavy rain in the region on Saturday morning threw life out of gear.The rain since Friday night left Sonepat and Panipat waterlogged, exposing the claims of the MCs of Panipat and Sonepat of having cleaned the drains.Several localities witnessed waterlogging in Panipat and Sonepat, including National Highway-44, Model Town, Bishan Saroop Colony, Sukhdev Nagar, SD College market road, Sanjay Chowk, Insaar Market, Chaura Bazaar, Gurdwara Market, Sectors 11-12 and Tehsil Camp, causing inconvenience to locals.The blocked sewerages in the markets intensified the problem. A similar situation was witnessed in Samalkha.In Sonepat, the heavy downpour was recorded at 70 mm due to which several areas witnessed waterlogging. Sectors 14 and 15, Old DC Road, near Shani temple, Kakroi Chowk, Geeta Bhawan Chowk, Atlas Road, Double Storey area, Bandepur, Rohtak Road, Old Industrial Area and Delhi Road were waterlogged.The power supply was disrupted. Sonepat and Panipat districts rainArea                            Till 8am             Sonepat                        70mm                Gannaur                       51mm               Gohana                        10mmKharkhoda                   18mmRai                               95mm Khanpur Kalan            36mmPanipat                         90mm                         Samalkha                     62mmMadlauda                     22mmIsrana                           36mmBapoli                          16mm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-heavy-rain-in-region-throws-life-out-of-gear-300195
