23-08-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Woman gangraped in Gurugram, autorickshaw driver among two nabbed||Gurugram, August 23Three persons, including an autorickshaw driver, have been booked for allegedly thrashing and gangraping a woman who took a ride in the auto late Sunday evening.The victim had noted down the auto’s number thus helping police nab two suspects, while the third one is still at large.An FIR has been registered at Palam Vihar police station and police have seized the autorickshaw. The arrested accused produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody.According to the complaint filed by 26-year-old woman, a native of UP and presently living in a rented house in Dundahera village with family, on August 21 evening she was returning home after meeting with a friend in Khandsa village.“I took a ride in an auto from bus stand. I first noted down its number. At that time some other passengers too were in the auto. After a passenger got down, the auto driver and one of his friends threatened me. They took me behind a temple near Dundahera and also called their friend and the trio raped me. After this they fled away and I somehow reached home in late night and approached police the next day,” the victim told police.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against the trio under Sections 376-D (gang rape), 323 (causing hurt) of IPC at Palam Vihar police station. With the help of auto’s registration number police nabbed two accused who are identified as auto driver Vikram alias Mahender Pratap and his friend Manoj, while Aarif is absconding.“The arrested accused were produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody. Our team is on job and conducting raids to nab third accused who will be arrested as earliest possible,” said inspector Sanjay Yadav, SHO of Palam Vihar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-gangraped-in-gurugram-autorickshaw-driver-among-two-nabbed-301057
23-08-2021||New Delhi||Aravali: Demolition of illegal structure to continue, observes SC; civic body says farmhouses razed||The Supreme Court on Monday said that demolition of all unauthorised structures standing on Aravali forest land in Faridabad’s Khori village has to continue, even as the municipal corporation informed it that some farmhouses have already been razed there.The apex court, while hearing an application filed by owners of some marriage halls which have received notices from the civic body, said that Faridabad Municipal Corporation has to proceed and demolish the unauthorised structures as per law.A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said as per previous order of the apex court, the intervenors are supposed to make representation to the concerned authority which will consider them.“Let the corporation decide on your representation and after that is decided, we will consider what course of action can be adopted. Today, all unauthorised structures are being demolished and that has to continue,” the bench told the counsel appearing for the owners of some marriage halls.The counsel appearing for the municipal corporation told the bench that they have filed a compliance report in the matter on Monday and as far as representation is concerned, there is already a direction by the court and the authority will consider it in accordance with law.“We have already demolished few farm houses,” the lawyer appearing for the civic body said.When the bench said it would hear the matter after two weeks, the counsel appearing for marriage hall owners submitted that in the meantime, the authority should not demolish their structures while they consider their representation.The bench told the counsel that they can make representations and the authority will consider it.“If it is unauthorised, it has to be demolished as per the present law and legal position. The corporation has to proceed. Let them proceed,” the bench observed and posted the matter for hearing on September 6. The apex court had on August 3 said all unauthorised structures on Aravali forest land in Khori village will have to go as its order passed in the matter regarding demolition of such buildings was “very clear”.On July 23, the top court had granted four more weeks to the municipal corporation to remove encroachments on the Aravali forest land, after the civic body had said unauthorised structures on nearly half of the total 150 acre area has been cleared.The bench was last month informed that the municipal corporation has undertaken a planned drive to remove unauthorised constructions and so far, 74 acres out of 150 acres was cleared and back in the possession of the civic body.On June 7, the top court had directed state of Haryana and Faridabad municipal corporation to remove “all encroachments”, consisting around 10,000 residential constructions, in Aravali forest area near the village, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge of rule of law” and talk of “fairness”.It had passed the June 7 order after hearing a separate plea filed by five alleged encroachers against the demolition drive of civic body. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aravali-demolition-of-illegal-structure-to-continue-observes-sc-civic-body-says-farmhouses-razed-301039
23-08-2021||Sirsa||Haryana Diary: Pharmacists honour Savita Punia in Sirsa’s Jodhka village||Yatra creates flutter in local politicsRewari: The Jan Aashirvad Yatra recently taken out by newly appointed Union Minister Bhupender Yadav created a flutter in local politics as his elevation is being seen as a planned move by the BJP to pitch him in Ahirwal that is the citadel of another Union Minister Rao Inderjit. Yadav is a Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan but he belongs to Jamalpur village of Pataudi town, a part of Gurugram parliamentary seat being represented by Rao in the Lok Sabha. His yatra was accorded a rousing reception by all those local leaders who are considered part of anti-Rao Inderjit lobby within the BJP. But Rao gave a twist to the equation by inviting Yadav for dinner. “The dinner was nothing but a damage-control exercise to shut his opponent’s mouth but everyone knows Yadav may pose a challenge to Rao in the coming days,” comments a political analyst.Minister ill, but active on TwitterChandigarh: Haryana’s firebrand Home Minister Anil Vij may have missed the proceedings of the ongoing monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly due to illness, but he is quite active on social media. Be it condoling the death of former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, mocking former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti for her remarks on Afghanistan and his routine meetings, the media-savvy minister used social media platforms like Twitter and WhatsApp to remain in the news. That’s another matter that the media missed his one-liners and repartee inside the state Assembly.Roads flooded despite 3 civic agenciesFaridabad: The city got a third agency in the form of Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) for speedy development after Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) and HSVP, all headed by senior IAS officers. But a vacuum seems to be there in the matter of accountability for looking after the problem of waterlogging. “There is no helpline or official concerned who could be contacted to lodge a complaint regarding waterlogging which stalls traffic movement after every downpour like the one witnessed on Saturday,” says Ajay Bahl, a social activist. He said while the CM had directed FMDA officials in the last meeting to install pumps at low-lying spots including the underpasses, these remained waterlogged for more than 24 hours with no agency taking responsibility of the job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-pharmacists-honour-savita-punia-in-sirsas-jodhka-village-300888
23-08-2021||---||UP resident arrested with illegal pistol||Yamunanagar, August 22A man was arrested with an illegal country-made pistol near Buria town today, the police have said. The accused has been identified as Vikas of Kutubpur village of Saharanpur district (Uttar Pradesh).Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said the anti-vehicle theft cell received a tip-off that a man was wandering with an illegal weapon near Buria town.Subsequently, a team was formed and arrested Vikas. A country-made pistol and a live cartridge were recovered from him.The spokesperson said the accused admitted to have stolen a motorcycle from Model Town here on March 2.The accused was produced before the duty magistrate, Jagadhri, and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/up-resident-arrested-with-illegal-pistol-300884
23-08-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose varsity signs MoU with RVM CAD Consultants||Road safety awarenessAmbala: A road safety awareness programme was orgaised at SD Vidya School. The Chief Judicial Magistrate and DLSA Dr Sukhda Pritam, advocate legal aid counsel Vijay Pal Singh, advocate VP Sen Gupta, Rotarians VK Sharma and Rajesh Chopra, Rotaract club president Amanpreet Kaur and Rotaractarian Jaspreet Kaur graced the programme. The director- principal of the school, Neelinderjeet Kaur Sandhu welcomed the guests. Dr Pritam asked the students to be cautious in life. She said students should learn to maintain balance in every sphere of life may it be academics, career or environment.Webinar on science & technologyFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology YMCA, Faridabad organised a national webinar on 'Development of science and technology in India' to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav in association with Vigyan Bharati Haryana, Faridabad. The programme was presided over by Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. The chief guest of the programme was Director CSIR-National Institute of Science Communication and Policy Research (NIScPR), Prof Ranjana Agrawal. She enlightened the gathering about the contribution of Indian scientists in development of science and technology in India. She described the sacrifices made by great scientists of India during the colonial period. The keynote speaker was DGM (retd) IOCL, R and D Centre, Krishna Singhal who gave a broad sketch of Indian sciences starting from the era of Charak, Sushruta and Aryabhatta.Student placed in Delhi-based firmHisar: Alok Yadav of BTech ECE 2021 batch of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Gurugram-based New Age Instruments & Materials Pvt. Ltd organised by the training & placement cell of the university. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students.Faculty development programmeHisar: The department of electronics and communication engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar unveiled a one-week Atal Academy-sponsored faculty development programme (FDP) on the topic, "Modern antenna technologies for futuristic wireless communication systems". The FDP is being organised in the online mode. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor, said powerful new technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence and Internet of things (IoT) held great promise to improve lives of the citizen at an unprecedented pace and scale.Online awareness activity for vetsHisar: An online awareness activity on "Foot-and mouth disease (FMD) virus sero-surveillance: DIVA strategy" for veterinary surgeons of all 22 districts of Haryana posted at different disease diagnostic labs along with personnel from State Disease Diagnostic Lab, Sonepat was organised under the guidance of Dr Gurdial Singh, Vice-Chancellor; Dr Parveen Goel, Director of Research; and chairman Dr Naresh Kumar Kakker, Professor and Head, Department of Veterinary, Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS). The meeting was coordinated by Dr Arjun Singh, Deputy Director and Vipin Khasa, veterinary surgeon, State Disease Diagnostic Lab, Sonepat. The objective of the online meeting was to spread awareness among the field staff of the department animal husbandry and dairying for forthcoming plan of directorate of foot-and-mouth disease (DFMD) for FMD sero-surveillance/ DIVA strategy under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP) of the Government of India launched by the Prime Minister during the first meeting of the Cabinet in May 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-varsity-signs-mou-with-rvm-cad-consultants-300885
23-08-2021||The upcoming toll plaza on the National Highway-19 being developed near Gadpuri village on the border of Faridabad and Palwal is not only undesired but will also prove a financial burden on commuters and residents of both the districts. According to norms a minimum of 60 kilometres should be kept between two toll plazas||Toll plaza on border of Faridabad, Palwal to hit residents’ pocket||Kaithal Drain a death trap for commuters, stray animalsThe Manas drain in Kaithal town has virtually turned in to a death trap as its large portion remains uncovered posing great risk to the lives of children and stray cattle. The pucca drain carries town's sewge and other waste water to sewer treatment plant on Manas road here. The drain constructed few years ago has started leaking at many places. Due to many big uncovered openings, animals usually slip in to it and are rescued by the locals. The department concerned should take steps to cover open spaces to avoid any tragic incident. —Satish seth, KaithalNo Power connection in 16 licensed coloniesThe DHBVN has stopped giving electrical connections to 16 licensed colonies for not depositing pending dues by builders. The pending dues from colonies are in crores. Buyers/builders are not getting a temporary connection in these colonies for construction. Even the process of getting a temporary connection after depositing money for transformers has also been stopped, leaving thousands of residents inconvenienced. —Abhishek Poonia, GurugramResidents face water supply issues due to faulty workThe authorities concerned should take greater interest in checking the quality of work done by contractors, be it the construction of roads, drain or laying of a pipeline. It has to be strictly as per the contract's terms and conditions. Due to faulty work done by the contractors in the laying of pipeline and no attention paid by the official concerned, residents have to face the brunt. Residents of Kabir Nagar and many other localities are facing water supply-related issues due to the faulty work in the laying of pipeline. Strict action should be initiated against all concerned for the faulty work done. —Rajesh Kumar, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toll-plaza-on-border-of-faridabad-palwal-to-hit-residents-pocket-300886
23-08-2021||---||Bahadurgarh's Atul Dhankar wins bronze in swimming||Jhajjar, August 22Atul Dhankar of Bahadurgarh town clinched the bronze medal in the 200m backstroke event in the 47th state level swimming competition being held in Gurugram. He had also won the bronze medal in the 800m freestyle swimming event last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarhs-atul-dhankar-wins-bronze-in-swimming-300878
23-08-2021||Karnal||Top borer disease under control, say Haryana agriculture experts||A survey report, submitted by experts of the Agriculture Department, Haryana, has indicated that the top borer disease, which was a worry for the sugarcane farmers, is presently at the economic threshold level.The experts also recommended some suggestions for the farmers, including decreasing the area under Co-0238, use of recommended insecticides with proper formulation at proper time and with proper method of application.They said that at present, there was no recommendation of insecticides against the disease. Trichogamma cards may be used to control it. Farmers should use proper spray equipment and spray method along with proper quantity of water at the time of the spray.Top borer is the one of most harmful pests of sugarcane, which causes serious infection in cane. This pest infects the upper portion of the cane and it becomes bunchy top and reduces the production of cane. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/top-borer-disease-under-control-say-haryana-agriculture-experts-300879
23-08-2021||---||Ancient Saraswati river ghat excavated in Pehowa||Kurukshetra, August 22The Centre of Excellence for Research on the Saraswati River, Kurukshetra University, has excavated an ancient Saraswati river ghat near Arunai temple in Pehowa of Kurukshetra.The site was identified in June this year. The team has excavated 12 stairs of the ghat and collected more than 20 samples from sediment beds.Prof AR Chaudhri, director, CERSR, told The Tribune, “We have excavated an ancient Saraswati river ghat near Arunai Temple complex and along the sides of the ghat, sediments accumulations reveal that a big river used to flow through this location. We have excavated 12 stairs, and the total depth of the trench and the staircase is around 4 metre. This bathing ghat falls on the Saraswati River paleochannel identified by CERSR and represents a unique case where the details mentioned in holy scriptures and the scientific investigations match.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ancient-saraswati-river-ghat-excavated-in-pehowa-300880
23-08-2021||---||Staff shortage matter of concern: Kurukshetra University Teachers Association||Kurukshetra, August 22The shortage of teachers on budgeted posts and no notification of regulations regarding the minimum qualification for the appointment and promotion of teachers in universities and colleges of Haryana have become a matter of concern for the Kurukshetra University Teachers Association (KUTA).Speaking to The Tribune, KUTA president Parmesh Kumar said, “The KU has 506 budgeted posts of teachers, and by the end of this year, around 258 posts will be vacant. The posts must be filled on a priority basis as it will not only hamper the quality of teaching and research work on the campus, but the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading as well, which is due next year.Kumar said the government should immediately allow the university to fill the vacant posts of teacher on priority. Currently, the KU has A-plus grade. Besides, the posts of teachers under the self-financed scheme (SFS) should be converted into the budgeted ones. It will improve research work, quality education and academic activities of the university which is very important for a Grade-A university.”“More than three years been passed, but the state government has not notified regulations regarding minimum qualifications for the appointment and promotion of teachers in universities and colleges of Haryana,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staff-shortage-matter-of-concern-kurukshetra-university-teachers-association-300881
23-08-2021||Kaithal||Kaithal panchayat secretary suspended for graft||Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Dahiya has suspended panchayat secretary of the district’s Dera Gadla village for allegedly embezzling panchayat funds.He also recommended action against the Kaithal Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDO) and Junior Engineer (JE) of the Panchayati Raj Department in the same case.He has written a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Panchayat, in this regard. The DC took action on a report submitted by a committee led by the ADC.“I have suspended panchayat secretary Parveen Kumar, and recommended action against Kaithal BDPO Surinder Sharma, SDO Vivek Kumar and JE Raj Krishan Chutani,” said the DC.In a complaint to the DC, it was said that the BDPO and the panchayat secretary had passed a resolution on May 21 for four development works in Dera Gadla village.The estimate for two of the works was Rs 17.58 lakh, while the estimate of the remaining two works was Rs 4.7 lakh and Rs 7.42 lakh.Two development works were completed, while the other two never took off. “As per rules, e-tenders are invited for works above Rs 5 lakh. In this case, no e-tenders were invited,” the report stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-panchayat-secretary-suspended-for-graft-300871
23-08-2021||Faridabad||Two workers electrocuted in Faridabad||Two persons lost their life after they got electrocuted accidently in the waterlogged part of an under-construction building of a private hospital in Sector-89 here.According to the complaint lodged with the police, the incident took place on Saturday evening when two employees of the construction company identified as Pramod, employed as security supervisor, and Jagat Singh, a plumber, entered the waterlogged basement of the building in connection with some work. Both of them got electrocuted to death on the spot.While Pramod hailed from Mhow in MP, Jagat belonged to Jewar in UP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-workers-electrocuted-in-faridabad-300873
23-08-2021||---||Faridabad hospital employee held for minor’s rape||Faridabad, August 22An employee of a local private hospital has been arrested on the charge of raping a 14-year-old girl on Saturday, the police have said.The accused, identified as Raj Kishore (24), is a housekeeping supervisor in the hospital.The victim’s father, in her complaint to the police, said that he, along with his daughter, went to the hospital for his dialysis treatment around 11 am on Saturday.The father was getting his treatment done when Kishore lured the girl on some pretext and took her to the basement, where he allegedly raped her. The accused fled after the incident.The accused was produced in court, which remanded him to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-hospital-employee-held-for-minors-rape-300868
23-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana Lokayukta’s salary set to be cut||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Haryana’s next Lokayukta will get less salary than his predecessors, with the BJP-JJP Government tabling a Bill in the Haryana Assembly.The Haryana Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was introduced in the Assembly by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday, and will be taken up for discussion on August 23, says that the amount of pension which the Lokayukta would be getting due to his previous service, would be deducted from his salary.Assembly to PASS Bill today“The salary, allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of Lokayukta shall be same as may be available from time to time to a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court or Chief Justice or Judge of the high court, as the case may be minus pension already drawn for the previous service, if any, including commuted portion. Provided that the salary, allowances and other privileges available to the Lokayukta shall not be negotiable. Besides, the allowances payable and other conditions of service of the Lokayukta shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment,” the Bill moved by Chief Minister said.The government is replicating Centre’s Lok Pal and Lokayukta Act, 2013, in the state which has such provisions (salary minus previous pension) with respect of salary of Chairperson and members of National Lok Pal.Meanwhile, Hemant Kumar, an advocate, asserted that in August 2015, Haryana, in contravention of the Centre’s law, made a provision in the Haryana Lokayukta Act, 2002, for the grant of additional pension and pensionary benefits to the person who completed his tenure as Lokayukta at the rate applicable in case of a Judge of HC in respect of each completed year of service as Lokayukta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lokayuktas-salary-set-to-be-cut-300869
23-08-2021||Karnal||NDRI awarded for water conservation||The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) was awarded the prestigious Global Water Award 2021 for water conservation and project Agri. CRP on the occasion of the fifth World Water Summit 2021 on Sunday.The award was conferred by Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister of Jal Shakti to Dr MS Chauhan, Director, NDRI. “This award will boost our enthusiasm for developing more technologies for water saving and waste water reused in livestock-based farming system for the conservation of water at farmer’s level,” said the director. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ndri-awarded-for-water-conservation-300870
23-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Fairs at ‘tirthas’ in five Haryana districts to be revived||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 22To boost religious tourism, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has now decided to identify and revive fairs and religious events that used to be organised at different ‘tirthas’ (pilgrimage sites) decades ago.There are 134 ‘tirthas’ under the 48-kos land spread over Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and Jind districts of the state.A KDB official said that while the government and KDB have been trying to promote Kurukshetra as a major tourist destination, the majority of tourists reach Kurukshetra on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya, solar eclipse, Gita Mahotsav and to perform post-death rituals only.WILL BOOST LOCAL ECONOMYBesides attracting more tourists to Kurukshetra, the revival of religious events and fairs will financially help the local people who set up shops during fairs. —Madan Mohan Chhabra, Honorary secretary, KDBThe aim of reviving the old fairs and events is not only to boost religious tourism but also the economy.International Gita Mahotsav is one of the major events that the KDB organises at Brahma Sarovar. In 2019, over 40 lakh people had attended the festival and craftsmen had sold crafts worth crores of rupees during the ‘mahotsav’.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, KDB, said, “A large number of ‘tirthas’ have become extinct over time. Similarly, the fairs and events that used to be organised decades ago are not being organised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fairs-at-tirthas-in-five-haryana-districts-to-be-revived-300872
23-08-2021||---||Woman, daughter killed in Karnal road accident||Karnal, August 22A 30-year-old woman of Uttar Pradesh and her four-year-old daughter were killed and her husband sustained critical injuries as a truck hit their motorcycle near Malikpur village in the district today. The truck driver fled from the spot, leaving behind the vehicle at the place.The deceased were identified as Rinki and her daughter Gagandeep, residents of Sampla village in Shamli district in UP. Her husband Yogender Singh was critical and undergoing treatment at a hospital. As per the family members, Yogender was serving in the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB).TRUCK HITS MOBIKEThey were going to Rinki’s parental house in Panipat on the occasion of Rakshabandhan, but the truck rammed into their motorcycle, killing the woman and her daughter on the spot, the police added.The police impounded the truck and registered a case against the truck driver for negligent driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-killed-in-karnal-road-accident-300883
23-08-2021||---||Take action against NRHM ex-Director: Fatehabad court||Hisar, August 22The Fatehabad court has directed the lower court to proceed with a complaint against Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, who is the accused in an eight-year-old recruitment scam. He has retired from the post of the Director, National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), Health Department.Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Surender Kumar observed that “there is sufficient material on record to proceed further with the complaint against the accused for commission of offence punishable under Sections 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury) and 415 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code”.It ordered the trial court to pass a fresh order on the complaint in accordance with the law.On October 18, 2018, advocate Vinod Kumar had filed an application under Section 156(3) (judicial magistrate’s power to investigate cognisable case) of the CrPC for sending it to the SHO concerned for registering an FIR under Sections 166, 167, 415, 418, 463, 464, 466 and 468 of the IPC against Dr Kamboj.As per the complaint, Dr Kamboj had allegedly committed irregularities in the filling of vacancies in the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) when he was the Civil Surgeon in Fatehabad in 2013-14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-action-against-nrhm-ex-director-fatehabad-court-300882
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||16 new cases, 1 more dead in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday reported one Covid-related death, taking the toll to 9,667 and 16 fresh infections pushed the case count to 7,70,347. According to the Health Department’s daily bulletin, the latest death was reported from Kaithal district. Of the fresh cases, six were from Gurugram and three from Sirsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-new-cases-1-more-dead-in-haryana-300887
23-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Two inquiry reports blame Hisar hospital||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 22The two inquiries conducted into the death of five Covid patients in Hisar’s Soni Burn Hospital on the night of April 25 have indicated that negligence on part of the hospital in keeping the oxygen stock on standby and subsequent shortage of oxygen, besides the admission of patients beyond its capacity, were the reasons behind the deaths.The district administration had instituted two inquires, which had submitted their reports to the state government. The inquiry reports (copies of both reports are with The Tribune) had pointed out two reasons behind the deaths and put the blame on the hospital for the negligence which resulted in the deaths.The first probe report was prepared by the six-member District Medical Negligence Board. In its June 2 report, the board mentioned the shortage of oxygen was the apparent cause of death of five patients in the hospital who were already on ventilator. The stock of type D cylinders was relatively fewer compared to the demand of admitted patients.The report stated that there was no anaesthetist and physician in the hospital when the condition of the patients deteriorated.The probe report concluded, “Another inquiry may be done regarding delay or shortage in oxygen supply from Gupta plant.”The SDM inquiry report, too, concluded the hospital was negligent in arranging empty cylinders for refilling. “It was necessary for the hospital to get the cylinders refilled five times in a day to meet the demand. But the hospital could not make arrangement, which indicated its negligence,” the report stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-inquiry-reports-blame-hisar-hospital-300874
23-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rain brings misery, Faridabad bus stand remains ubmerged||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 22The rain that lashed the city yesterday has left several parts of the city deluged for the second day today. The general bus stand is among the localities that remained waterlogged on Sunday affecting the services of the Haryana Roadways and inconveniencing commuters.“The main bus stand located at Ballabgarh, remained out of limits for the buses and passengers, who wanted to travel by bus to various destinations,” said sources in the Transport Department. Despite plying of almost all buses, the commuters, including women passengers and children, who had converged to avail the free travel on the occasion of Rakshabandhan today, outnumbered the buses. “ The premises got waterlogged around 9 am on Saturday and remained deluged for the second day today due to poor drainage system and inadequate measures,” claimed an employee on condition of anonymity. He said hundreds of passengers who wanted to travel to various destinations were incinvenienced in the wake of the closure of the bus stand due to waterlogging.Poor drainage system, inadequate measuresThe premises got waterlogged around 9 am on Saturday and remained deluged for the second day on Sunday due to poor drainage system and inadequate measures. —Employee, Transport departmentNew state-of-the art bus stand to be builtFaced with drainage issues, the existing bus stand is proposed to be replaced with a new and state-of-the-art one to be built on the public-private partnership mode at a cost of Rs200 crore, the DPR of which is being prepared. —Mool Chand Sharma, Transport MinisterPassengers take to other means of transportMany passengers had to take other means of transport to travel to their destinations. The authorities failed to provide additional buses despite heavy rush. —Yogesh, Resident“Many passengers had to take other means of transport to travel to their destinations,” said Yogesh, a local resident, who could not get a bus for Sonepat this morning . He said the authorities failed to provide additional buses despite heavy rush. However, officials of the Transport Department claimed that 105 out of the fleet of 110 buses plied on various routes today. “Faced with drainage issues, the existing bus stand is proposed to be replaced with a new and state-of-the-art bus stand to be built at a cost of Rs 200 crore, the DPR of which is being prepared”, says Transport Minister, Mool Chand Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-misery-faridabad-bus-stand-remains-ubmerged-300875
23-08-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Rainwater enters houses of Jagadhri residents||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 22The rise in the level of roads is posing a problem to a number of residents in Sector 17 of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in Jagadhri city of Yamunanagar district.The rainwater enters several houses as the road level has become higher than that of the level of floor of the houses.When the Municipal Corporation authorities paid no attention to their problem, several residents of the sector lodged complaints on the CM Window portal for the redressal of the problem.“I constructed my house in Sector 17 in 1992. When the house was constructed, the level of the floor of the house was higher than that of the road,” said Satpal Kaushik, a resident of Sector 17, Jagadhri.Level of roads higher than that of housesRoads with inter-locking tiles are being constructed without dismantling the old charcoal-made roads. So the level of the roads has become higher than that of the houses. —Satpal Kaushik, Resident, Sector 17“The roads with inter-locking tiles are being constructed without dismantling the old charcoal-made roads. Therefore, the level of the roads has become higher than that of the houses,” said Satpal Kaushik.Rajpal, Another resident, said when the roads level was below the floor level of the houses in the area, excess rainwater drained through the channels. But after the road level was raised, rainwater entered their houses.Madan Chauhan, Mayor, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, said this problem had come to his notice and he would ask the MC officials to find a solution of the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rainwater-enters-houses-of-jagadhri-residents-300876
23-08-2021||---||Free health check-up camp in Rohtak village||Rohtak, August 22The Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and Haryana Gyan Vigyan Samiti jointly organised a free health check-up camp in Titoli village here today. Dr RS Dahiya, convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, said a total of 91 patients were examined in the camp by a team of doctors, including Sonia Dahiya, Aman Dhankar, Rajpal Beniwal and Parsanta. Free medicines were also provided to the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-health-check-up-camp-in-rohtak-village-300877
23-08-2021||---||No permanent campus for 48 govt colleges in Haryana: RTI query||Chandigarh, August 22An RTI query has brought out that of the 67 government colleges started between 2015 and 2020 across the state, 48 lack permanent campuses. The institutes operate from schools, government and private buildings, and temples.More than 30 colleges, primarily set up to take higher education to the grassroot level, function from schools, while seven colleges operate from government buildings. Three colleges run from temples, while another three operate from private buildings.Certain colleges are housed in “dharmshalas”, reveals the RTI query sought by education rights activist Deepanshu Bansal.Low on strengthThe lack of infrastructure is not the only concern. The number of students in some colleges remains a cause for worry. In all, 14 colleges have less than 100 students.Government College, Morni (Panchkula), which opened in 2020, has just three students, while Shri Mata Mansa Devi Sanskrit Government College, Panchkula, has 12.Of the 67 government colleges, 18 were constructed at the cost of Rs 268 crore. The cost of one college building was borne by a private organisation.Inordinate delayThe inordinate delay in constructing campuses is a deliberate attempt by the BJP-JJP government to benefit the corporate sector, which has opened several educational institutions. —Vijay Bansal, Chief, Shivalik Vikas ManchAnother problem is of human resources. In all, 46 of the 67 colleges are functioning without regular principals. Of the 19 institutes that have permanent campuses, 11 are functioning without regular principals.Vijay Bansal, president, Shivalik Vikas Manch, said: “The inordinate delay in constructing campuses is a deliberate attempt by the BJP-JJP government to benefit the corporate sector, which has opened several educational institutions.”Stop-gap measures 30 colleges function from schools7 from govt buildings3 from temples3 from private buildings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-permanent-campus-for-48-govt-colleges-in-haryana-rti-query-300864
23-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||4 months on, probe into four Covid patients' death in Rewari hospital yet to be completed||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 22The state government claims to have no death due to the lack of oxygen during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, but an inquiry into the deaths of four Covid patients at Virat Hospital here on April 25 has not been completed even after around four months.Kin of the deceased had, at that time, blamed oxygen shortage for the casualties.Also read: The then Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Rahul Hooda was, on the same day, tasked to inquire the case within 48 hours, but he could not do so. Later, on June 18, Haryana Social Justice and Empowerment Minister OP Yadav while chairing a meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievances Redressal Committee also ordered the district authorities to submit the inquiry report within 15 days, but nothing such happened.Plan to move HCWe have been running from pillar to post to get an inquiry conducted, but to no avail. Now, we are contemplating to move the HC to get justice. —Prof Nihal Singh (retd), victim’s kinSome days after the meeting, Hooda went on long leave without submitting the report. He was later shifted and no officer has joined the post since, prolonging the wait of the kin of the deceased.“No officer intends to conduct the inquiry due to political reasons. Now, it will be more difficult to carry out a fair inquiry into the matter for any administrative officer in a situation when the state government has already declared that no death has taken place in the state due to the lack of oxygen. Moreover, the hospital owner too had, at that time, blamed oxygen shortage for the casualties while talking to the media at that time,” said the sources.Meanwhile, Prof Nihal Singh (retd) of Garhi Bolni village claimed that oxygen shortage in the hospital led to the death of his brother Rishal Singh the next day.“My brother died due to negligence on part of the hospital as well as the district office of the Health Department. We have been running from pillar to post to get inquiry conducted into the matter, but to no avail. Now, we are contemplating to move the high court to get justice. However, an inquiry committee, set up by the Director General (Health), came to Rewari early this month to get the matter probed,” he said.Neither DC Yashendra Singh nor Dr Virat Vir Yadav, owner of Virat Hospital, could be contacted, while Civil Surgeon Krishan Kumar said the inquiry was pending before the ADC office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-months-on-probe-into-four-covid-patients-death-in-rewari-hospital-yet-to-be-completed-300865
23-08-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Haryana Government denial of oxygen shortage has families of Covid victims fuming||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 22The state government’s denial in the Assembly a day before of no death in the state due to the lack of oxygen has left families of eight Covid patients and local residents fuming.Also read: No death due to oxygen shortage in Haryana: Manohar Lal Khattar4 months on, probe into four Covid patients' death in Rewari hospital yet to be completedThe government, represented by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said it did not receive any report of death due to the shortage of oxygen from hospitals in the state. Contrary to same, eight patients had died at the local Kirti hospital after it ran out of oxygen and doctors and staff had allegedly fled the premises, leaving them to fend for themselves.‘Hospital at fault’After a month-long inquiry, the local health authorities found the hospital guilty of negligence. The complaint was filed by a kin of a patient that made the authorities to act. A medical board was constituted by CMO Dr Virender Yadav that found the hospital guilty of negligence in treatment and forwarded inquiry report to the higher authorities for further action. The board had specified that the conclusion of this single complaint could be taken as reference to drive conclusion on similar deaths which occurred at the same time in the hospital under same circumstances. However, no concrete action has been taken so far in this regard.“We don’t want to go through that trauma again. We submitted videos, gave statements to all, but no action was taken. The hospital flourishes and staff walks free. We are trying to bring family to terms with the tragedy that still haunts us, “said brother of a victim. It was in May that 8 people died after hospital ran out of oxygen. It was alleged that relatives of the dead assaulted doctors and hospital staff hid for their safety, but relatives alleged that they had run away, leaving behind the patients. A video had gone viral, showing the police coming and arranging emergency help as hospital staff was missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-denial-of-oxygen-shortage-has-families-of-covid-victims-fuming-300866
23-08-2021||---||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij in PGI, under observation||Chandigarh, August 22Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was admitted to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science and Research (PGIMER) here this evening as his oxygen levels dipped.Sources said the 68-year-old six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment was under the observation of a team of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist.Vij was on oxygen support at his residence at Ambala Cantonment since August 20 when his oxygen levels dipped. A team of the PGIMS, Rohtak, had earlier examined him and put him on oxygen support when his health deteriorated.Tests to check Oxygen levelsThey are conducting tests to ascertain why oxygen levels are dropping. All PGI doctors are taking good care of me. Don’t worry, I will come out of this hospital fully recovered. —Anil Vij, Health MinisterThe minister missed the monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly which began on August 20, the first time during his six terms as MLA,due to heath reasons.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tonight visited the PGIMER to enquire about the health of the minister.A few days ago, Vij had gone to Rohtak to attend the bhog ceremony of Khattar’s younger brother. On his way back, he flew back in the Chief Minister’s chopper. On account of high altitude, his oxygen levels dipped and had been fluctuating since then, necessitating oxygen support.Vij had contracted Covid last year and had to be hospitalised, first at the PGIMS and later at Medanta in Gurugram for over a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-and-health-minister-anil-vij-in-pgi-under-observation-300867
23-08-2021||---||BSNL customers face network issues in Ambala area||Ambala, August 22BSNL users have been facing network issues after a mobile tower was sealed by the Ambala Municipal Council Sadar Zone at Prabhu Prem Puram in Ambala Cantonment recently.‘Online classes hit’We have been facing network issues and the Internet is not working for the past few days. Online classes are getting affected. The BSNL must get the issue resolved. — Khushi, a class XII studentA BSNL user said: “A mobile tower was sealed recently due to which BSNL users have been facing network issues. The BSNL should have made alternative arrangements for the users timely”.BSNL SDO Paramveer Yadav said: “A site was hired by the BSNL in the Prabhu Prem Puram area. On August 18, the site was sealed by the Municipal Council and its power supply was disconnected due to some issue related to no-objection certificate. The higher authorities are in touch with the company concerned to get its documents submitted so that the service could be resumed. The tower at the sealed site was installed by a private company and the hardware equipment and antenna were installed by the BSNL. Mobile users in 200-300 metres of the sealed site have been facing some issues. Efforts are being made to restore the service at the earliest.”Rajesh Kumar, Secretary, Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, said: “There were complaints related to a tower at Prabhu Prem Puram. Following the complaints, three notices were served upon the company. It was asked to submit permission letter and related documents, but there was no reply from the company. Following this, the site was sealed and power supply was disconnected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsnl-customers-face-network-issues-in-ambala-area-300823
23-08-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||29K units in zones not meant for industries in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22With over 29,000 industrial units found in the non-conforming zones (not meant for industries) in four districts of Haryana during a survey, the Industries Department will now carry out a similar survey in the remaining districts of the state. The Urban Local Bodies has been asked to ascertain the “ground truth” of the identified units and formulate a plan for such units. According to the survey in the four districts, Faridabad has 15,412 units in the non-conforming zone against 6,048 in the conforming zone while Panipat has 7,487 and 3,318 such units, respectively.In Yamunanagar and Rohtak, the number of units in the non-conforming zone is 3,329 and 3,383, respectively, while there are 1,413 and 793 units in the conforming zone among the total number surveyed through last year.Of the 41,183 units surveyed, 29,611 were found in the non-conforming zone and 11,572 in the conforming zone.Sources in the Industries Department said that while work on phase II of the survey of the units in the remaining districts beginning with Gurugram, Sonepat and Karnal is all set to begin, the Urban Local Bodies is also learnt to have identified certain pockets with clusters of units which can be declared as “conforming zones” after suitable changes in the master plan. “Regular meetings are being held between the two departments to fast-track the entire process,” an officer explained.Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Integrated Association of MSMEs of India, Rajiv Chawla, said that it had already been four years since such a move was announced but things don’t seem to be moving at the expected pace.“There are nearly one lakh such units, mostly micro or small, in each district in non-conforming areas. These units are deprived of bank loans and govt subsidies because they do not have the required compliance — factory licences and the requisite consent to operate from the Pollution Department. If these are regularised, it will become a win-win situation for everybody. These will grow and provide more employment. We are looking at the government to make some quick decisions to regularise such pockets since the demand of plots has not matched the supply in the past,” Chawla said, adding that his own district, Faridabad, had the largest number of such units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29k-units-in-zones-not-meant-for-industries-in-haryana-300773
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to Chandigarh’s PGIMER||Haryana’s Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was on Sunday admitted to the PGIMER here as his oxygen levels dropped.The 68-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had earlier on health grounds expressed inability to attend the state Assembly’s monsoon session, which began here on Friday.Vij was admitted to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here on Sunday evening.Hospital sources said Vij is under the supervision of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist.“They are conducting tests to ascertain why oxygen levels are dropping,” Vij told PTI over the phone.“PGIMER Director Jagat Ram was also here a short while ago. All doctors of this premier institute are taking good care of me,” said Vij.Vij had last week gone to Rohtak to attend the cremation of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s younger brother.He suspects that high altitude during the chopper ride could be the cause behind the drop in his oxygen levels.“My oxygen saturation level has been fluctuating since then,” said Vij.When asked if doctors earlier cautioned him regarding high altitude as he had contracted Covid, Vij said he would have taken care had he known about it.However, Vij added, “Don’t worry, I will come out of this hospital fully recovered.” Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also visited the PGIMER to enquire about his health. Earlier in the day, Haryana BJP president O P Dhankar met Vij at the minister’s Ambala residence and enquired about his well-being.Vij had last year contracted Covid and was hospitalised for nearly a month.On November 20, 2020, Vij had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase 3 trials for anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin. He was administered the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-admitted-to-chandigarhs-pgimer-300660
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till September 6, earlier relaxations to continue||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the Covid lockdown by a fortnight while allowing various relaxations permitted earlier to continue.The relaxations include the opening of restaurants, bars, malls, clubhouses and shops.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another fortnight, that is from August 23 (5 am onwards) to September 6 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders,” an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Sunday.The order was issued in the exercise of powers under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.As per other relaxations allowed earlier, conduct of entrance and recruitment examination by different universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be permissible.All Covid-related guidelines, including those related to social distancing, sanitisation and seating capacity, however, will have to be followed, the order said.Universities and colleges will be allowed to reopen for students for doubt classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline exams with strict adherence to the Covid-related norms, earlier orders provided.Vice-chancellors of universities in the state are advised to plan the reopening of universities from the next academic session and share the programme of the same with the concerned department of the state government.Immediate action may be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all hostel students, day scholars, faculty and other staff including the outsourced ones, the order said.There will be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for the effective management of Covid-19, that is test-trace-track-vaccination and adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour, earlier orders said.The state government has termed the lockdown “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)” and it was imposed on May 3, 2021, and subsequently the same was extended from time to time on a weekly basis. However, from August 9, it has been extended by a fortnight. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-september-6-earlier-relaxations-to-continue-300645
