24-08-2021||---||Gagster Rana Kandowalia’s murder in Amritsar: Haryana-based suspect identified||Amritsar, August 23The police have identified the Haryana-based youth who accompanied prime suspects—Mandeep Toofan, Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya—while gunning down Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, at a private hospital in Amritsar.The accused has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Sonipat. The Amritsar police have approached their counterparts in Haryana and sought his antecedents and past criminal record. ACP (Investigations) Harminder Singh said, “We have come to know that Deepak has a criminal record in Haryana, though his involvement has been found for the first time in Punjab.”The police have arrested Happy Shah, one of their accomplices, who was injured in the retaliatory fire by Tejbir Singh, who was with Kandowalia, at the time of incident. Tejbir was also injured in the attack. Shah had taken treatment at a private hospital in Batala before getting nabbed.The police had also nominated six persons who sheltered and arranged treatment for Shah. Congress councillor Parbhjot Singh Chatha was also booked. The police have arrested Nanit Sharma in this regard. Others include Laddi dairy wala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh and Lalli dairy wala, all residents of Batala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gagster-rana-kandowalias-murder-in-amritsar-haryana-based-suspect-identified-301354
24-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur
||Private member’s Bill on lynching rejected||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, August 23 The state government has rejected the private member’s Bill of Deputy Congress Legislative Party leader Aftab Ahmed on mob lynching. The Haryana Protection from Lynching Bill, 2021, called for life term with a fine of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh in case of death. In case of grievous injury, the punishment prescribed was up to 10 years with a fine from Rs 25,000 to Rs 3 lakh. It also called for the rehabilitation of victims.  The Vidhan Sabha Secretary had, on August 19, informed Ahmed that the Bill had not been admitted after comments of the Additional Chief Secretary (Home). “The matter has been examined and it has been observed that stringent legal provisions already exist in the IPC and other legislations to deal with lynching. The multiplicity of laws does not address the root problem and it can be resolved by effective policing and fair investigation,” said the Secretary. He further said that the Supreme Court had already passed direction (in the Tehseen S Poonawala case), calling upon the Parliament to enact a new legislation and that the Centre was required to consider the matter. It would be appropriate to wait for a Central law before bringing any state legislation, the Secretary added. Ahmed said, “The Bill should have been considered. It doesn’t suit the government. This is the reason it has been rejected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-members-bill-on-lynching-rejected-301244
24-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Bill proposes 10-yr jail, Rs10 lakh fine for leaking exam papers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23Left embarrassed with a series of paper leakages, the BJP-JJP government today tabled a Bill in the Haryana Assembly providing for strict punishment, including a jail term of up to 10 years and fine of at least Rs 10 lakh, for persons convicted of examination-related crimes.Bills passedBills tabledThe Haryana Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means), Bill, 2021, which was introduced in the Haryana Assembly by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, also made a provision for the attachment of property of the convicted persons for the recovery of the fine.“The issue has assumed dimensions of organised crime and involves huge pecuniary advantages to the nefarious persons…. There is an urgent need to restore public confidence in the sanctity of the selection process to the public posts,” Khattar said.“If any person in an organised crime in conspiracy with the examination authority or otherwise indulges or attempts to indulge in unfair means or contravenes any of the provision of the Act, he shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years and may extend up to 10 years and with a fine which shall not be less than 10 lakh,” the Bill said.Taking serious note of the involvement of the government staff in the leakage of papers, the Bill said they would be liable for imprisonment up to seven years and a fine ranging from Rs 1-3 lakh.The persons obstructing or threatening the members of the inspection team and examination authority will be face a jail term of up to two years and fine of Rs 5,000.“If any examinee contravenes or attempts to contravene any provision of the Act, he shall be punished with imprisonment up to two years and fine of up to Rs 5,000,” the Bill added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-proposes-10-yr-jail-rs10-lakh-fine-for-leaking-exam-papers-301245
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||12,106 posts filled since ’19, says Haryana Education Minister||The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) have filled 12,016 vacancies of Group A, B and C posts since the BJP-JJP alliance formed the government in 2019.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar told this to the Vidhan Sabha today in reply to a question by Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik.“The HSSC filled 10,576 posts, while the HPSC filled 1,440,” said the minister .“From 2005 to 2009, the HSSC provided 18,020 jobs and the HPSC 988. During 2014 to 2019, the HSSC filled 66,427 posts, while the HPSC filled 3,446 positions,” Gujjar added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-106-posts-filled-since-19-says-haryana-education-minister-301246
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha pays tribute to  former UP CM Kalyan Singh||The Vidhan Sabha today paid tribute to former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh and martyr Sepoy Mohammad Azharuddin.While reading the obituary resolution, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Kalyan Singh was a strong supporter of constitutional values and ideals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-vidhan-sabha-pays-tribute-to-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-301247
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panel to inquire water shortage  in Bhiwani district||CM Manohar Lal Khattar said in the Assembly today that a committee led by Additional Chief Secretary (Irrigation and Water Resources) Devender Singh would be constituted to inquire into allegations about acute water shortage in Bhiwani district. He said the committee would submit its report within 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-inquire-water-shortage-in-bhiwani-district-301248
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar dismisses charge of politicising varsities||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today intervened during the Question Hour after allegations of politicisation of university campuses were made and said that the venues were allotted by Vice-Chancellors (VCs) as per the norms.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar submitted that two political programmes were organised by the JJP and BJP at Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, on December 9, 2019, and July 11 this year, respectively.Also, the Indian National Students Organisation (INSO), the student-wing of the JJP, organised a programme on August 5 this year at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak.He was replying to a question from Congress chief whip BB Batra on political programmes organised on the varsity campuses since September 2019 in Haryana.Gujjar replied, “You brought a child for your protest (outside Vidhan Sabha on Friday). What kind of message you want to give? We have never done such a thing. We never invited university students for political programmes. Many a time, Rahul Gandhi has delivered lectures in the universities.”Khattar said, “As per the varsity norms, the VC can give permission for events. The government has nothing to do with it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-dismisses-charge-of-politicising-varsities-301249
24-08-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Govt to inquire negligence by hospitals in treating Covid-hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today told the Assembly that his government would set up a committee to probe possible negligence by hospitals in treating Covid patients.Walkout over farmers’ issueThe Congress on Monday staged a brief walkout from the Assembly after Speaker Gian Chand Gupta disallowed its demand for a discussion on farmers’ issue, saying the farm laws were sub-judice.He made the announcement while seeking to assure the House that no death due to oxygen shortage had been recorded in the state during the second wave of Covid.“Strict action will be taken against hospitals, which will be found negligent. The state government ensured adequate oxygen supply during the second wave,” he said in response to a clarification sought by Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the Zero Hour.Soon after the Question Hour, Hooda said there was a contradiction on deaths due to oxygen crunch, given the inquiry reports from Hisar, Gurugram and Rewari, and the government claims of no oxygen shortage.“Either the Leader of the House has been misled by the bureaucracy or the inquiry reports are wrong,” he said.Hooda further said when deaths due to oxygen shortage took place across the world and the country, Haryana could not have been an exception.To this, the CM reiterated there was no shortage of oxygen, maintaining that oxygen tankers were supplied to shortlisted agencies. “The government cannot be held guilty for agencies’ negligence in distributing cylinders to hospitals,” he said.Hooda and other Congress leaders, however, demanded an inquiry to bring out the truth, even urging Khattar to take back his statement.When the CM began explaining the Hisar inquiry report, Hooda said he was not concerned about one particular hospital or district.The CM, too, did not yield to the pressure and remained adamant on his stance but admitted that some irregularities were reported from Hisar, Rewari and Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-inquire-negligence-by-hospitals-in-treating-covid-hit-301250
24-08-2021||---||Congress to bring privilege motion against Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, August 23Congress chief whip BB Batra today said that the party would bring a privilege motion against CM Manohar Lal Khattar over “misleading” the House on deaths due to the lack of oxygen.Khattar had maintained that no Covid death was reported in the state due to the lack of oxygen.Holding a press conference today, Batra said, “We will not keep quiet till CM answers queries on deaths due to the shortage of oxygen in the state.”He said, “Not only on Friday when the session commenced but today also, the CM misled the House during the Zero Hour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-to-bring-privilege-motion-against-haryana-cm-khattar-301251
24-08-2021||---||Kingpin, 2 others arrested from Jammu in HSSC paper leak case||Kaithal, August 23In a major breakthrough in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable recruitment paper leak case, the Kaithal police has got success by arresting the kingpin from Jammu.Officials must be booked: AbhayChandigarh: Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala on Monday demanded an FIR against HSSC officials in connection with the paper leak case. “The HSSC president, secretary and confidential assistant are responsible for conducting an exam. They should be booked in the paper leak case,” he told the media here. TNSThe police also arrested two of his accomplices from there. They were taken on 10-day police remand to determine the involvement of more persons in the case. With these arrests, the number of arrested persons in the case has reached 28.Lokender Singh, Kaithal SP, said three persons, including the main accused, had been arrested by the police from Jammu.He said the SIT members brought the accused to Kaithal after taking them on transit remand.Earlier, the Kaithal police had arrested the mediator, identified as Nazir Ahmed of Pulwama district in Srinagar.Nazir was known to Raj Kumar, who was arrested earlier. Nazir had finalised the deal between Raj Kumar and the kingpin for providing the answer key.Raj Kumar had later sold the answer key to Narinder, who was arrested on August 7, for Rs 1 crore. Narinder had provided the answer key to Ramesh, who runs a coaching centre in Kaithal and was arrested the same day, and others in Rs 10 lakh per candidate. Ramesh and other accused further finalised the deal of the answer key between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 18 lakh to each candidate. They provided the hard copy of the answer key to the candidates and their relatives and also sent it through WhatsApp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-2-others-arrested-from-jammu-in-hssc-paper-leak-case-301252
24-08-2021||New Delhi||SC gives 2 more weeks for demolitions in Faridabad's Khori village||The Supreme Court on Monday gave two more weeks to the Haryana authorities to implement its order to demolish around 10,000 illegal structures erected on forest land at Khori village in Faridabad, saying the demolition of illegal structures had to go on. “Adjourned for two weeks. Till then all the demolitions that are being carried out should be carried out,” a Bench said. As counsel for some interveners sought to raise their issues, the Bench said they were supposed to make representation to the authorities concerned. “Let the corporation (Faridabad Municipal Corporation) decide on your representation and after that, we will consider what course of action can be adopted. Today, all unauthorised structures are being demolished and that has to continue,” the Bench said. The SC had on August 3 reiterated that all illegal structures erected on Aravalli forest land in Faridabad’s Khori village have to be demolished in terms of its June 7 order. The Bench, which had on July 24 given four weeks to the Faridabad Municipal Corporation (FMC) to remove encroachments from forest land, had asked the FMC commissioner to submit a status report by August 23. Those eligible under the policy are likely to be rehabilitated but why should the state rehabilitate encroachers and land grabbers? it had said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-gives-2-more-weeks-for-demolitions-in-faridabads-khori-village-301253
24-08-2021||---||15 fresh Covid cases; surge reported in Haryana after 14 weeks, says official||Chandigarh, August 23After witnessing a downward trend in fresh cases of Covid for over 14 weeks, the state has seen a slight surge in the weekly numbers this time.Haryana reported 139 fresh cases of Covid in the week ending August 22 against 129 recorded during the preceding week, an increase of 7.75 per cent in seven days.During these seven days, 1,82,056 samples were tested through the RTPCR and Rapid Antigen methods with a positivity rate of 0.076 per cent.With this, the cumulative positivity rate, too, has come down from 6.84 per cent last week to 6.73 per cent this week.Nine persons succumbed to the virus during the past one week which is equal to the number of deaths during the preceding week.Ever since the virus touched the peak of 1,01,009 cases during the week ending May 9, the new weekly cases have been dipping every time, barring a small increase of three cases during the week ending August 1 and a surge of 10 cases this week.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, however, said the small increase in number was not significant and the situation was under control in the state.On possible third wave, Arora said the state government was fully prepared for any eventuality.Meanwhile, 1.46 crore doses of vaccines have been administered to people in the state till August 22.Gurugram tops the table with 21.92 lakh doses, followed by Faridabad 14.26 lakh and Ambala 9.54 lakh doses.Nuh district lags behind other districts with 1.94 lakh doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-fresh-covid-cases-surge-reported-in-haryana-after-14-weeks-says-official-301254
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Two nabbed for gang-rape||The Gurugram police today arrested two persons for the thrashing and gang-raping a 26-year-old woman. The woman was raped on Sunday late evening.The arrested accused include the auto driver, Vikram alias Mahender Pratap, in whose auto the woman was travelling, and his friend Manoj. Another passenger, Aarif, is still at large.The police said the victim had noted the licence plate of the auto, which helped them nab the driver. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-nabbed-for-gang-rape-301255
24-08-2021||Gurugram||3 booked for conversion||The Nuh police have busted a racket of alleged illegal conversions in return for money. Cops nabbed the key accused, identified as Abu Bakar, while three other persons have been booked.According to a complaint filed by Barota village resident Manoj, in April 2020, Salamba village resident Abu Bakar, master Sohrab, Maulana Dilshad, Mubin and their associates had converted him by promising him money and job.“They gave me some cash, but later asked to collect money and grain from the Mewat area. They forced me to eat beef. They operated two NGOs-Dawat-e-Islam and Global Peace Centre. It was after a year in April 2021 that I fled from their clutches, but they threatened to kill me,” Manoj told the police. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-conversion-301256
24-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC left with no space for garbage disposal||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 23The crisis faced by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) over the disposal of the city waste continues. A drive launched one-and-half-year ago to set up an alternative waste-dumping site has failed as there is no viable option available or decided so far. The hunt had begun after the present site at Bandhwari village on the Faridabad-Gurugram road was full to its capacity and the authorities concerned were asked to dump the waste elsewhere. This has also delayed the work on first of its kind waste to energy power plant mooted in 2017, besides creating issues in disposal of solid waste.Aall attempts met with stiff oppositionThough three spots had been identified by the civic body, all attempts were met with stiff opposition from residents, who resorted to legal measures and this resulted in halting the progress and in a standoff situation. Senior official, MCFDispose waste in scientific manner: NGTThe National Green Tribunal in response to a petition had asked the authorities concerned to ensure waste disposal in a scientific manner so that there was 100 per cent recycling with no adverse impact on the environment.3 chosen sitesThe three sites selected include Sector 74 and two spots near Pali village in the Aravalli hills.Expect to sort out issue soonWe are working on it and expect to sort out the issue as per the norms soon. Yashpal Yadav, commissioner, MCF“Though three spots had been identified by the civic body, all attempts were met with stiff opposition from residents, who resorted to legal measures and this resulted in halting the progress and in a standoff situation,” says a senior official of the MCF. The three sites selected included Sector 74 and two spots near Pali village in the Aravalli hills. He said the present site at Bandhwari village, spread on 14 acre, was being used for dumping the waste of both Faridabad and Gurugram. Now, the site is left with no space and faces the problem of processing the waste and setting up of the power plant based on waste. The 10-MW power plant was proposed as per the MoU signed in June 2017, between the civic bodies of Faridabad and Gurugram and a private company. The MCF had even spent an amount of Rs 25 lakh on one of the sites, but it was dropped due to protest from the residents, said sources. “The civic body has been left with no option but to dump the daily waste of 800 tonnes at the existing site, claim the sources.The NGT in response to a petition had asked the authorities concerned to ensure waste disposal in a scientific manner so that there was 100 per cent recycling with no adverse impact on the environment. “We are working on it and expect to sort out the issue as per the norms soon,” says Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-left-with-no-space-for-garbage-disposal-301257
24-08-2021||---||Retaining wall of Gurugram flyover collapses||Gurugram, August 23In what has again brought the NHAI in the line of fire, Iffco Chowk flyover (Delhi to Gurugram side) was closed to traffic on Monday morning after a portion of its retaining wall collapsed. The area was flooded on Sunday due to heavy rain which lasted for five hours.The incident took place on Sunday late evening on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. Soon after the incident, the Gurugram police closed the flyover and deployed barricades and diverted the traffic.According to officials concerned, it was due to waterlogging when some stones seeped in and damaged the master sewerage line that flows underneath the flyover. This resulted in overflowing of sewage and caving in of the flyover, which further led to the collapse of the wall. The Iffco Chowk junction had higher rainwater accumulation than usual despite moderate rainfall and was the worst-affected area on Saturday. The authorities quickly covered the segment and closed the flyover.“The flyover has been closed to traffic and we have even deployed police personnel there to restrict any kind of movement,” said a Gurugram police official.The flyover was inaugurated in 2019. It helps commuters travelling from Jaipur, Manesar, Sukhrali, Sector 17 and 18 road by offering a U-turn towards MG Road and Rajiv Chowk without approaching the congested Iffco Chowk junction.The four-lane flyover is 917-metres long and has four continuous spans of 21 metres each. The local administration has marked an inquiry into the matter while the construction quality too has come under the scanner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retaining-wall-of-gurugram-flyover-collapses-301258
24-08-2021||---||Gang of vehicle thieves  busted by Karnal police||Karnal, August 23The Karnal police busted an inter-district vehicle theft gang and have arrested three persons in this regard.The police recovered 18 bikes from their possession, which were stolen from Karnal, Panipat and Kurukshetra. Of the three arrested persons, two are buyers.Rohtash Kumar, in charge of the anti-auto theft unit, said on a tip off, the team arrested Parveen Kumar, a resident of New Valmiki Basti Hansi road, near Commando Complex in Newal with a stolen bike on Sunday. During the investigation, he confessed that he had stolen 18 bikes from Karnal, Panipat and Kurukshetra districts, he added.The in charge said the stolen bikes were sold to Hukum Singh of Mehmadpura village and Surjeet, a mechanic of Nalikalan village in the district, at cheaper rates. “We arrested both accused on Sunday,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-by-karnal-police-301259
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Two  men  thrash, rob Chinese national at IMT, Manesar||Two men thrashed and robbed a Chinese National in IMT, Manesar. He has been admitted to a hospital after he sustained injury. An FIR has been registered at the IMT industrial police station.According to the complaint filed by Lin Zesen, he is a native of Guangdong state in China and works at Gao New industries Pvt Ltd, Sector 7, IMT, Manesar.“When I reached Bans Chowk then one bike stopped and two persons attacked me. They snatched my mobile and ran away. Before this, they also snatched my spectacles, so I didn’t see the number of the motorcycle and I now am admitted at Arihant Hospital Sector 52, Gurugram”, as the Chinese national told police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against unidentified bikers under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 34 (common intention) of the IPC at the IMT industrial police station. The police said they were trying to nab the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-men-thrash-rob-chinese-national-at-imt-manesar-301260
24-08-2021||---||Resume camps deciding age for pension applicants: Ambala DC||Ambala, August 23In a major relief to the senior citizens who were not able to apply for the Old Age Samman Allowance due to the non-availability of age proof or whose age was wrongly recorded in the documents, the government has decided to resume camps to determine their age.The camps will resume from September. They were not organised after March last year due to the pandemic.Ambala Deputy Commissioner Vikram Yadav has directed the district Health Department to constitute a two-member medical board and resume the medical camps for the determination of age for the new applicants of old-age pension scheme.As per the orders issued, a camp would be organised on the first Thursday of every month for the residents of Ambala-1, Ambala-2 and Municipal Corporation area. For the residents of Saha, Barara, municipality area of Barara and municipal council of Ambala Sadar, the camp will be held on the second Thursday of every month. For the residents of Shahzadpur, Naraingarh and Naraingarh municipality, the camp will be organised on the third Thursday of every month.All camps will be organised at the Ambala City Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resume-camps-deciding-age-for-pension-applicants-ambala-dc-301261
24-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram man shot at by wife’s brother||Irked over his sister’s love marriage, a man here shot at his brother-in-law at his house in the Farrukhnagar area.The police booked the man and his two friends for attempt to murder. The accused are at large, while the victim is being treated in hospital. According to the complaint filed by gym operator Rajesh Saini, a resident of ward 8, Farrukhnagar, in 2014 he had married Monika. While at that time the family of Monika did not agree to the marriage, later the relationship between the two families became good, but his brother-in-law Sachin was not happy with the marriage.An FIR has been registered in this regard. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-shot-at-by-wifes-brother-301262
24-08-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak Dental college 3rd in India||Techniques in molecular biologyKarnal: To extend and share scientific knowledge with the Scheduled Caste researchers, the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) organised a 10-days training on techniques in molecular biology, which began on Saturday. Dr MS Chauhan, Director-cum-Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the training programme at the Animal Biotechnology Centre of the institute. Dr Chauhan emphasised on the importance of the training programme for unskilled researchers from the SC community. He anticipated that the training programme would enrich the knowledge and skill of the participants in the field of molecular biology and bioinformatics Dr Naresh Selokar, course director, said there were participants from different parts of the country.Saplings distributed among studentsKarnal: Under the campaign started by the Haryana Legal Services Authority (HSLA), the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), a plant distribution programme was organised on the premises of Government Senior Secondary School, Pundrak village. Jasbir, CJM-cum-secretary, DLSA, distributed plants among the students and exhorted them to take care of these plants after plantation. She also emphasised on increasing the green cover.2 students excel in yoga contestYamunanagar: Chetan and Diksha, students of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, have brought laurels to the college, district and state in the field of yoga by securing first and second positions, respectively in the Online National Yoga Championship. The national yoga championship was organised by DAV Women University, Jalandhar. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said both students had achieved this distinction by defeating their rivals in a very tough competition.Plantation programme at KUKurukshetra: The eco club and horticulture department of Kurukshetra University organised a week-long plantation programme under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav near the sports complex of the university. On this occasion, KU VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said there was constant need to conduct awareness campaigns at the social level to save the environment. He said after planting saplings, it was also the moral responsibility to look after these. KU Registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma also planted a sapling.World Photography DayYamunanagar: "A picture has the capacity to communicate more than a thousand words, but the condition is that the illustration should be alive and sensitive." These words were said by principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang when the volunteers of the National Service Scheme of the college were capturing pictures in their cameras on the occasion of World Photography Day. On the spot, the NSS students displayed photographs of nature, flowers, animals, collage pictures. The chairman of the Managing Committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated all students and teachers on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-dental-college-3rd-in-india-301283
24-08-2021||I am a resident of Lakkarharan street Jagadhri in Yamunanagar and a regular reader of your newspaper. With reference to your article published in your esteemed columns on the front page dated July 2||Civic authorities fail to contain stray dog menace||Gaurav Singla, YamunanagarSewage overflows onto roads, park in locality, poses health riskResidents of Shanti Nagar have been living in extreme unhealthy conditions as the sewer line remained choked for many months in the locality. The sewage has spilled on to the roads and parks and even entered houses. Foul smell from the standing sewage poses health risk and children can not go to the park to play.Rajesh Kukreja, HisarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-authorities-fail-to-contain-stray-dog-menace-301284
24-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||20,839 vacancies yet to be filled in Haryana Police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23There is 29 per cent shortage of personnel in Haryana Police and many police posts do not have light motor vehicles.Recruitment soughtPolice dept has put in a request for 5,500 more male constables, 1,100 female constables, 400 male sub-inspectors, 65 female sub-inspectors and 7 DSPs.The state government today stated in the Vidhan Sabha that there were 20,839 vacancies (29.3%) in the police force against the sanctioned strength of 71,069.The force is short of 35 IPS officers (24.3 per cent) and 61 DSPs (18.5 per cent).These facts came to light in reply to a question of Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary. The maximum number of vacancies are of the head constable (male) post. Against the sanctioned strength of 11,466, there are only 7,673 —- a shortage of 33.1 per cent. The police department has made a requisition for recruitment of 5,500 male constables, 1,100 female constables, 400 male sub-inspectors, 65 female sub-inspectors, and seven DSPs, said the government. In reply to a question of BJP MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap, the government submitted that 270 unsanctioned police posts were operating in the state and 135 light vehicles (like Bolero, Ertiga) had been provided to them.There are 24 such police posts in Sonepat and nine in Bhiwani which do not have a light vehicle. The police have sent a proposal for purchasing 1,443 vehicles worth Rs 43.94 crore “for maintaining law and order”, which included 18 Toyota Fortuner worth Rs 6.30 crore, 114 light vehicles worth Rs 9.12 crore and 1,210 motorcycles worth Rs 9.68 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-839-vacancies-yet-to-be-filled-in-haryana-police-301118
24-08-2021||Muktsar||Farmers must contest Assembly elections: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Haryana farm union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today reiterated that farmers must contest the upcoming Assembly elections and bring in change.“I am just motivating Punjab’s farmers. If they form the government, the country will follow them in 2024 as everyone is wishing for a change. There is no other alternative,” said the BKU (Charuni) chief here.Charuni, however, said he would not contest the elections. Many organisations supporting the farmers’ agitation would be in the fray, but some were neutral, he said.Speaking on the MSP, he said: “Just six per cent crops get the MSP. The Centre is mum on other crops. It has actually brought in the legislation for corporate houses and branded these as farm laws. Agriculture is a state subject and the Centre should leave it to states.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-must-contest-assembly-elections-gurnam-singh-charuni-301089
24-08-2021||New Delhi||Assault on Sikhs: Haryana youth Vishal Jood denied bail in Australia||The case against Vishal Jood from Haryana, who is in an Australian jail for allegedly attacking members of the Sikh community, will come up for hearing next year after the judge decided to continue with the “Bail refused status”.The magistrate at a Sydney court set a new hearing date, January 27, 2022, for 10 out of 12 charges and another hearing for two counts of assault for January 31, 2022.Jood’s release has been sought by Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt and Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Bagga. There is also a social media campaign claiming that Jood was trying to protect the Indian flag from being dishonoured by “Khalistanis”.Besides, Jood was living in Australia on an expired visa. — TNSAlso readAustralia Sikh assault case: Haryana CM writes to Lekhi, asks for her intervention for Karnal youth Vishal Jood’s release||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assault-on-sikhs-haryana-youth-vishal-jood-denied-bail-in-australia-297223
24-08-2021||---||Haryana youngster accused of assault on Sikhs in Australia to stay in jail||New Delhi, August 13The case against Vishal Jood from Haryana, who is in an Australian jail for allegedly attacking members of the Sikh community, will come up for hearing next year after the judge decided to continue with the ‘bail refused status’.The magistrate at a Sydney court set a new hearing date on January 27, 2022, for 10 out of 12 charges and another hearing for two counts of assault for January 31, 2022.Jood’s release has been sought by Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt and Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Bagga. There is also a social media campaign claiming that Jood was trying to protect the Indian flag from being dishonoured by ‘Khalistanis’.The police claim that Jood is involved in two cases – one on September 16 last year for allegedly attacking a man and another on February 28 this year for allegedly attacking a group of people.Moreover, Jood was living in Australia on an expired visa.He has been charged with offences that carry separate jail terms ranging between two and ten years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-youngster-accused-of-assault-on-sikhs-in-australia-to-stay-in-jail-297154
