26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Max temperatures hover above normal limits in Punjab, Haryana||Hot and humid weather conditions prevailed at most places in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday, with maximum temperatures hovering above normal limits.According to the Meteorological Department here, Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 34.4 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 36.5 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 35.7 degrees Celsius, while Bhiwani registered a high of 37.7 degrees Celsius. Gurugram recorded a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 36 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a high of 34.2 degrees Celsius, while Patiala’s maximum settled at 34 degrees Celsius.Faridkot recorded a maximum temperature of 34.8 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/max-temperatures-hover-above-normal-limits-in-punjab-haryana-302437
26-08-2021||---||Land Acquisition Act amendment weakens law passed in 2013: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Sonepat, August 25The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) today condemned the land acquisition Act amendment made by the Haryana Government, saying the Act opens floodgates of compulsory acquisition under the garb of PPP without farmers’ consent.“This amendment seeks to bring, from the backdoor, anti-farmer amendments that the Modi government failed to carry out in 2015. It undermines the whole point of the historic law that was unanimously passed by Parliament in 2013,” the SKM said.Meanwhile, all preparations to organise a national-level convention at the Singhu border on Thursday and Friday to mark the completion of nine months of the farmers’ protests are in full swing.The farmers’ protest against the three agriculture laws will complete nine months on Thursday. The main focus of the convention is to strengthen, intensify and expand the protest across the country.Besides, preparations for the proposed kisan rally scheduled for September 5 in Muzaffarnagar, UP, are also in full swing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-acquisition-act-amendment-weakens-law-passed-in-2013-samyukta-kisan-morcha-302220
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rotten wheat distributed in Sonepat, Karnal, Kaithal, 3 food inspectors suspended||Three food inspectors have been suspended after it came to light that rotten wheat was distributed among the poor during Annapurna Utsav celebrated on August 18 and 19.A government spokesperson said spoilt grains were distributed at some depots of Sonepat, Karnal and Kaithal.The supply of essential commodities to the depots, which received rotten wheat, would be suspended with immediate effect, said the government spokesperson.The spokesperson added that any consumer could register a complaint regarding the quality of foodgrain at toll-free numbers 1800-180-2405 and 14445. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rotten-wheat-distributed-in-sonepat-karnal-kaithal-3-food-inspectors-suspended-302233
26-08-2021||The road from Jagadhri workshop-ITO to Maharana Pratap Chowk (Kamani Chowk) is in a miserable condition and commuters face difficulty while travelling. I want to urge the authorities concerned to take immediate action to prevent any future untoward incident. —Rajat Kapoor||Road cries for repair in Yamunanagar||Poor upkeep of ParkThere The park located in B block in Sector 11 is lying in a dilapidated condition, leading to inconvenience to residents of the locality. Developed at a cost of several lakhs, it was inaugurated formally in March 2017 by the then local MLA and Industries Minister Vipul Goel with all fanfare. The open gym installed in the park is gathering dust and wild grass and vegetation in the park has left no space for the residents to take a walk. While stray animals roam inside the park due to damaged boundary wall, the authorities concerned have failed to deploy even a gardener for its upkeep, which is a must for any such facility. —Ajay Chaudhary, FaridabadOnly assurance, no work on groundThe Nagrik Manch, Hisar, is concerned about the problems like stray cattle menace, dilapidated condition of roads, sewerage blockage and water and power supply in the town. We have written several letters to the officials of the municipal corporation and also submitted memorandums to the officials several times. Mayor Gautam Sardana has also assured us of the improvement in the civic infrastructure, but all in vain. —Manohar Lal Jakhar, HisarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-cries-for-repair-in-yamunanagar-302222
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja, Vivek Bansal attend Hooda lunch||In a show of strength before the announcement of appointment to organisational posts in Haryana Congress, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda managed to bring opposing factions together for lunch at his residence here today.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee President Kumari Selja and state in charge Vivek Bansal also attended the lunch along with present and past MLAs and MPs of the party.Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala and MLA Adampur Kuldeep Bishnoi were absent on the occasion.Former minister and MLA Tosham Kiran Choudhry was also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kumari-selja-vivek-bansal-attend-hooda-lunch-302223
26-08-2021||Rewari||Students’ body: Increase seats in courses of Indira Gandhi University||Members of the Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) today organised a protest march and locked the main gate of Indira Gandhi University (IGU), demanding increase in seats of various courses.They also tried to enter the Vice-Chancellor’s office, but security guards did not let them do so. Consequently, the protesters raised slogans against the university authorities. “The university authorities had reduced seats in several courses two years ago, shortage of teachers and the non-availability of laboratories. They had promised restoring the seats after the appointment of teachers and the setting up of labs, but have failed to fulfil the promises, causing resentment among students,” said Ravi Masit, president, IGU unit of INSO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-body-increase-seats-in-courses-of-indira-gandhi-university-302228
26-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Curriculum on Saraswati river for Haryana schools||The vice-chairman of the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board, Dhuman Singh, today said the board had prepared a proposal for introducing chapters on Saraswati river studies in the syllabus of Class VI to XII in state schools. The board has set up a Saraswati Syllabus Committee to prepare a draft of chapters that can be included in the curriculum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curriculum-on-saraswati-river-for-haryana-schools-302229
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to reopen for Class IV and V on Sept 1||The state government has decided to reopen government and private schools for Class IV and V from September 1.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said classes would be conducted while strictly following the Covid-related guidelines issued by the government.“Class IV and V students will be allowed to attend the school with the prior permission of their parents,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-to-reopen-for-class-iv-and-v-on-sept-1-302215
26-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||1,800 Haryana farmers told to return aid received under central scheme||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 25As many as 1,808 farmers, who have been found ineligible under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM KISAN), have been asked to return the financial aid received by them. The aid amounts to Rs 1.88 crore in the district.According to the data procured from the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, 1,808 farmers, including 1,674 income tax payees, who had received Rs 1.7 crore have been found ineligible under the scheme. Another 134 ineligible farmers, who had received Rs 18.54 lakh, have also been found ineligible.The process to recover the amount from these farmers has been initiated.Anomaly detected during VerificationDuring the verification of data, it was found that 1,674 farmers had filed income tax returns, while 134 had retired from state and Central departments. They are ineligible to receive aid. —Govt officialThe income tax payee farmers and those who get more than Rs 10,000 pension are ineligible to receive financial aid under the scheme. Only farmers having land in their name in the revenue records are eligible to get the aid.As per the department, there are a total of 54,747 eligible beneficiaries in the district.An official stated that during self-registration on the portal, a large number of farmers upload their data. The ineligible cases got detected during the verification process after their Aadhaar and PAN card data were matched, he added.“As many as 1,674 farmers who were filing income tax returns got detected during the process and 134 other ineligible farmers, including some retired employees of the state and Centre departments were also detected. The ineligible farmers are being approached by the department to return the received amount,” he said.Ambala Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said: “Farmers who have been found ineligible under the scheme have been informed. They have been requested to return the amount at the earliest.”Who’s ineligible?Farmers who pay income tax and those who get more than Rs10,000 monthly pension are ineligible to receive financial aid under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-800-haryana-farmers-told-to-return-aid-received-under-central-scheme-302216
26-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||How can property of ‘Candy Baba’ be used for public purpose: HC asks Kurukshetra DC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 25Just about five months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed a special investigation team (SIT) to verify the bank accounts and other properties of a dera belonging to the self-styled godman “Candy Baba”, the court has asked Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner (DC) to furnish a proposal on utilising the dera property for public purpose such as school or hospital.As the matter came up for resumed hearing, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed the DC to also submit a report regarding the status of the dera, considering the fact that there was no document of title in favour of Rajesh, alias “Candy Baba”.Furnish plan for school, hospitalThe Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner will send a proposal as to how the property of the dera can be utilised for public purpose like school or hospital etc. — Justice Arvind Singh SangwanJustice Sangwan made it clear that the land “being in abadi deh” would vest with the gram panchayat under the provisions of the Punjab Village Common Land Act. The DC was also directed to constitute a committee, comprising Shahabad sub-divisional magistrate, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Sub-Divisional Officer, PWD (B&R), and the SHO of Shahabad police station. They were directed to visit the premises and prepare a site plan along with the inventory of items lying there. “The DC will also send a proposal as to how the property of the dera can be utilised for public purpose like school or hospital etc,” Justice Sangwan added.In his detailed order, Justice Sangwan also took note of the contention that the SIT, constituted on the High Court directions, had written letters to all superintendents of police in the state of Haryana for obtaining the details of cases registered against Rajesh, alias “Candy Baba”. It was found that he was involved in 18 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/how-can-property-of-candy-baba-be-used-for-public-purpose-hc-asks-kurukshetra-dc-302217
26-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rewari: Medical board starts probe into death due to ‘oxygen shortage’||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 25The district medical negligence board has started an inquiry into the death of advocate Rao Rishal Singh, who was infected with Covid and died at Virat Hospital here on April 26 allegedly due to oxygen shortage.Sources say the inquiry has been launched following the directions of the Director General, Health Services (DGHS), who received a written complaint from advocate Singh’s brother Prof (retd) Nihal Singh Yadav of the district’s Garhi Bolni village.Yadav alleged negligence on the part of the hospital and the district Health Department, which, he claimed, caused his brother’s death.Health office blamedMy brother was admitted to Virat Hospital on April 15 after having contracted Covid. A few days later, the hospital asked attendants to shift their patients to some other hospital, citing shortage of oxygen cylinders. The hospital blamed the local health office for shortage. —Nihal Singh Yadav, Deceased’s brotherThe DGHS has directed Civil Surgeon Dr Krishan Kumar to submit the inquiry report within 15 days.“My brother was admitted to Virat Hospital on April 15 after having contracted Covid. The severity score of his CT scan was nine. On April 21, he was shifted to the ICU and put on BiPAP machine. Four days later, the hospital asked attendants to shift their patients to some other hospital, citing shortage of oxygen cylinders,” said Yadav.The complainant alleged four patients on oxygen support died at the hospital on April 25. The next day, his brother was declared dead.“The hospital blamed the local health office for the shortage of oxygen. It is a case of negligence,” said Yadav.Dr Virat Vir Yadav, owner of Virat Hospital, said: “I have appeared before the district medical negligence board and submitted my reply. Advocate Singh’s CT severity score rose to 25 during the treatment. The family was informed about his critical condition. Hence, the allegation of negligence is baseless. We gave him the best possible treatment.”The Civil Surgeon said the inquiry was underway and the statements of all parties pertaining to the case were being recorded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-medical-board-starts-probe-into-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-302219
26-08-2021||---||Death certificate given to Farukhnagar family after 25 yrs||Gurugram, August 25It took 25 years for a Farukhnagar (Gurugram) family to get the death certificate of a member. After running from one department to another since 1996, the family finally moved the CM Window over the delay. The matter was dealt with on priority and finally the death certificate was issued for Deshraj, who had died in a bus accident.“We had lost all hope till somebody suggested we move the CM Window. Finally, we have a closure to the tragedy,” said Dulichand, a resident of Ghoshgarh village, Farukhnagar. According to OSD to the Chief Minister Bhupeshwar Dayal, Dulichand had registered a complaint that on September 26, 1996, his brother-in-law Deshraj had died in a bus accident. Even after the NOC, his death certificate was not received for 25 years.Dayal informed that the complaint was uploaded on the CM Window on April 1, 2021, and the Civil Hospital of Gurugram was informed about it. The hospital authorities and municipal officials searched the records for the year 1996 and issued the death certificate on August 16.The applicant admitted that he was tired of going to the Civil Hospital, Gurugram, and Municipal Corporation office for the last 25 years. After someone suggested he should register the complaint at the Chief Minister Window, he did so on April 1.“There are many such instances, pending for a long time, which have been resolved through the CM Window. Every month, the complaints are reviewed and the departments concerned are ordered to resolve them within the stipulated time. Strict action is taken against the officers who are negligent,” said Dayal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/death-certificate-given-to-farukhnagar-family-after-25-yrs-302211
26-08-2021||---||Aravalli: 80 acres of forestland reclaimed||Faridabad, August 25The Forest Department has claimed to have razed a total of 10 farmhouses and marriage palaces located on the PLPA notified land in the district since the order of the Supreme Court last month.Revealing that three farmhouses had been demolished in the past three days, a senior official of the department said the department was taking action after full verification of the documents of all such constructions.A farmhouse occupying a land area of 18 acres was demolished near the Sidhata Ashram on Surajkund road today.“While the matter is still pending in the court, action has been taken against the constructions which have failed to produce any valid documents or permissions from the authorities concerned, such as the CLU, or NOC from the Department of Forests,” said an official of the district Forest Department.The department has reclaimed around 80 acres from the farmhouses to date.Notices to as many as 130 farmhouses, marriage palaces, banquet gardens and other commercial spots located on the forest land of several villages were given by the department last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aravalli-80-acres-of-forestland-reclaimed-302214
26-08-2021||---||Karnal: Doorstep testing facility for animals||Karnal, August 25Aiming at providing animal health testing facility at farmers’ doorstep, the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) today launched a mobile testing laboratory — testing on wheels.Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), and director-general of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research, dedicated the facility during the 18th convocation of the NDRI Deemed University.The mobile van will go village to village to provide on-the-spot health check-up facility for animals so that farmers can avail the benefits of the experts. A scientist, veterinarian and lab technician of the institute will be present in this mobile van to provide services to animal farmers.“It is the first ever step, under which we will ensure all kinds of testing facility, including detection of estrus (heat) among animals, mastitis, detection of bacteria, deworming, pregnancy and others at farmers’ doorstep,” Dr MS Chauhan, NDRI director, told The Tribune.The dairy industry had been suffering a lot due to inaccurate detection of estrus (heat), the director said. Most farmers were not aware how to detect heat in animals .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-doorstep-testing-facility-for-animals-302230
26-08-2021||---||Hair salon owner from Yamunanagar gets 10 yrs jail for rape||Yamunanagar, August 25A Jagadhri district court today awarded 10-year jail to the owner of a hair salon for raping a woman.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 12,000 on the convict, Rahul, a resident of Gadhauli village in Yamunanagar.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against Rahul under Sections 376, 328 and 506 of the IPC at Sadar police station, Jagadhri, on November 5, 2019.The complainant alleged that Rahul, who ran a hair salon near her house in her village, used to come to their house on various pretexts for about eight to nine months.“One day when I was alone in the house, he gave me a chocolate mixed with some sedative and raped me,” the victim said, adding that Rahul threatened her that he would upload her MMS on social media if she told anyone about the crime.Labourer thrashed, diesA labourer died during treatment on Tuesday after he was allegedly beaten by his colleagues in a plywood factory in Kisanpura Majra village, Yamunanagar, where he worked.The deceased has been identified as Ravinder Rawat, a resident of Bihar, who was at present living in Damla village of Yamunangar.The complainant, Vikku, a relative of the deceased, said that on the night of August 21, labourer contractors Vijay Kumar and Jai Kumar, and some other persons attacked his uncle with sticks and iron rods over the issue of quality of glue.A case has been registered against the contractors and unknown persons under Sections 148, 149, 302, 323, 308 and 506 of the IPC at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hair-salon-owner-from-yamunanagar-gets-10-yrs-jail-for-rape-302232
26-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two arrested for forced conversion in Haryana||Gurugram, August 25Home Minister Anil Vij said today that the police had arrested accused Abu Bakar and his accomplice Sahajad in the forced conversion case registered in Nuh and a special task force (STF) has been constituted to investigate the matter.Vij said on August 21, a person named Manoj had lodged an FIR at the Rozka Meo police station that Abu Bakar had forcibly converted him. Similarly, on August 22, a person named Devendra had also lodged an FIR at the Nuh police station city that he had been forcibly converted by Abu Bakar and his accomplices.He said both cases had now been transferred to the STF that would conduct a thorough investigation into the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-forced-conversion-in-haryana-302224
26-08-2021||Nitish Sharma||Haryana Government claims to put Kurukshetra on global tourist map fall flat||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, August 25The government has been making tall claims of developing Kurukshetra as a global tourist destination, but lack of tourist attraction, and pending projects and proposals, narrate a different story.In the name of tourist attraction, there is only a light and sound show at Jyotisar and evening “Aarti” at the Brahma Sarovar. A multimedia laser show to attract tourists at the Brahma Sarovar, at a cost of Rs 16 crore, is yet to see the light of day, development of “aarti sthala” is yet to start, while the ambitious hop-on-hop-off bus service project which was prepared on the direction of the Chief Minister to provide a touring experience for tourists was also put on the backburner. There was another proposal to set up a permanent craft bazaar on the pattern of “Delhi Haat” but it didn’t materialise. All three tourist information and facilitation centres — opened at a cost of Rs 2 crore to facilitate tourists who reach Kurukshetra from across the country — have been lying closed for over a year.Craft bazar proposal failsA Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) official said, “Lakhs of devotees reach Kurukshetra to visit various religious destinations, including Brahma Sarvoar, but it lacks tourist attraction following which a majority of tourists leave Kurukshetra by the evening. Due to which despite a good tourist footfall, the economy has not benefited. To attract more tourists a multimedia laser show was planned at the Brahma Sarovar and the budget received under the Krishna Circuit phase-1 was to be utilised for the project, but the project is yet to come on ground.”Morning aarti planWe are planning to start a morning aarti. We are working on different projects to create evening attraction so that the tourists start staying overnight here. —Madan Mohan Chhabra, Honorary secretary, KDBDespite religious destinations, No attractionLakhs of devotees reach Kurukshetra to visit religious destinations, but it lacks tourist attraction following which a majority of tourists leave Kurukshetra by the evening. —Official, Kurukshetra development boardLacks uniqueness of a tourist spotEvery tourist destination has some uniqueness and should offer some experience to tourists which is missing here. —Professor Tajender Sharma, ResidentProfessor Tajender Sharma, a resident, said, “Every tourist destination has some uniqueness and should offer some experience to the tourists which is missing here. Merely creating artifacts and installing statues is not enough. There is a need to create facilities where the tourists can be provided the spiritual experience for which people come to Kurukshetra.”Kurukshetra Development Board honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “There is already a light and sound show at Jyotisar and evening “aarti” at the Brahma Sarovar. We are planning to start a morning aarti as well. We are working on different projects to create evening attraction so that the tourists start staying overnight here. The Kurukshetra Development Boardhas proposed to start hop-on-hop-off buses service and it is with the government. Due to the pandemic, the number of tourists is less and we are expecting that the government will give an approval to the project soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-claims-to-put-kurukshetra-on-global-tourist-map-fall-flat-302225
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram multiple murders: Ex-Army man’s wife arrested||“I have no regret. I was the head of the family and a landlord, and they had corrupted my house. I did what it took to clean it. My daughter-in-law and the tenant had an illicit relation. The tenant was neither paying rent nor leaving my house, so I had no choice. I just wanted to kill them both but Krishan’s wife Anamika woke up. She said she did not want to live without her husband, so I killed her too. Thinking about how their kids would lead a miserable life as orphans, I decided to kill them as well,” 59-year-old ex-Army man Rao Rai Singh reportedly said in his confession given to the police today.His claims were supported by his 48-year-old wife Bimlesh, who was arrested today. In her statement, Bilmesh said while she was not part of the murder, she knew about her husband’s plan and did not object to it.I am his wife & have to support himI am his wife and have to support him in whatever he does. For us, in our culture, the husband is always right. —Bimlesh, Wife of accused“I am his wife and I have to support him in whatever he does. For us, in our culture, the husband is always right and we don’t say anything in their matters,” Bimlesh told the police. The husband and wife were produced in a court today. Rao Singh was taken to a two-day remand while Bimlesh was sent to judicial custody.The police have also procured CCTV footage of Rao Singh leaving the house with the weapon in his hand.Speaking to the Tribune, the Investigation Officer revealed that in his statement, Singh stated that after attacking his daughter-in-law, the tenant and his family, he changed his blood-drenched clothes and washed them. He then went to a small park he maintained and gave its key to the neighbour, saying he had to take care of it now. The family of the deceased daughter-in-law has refuted claims of an illicit relation with the tenant, saying that the in-laws were pressurising her to sell one acre of land she inherited from her father. Her brother, Ashok Kumar, has moved to the police with these allegations.“Investigation is underway and we are looking at the statement of the accused, neighbours and the families of the deceased. The claims of the key accused are incoherent. The CCTV footage is also being analysed,” said ACP Rajiv Yadav. The three-year-old daughter of the tenant was admitted at Safdurjung Hospital today. A senior police officer said her condition was stable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-multiple-murders-ex-army-mans-wife-arrested-302226
26-08-2021||---||Smart City Mission: Karnal among top 30 cities of country||Karnal, August 25Karnal has been selected among the top 30 cities of the country in the “Street for people challenge” initiated under the Smart City Mission. The result of stage one was declared on Tuesday evening by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Government of India. There are three stages and the best three cities will be selected by the ministry after the final round.This step was initiated on September 11, 2020 by the Union Ministry with an aim to utilise the streets, roads, dead spaces and parking lots for the people by transforming these spaces with street games to ensure community participation, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO Karnal Smart City Ltd. He maintained that competitions like painting, dance, tug of war, snake and ladder and others were organised and children participated with enthusiasm. “As many as 113 cities were registered for this challenge and Karnal has been selected among top 30 cities. It got 15th place, for which all the team members of the Smart City as well as the residents deserve appreciation,” the CEO maintained.“We organised such activities in different parts of the city with the help of various organisations. Now, we have entered in the second phase, so the residents should participate ” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smart-city-mission-karnal-among-top-30-cities-of-country-302227
26-08-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Rs 8-crore embezzlement in civic bodies, panchayats in Haryana: Audit report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 25The Local Audit Department of Haryana has detected an embezzlement of Rs 8.3 crore in the urban local bodies, gram panchayats and panchayat samitis. Also, Rs 65.52 crore was found short realised in 52 urban local bodies.In the audit of 21 urban local bodies, misappropriation of Rs 5.76 crore was detected. It was attributed to the non-observance of codal provisions issued from time to time and partly due to the lack of supervision and functioning of subordinate staff.All this and more have been brought out in the 2016-17 audit report, which was tabled in the Vidhan Sabha today.Maximum in Pehowa Municipal CommitteeThe maximum embezzlement was found in the Municipal Committee of Pehowa, where Rs 1.42 crore was transferred from VAT grant to MC fund without approval and used in recurring expenditure. Similarly, Rs 1.13 crore was transferred from State Finance Commission (SFC) grant to the MC fund, and Rs 84.2 lakh from SFC and the Central Finance Commission (CFC) grants to the MC fund, both without approval and used in recurring expenditure.The audit report also pointed out that Rs 65.52 crore was short recovered in case of 52 urban local bodies. In the case of Panchkula Municipal Corporation, Rs 36.56 crore is short realised on account of house tax, fire tax, rent of shops, development charges, and tower charges.The Yamunanagar Municipal Corporation was to recover Rs 9.65 crore from a private firm, which was hired for the door-to-door collection of garbage, but it didn’t, stated the audit report. Irregular expenditure of Rs 5 crore by the Karnal MC was detected. The money was transferred to a firm for a solid waste management project without pre-audit.An embezzlement of Rs 1.51 crore was detected in the audit of 152 gram panchayats. The prominent one was found in Shahzadpur gram panchayat (Ambala), where Rs 22.01 lakh was misappropriated. Payments were made, but neither the vouchers were put up nor the beneficiaries’ names were mentioned in the cash book, said the report.In the case of Chhajpur Khurd (Sanoli Khurd block) gram panchayat in Panipat district, the audit found that Rs 30 lakh was transferred to the office of the Bapoli BDPO from OBC Bank, Israna, “but the purpose was not shown, so it seems a matter of suspected embezzlement”.In Uttron gram panchyat of Morni block (Panchkula), Rs 13.19 lakh were found withdrawn but the related record was not shown to audit, “thus embezzled,” said the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-8-crore-embezzlement-in-civic-bodies-panchayats-in-haryana-audit-report-302234
26-08-2021||Rewari||Student made brand ambassador for ‘Polythene Free Rewari’||Three students get placementsKurukshetra: Three final-year students of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, got placed in an online placement drive organised by Yamaha Motor Pvt Ltd. The selected students are Simran Dhiman, Sonali Singh and Vishal Garg who have been offered the post of graduate engineer trainee (GET). Vice- Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva and director Prof CC Tripathi congratulated the selected students. Training and placement officers Dr Nikhil Marriwala and Dr Sanjeev Ahuja said the drive was organised online with the help of student co-ordinator Rishikant Singh for students pursuing BE/ B-Tech course at the UIET.Molecular biology techniqueKarnal: In the first five-day of the 10-day long training in techniques of molecular biology, scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), trained participants in basic molecular biology techniques such as DNA, RNA, protein isolation, and quantification. Dr Naresh Selokar, course director, informed that the molecular biology tools have been playing an increasing role in human and animal development to meet challenges in coming decades.New grievance redressal officerRohtak: The Vice Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Prof. Rajbir Singh has appointed Dr. Rishi Chaudhary, Professor, Institute of Management Studies and Research (IMSAR) as grievance redressal officer in terms of provisions of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 with immediate effect.Admission process begins at MDURohtak: The admission process for various UG/PG (integrated) programmes available after class XII has started at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). MDU, dean, academic affairs Prof Nav Rattan Sharma informed that details of the academic programmes, eligibility conditions, and other details were available on the MDU website. The last date for submission of online application forms for these academic programmes is August 31.Workshop on role of teachers in NEPKurukshetra: A one-day workshop on the "Role of teachers in national education policy (NEP)-2020" was organised at the senate hall of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra (KUK), by Centre for continuing education RUSA 2.0 and faculty development centre of the university. Prof Kailash Chandra Sharma, former Vice-Chancellor of KUK, was the chief guest and said that teachers had a major role to play as key stakeholders in NEP as they had to impart the modern multidisciplinary education. In his presidential remarks, KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said the main objective of the new education policy was to provide multi-disciplinary education to students. Personality building, quality education, human values and all-round development of students have been included under the New Education Policy 2020.Skill varsity extends admission datePalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has extended the admission process for the new academic session 2021-22 till August 31. A spokesperson of the university said interested students could apply for admission in various skill courses for DVoc, diploma, BVoc and BBA programme, PG diploma, MVoc and MBA programmes till August 30. He said the university offered various skill courses, including skill faculty of engineering and technology, skill faculty of management studies and research, skill faculty of applied sciences and humanities, skill faculty of agriculture based on 'earn while learn model' where students get the opportunity to work in various prominent industries. The official website of the university can be visited for all the necessary details related to courses www.svsu.ac.in and toll free no. 18001800147 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-made-brand-ambassador-for-polythene-free-rewari-302241
26-08-2021||---||Haryana government unveils policy to boost hospitality sector||Chandigarh, August 25The BJP-JJP government is set to spice up the hospitality and entertainment sectors in the state, especially in the National Capital Region (NCR).An order by AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said the existing policy for the grant of change of land use (CLU) permissions for developing restaurants, hotels, resorts, amusement and theme parks in the agriculture zones had been amended.Under the new policy, a restaurant with a floor area ratio (FAR) of 1 can be built over a minimum area of 1,000 sq m and the maximum area of 2,000 sq m. A commercial component of 15 per cent has been allowed. Banquet halls, banquet halls-cum-drive-in theatres, and banquet halls-cum-sports academies can be come up over a minimum of 2 acres with no upper limit. The commercial component for this category will be 10 per cent with a FAR of 0.5.Area normsThe area norms for hotels, with a FAR of 1 and commercial component of 15 per cent, will be between 2,000 sq m and 5 acres along national highways. The area for hotels on roads other than national highways will be 1-3 acres. Five-star hotels, which can have a FAR of 0.75 and commercial component of 15 per cent, can be constructed over an area between 4 acres and 10 acres.Resorts, amusement parks and theme parks can be built over a minimum area of 2.5 acres (with no upper limit).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-unveils-policy-to-boost-hospitality-sector-302243
26-08-2021||Our Correspondent||5 ‘gau rakshaks’ hurt in attack by smugglers in Gurugram village||Gurugram, August 25Five “gau rakshaks” were injured following a chase of cow smugglers’ vehicle that took place near Ullahwas village in the wee hours today.Gaurav Arya, member of the Go Rakshak Dal, said that the smugglers threw a cow from their pick-up jeep in front of a car of the “gau rakshaks” in the chase, resulting in the overturning of the car of the latter, injuring five of them.Three out of the five “gau rakshaks” were critically injured and were being treated in the Medanta hospital.The smugglers also fired at the “gau rakshaks”.A police team of the Sector 56 police station reached the hospital to record the statements of the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-gau-rakshaks-hurt-in-attack-by-smugglers-in-gurugram-village-302221
26-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Traders to move apex court against Tikri blockade||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 25The Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries, a body representing over 9,000 large and small-scale units in Bahadurgarh town, has decided to approach the Supreme Court for getting removed the blockade by farmers at Tikri border.The decision came almost a month after the trade body apprised the Union and the state governments of the adverse effects of the blockade. “We were expecting some firm action, but nothing has happened. The industries in Bahadurgarh have been suffering a monthly loss of Rs 2,000 crore. Around 2,000 units have either closed or are on the verge of closure,” said Narinder Chhikara, commerce chamber’s senior vice-president.Chhikara maintained it was the government’s responsibility to provide safe passage for transportation of raw material and finished goods. “We will make the Centre, state government and the Delhi Police parties in our petition,” he said.He claimed vehicles carrying raw material from Delhi or elsewhere had to take a detour, leading to 300 to 400 per cent escalation in input cost. “Around 7.5 lakh people are directly or indirectly employed at the industries in Bahadurgarh,” he said.Farmers blame PolicePargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said Tikri border had been sealed by the Delhi Police by setting up multi-layer barricading, hence farmers couldn’t be blamed for it. “We provide passage to every vehicle,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-to-move-apex-court-against-tikri-blockade-302152
26-08-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram multiple murder accused unrepentant, says ‘killed to cleanse my house’||Gurugram, August 25“I have no regrets. I was head of a family and a landlord. They had corrupted my house. I did what it took to cleanse my house,” 59-year-old ex-Army man Rao Rai Singh reportedly said in his confessional statement to police on Wednesday.“My daughter-in-law and the tenant had illicit relations and he was neither paying rent nor leaving my house. I had no choice. I only wanted to kill the two of them, but tenant’s wife Anamika got up. She said she did not want to live without her husband so I killed her also. Thinking about children leading a miserable life as orphans, I liberated them also,” he reportedly said.The accused’s claims were supported by his 48-year-old wife Bimlesh who was arrested by police. In her statement, Bilmesh said while she was not part of the murder plan, but was present and did not object when her husband went on the hacking spree around the house.“I am his wife and have to stand in whatever he does. In our culture, husband is always right and we don’t say anything in their matters,” Bimlesh told police. The husband-wife duo was produced in court. Rai Singh was taken on two-day remand, while she was sent to judicial custody.The police have, meanwhile, also procured CCTV footage in which Singh is seen coming out of house carrying “the weapon” used in the crime.Speaking to the Tribune an investigation officer said in his statement Singh said after attacking five, including four of tenant’s family and his daughter-in-law, he changed his blood-drenched clothes and washed them. He then went to a small park he had maintained and gave its key to neighbour saying it was his duty now. The family of deceased daughter-in-law has refuted claims of extra-marital affair, alleging the in-laws were pressuring her to sell 1 acre land she had inherited from her father. Her brother Ashok Kumar has moved police with these allegations.“Investigation is on and we are looking into statement of the accused, deceased’s families and neighbours. The claims of the key accused are incoherent. The CCTV footage is also being analysed,” said Rajiv Yadav, ACP, city.Meanwhile, the sole survivor of the murderous attack, 3-year-old Vidhi, spend entire day yesterday waiting for admission at Safdurjung hospital. She got an admission today only. A senior police officer said that she is stable and admitted to general ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-multiple-murder-accused-unrepentant-says-killed-to-cleanse-my-house-301892
