27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 21 fresh cases, one more death||Haryana on Friday reported one more COVID-19-related fatality, taking the death toll to 9,672, while 21 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,432.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest death was reported from Nuh district.Of the new cases, five were from Gurgaon and four from Panchkula district, it said.The total active cases in the state stands at 664, it said.The overall recoveries so far has reached 7,60,096, while the recovery rate was 98.66 per cent, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-21-fresh-cases-one-more-death-302877
27-08-2021||---||Khori demolition: SC asks Haryana govt to respond to report on ‘woeful’ condition of those removed||New Delhi, August 27The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Haryana Government to respond to a report that said Khori village dwellers removed from the Aravali forest area and now sheltered at the Radha Swamy Satsang Centre, Faridabad, are facing "woefully inadequate" living conditions.A Bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar sought the state government’s response after senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing some of the displaced residents of the village, said the statements made by the state regarding rehabilitation were incorrect.“We have done an exhaustive report. We have been to the area, we have interviewed people and we have found a shocking state of affairs. We have put it on record here,” Gonsalves submitted.The counsel for the Faridabad Municipal Corporation said the rehabilitation policy has since been finalised and it will be placed on record and a copy will also be shared with the petitioners. He said the policy has been finalised after considering the suggestions given by their counsel.Asking the state and the corporation to file their responses on the application, the Bench posted it for hearing next month.The corporation’s counsel told the Bench that they had already demolished around 10 farm houses and other unauthorised structures on the forest land in the area.The top court had on June 7 ordered the Haryana Government and the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to remove “all encroachments”, consisting around 10,000 residential constructions, in Aravali forest area near the village, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge in rule of law and talk of fairness”Parikh referred to a report filed earlier by the Forest Department of Haryana before the National Green Tribunal and said a total of 123 properties are located on forest land."There are two ways of doing it. We start investigating on all factual matters right now or allow them (authorities) to complete the exercise, give compliance certificate and only thereafter go into the aspect which you are raising," the bench said, adding, ''They are prioritising the action".The Bench said it would look into all the aspects after the compliance report was filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khori-demolition-sc-asks-haryana-govt-to-respond-to-report-on-woeful-condition-of-those-removed-302868
27-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||7,138 challans issued in Rohtak for violation of traffic norms||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 26Taking a serious view of traffic jams and road mishaps due to violation of norms, the district authorities have adopted a strict stance against traffic rules violators by issuing a total 7,138 challans and recommending suspension of 270 driving licenses in the past month. It also collected a total fine of Rs 1.12 crore from 357 goods carriages for overloading.Sources said 127 persons lost their lives and 184 suffered injuries in 256 road mishaps in the district upto July 31. Violations of norms by road users have been found to be one of the major causes behind accidents. It forced the authorities to tighten the noose around the violators.“Wrong-side driving has been found to be a major violation of traffic rules as vehicle drivers avoid using valid cuts to go to the other side of the road with an intention to save fuel and time but sometimes, it leads to road mishaps. A total of 1,475 out of 7,138 challans have been issued for wrong- side driving while 21 persons were caught while driving in a drunken state,” the sources added.Similarly, 488 challans were issued for overspeeding, 367 for driving without helmet, 228 for driving without seat belt, 297 for wrong parking and remaining 3,911 were issued for different violations, including mobile use while driving and pillion rider without helmet.“The authorities have also identified illegal cuts on the Delhi-Hisar highway, black spots at Jhajjar bypass near Jalebi Chowk, Hisar road near the roundabout at Bahu Akbarpur village, Kultana Turn near Sampla town and the accident-prone points in Bhali village near sugar mill, Sun City Road, Madina village near radio station, IIM intersection, Jind road, Delhi bypass to Jhajjar road, and NRS College to Model town road,” sources added.Mahender Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said the officers concerned had been directed to take necessary action for curbing road mishaps in the district. “The Secretary, Road Transport Authorities, has been asked to conduct eye check-up camps for drivers of the Haryana roadways while other officers have been directed to fill the potholes and to install signboards on the highways to curb accidents,” Pal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-138-challans-issued-in-rohtak-for-violation-of-traffic-norms-302595
27-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Poor sanitation irks residents of Hisar posh localities||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 26The residents of Sector 16, 17 and 13 of Hisar have alleged that despite raising the issue of unhygienic conditions and heaps of garbage in posh localities multiple times, the authorities concerned have failed to act on the problem.Waste dumped in open not being liftedThe MC has recently allotted the tender to a private firm for lifting the waste but the solid waste dumped in the open places is not being lifted by safai karamcharis of the firm.  — Anil Kumar Jalandhra, Resident, sector 16Action against plot ownersI have directed the officials of the engineering wing, sanitation wing and the building wing to take action against plot owners whose plots are being used to dump garbage. — Gautam Sardana, MayorViolators being penalised, says MayorAccording to MC sources, there are around 4,000 plots in the town and maximum of these plots are being used to dump garbage.Mayor Gautam Sardana said they had been taking measures against people responsible for throwing garbage at unauthorised garbage dumping spots.The empty plots in residential posh localities developed by the HSVP were being used as garbage dumps and the drain meant to discharge rainwater had now been blocked with waste as well, the residents complained.Anil Kumar Jalandhra, a resident of Sector 16, maintained that the Municipal Corporation and the HSVP were trying to shift the blame on each other for their failure to remove garbage from the sectors.“The MC has recently allotted the tender to a private firm for lifting the waste but the solid waste dumped in the open places is not being lifted by safai karamcharis of the firm. I talked to a senior official in the MC but he said it is the responsibility of the HSVP to lift garbage from vacant plots,” he added. Dalbir Kirmara, a resident of Sector 16, said the laid back attitude of the local authorities was responsible for the state of affairs in the posh residential sectors.“Senior officials and MC Mayor Gautam Sardana are aware of the poor sanitation conditions of the sectors but they seem to have turned a blind eye to our problems,” he said. According to the MC sources, there are around 4,000 plots in the town and maximum of these plots are being used to dump garbage. These spaces are found in Sector 1 to 4, 9 to 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 33 and colonies including Patel Nagar, Dogran Mohalla, Nirankari Bhawan road, Azad Nagar, Surya Nagar, New Model town among others.Sujan Singh Beniwal, a resident of Sector 13, said residents were also to be blamed for dumping waste in vacant plots. “The situation turned sour during the monsoon as the waste emanated foul smell,” he added. Mayor Gautam Sardana said they had been taking measures against people responsible for throwing garbage at unauthorised garbage dumping spots .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-sanitation-irks-residents-of-hisar-posh-localities-302596
27-08-2021||Deepender Deswal||Loharu Fort, Bhiwani, to be state-protected monument||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 26The Archeology Department, Haryana, has decided to declare Loharu Fort site as a state-protected monument. Banani Bhattacharya, Deputy Director of the Archeology and Museums Department, maintained that the site was set to be declared as a protected monument and would be developed as a tourist site after the completion of formalities.Has connection with Mirza GhalibThe Loharu Fort is famously known as the “sasural” of acclaimed Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib who was married to Umrao Begum, daughter of Mirza Ilahi Bakhsh Khan, younger brother of the Nawab of Loharu Ahmad Bakhsh Khan.Decades of official apathy and lack of awareness about its historical importance has turned the Loharu Fort, a precious relic of cultural heritage and three architecture styles, located on the bordering town of Loharu in Bhiwani district into a hideout for anti-social elements.The Loharu Fort is famously known as the “sasural” of acclaimed Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib who was married to Umrao Begum, daughter of Mirza Ilahi Bakhsh Khan, younger brother of the Nawab of Loharu Ahmad Bakhsh Khan. Though the present generation of residents does not have much knowledge about its history, the culture and architecture lovers maintain that the Loharu Fort is an attraction of heritage experts and should be protected and developed as a tourist spot.Bhattacharya said the total area of the fort is about 64 kanal and 18 marla (about eight acres) located in the interior of the Loharu town. The fort was built in 1570 by Thakur Arjun Singh as a kuccha mud fort and stayed as such till 1800. The fort witnessed two major conflicts and later was taken control of by the state of Alwar and later became the Paragana under the state of Ferozpur Jhirka, which was ruled by Nawab Ahmed Baksh Khan in 1803. Then the pucca construction of the fort started which is turned out to be an interest blend of three styles of architecture, including Rajputs, Mughals and British style of architecture, stated the notification of the Haryana Government. “The south-wing of the fort contained the Diwan-e-khas and the Sheesh Mahal or The Room Of Mirrors, which has Mughal/Rajput style details. The central part of the south wing contained a large Victorian style audience chamber and banquet hall. The right side of the south-wing consisted of the Zanana Mahal along with the kitchens. The left side of the south-wing was purely Mughal architecture. The east-wing was executed in the Delhi Haveli style which was considered very fashionable at the time and was distinct from the Shekhawati Haveli”, said Bhattacharya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/loharu-fort-bhiwani-to-be-state-protected-monument-302597
27-08-2021||---||ESI dispensary to come up in Jhajjar village||Chandigarh, August 26Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said an ESI dispensary would be opened at Jhajjar’s Jharli village for employees and those of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS).He made the announcement while presiding over a meeting with office-bearers of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh here today.“Apart from the thermal power project in Jharli village, there are many industries. Several workers work there in the unorganised sector. Therefore, it is imperative to open an ESI dispensary in Jharli area,” said the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/esi-dispensary-to-come-up-in-jhajjar-village-302598
27-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram residents protest  proposed demolition drive||Gurugram, August 26High drama prevailed at Agrasen Chowk in Sohna today as hundreds of persons gathered at the place to protest against eviction and demolition notices served to six colonies.The protestors went to meet the Sub-Divisinal Magistrate (SDM), but on not finding him in his office, they sat outside the office and started agitation by raising slogans.They refused to budge from the venue till they submitted the memorandum to the SDM. A mahapanchayat had been held in Sohna and the administration officials were informed about the memorandum submission there.As per their plan, the protesters went to the office and on not finding anybody to receive the memorandum, got infuriated. The protesters were from the IT colony, Pahad colony, Peer colony, Devilal road colony, Shiv Kund and Thakur wada.“It’s matter of our home and we will not retreat. We will not let them touch our houses. We have been waiting for two hours, but won’t get up till they take our memorandum,” said a protester Veer Singh. It was only when the SDM left a meeting midway and came to take their memorandum that they left the place. There was chaos and traffic congestion at the place all this while. A woman also fainted at the protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-protest-proposed-demolition-drive-302599
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||10% quota for EWS students||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-quota-for-ews-students-302600
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Over 1.5 cr vaccinated in Haryana so far||Health Minister Anil Vij has said the anti-Covid vaccination drive was progressing at a fast pace in the state. About 1.51 crore eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far.“About 1.14 crore persons have been administered the first dose and 36.85 lakh have received the second jab. About 4.68 lakh healthcare workers and 4.52 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated,” said Vij.Meanwhile, the state’s Covid tally rose to 7,70,411 on Thursday with 16 fresh cases, while the toll reached 9,671 after one more death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1-5-cr-vaccinated-in-haryana-so-far-302601
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Online registration date for undergraduate classes extended in Haryana||Taking a decision in the interest of students, the Haryana Government has decided to extend the last date of the registration for online admission for the first year of the undergraduate classes till September 2.An official spokesperson said principals and students of some colleges had sought extension of the last date for admission in the first year of the graduation classes. The Higher Education Department had given approval in this regard.According to the new schedule, students can now apply and register themselves on the online admission portal till September 2. The first merit list will be issued on September 8 after the online document verification is done by September 4. The students seeking admission will have to deposit the fees between September 9 and September 13. After this, the second merit list will be issued on September 15, for which fees can be deposited from September 16 to 18. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-registration-date-for-undergraduate-classes-extended-in-haryana-302602
27-08-2021||---||Townships for senior citizens on the cards in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 26“Mini townships” catering to every need of the senior citizens, including medical facilities, are in the offing in Haryana, with the BJP-JJP government unveiling a policy aimed at developing exclusive retirement housing projects.A home for elderly“With an ever-increasing ageing population and increasing trend of nuclear families, there is an emergent need for the development of commercially viable and professionallymanaged retirement housing projects,” AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said while notifying the policy.Sources said the new policy was the initiative of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who wanted regulated development of retirement housing projects for senior citizens willing to pay for such accommodation and facilities.Under the policy, the developer would have to mandatorily provide medical services, including 24x7 on-site ambulance, emergency medical room, regular medical check-up, pharmacy tie-up with doorstep medicine delivery and wheelchair facility.Yoga, physiotherapy and exercise centre will also have to be provided within the residential complex.To take care of the security concerns, alarm system in all rooms and common areas, emergency alarm and light control, free intercom facility, CCTVs and deployment of the properly-trained security personnel would be ensured.Besides, the basic design of the residential complex, including corridors, lifts and ramps, bathrooms, bedrooms, open areas and parks, would be senior citizen-friendly.While all facilities would be provided to the senior citizens under one residential complex, transport and mobility assistance, including pick-up and drop facility for nearby locations and e-carts for internal movement, will be provided by the developer/service providers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/townships-for-senior-citizens-on-the-cards-in-haryana-302603
27-08-2021||Gurugram||2 officials sent on leave for ‘irregularities’ in jail||Two senior officials of Bhondsi jail here have reportedly been sent on leave following repeated complaints of irregularities and corruption.The state authorities have launched an inquiry into the matter. Director General (Jails) Shatrujeet Kapoor has confirmed this.“It’s an internal matter. Once the inquiry is complete, the Police Department will divulge the details. Action will be taken if someone is found guilty,” he told the media.Sources, however, say the discovery of a VIP barrack equipped with all facilities triggered the inquiry.A jail official said, “The two senior officials will remain on leave till the time the matter is under investigation. Other officials and inmates are being questioned. Complaints lodged by inmates or their family members are being taken up.”Jail Superintendent Harinder Singh could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts. There have been several complaints regarding drug smuggling, unchecked use of mobile phones and VIP cells on the jail premises.Last year, the police had nabbed a Deputy Jail Superintendent with drugs and a mobile SIM card supplier for allegedly supplying prohibited items inside the jail. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-officials-sent-on-leave-for-irregularities-in-jail-302604
27-08-2021||---||Save nation from private firms, Rakesh Tikait tells farmers||Yamunanagar, August 26Farmers, under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, held a mahapanchayat in Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar district on Thursday.The purpose behind holding the mahapanchayat was to mobilise support for a “big panchayat” to be held in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, on September 5 and against the three “black” farm laws.Addressing the mahapanchayat in Bilaspur town, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that a mission to save the country would be started from Muzaffarnagar on September 5.“The Centre didn’t mention in its manifesto that it would sell public sector companies. But now, it is — one after the other — selling public sector companies to private people. These private companies will now exploit the people of the country,” said Rakesh Tikait.He said that all countrymen including youths, the common man, farmers and labourers should take to the streets to save the country from being sold to private companies.He further said that as Yamunanagar district is situated close to Muzaffarnagar, more and more people of this district should take part in the big panchayat. “More and more people should attend the big panchayat being held in Muzaffarnagar to save the country,” said Rakesh Tikait.He said that the government was lying on the issue of inviting farmer leaders for talks on the issue of the three farm laws.“We are demanding guarantee of minimum support price of crops and the repeal of the three black farm laws. We will not return home and end our protest until our demands are met,” said Tikait.The mahapanchayat was attended by farmer leaders Ratan Mann, Ravi Azad, Satpal Kaushik, Subhash Gurjar, Sanju Gundiana and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/save-nation-from-private-firms-rakesh-tikait-tells-farmers-302605
27-08-2021||Rewari||March held in Rewari||Farmers, women and advocates under the aegis of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) jointly took out a protest march in Rewari city on the completion of nine months of the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi border. The march jointly led by Ram Kisan Mehlawat, Ashok Musepur and Samay Singh started from Nehru Park and culminated at the mini secretariat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/march-held-in-rewari-302606
27-08-2021||---||Farmers oppose amended land acquisition Act||Rohtak, August 26  The Haryana state committee of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has condemned the amendments to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Inderjit Singh, vice-president, AIKS, said: “Important pro-farmer provisions in the Act were a result of prolonged struggle of farmers. The Modi government had, in 2015, tried to water down the provisions. But it could not succeed due to a joint struggle by farmers and NDA’s lack of majority in Rajya Sabha.” “The Haryana Assembly has added anti-farmer, anti-people and pro-corporate provisions to the Act. This is a treachery by the BJP-JJP government with farmers. As a result of these amendments, acquisition of land has been made easy as the willingness of minimum 70 per cent of farmers has been removed. Even houses constructed in fields can be demolished with an executive order at the time of land acquisition,” he added. The AIKS demanded withdrawal of “regressive” amendments, or else farmers would launch an agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-oppose-amended-land-acquisition-act-302607
27-08-2021||Hisar||Hisar BJP MLA shown black flags||Farmers showed black flags to Hisar BJP MLA Kamal Gupta and forced him to return at the Ramayan toll plaza in Hisar on the Hisar-Delhi road today.  The farmers raised anti-government slogans when they spotted the vehicle of the MLA near the toll plaza. The MLA later informed mediapersons that he was going to Hansi to attend a meeting when a group of farmers stopped him and waved black flags. He said that nobody misbehaved with him and told him that they would not let him cross the toll plaza.  “So, I decided to take an alternative route and reached my destination. I have not lodged any complaint as no untoward incident occurred at the spot,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-bjp-mla-shown-black-flags-302608
27-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||265% increase in GST collection in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 26Faridabad, one of the leading contributors of revenue (GST) in the state, has recorded a sharp increase of 265.53 per cent in tax collection in the first four months of this year in comparison to the corresponding period of the last year.Manufacturing, jabbing the reasons The rise was mainly due to increase in commercial and manufacturing activities in the wake of the relaxation of the Covid norms and mass vaccination programme. — Ravinder Singh, Deputy Excise and Taxation CommissionerAn official of the Excise and Taxation Department said Rs 1193.36 crore had been collected in the period between April and July this year, which was 2.65 times the revenue collected in the same period of 2020-21. The department has registered a jump of 198 per cent in the collection in July this year against the collection in the corresponding period (month) of the last year. The collection in July this year stood at Rs 334.45 crore against Rs 168.31 crore collected in the same period of 2020-21.The department has been divided into four zones of South, West, North and East districts, each headed by an official of the rank of DETC (Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner). South district achieved the top slot with an increase of 364.27 per cent in the quarter between April and July this year. The rise recorded by West, North and East districts has been 181.06, 196.34 and 142.96 per cent, respectively, in this period. With 364.27 per cent rise in the month of July in comparison to the same period last year, the South district remained the topper.Claiming that the rise was mainly due to increase in commercial and manufacturing activities in the wake of the relaxation of the Covid norms and mass vaccination programme, Ravinder Singh, DETC, said the improvement was likely to keep up its pace . Given the fact that the collection dipped by more than 33 per cent till December 2020, he said the situation last year had been poor , due to Covid and lockdown conditions, which led to disruption in manufacturing and the sale of the industrial and commercial products and services. The department had collected Rs 1,738 crore in the nine months period between April and December 2020, which was 867.85 crore lower than the amount of Rs 2605.85 crore collected in the same period of 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/265-increase-in-gst-collection-in-faridabad-302609
27-08-2021||Karnal||18-yr-old ‘abducted’ from court; rescued||Hours after a high-voltage drama at the chamber complex of advocates in the district court here today, the Civil Lines police rescued an 18-year-old girl, who was allegedly forcibly taken away by her parents from the chamber complex.A youth of Sidhpur village, identified as Sumit, filed a kidnapping complaint against the family members of the girl of Kwaja Ahmedpur village in the Nilokheri block. The police have registered a case against the family members of the girl.Sumit said they had come there for police protection. The youth alleged that he had married the girl on August 6 in a temple, while the girl later denied this. She said he was just her friend and she went with him on her will, and now went with her family on her will. “He was my friend on Instagram and I did not marry him. We came here to meet an advocate. I called my parents as I did not want to marry him,” she told mediapersons.Meanwhile, the video of the family members were seen taking the girl forcibly from the chambers. The police got her statement registered in the court under Section 164 of the CrPC. However, the police did not disclose the statement. “On the complaint of Sumit Kumar, a resident of Sidhpur, we registered a case of kidnapping against the parents of the girl. We have rescued the girl and she said that she went with her parents on her own will,” said Roshan Lal, SHO Civil Lines.The father of the girl said she had a friend from Sidhpur village and on Thursday, she made a call to them and said that she was in the court and asked them to take her back. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-yr-old-abducted-from-court-rescued-302611
27-08-2021||---||Khattar asks officials to expedite Panchkula projects||Chandigarh, August 26Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today directed officers to expedite the work to be carried out under the Panchkula Integrated Development Plan to ensure holistic development of the district and to develop it as the state’s economic capital.Besides, the Chief Minister directed the officers to prepare a special plan to develop Sector 5 commercially and make it a centre of attraction.Khattar gave the directions while presiding over a review meeting held here today with regard to the works being carried out under the Panchkula Integrated Development Scheme. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present.“Roads connecting Panchkula and Mandhana, Mandhana and Morni, Morni and Tikkar Tal, and Tikkar Tal and Raipurrani will be widened and beautified,” he said.Besides, work should also be done to complete the proposed road from Ramgarh to Himachal Pradesh at the earliest, so that the movement of tourists can be facilitated.The Chief Minister was apprised that the work of direct connectivity from the Chandigarh airport to Panchkula was in progress. For this, a bridge over the Ghaggar river is under construction. Besides, the construction of the Pinjore airstrip is also in progress. After its completion, people will be able to take advantage of the air taxi service.The Chief Minister said adventure activities such as parasailing, paramotors and jet scooters would be started in Morni soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-asks-officials-to-expedite-panchkula-projects-302612
27-08-2021||New Delhi||Drones check fuel theft from IOC pipelines||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has used drones to throttle 34 attempts to pilfer fuel and arrest 53 persons in the 2020-21 fiscal year. The latest incident was in Sonepat, Haryana, on August 17. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drones-check-fuel-theft-from-ioc-pipelines-302613
27-08-2021||Mahendragarh||Lecture on Atmanirbhar Haryana||KU UIET students get placementKurukshetra: Seven final-year students of Kurukshetra University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) got jobs in the placement drive Hack with infy. It was a coding competition for engineering students graduating in 2022 organised by Infosys. Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated the selected students (Arya Jha, Madhav, Arjun Dogra, Pranshu Pareek, Anjali Arora, Rahul Sharma andMayank Tiwari). The VC also congratulated the director UIET Prof CC Tripathi and praised the efforts of Dr Nikhil Marriwala and Dr Sanjeev Ahuja, both training and placement officers of UIET, KUK for organising this drive in the pandemic.Hry girls leading in every fieldPanipat: "Haryana girls are breaking conventional barriers of society by outperforming boys in every field at Chandigarh University. Be it academics, sports, campus placements, research or entrepreneurship, the girls from Haryana are shining and proving their mettle with their outstanding achievements" says Dr RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor, Chandigarh University. Bawa said, "In total 7,412 students bagged job offers from 757 MNCs during placement season 2020, in which more than 380 girls out of the total 1,140 students are from Haryana" he added.Run for freedomAmbala: A Run for freedom was organised in GMN Public School to commemorate the 75th Independence Day - "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". Nationwide campaign will be on the concept of "Physical/Virtual Run" in continuum from 13th August to 2nd October 2021 to encourage fitness and help us all to get freedom from obesity, laziness, stress, anxiety, diseases etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lecture-on-atmanirbhar-haryana-302627
27-08-2021||The Panipat Municipal Corporation has failed to provide proper sanitation and cleanliness in the city. Heaps of garbage can be seen everywhere in the city especially in the corners of the roads and streets. There is tardy lifting of garbage from roads and internal parts of the city. The BJP-led government had given the contract to a private company JBM and is paying crores of rupees monthly to the company for lifting of garbage and collection of garbage from door to door. But||Garbage not being lifted properly in Panipat||Amit Kumar, PanipatWater supply has high fluoride content in NarwanaThe water supplied by the Public Health Department to residential colonies, ideally should have fluoride content not more than 1.5 mg per litre But in Narwana and surrounding villages, it goes upto 31.0 mg per litre which is highly harmful to health. It causes discoloring of teeth and weakening of bones. Patients of jaundice and gastro diseases are thronging to hospitals in large numbers. The government must direct the Public Health Department to supply water with less fluoride content.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaKurukshetra road in pathetic conditionOn Salarpur Road a good job was done by The PWD constructing a deep canal to drain away the waste water but the part of the road which was dug up to construct it has not been repaired. At places the road is so uneven that it is dangerous to ply vehicles on it. During rains, it is in a miserable state and can lead to mishaps. Being an important link between KDB road and Railway Road, it is one of the most frequented roads of Kurukshetra, still no attention is being paid to improve its pathetic condition.Dr Deepak Kaushik, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-not-being-lifted-properly-in-panipat-302629
27-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||9 months of farm agitation: Farmers vow to make it pan-India movement||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 26The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s first all-India convention started at Singhu on Thursday on the completion of nine months of their agitation against the central farm laws at the Delhi borders.At the opening of the two-day event, farmer leaders emphasised on intensifying the agitation and making it a pan-India movement.Delegates from 22 states representing over 300 farmer and agricultural workers’ unions and associations, 18 all-India trade unions, nine women and 17 student and youth bodies are participating in the conclave. Inaugurating the convention, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said the protest would continue till all their demands were met.Ashish Mittal, convention organising committee convener, placed a draft resolution before the delegates, which called for expanding the protest across the country.The leaders of various trade unions raised issues related to the alleged undemocratic and anti-people four labour codes thrust on workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-months-of-farm-agitation-farmers-vow-to-make-it-pan-india-movement-302506
