28-08-2021||---||Karnal violence: Haryana police claim farmers resorted to stone pelting first||Chandigarh, August 28  Haryana Police on Saturday issued a statement, claiming that it was the farmers who first resorted to pelting stones.  Explaining chronology of events, ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Virk, in a video statement, said, “Around 12 noon, farmers who were present at Bastara toll plaza blocked the Karnal highway. They tried to leave for Karnal city. When the cops tried to stop them, they turned violent.”He added, “Some protesters pelted police with stones and some attacked them with spade.” As per law, mild force was used to remove them from that place, he said. “A total of four farmers have been injured along with 10 cops.” He said on June 7 this year, SKM leaders at Tohana had assured that they would never resort to violent means, but still many incidents had taken place after that where they had resorted to violence.  “It is the duty of the police force to maintain law and order when a protest goes violent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-violence-haryana-police-claim-farmers-resorted-to-stone-pelting-first-303327
28-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||'Break their head...',  SDM tells police during farmers' protest, clarifies later||Chandigarh, August 28Karnal Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha on Saturday courted controversy after he was caught on camera directing policemen "to break their (farmers) head" in case they tried to breach the barricade during the farmers' protest in Karnal.The officer later claimed that "he has not seen the viral clip, but the direction came after stone-pelting had started", he goes on to add that "steps were taken as per CrPC"."Since it was an issue of stone-pelting, the response had to be proportionate", Sinha said.In the viral clip, the SDM could be heard ordering the police to "break their (the farmers) head".Earlier in the day, around 10 farmers were injured after the police reportedly resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse a group of farmers who were heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and BJP state president OP Dhankhar attended the state-level meeting.Farmers blocked the national highway-44 near Bastara toll plaza amid the deployment of the heavy police force.Congress general secretary and spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said that the atrocities by the BJP government will be remembered. “Khattar Sahib, you have lathi-charged the soul of Haryanvi in Karnal today. The oppression by the sinful BJP regime that bleeds the farmer of the soil is like demons. The blood that seeps from the bodies of the farmers, flowing on the streets, will be remembered by all the coming races,” said Surjewala."CM-Dy CM’s conspiracy to kill farmers in Karnal and it is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate – who is ordering the police to break the heads of the farmers and hit them with sticks. BJP-JJP is “General Dyer” government!” added Surjewal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/break-their-head-sdm-tells-police-during-farmers-protest-clarifies-later-303314
28-08-2021||Panchkula||Lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal: Farmers block Chandimandir and Naggal toll plazas for four hours||Angered over the lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal, hundreds of farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Kalka toll plaza near Surajpur thus causing a traffic jam on both sides of the toll on Saturday.According to information, as soon as the farmers heard the news of brutal lathi-charge on the farmers at Karnal, they gathered at Chandimandar toll plaza (Surajpur) in Panchkula and started raising slogans against the chief minister and the state government.The protesting farmers lifted the blockade after more than four hours at 7.30 pm giving relief to the commuters from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, who were on their way to Shimla, and trapped in the jam.Earlier only ambulances were given way and at about 6 pm two wheelers were allowed to cross the toll plaza by the farmers.A large number of women were present among the protesting farmers.After the news spread about the farmers gathering at the Chandimandir toll plaza, the Panchkula police got into action and reached the spot. The police had turned the areas near both the toll plazas into police cantonment.Farmers’ leader Karam Singh said the brutal lathi-charge on the farmers in Karnal in which dozens of farmers received head injuries and legs were fractured, was high handedness on the part of the Manohar Lal Khattar government as the unarmed farmers were protesting peacefully.At the Naggal toll plaza in Barwala too, farmers had blocked the traffic in protest. Hundreds of vehicles were struck in the jam thus causing problems to the commuters in the severe heat and humid conditions.The traffic jam continued till the filing of this report.Farm activists in and around Chandigarh will be blocking the Mullanpur barrier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lathi-charge-on-farmers-in-karnal-farmers-block-chandimandir-and-naggal-toll-plazas-for-four-hours-303302
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panel formed for selection of information commissioners||LoP Bhupinder Hooda and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar will be the panel members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-formed-for-selection-of-information-commissioners-302974
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress: Plan to buy 80% less millet anti-farmer||Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday described the state government’s announcement to procure 80 per cent less millet than the previous year as a death blow to the farmers.It has exposed the BJP-JJP’s anti-farmer intentions. Referring to the state’s reply on the floor of the Vidhan Sabha in response to the question raised by Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma, Surjewala said the government had informed that it procured 7.76 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of millet in Haryana last year. But for this year, the target has been reduced to only 1.5 LMT.“If this happens, what will be the fate of farmers producing the other 6.27 LMT of millet? Who will buy their millet crops,” he asked. Surjewala said millet was a major crop grown in various districts of Haryana including Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Jhajjar, Mewat, Mahendragarh, Palwal, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa districts. Farmers would be forced to sell their millet crops at throwaway prices and would suffer huge financial loss, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-plan-to-buy-80-less-millet-anti-farmer-302975
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh Murder: Parties can only inspect, not get copy of judge’s comments||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday allowed the inspection of the comments submitted by the Special CBI Judge, Panchkula, in the case involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, but did not permit handing over a copy of the same to the parties in the case.The High Court, while directing that the CCTV footage of the court complex, which is part of the comments, be kept in a sealed cover, extending the stay imposed on the final pronouncement of judgment by the CBI court in the Ranjeet Singh murder case till September 2, the next date of hearing.On August 24, the High Court had stayed the pronouncement of the verdict two days before it was expected to be delivered by the CBI Court, after it was averred by Ranjeet Singh’s son Jagseer Singh, that the case had been manipulated through the public prosecutor.The High Court had, thereafter, asked the CBI Judge to file his comments on the petitioner’s averments. When the matter came up for hearing today, counsels for the parties sought some time to inspect the same and address arguments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ranjit-singh-murder-parties-can-only-inspect-not-get-copy-of-judges-comments-302976
28-08-2021||Rohtak||Property dealer, his family shot in Rohtak||A property dealer, his wife and mother-in-law were shot dead by unidentified assailants at his home in the Vijay Nagar locality here today.A 17-year-old daughter of the deceased property dealer was also injured in the firing incident. She was admitted to the local PGIMS.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma, senior police officials and forensic experts reached the scene of the crime to take stock of the situation.The deceased were identified as Pradeep, his wife Babli and Babli’s mother Roshni. Shockingly, as per police sources, nobody in the neighbourhood got to know about the firing incident involving three murders in broad daylight. “The matter came to light when a brother of the deceased property dealer, who lives in the adjacent portion of the same house, went to his brother’s portion and saw Pradeep, his wife and mother-in-law lying in a pool of blood this afternoon. Pradeep’s daughter, who was aliveby then, was rushed to the local PGIMS,” said police spokesperson Sunny Laura.He said no weapon had been found from the crime scene, adding that a door of the house of the victim was also found broken. No arrests have been reported so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-dealer-his-family-shot-in-rohtak-302977
28-08-2021||Hisar||Villagers protest power cuts in Hisar||Fed up of prolonged power cuts and low-voltage supply, the residents of Pabra and adjoining villages protested outside the office of the Superintending Engineer (SE) of the DHBVN in Hisar on Friday.The residents said the village had been included under the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ scheme after the completion of the norms for minimum line losses.Kuldeep Singh, a protester, said Power Minister Ranjit Singh had visited the village last year and announced to include it under the Jagmag scheme for 24-hour uninterrupted supply. “But the power situation has further deteriorated in the village ever since.”The villagers raised anti-government slogans for hours. Later, SE Rajender Sabbarwal came out and assured the protesters that he would visit the village next week and resolve the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-protest-power-cuts-in-hisar-302978
28-08-2021||---||Railways razes 700 houses in Faridabad||Faridabad, August 27Around 700 illegal constructions that had come up on railway land in the city were demolished by railway authorities today.A senior railway official said that several hundred residential constructions, which had come up on its land adjoining Indira Nagar locality in the NIT area here, were razed today. The occupants who had been served notices earlier had failed to remove the encroachments.It is claimed that while a large number of houses in ‘kutcha’ or ‘pucca’ form had been existing for the past 30 years, slum clusters have developed along the main railway track over several km in the city.“As I was born here, our family has been living here for the past over 45 years,” said Sishpal (40) whose house was among those demolished by the Railways.Six earthmovers had been deployed for the work and the drive was carried out between 9 am and 4 pm. This is the first demolition drive by the Railways in the city in the past five years, it is claimed.Describing the demolition of the houses as an onslaught on the housing rights of the poor people, Congress leader Baljit Kaushik condemned it. He claimed that theBJP rule had made thousands of people homeless in the past seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railways-razes-700-houses-in-faridabad-302979
28-08-2021||Karnal||Khelo Haryana Games: Buffalo, cycle for winners, says OP Dhankar||The Khelo Haryana Games began with a glittering ceremony at the Karan Stadium here on Friday. BJP state president OP Dhankar chaired the inaugural ceremony.As many as 1,232 players from across the state are going to participate in three disciplines — football, table tennis and boxing — in the district.Wishing the players good luck, former state Agriculture Minister Dhankar told them to give their best. On the occasion, he announced that the winners would be awarded murrah buffalo, scooter and sports bicycle by the BJP.Top three medallists of the boxing contest will get a murrah buffalo each, while that of table tennis will be given a scooter each in the men and women’s category, he added. Dhankar further said all players of the winning team of the football competition would be honoured with a sports bicycle each.Highlighting the state’s sports policy, he said around 25 per cent players who participated in the Tokyo Olympics were from Haryana and they won 50 per cent of the total medals. “The medals boosted the morale of the budding players,” Dhankar added.He said Sports Minister Sandeep Singh was an Olympian himself and he continues to boost the players.Meanwhile, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and Sports Department Deputy Director Satyadev Malik were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khelo-haryana-games-buffalo-cycle-for-winners-says-op-dhankar-302980
28-08-2021||---||Ambala bizman duped of Rs 2.40 cr, 11 booked||Ambala, August 27An Ambala-based businessman was allegedly duped of Rs2.40 crore by some fraudsters on the pretext of providing a rare and expensive cancer cure medicine.The fraudsters lured the businessman on the pretext of providing medicines made of a rare two-headed snake.Complainant Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, said he runs a herbal juice and Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing factory. A clinic is also run in the factory. The police have booked 11 people for duping the businessman.The complainant said: “In January 2019, Ranjit Singh of Ambala, who used to come to take medicine, informed me that his associates prepare medicines to cure cancer. The medicine is costly because it is prepared from rare two-headed snake and it can cure cancer. A couple of days later, Ranjit came with Murslin, Jaswant, Dinesh, Jony, Rajender Singh, Harpreet, Mannu, Rajender Nagar, Vinod, Babbar Bhan and some more accomplices,” he said.“They claimed that they bring the rare medicine from the Nepal border and it can be beneficial for the factory and the clinic. I got convinced and inquired about the cost and efficiency of the medicine. They sought Rs4-5 crore, a blank cheque and a blank affidavit for the medicine. I gave them Rs2.40 crore, along with a blank cheque and an affidavit in January 2019. They assured me of providing the medicine in a week. Later, they started making excuses that the snake is not coming out due to heavy snowfall,” he said.The complainant stated that when he demanded the money back, the fraudsters allegedly threatened to kill him. He got scared and didn’t make any complaint. He recently came to know that the Ambala police have arrested Jaswant for duping a man on the pretext of providing cancer medicine, following which he contacted the police and identified Jaswant as well. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 406, 506 and 120-B of the IPC at the Mahesh Nagar police station.As per information, this is third such case registered in Ambala.Mahesh Nagar SHO Suresh said: “A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated by the economic offences wing.”Saha, in-charge of the Economic Offences Wing, said: “The matter is being investigated. We will gather information and evidences regarding the payment made to the suspects by the complainant and further action will be taken accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-bizman-duped-of-rs-2-40-cr-11-booked-303084
28-08-2021||---||3-day Khelo Haryana Games begin in 6 districts||Ambala, August 27The three-day Khelo Haryana Games were kicked-off in six districts — Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Gurugram and Faridabad — on Friday. Over 9,000 players from across the state are taking part in 20 sporting events.Also read: Khelo Haryana Games: Buffalo, cycle for winners, says OP DhankarSandeep Singh, Sports MinisterEfforts on for better facilitiesThe government along with the Sports Department have been making all-out efforts to promote games, and provide better facilities and required infrastructure to the state players.In Ambala Cantonment, Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh inaugurated the games at GMN College. Addressing the gathering, he said: “The government and the Sports Department have been making all efforts to promote games, and provide better facilities and required infrastructure to the state players.”In Ambala, as many as 1,342 players in the U-18 category are participating in four disciplines — badminton, kho kho, judo and gymnastics.The minister said on the lines of Khelo India Games, competitions were being organised in Haryana to ensure that players remain engaged. “With these games, the players will not only be prepared for the state but national events too.”Talking to players, Sandeep said: “You just work hard, and the government and the Sports Department will provide you all kinds of facilities. In 2019, players participating in competitions used toget Rs 150 as diet allowance, later it was increased toRs 250 and now this amount has been hiked to Rs 400.”He further said: “The players who will perform well will be selected for the Khelo India Games. Also, steps are being taken to promote not only hockey but every sport. There are 13 hockey Astroturfs in different stadiums and more will be laid across the state. An international-level football stadium and all-weather swimming bridge are also being constructed at the War Heroes Memorial Stadium in Ambala Cantonment.”Meanwhile, four games —volleyball, basketball, cycling and hockey, are also being organised at the sports complex of Kurukshetra University and Shahabad stadium, in which 1,978 players are participating. DC Mukul Kumar was the chief guest of the opening ceremony. Later, Sandeep reached the Shahabad stadium and enquired about the facilities being provided to the players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-day-khelo-haryana-games-begin-in-6-districts-302981
28-08-2021||---||Haryana Govt reluctant to set up panel to probe Oxygen deaths: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Chandigarh, August 27Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today accused the government of adopting dilly-dallying tactics in the setting up of a panel to probe deaths due to oxygen shortage despite announcement in this regard on the floor of the State Assembly.Bhupinder Hooda, Ex-CMSlipping on all parametersThe state is slipping on all parameters — inflation, joblessness and economic growth — while in 2014, it was at the top in per capita income and investment. In crime too, it’s second in country. Hooda today alleged that CM Manohar Lal Khattar made announcement to this effect in the Assembly on August 24, but no committee had been announced so far, pointing the reluctance of the government for a probe.Accusing the state of failing to safeguard the interests of the state in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), Hooda said the state did not have its Member there for long and now, the panel, under the Punjab Member, takes decisions on the distribution of waters. He said the state had even failed to get its share in recruitment to various posts of officers and employees in the BBMB, though the youths from the state were facing huge unemployment.Castigating the state government for “providing jobs to outsiders” by lowering the domicile condition from 15 to five years of residence proof, Hooda said on one hand the state was delaying framing of rules for the new law mandating 75 per cent jobs to local youths, while on the other hand employment was being given out by relaxing conditions of domicile certificate.“The government dismisses the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s report on unemployment as sponsored by the Congress, but in the NITI Aayog’s report too, Haryana is behind Jharkhand and Bihar,” he claimed.He added that thousands of posts were vacant in police, health and education departments. “But they can’t organise an entrance paper as it gets leaked. The demand for the CBI probe was dismissed as daal mein kutch kala hai.”“During the current regime, those who have lakhs of rupees can get jobs and those who have crores can get a leaked paper…They misled the House (during monsoon session) that only four papers were got leaked,” said Hooda.He said every decision of the government was anti-farmer. “Under the new amendments in the land acquisition bill, ‘Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2021’, consent of farmers was not required. It is a step towards crony capitalism. The bill should have been sent to the Select Committee. We will request the Governor not to send the Bill to the President.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-reluctant-to-set-up-panel-to-probe-oxygen-deaths-bhupinder-singh-hooda-302982
28-08-2021||---||Supreme Court seeks Haryana reply on ‘woeful’ condition of Khori evacuees||New Delhi, August 27The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday asked the Haryana Government to respond to a report that said Khori village dwellers removed from the Aravalli forest area and now sheltered at Radha Swamy Satsang Centre, Faridabad, were facing “woefully inadequate” living conditions.Colin Gonsalves, Advocate representing displaced residentsShocking state of affairsWe have done an exhaustive report. We have been to the area, we have interviewed people and we have found a shocking state of affairs. We have put it on record here.A Bench, led by Justice AM Khanwilkar, sought the state government’s response after senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing some of the displaced residents of the village, said the statements made by the state regarding rehabilitation were incorrect.“We have done an exhaustive report. We have been to the area, we have interviewed people and we have found a shocking state of affairs. We have put it on record here,” Gonsalves submitted.The counsel for the Faridabad Municipal Corporation said the rehabilitation policy had since been finalised and it would be placed on record and a copy would also be shared with the petitioners. He said the policy had been finalised after considering the suggestions given by their counsel.Asking the state and the corporation to file their responses on the application, the Bench posted it for hearing next month.The corporation’s counsel told the Bench that they had already demolished around 10 farmhouses and other unauthorised structures on the forest land in the area.The top court, had on June 7, ordered the Haryana Government and the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to remove “all encroachments”, consisting of around 10,000 residential constructions, in the Aravalli forest area near the village, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge in rule of law and talk of fairness”.Parikh referred to a report filed earlier by the Forest Department of Haryana before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and said a total of 123 properties were located on forest land.“There are two ways of doing it. We start investigating on all factual matters right now or allow them (authorities) to complete the exercise, give compliance certificate and only thereafter go into the aspect which you are raising,” the bench said, adding, ‘’ They are prioritising the action”.The Bench said it would look into all the aspects after the compliance report was filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-seeks-haryana-reply-on-woeful-condition-of-khori-evacuees-302983
28-08-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Sewage breeding ground for mosquitoes||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Sewage breeding ground for mosquitoesThe sewage near Vita booth on gate number 2 in Sector 14 has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Shopkeepers and visitors in the adjoining market are facing the risk of contracting diseases due to mosquito bite. We have complained to officials of the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran but the officials are not responding to the repeated requests made for cleanliness. Rajesh Bansal, HisarCleanliness still a distant dreamThe Panchkula MC has failed in maintaining cleanliness and it is nowhere near Chandigarh in garbage management. The MC is busy in getting the walls painted, but nothing is being done to manage the garbage lying on prominent roads in Sector 9, just next to the main market hub having eating joints such as Sagar Ratna, KFC, Baker's Lounge, etc. The administration is sleeping and is insensitive to public issues. Sourabh Goel, PanchkulaAmbala Cantt roads in a shamblesIt has been more than four years, the roads are in very bad condition and full off pits and rough patches. One has to travel 6 km to cover an actual distance of 3 km. Senior citizens cannot move out even in cars. The jerks are bone breaking. Civil authorities should increase the pace of work going on. Slow pace of work is creating hurdles and traffic jams. MS Tandan, Ambala Cantt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewage-breeding-ground-for-mosquitoes-302991
28-08-2021||Kurukshetra||Tokyo hockey hero Surender Kumar felicitated in Kurukshetra||Examination centres inspectedSirsa: Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa Professor Ajmer Singh Malik and controller of examinations Professor Rajkumar Salar inspected the BEd practical examination centres of various colleges of Fatehabad district, which are scheduled between August 16 and September 4. He directed centre superintendents and coordinator of practical examiners team to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding Covid-19. He expressed satisfaction and motivated students to enhance their practical skills and be friendly with information technology tools for imparting qualitative education.Webinar on dietary interventionsKarnal: A one-day webinar on 'Dietary interventions for addressing menopausal symptoms' was organised at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), here on Friday. Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director, NDRI, said the webinar was conducted under the NDRI lecture series to commemorate 75-years of Indian Independence. He said the objective of the webinar was to bring about much-needed awareness among faculty and students about the dietary interventions that could be helpful in addressing and minimising the adverse effects associated with menopausal symptoms. Manisha Mehta, clinical dietician and sports nutritionist acted as resource persons for this webinar. Mehta focused on the symptoms of menopause and how to be medically sure of menopause. She emphasized on the three steps, namely exercise, right diet and timely sleep to rectify menopausal symptoms.DC inspects instituteHisar: Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni inspected the Northern Region Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute (TTI), located on the Sirsa road in the town. She interacted with scientists and trainees who came from different states to get training on farm implements. The DC was apprised about the vehicle-mounted sprayer for locust control which was effective in controling locust attack on the crops and other agriculture implements in the institute. The DC planted sapling on the campus.Women Equality DayAmbala: The MMIS Sadopur in Ambala district celebrated women Equality Day on Thursday to raise awareness about women's equality and the success they had achieved in various sectors. The day marks a strong starting point where women got equal representation in different arms of the government. To celebrate this day, a workshop was organised to motivate students to pay respect to women in every field.Training imparted to village womenHisar: Scientists of the Indira Chakravarty of College of Home Science at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture university (HAU) imparted training to women in Budak village to manufacture value-added products of pearl millet (bajra). The food and nutrition department's head Dr Sangeeta C Sindhu said the village women were encouraged to launch their own small ventures and tips given about taking loan and other assistance from the government departments.Regional awards in project writingAmbala: Namya Bhardwaj (Class VIII) of Army School, and Krittika Saini (Class IX) of KV2 have won the prestigious regional awards in project writing. The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Hertage (INTACH), Ambala, conducted an event on writing a project report on 'nature in danger' for schoolchildren on 31 December 2020, under the guidance of Colonel (retd) RD Singh, convenor INTACH. Over 125 children from 16 schools participated in this national event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-hockey-hero-surender-kumar-felicitated-in-kurukshetra-302990
28-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Bodies of man, daughter found on railway tracks in Yamunanagar||The bodies of a man and his daughter were found on the railway track near ‘kushtha ashram’ in Yamunanagar.The deceased have been identified as Dilsad (40) of Azad Nagar Colony and his daughter Sahroon (19). According to the information, Sahroon had fever for some days. So, she and her father left home to go to a private doctor on Wednesday evening. But they didnot return home. The next day, their bodies were found lying on the railway track. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bodies-of-man-daughter-found-on-railway-tracks-in-yamunanagar-302984
28-08-2021||---||Former Nuh MLA Zakir Hussain is Haryana Waqf Board administrator||Ambala, August 27Former Nuh MLA Zakir Hussain took charge as the administrator of the Haryana Waqf Board here on Friday.On the occasion, he thanked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP state president OP Dhankar and the party high command. Hussain said he was thankful to the CM for assigning him an important responsibility by reposing faith in him.He said he would leave no stone unturned in the service of the people of Haryana, especially in uplifting the living standards of Mewat residents.The ex-MLA further said the welfare schemes started by the board would be taken up at priority and their speedy implementation would be ensured so that the downtrodden may benefit and their living standard could be uplifted.“There are some issues related to waqf properties and I will take up the matter with the Centre,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-nuh-mla-zakir-hussain-is-haryana-waqf-board-administrator-302985
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||One nabbed for rape, murder of 13-year-old in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 27The Gurugram police have nabbed a collection agent of a private bank for allegedly murdering a 13-year-old girl after raping her. Two more persons have been booked for the crime who are reportedly at large.The police are conducting raids to nab them. An FIR had been registered at the Sector 10-A police station.According to the police, the 13-year-old girl died under suspicious circumstances in Chokhar ki dhani near Hayatpur village on August 23. The girl was coming to the house of the brother of their landlord in Delhi’s Narela area where the girl’s family lived as tenant.According to the complaint filed by the victim’s father, a native of Bihar, that it was his landlord woman who took his daughter with her in Gurugram on July 17.“My landlady woman took my daughter’s body in an ambulance and reached my Delhi residence. They were in a hurry for the last rites, but I had doubts that they had killed my daughter and got the post-mortem done. Three persons are involved in my daughter’s murder,” the complainant father told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR was lodged against three under various Sections of the IPC and SC/ST Act at the Sector 10-A police station and today the police get the postmortem report which confirmed rape.The police today nabbed one accused, identified as Praveen. Despite several attempt, the ACP (crime against women) did not respond to numerous calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-nabbed-for-rape-murder-of-13-year-old-in-gurugram-302986
28-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Stray animals threat to commuters in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 27Rise in number of stray animals has become a major problem in Panipat and Samalkha town these days. Over 2,500 abandoned animals roam on Panipat roads or sit in the middle of the stretch, leading to accidents.The Panipat Municipal Corporation Commissioner claimed that a concrete plan had been made to resolve the stray cattle menace and these animals would be shifted to gau abhayarnya at Nain village soon.The menace of stray animals in the district has risen to alarming proportions. Several incidents have been reported in the district in which people got injured or lost their lives due to these stray animals. Herds of stray animals on highways and local roads are a common sight. Former MLA Bharat Singh Chhokkar also sustained injuries when an abandoned animal attacked him in the morning on Thursday while he was on his way home in Model Town of Samalkha town.Mehul Jain, a social activist said the situation had not changed in the past three years. The administration has no concrete planning to resolve the issue. Raj Singh Pannu, president, Gaushala Sangh, said at present, 1,967 animals were in the gau-abhayaranya but there were so many problems there. We have no problem keeping some more animals in the abhyaranya but the system needs to be updated there, he said. “At a meeting held recently, I have asked the district administration to construct a shed and make the floor pucca” he asserted. RK Singh, Commissioner, MC, said soon the city would be stray-cattle free. We have made a concrete plan for this, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-threat-to-commuters-in-panipat-302987
28-08-2021||---||Four incubation centres set up in Karnal govt schools||Karnal, August 27With the aim to inculcate job-oriented skills among students of government schools by improving their vocational efficiency, the Education Department has established four incubation centres at government schools of the district.As per the authorities, these centres will be beneficial for hundreds of students who are doing vocational courses in different government schools.The incubation centre of auto-mobile vocational course has been set up at Government Senior Secondary School in Shambli, where the students will learn the maintenance and automation skills of vehicles, said Rohtash Verma, District Elementary Education Officer (DEEO).He maintained a beauty and wellness vocational course incubation centre had been started at Government Girls Model Sanskrit School, Railway road in the city, where girls would learn the makeover art. An incubation centre dedicated to patient care assistant vocational course has been set up at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nissing, where students will learn the nursing care and first-aid training, the DEEO maintained.Another centre for travel and tourism vocational course has been established at Government Senior Secondary School, Prem Nagar. The students will be taught about hospitality industry and tourism, he said. These centres have been established under the vocational education component of ‘Samagra Shiksha’ and the national skill qualification framework (NSQF), he added.The purpose of these centres is to develop job skills of students for better job opportunity, he said.Location of job-oriented skill centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-incubation-centres-set-up-in-karnal-govt-schools-302988
28-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC fails to clear Rs 170 cr dues of contractors||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 27With the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) yet to clear the outstanding dues of Rs 170 crore to contractors, it has adversely impacted the progress of development projects in the city.“The pace of work lies severely affected on various projects worth several hundred crores,” claim sources in the civic body who said that a majority of development works had been running behind schedule mainly due to non- clearance of payment pending for the past three years, which has touched the figure of Rs 170 crores. “Though the MCF had been directed to pay Rs 66 crore in February 2018 by the High Court, its failure to clear the dues within six weeks, resulted in contempt. The next date of hearing in this regard is September 30, said Giriraj Singh, president of the MCF Contractors’ Association. He said the association resorted to legal recourse after the authorities concerned failed to release the pending dues despite several appeals and reminders. Adding that the delay in the clearance of payments had led to sluggish pace of work in the ongoing development projects, he said the contractors had also been forced to halt the works in protest on several occasions in the past couple of years.It is claimed that the work on development works, including the STP project worth Rs 300 crore, Nahar Singh International Stadium (Rs150 crore) and the MCF headquarters building in Sector 12 (Rs 200 crore) and construction of roads (Rs 50 crore) had been running behind schedule.Payments to be cleared soonPending payments, including those of the contractors, are likely to be cleared soon.Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal CorporationAgainst the income of just Rs10 crores, the civic body’s monthly expenditure is over Rs 30 crore, revealed an official, who said the overall liability of the MCF had touched Rs 350 crore at present. The MCF is heavily dependent on funds through CM announcements or special grants provided from time to time it is claimed.Had to resort to legal recourseThe MCF Contractors’ Association resorted to legal recourse after the authorities concerned failed to release the pending dues despite several appeals and reminders. Giriraj Singh, President of the MCF Contractors’ AssociationAdmitting that payments had been held up or delayed due to financial constraints Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF, said pending payments, including those of the contractors, are likely to be cleared soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-fails-to-clear-rs-170-cr-dues-of-contractors-302968
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Probability of Covid spike in festive season: Official||Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora, has said that with the upcoming festive season, there is a probability of a spike in cases for which work is being taken up to augment the healthcare facilities at the micro-level in the state. He made the comments during a Covid review meeting held under the chairmanship of Member, NITI Aayog, Dr Vinod K Paul. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probability-of-covid-spike-in-festive-season-official-302989
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana procures 140 acres for AIIMS-Manethi||Haryana Government’s High-Powered Land Purchase Committee (HPLPC) today purchased 140-acre land for AIIMS Manethi in Rewari.CM Manohar Lal Khattar today chaired the HPLPC and accorded approval to make negotiation — amounting to Rs 172.08 crore — with the landowners for the landholdings to be purchased through e-Bhoomi for setting up seven projects of Medical Education and Research, Public Works (B&R), Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board and Public Health Engineering Departments in six districts Rewari, Nuh, Sirsa, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jind.Khattar said that after the purchase of these landholdings, the work of the proposed projects to be set up on the lands voluntarily given by landowners in these six districts should be expedited at the earliest.He said that around 200 acres are required for the construction of All-India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rewari district. Of these, around 140 acres of private landowners has been purchased today after making required negotiations and about 60 acres are panchayat land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-procures-140-acres-for-aiims-manethi-302993
28-08-2021||---||Get gas supply in month under Ujjwala scheme in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 27Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that if any house in the state did not have domestic gas connection, the household would be given supply in a month.He directed the department to provide connections to the eligible families under the Ujjwala scheme by conducting an intensive campaign.Along with this, he also directed officials to find solutions to the problems of the farmers related to the “Fasal Bima Yojana”. The CM was presiding over a state-level meeting of the Disha Committee here today. During the meeting, various schemes of the Central and Haryana Government were reviewed in detail. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, MPs, Subhash Chandra, Sanjay Bhatia, Dharambir Singh, and MLAs Devendra Babli and Nirmal Rani were present at the meeting. MP Arvind Sharma joined the meeting through video-conferencing.The CM said drinking water was the fundamental right and it was our responsibility to provide clean drinking water to every person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/get-gas-supply-in-month-under-ujjwala-scheme-in-haryana-302992
28-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||To up ante, Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 27The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement at the Delhi borders for the past nine months, on Friday called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25.The two-day national convention at Singhu border organised by SKM concluded today with the decision of ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25 to intensify the farmers’ protest at the pan-India level.At a press conference at Singhu border, Ashish Mittal, convener of the convention organising committee and a member of SKM, said that the two-day convention was successful in disproving the government’s idea that the movement was only having the participation of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some parts of Uttar Pradesh.The motive to organise a national-level convention was to bring various farmers’ organisations, women and youth organisations, trade unions and other organisations on a stage of the SKM on the completion of nine months of the farmers’ protest, he said.“We have succeeded in bringing over 300 public organisations from 22 states on a single stage. Over 3,000 delegates from various organisations and over 100 speakers presented their views during various sessions of the two-day convention, proving that it is a countrywide movement,” Mittal said.It has been decided to strengthen and expand the farmers’ agitation, which began in November last year, across the country.“Our demands for repeal of all three pro-corporate farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, no prosecution of farmers under the ‘Commission of Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021’ were reiterated during the convention,” Mittal said.We had given a call for Bharat Bandh last year on the same date and had got good response despite the lockdown. We hope that Bharat Bandh this year would be more successful than last year, he added.SKM member Atul Kumar Anjan said that the decision, which was taken at the two-day convention, would have far-reaching consequences in the field of economy and politics. SKM’s rally scheduled for September 5 in Muzaffarnagar in UP would create history and would decide the political scenario of the state in the upcoming Assembly polls, he claimed. The stir won’t end till the government does not fulfil the demands of the farmers, he added.FARMERS TO SHOW BLACK FLAGS TO CM TODAYKarnal: After the BKU’s call to protest the CM’s visit to Karnal, the police have beefed up security near the hotel where a BJP state-level meeting is scheduled for Saturday. “We will oppose the meeting and show black flags to the CM and ministers,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee, BKU. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-up-ante-samyukt-kisan-morcha-calls-for-bharat-bandh-on-september-25-302963
28-08-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Property dealer, wife, mother-in-law shot dead in Haryana’s Rohtak; neighbours unaware of incident||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 27A property dealer, his wife and mother-in-law were shot dead by unidentified assailants at his home in Vijay Nagar locality of Rohtak on Friday. A 17-year-old daughter of the deceased property dealer was also injured in the firing incident. She has been admitted to the local PGIMS.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma, other senior police officials and forensic experts rushed to examine the scene of crime and took stock of the situation. Sharma constituted special teams to investigate the matter and maintained that the assailants would be nabbed soon.The deceased have been identified as Pradeep, his wife Babli and Babli’s mother Roshni.Shockingly, as per police sources, nobody in the neighbourhood got to know about the firing incident involving three murders. Hence, mystery shrouds the triple murder which took place in broad daylight.“The matter came to light when a brother of the deceased property dealer, who lives in the adjacent portion of the same house, went to his brother’s portion and saw Pradeep, his wife and mother-in-law lying in a pool of blood this afternoon. Pradeep’s daughter, who was alive by then, was rushed to the local PGIMS,” said police spokesperson Sunny Laura.He said no weapon had been found from the scene of crime, adding that a door of the house of the deceased was also found broken.Fear and tension gripped the locality in which the gruesome murders took place. Police investigation was on till the filing of this report. No arrests have been reported so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-dealer-wife-mother-in-law-shot-dead-in-haryanas-rohtak-neighbours-unaware-of-incident-302863
28-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Back from Olympics, Neeraj Chopra won't participate in sports events this year, here's why||Chandigarh, August 27Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra has ended his 2021 season, saying he hasn't been able to resume training since coming back to India from Tokyo Olympics due to packed schedule of travel and a bout of illness.Also read: Pakistan player did no wrong, asserts Neeraj ChopraA post shared by Neeraj Chopra (@neeraj____chopra)  He wrote on Instagram that he will take some time off, recharge and come back stronger for a packed 2022 calendar.He also thanked everyone for the love and respect that he received from people back home, adding that:“I have been encouraged by all the support to Indian athletics over these past few weeks and would urge you all to keep supporting India and Indian athletics in the months and years to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/back-from-olympics-neeraj-chopra-wont-participate-in-sports-events-this-year-heres-why-302782
