29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: One more death, 11 fresh cases in Haryana||Haryana reported one more Covid-19-related fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll to 9,674, while 11 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,456.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest death was reported from Jhajjar district.Among the new cases, two were reported from Gurgaon and three from Yamunanagar district.The total active cases in the state stands at 646. The overall recoveries so far have reached 7,60,136, while the recovery rate was 98.66 per cent, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-one-more-death-11-fresh-cases-in-haryana-303814
29-08-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Deceased property dealer’s daughter dies, SIT probe on||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 29Neha (19), the daughter of a property dealer who was shot along with other family members at their home in Vijay Nagar locality of Rohtak on Friday, also succumbed to her injuries on Sunday.Also read: Property dealer, wife, mother-in-law shot dead in Haryana’s Rohtak; neighbours unaware of incidentNeha, who had been shot in the head, was rushed to the local PGIMS. Her family members later took her to a private hospital in Gurugram, but she was eventually brought back to the PGIMS, Rohtak.A special investigation team (SIT) headed by a DSP-level officer has been constituted to probe the matter, which still remains shrouded in mystery.Property dealer Pradeep, his wife Babli and mother-in-law Roshni were shot dead and his daughter Neha was shot at and injured at their house.Surprisingly, nobody in the neighbourhood got to know about the firing incident involving three murders which took place in broad daylight.The SIT probe is under way. No arrests were reported till the time of filing this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deceased-property-dealers-daughter-dies-sit-probe-on-303743
29-08-2021||Tribune News Sevice||Lathicharge on farmers: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait demands action against Duty Magistrate||Karnal, August 29Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday visited Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here to enquire about the condition of farmers, who were injured in a lathicharge by the Haryana Police.Also read: Farmers blocking NH-44 lathicharged; 12 injured'Break their head...', SDM tells police during farmers' protest, clarifies laterLater, Tikait demanded action against the Duty Magistrate who ordered the lathicharge on the protesting farmers. He alleged that the official acted at the behest of the state government.The police resorted to lathicharge at the Bastara toll plaza here after farmers tried to disrupt traffic on NH-44 in protest against a state-level BJP meeting being held in the city. Ten policemen and 12 farmers were injured in the clash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lathicharge-on-farmers-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-demands-action-against-duty-magistrate-303725
29-08-2021||Hisar||Farmers put up blockades on highways in Haryana||Jhajjar highways blockedJhajjar: Farmers blocked the Delhi-Rohtak highway at the Jakhoda bypass in Bahadurgarh and the Rohtak-Jhajjar highway at the Dighal toll plaza for several hours in protest against the lathicharge by the police on farmers in Karnal. Administrative officers tried to get the highways cleared, but the protesters did not relent. They cleared the highways only after the Karnal police released the farmers. TNSProtest at P’kula toll plazasPanchkula: Hundreds of farmers on Saturday blocked the Chandimandir toll plaza near Surajpur and the Naggal toll plaza near Barwala in protest against the lathicharge on their brethren in Karnal, causing a long traffic jam. Vehicles were stuck in the jam for more than three hours. On learning about the lathicharge, farmers gathered at the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Zirakpur-Kalka NH and started raising slogans against CM Manohar Lal Khattar. TNSCM opens Rs19 cr projectsKarnal: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday evening inaugurated and laid foundation stones of nine projects worth Rs 19.82 crore of the district from a venue near the NDRI. The CM also addressed the players participating in Khelo Haryana games across the state at Karan Stadium. TNSVij takes jibe at SidhuChandigarh: Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday took a jibe at Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has demanded a free hand in taking decisions otherwise he would (‘itt naal itt bi kharkhaonga’) smash it out. In a tweet, Vij said: “When a mason starts throwing bricks of his own house, it does not take long to break that house.” TNS4 booked for dowry deathHisar: A woman was reportedly poisoned to death by her husband and in-laws at Gaganheri village of the district. The police have registered a case of dowry death and started investigation. The police said the victim, Geeta, was married to Pradeep of Gaganheri village in 2014. Geeta’s brother Rajiv complained to the police that her husband and in-laws used to harass her for dowry and alleged that they poisoned her to death on Friday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-put-up-blockades-on-highways-in-haryana-303635
29-08-2021||---||PGIMS, Rohtak, doctor accuses attendant of assault||Rohtak, August 28A doctor deputed at Ward No. 5 of the PGIMS today filed a police complaint accusing a woman attendant of a patient of misbehaviour and assault.In his complaint, Dr Swaran Singh Yadav said the attendant not only abused him, but also manhandled him when he requested her to go outside the ward before the round of senior doctors.“After the incident, I informed one of my seniors who rushed to the ward and tried to pacify the woman, but she kept abusing me,” he said in the complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-rohtak-doctor-accuses-attendant-of-assault-303633
29-08-2021||Kurukshetra||4-yr-old bitten by snake, dies in Kurukshetra||A four-year-old boy died after he was bitten by a snake in Kurukshetra.The victim has been identified as Karan of Bishangarh village in Kurukshetra. It is suspected that the boy was bitten by a common krait snake.Kashmir, the minor’s uncle, said: “Around 1.30 am, the boy woke up to attend nature’s call and he informed his parents about the snake. Soon after the family members started looking for it and later killed it with the help of neighbours. Around 2.30 am, the boy started complaining of stomach ache, itching and other complications. He was rushed to a hospital. He succumbed at around 3.30 am.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-yr-old-bitten-by-snake-dies-in-kurukshetra-303632
29-08-2021||---||Drone mapping of 6,329 ‘lal dora’ villages ends in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 28Haryana has completed the work of drone mapping of ‘lal dora’ villages. Now, the work of mapping of revenue records (agricultural land) will be started by the Survey of India from August 31. A target has been set to complete it in the next six months.This information was shared by the Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Haryana, Sanjeev Kaushal while reviewing the Svamitva Scheme with the Deputy Commissioners of the district through video-conferencing on Saturday.He said that the Centre has given approval to get the mapping of revenue records (agricultural land) done through Survey of India and the expenditure for this work would be borne by the state government.Kaushal informed that to end the practice of ‘lal dora’ — which has been prevalent in the state since 1908 during the British era — an exercise has been started in Haryana.He added that under this, the mapping of ‘lal dora’ of about 6,329 villages of 22 districts of the state was completed till August 24, of which data processing of 5,333 villages has been done by Survey of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drone-mapping-of-6-329-lal-dora-villages-ends-in-haryana-303631
29-08-2021||Our Correspondent||In Gurugram, drunk man rams car into restaurant counter||Gurugram, August 28Two staff members of a local restaurant in Sector 29 market here had a narrow escape when a drunk man rammed his car into the front counter of the place.On the complaint of the manager of the restaurant, an FIR has been registered at the Sector 29 police station.According to the complaint, manager Shashank said he along with other staff members, including woman employee Dipanshi, was standing at the main gate of the restaurant on Thursday night when a speeding Honda Amaze hit the counter at the main gate of the restaurant. After reversing the car, the driver allegedly hit the counter again and created ruckus.“In the incident, the woman employee had a narrow escape. When the driver got down from the car, we found him drunk. He created ruckus and threatened us claiming that he was very influential. After this, he fled from the spot,” Shashank told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the unidentified accused under Sections 279 (rash driving), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damage), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Sector 29 police station.“We sought CCTV footage from the restaurant and are investigating. The accused will be nabbed soon,” said Head Constable Ramesh, investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-drunk-man-rams-car-into-restaurant-counter-303630
29-08-2021||---||Arrange all papers in a week, Kurukshetra auto drivers told||Kurukshetra, August 28Tightening the noose on auto-rickshaw drivers plying without documents and pollution certificate, the district administration of Kurukshetra has decided to carry out a drive to identify such auto-rickshaws.The auto drivers have been directed to complete their documents within seven days. Otherwise, action will be initiated against them.The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) and traffic police officials have been directed to check and verify the documents of auto drivers and initiate action if they do not have all the documents.Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Kurukshetra, Urmil Sheokand said, “There are around 4,000 autos in Kurukshetra. There have been complaints that many auto-rickshaw drivers ply without proper documents, number plates and pollution certificate. Many autos are not fit to ply on the roads. So, all the auto drivers are being directed to complete their documents and also carry valid licence while plying.“If they failed to comply with the directions, besides issuing challans, their autos will be impounded. Besides this, auto drivers ply with more passengers than the permissible limit. All efforts are being made to ensure the safety of commuters on roads,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said, “The RTA secretary has been directed conduct a drive to check the auto-rickshaws plying in Kurukshetra and ensure that the rules of Motor Vehicle Act are followed. The auto drivers violating the rules will face strict action. The drivers who fulfil all the requirements will be given some kind of identity so that such autos are not required to be checked repeatedly. Seven days will be given to the auto drivers to fulfil all their documents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrange-all-papers-in-a-week-kurukshetra-auto-drivers-told-303629
29-08-2021||---||Overloaded vehicles on RTA radar in Rohtak district; operators fined Rs8.6 cr||Rohtak, August 28The Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Rohtak, has tightened its noose around the operators of commercial vehicles passing through the district, with overloaded vehicles on special RTA radar.As per the official sources, the Rohtak RTA has challaned more than 2,700 vehicles for violation of rules and collected a fine of Rs 8.62 crore from their operators from January 2021 to date.“We have collected more than Rs 1 crore as fine from the vehicle operators violating rules every month since January this year. Up to 80 per cent of the said amount has been collected from the operators of overloaded vehicles,” said Dr Sandeep Goyat, Secretary, Rohtak RTA.Talking to The Tribune, the RTA Secretary stated that most of these vehicles challaned for overloading were carrying construction material.Goyat revealed that a gang of miscreants spying on the RTA officials and sending live locations of the raiding teams to unscrupulous vehicle operators through WhatsApp was another challenge for them.“We have nabbed some youths involved in such activities and handed them over to the police. But we have to be watchful as these things still continue,” he said, adding that the possibility of the involvement of department employees could not be ruled out.The officer said members of such gangs hung around the RTA office and alerted the vehicle operators as soon as a raiding party left the office. Some gang members also chased vehicles of the raiding teams and shared their live location with the operators.“On getting alerted, the vehicle operators park their vehicles at some dhaba or other location outside the district and cross the district only after getting a green signal from the gang members tailing the raiding teams,” said Goyat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overloaded-vehicles-on-rta-radar-in-rohtak-district-operators-fined-rs8-6-cr-303628
29-08-2021||Rohtak||DSP-led SIT to probe Rohtak murders||There is no headway in the probe into the triple murder case in which a property dealer, his wife and mother-in-law were shot at their house in Vijay Nagar here yesterday.An SIT led by a DSP-level officer has been constituted to probe the incident.“The SIT is headed by DSP Mahesh Kumar and comprises the heads of CIA wings and cyber crime cell, besides the SHO of the Shivaji Colony police station,” said police spokesman Sunny Laura here today.A property dealer, his wife and mother-in-law were shot dead by unidentified assailants at his home in Vijay Nagar locality of Rohtak today. The teenaged daughter of the deceased property dealer was injured in the firing.The deceased have been identified as Pradeep, his wife Babli and Babli’s mother Roshni.Surprisingly, nobody in the neighbourhood came to know about the incident involving three murders which took place in daylight. No arrests have been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dsp-led-sit-to-probe-rohtak-murders-303627
29-08-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Follow norms in road construction: Yamunanagar court to MC||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 28A local court has restrained the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), from constructing roads with interlocking tiles in contravention of the guidelines issued by the Urban Local Bodies Department, Haryana.Civil Judge (Junior Division) Rajat Verma has asked the MCYJ to construct the roads in such a way that the level of the roads was not raised as compared to the houses in the vicinity.The decision came on August 27 after an injunction application was filed in a civil suit by the Urban Estate Welfare Association (UEWA), Sector 17, Jagadhri.In its application, the UEWA alleged that roads made of interlocking tiles were being constructed in Sector 17 of Jagadhri above the old roads. Therefore, the level of the roads had become higher than that of the level of several houses.The order read, “The defendants (MCYJ) are directed to follow their guidelines and either to lay the interlocking tiles after dismantling the old construction or to lay the tiles in such a manner that even after laying of interlocking tiles, the existing height of the road is not increased.”  Road level risingIn its application, the Urban Estate Welfare Association (UEWA), Sector 17, Jagadhril, alleged that roads made of interlocking tiles were being constructed in Sector 17 above the old roads. Therefore, the level of the roads had become higher than that of the level of several houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-norms-in-road-construction-yamunanagar-court-to-mc-303626
29-08-2021||Karnal||BJP to fight MC poll on party symbol in Haryana||The BJP will contest the forthcoming civic body elections on the party symbol, while the decision to fight the panchayat elections on the symbol will be taken by the election committee.The party will ensure 50 per cent participation of women in the MC and panchayat elections.Besides, three- to five-member committees will be constituted at the district, block and mandal level for the elections. The committees will work till the end of the polls.The decisions were taken at the state-level meeting of the BJP here today. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president OP Dhankar, ministers, legislators and MPs were present at the meeting.Earlier, Khattar exhorted party leaders and workers to highlight BJP’s policies and take them to people. “We have taken the state forward in the past 2,500 days. The government formulated policies for the benefits of the common man,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-to-fight-mc-poll-on-party-symbol-in-haryana-303625
29-08-2021||---||No Covid case in 16 districts of Haryana||Chandigarh, August 28With 13 fresh Covid cases, the Covid tally of the state reached 7.7 lakh. One death due to Covid took place in Jhajjar taking the toll to 9,673.Four cases were reported from Yamunanagar, followed by three each in Gurugram and Faridabad.Sixteen districts did not record any case.With 19 recoveries, the active cases have fallen to 657 with one case each in Kurukshetra and Sonepat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-covid-case-in-16-districts-of-haryana-303624
29-08-2021||Ravinder Saini||Enrolment in private schools of Haryana down 7.24 lakh in 2 sessions||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 28Private schools in the state have witnessed a major decline of 7.24 lakh in enrolment in the past two academic sessions.The school owners blamed the Covid pandemic for the situation stating that the majority of students have shifted to government schools where fee is nominal.Sources said a total of 30.81 lakh students till Class XII were enrolled in private schools in academic session 2019-20. The figure has reduced to 23.57 lakh in the current session. Though the admission process is still underway, the private schools don’t have much expectation about the rise in the number of admissions.FEAR OF THIRD WAVECovid has taken toll on the earnings of private job holders and businessmen. Many others don’t want to pay following apprehension of the third wave of Covid. So, they have shifted their wards to government schools. — Rishi Raj Ninania, private school owner“Initially, the adverse effect of the Covid pandemic after the first wave was witnessed in the academic session of 2020-21 when the schools registered 29.83 lakh enrolments leading to a drop of 98,179 students. The current academic session (2021-22) has recorded a major drop with 6.26 lakh more students leaving private schools,” said sources.Rishi Raj Ninania, a private school owner, said the Covid pandemic had hit private schools hard as many schools had reached the verge of closure following the declining trend of admissions in the past two sessions.“Covid has also taken toll on the earnings of private job holders and businessmen. Hence, many of them are facing issues in paying fee of private schools. Many others don’t want to pay following apprehension of the third wave of Covid. So, they have shifted their wards to government schools,” he claimed.Sources said the number of enrolments was likely to go up considerably as many private schools had not yet updated their students’ strength at the government portal.Dr Sudharshan Panwar, Nodal Officer, Model Sanskriti Schools, Jhajjar, said opening of around 115 new Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools (English medium) in the state was also one of the major factors behind the drop in enrolment at private schools as their students in good numbers had got admissions in such schools.Session Enrolment2019-20 30,81,3112020-21 29,83,1322021-22 23,57,081||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enrolment-in-private-schools-of-haryana-down-7-24-lakh-in-2-sessions-303623
29-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Tough time for commuters, some reach destinations on foot||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 28Residents had a tough time because of the BJP’s state-level meeting here today. Roads leading to a hotel, where the BJP organised the meeting to chalk out the strategy for the panchayat and civic body elections, were blocked by the police owing to the protest by the farmers against the meeting.Roads around Dera Kar Sewa Gurdwara, where farmers were supposed to assemble, were also blocked, leading to inconvenience to commuters.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, along with state BJP president OP Dhankar, ministers, MLAs, MPs, district presidents and other officer-bearers attended the meeting.Farmers under the banner of the BKU gave a call to show black flags to the CM yesterday, after which the police beefed up the security.Residents alleged the police had blocked all roads by placing trucks and dumpers. Patients, students and employees faced inconvenience. At Kaithal Western Yamuna Canal bridge, commuters had to travel on foot after leaving their vehicles across the bridge.“I had to go for my IELTS exams, but the police did not allow me to advance. I travelled on foot for almost 5 km to appear for my exam. What is my fault?” said Sagar Nagpal, a student.A pregnant woman was also stuck in the jam. Her family members blamed the police for not diverting the traffic.Amit Kumar, an employee of a hospital, said he faced a lot of problems in reaching the hospital for the VVIP programme.“After waiting for a long time, I decided to return home,” said Ombir, an employee of a private company.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said since farmers had given a call to disrupt the CM’s visit, barricades were placed on roads leading to the venue for the BJP’s event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tough-time-for-commuters-some-reach-destinations-on-foot-303622
29-08-2021||Karnal||Hit them on head, cops told; video goes viral||A video of Duty Magistrate SDM Karnal Ayush Sinha went viral in which he was seen directing police personnel to hit protesters on their heads if they tried to cross the barricades. He instructed them not to allow anyone to breach the barricades. When asked by mediapersons, he said that he was not aware of the video. He said that for the compliance of Section 144 of the CrPC, some directions might have been given as stones were being pelted. “I am not aware of the video but for the compliance of Section 144 of the CrPC, directions may have been given,” Sinha told mediapersons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hit-them-on-head-cops-told-video-goes-viral-303621
29-08-2021||---||It was pre-planned, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Chandigarh, August 28Leaders from the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) today condemned the lathicharge on farmers at the Bastara toll plaza in Karnal. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded an inquiry into the incident.He said, “Farmers were protesting 15 km from the BJP function’s venue. In spite of that, they were lathicharged. This shows that it was a pre-planned attack. First, the state government creates conditions for the clash with farmers and then use undemocratic, inhuman and cruel means against them.”State Congress chief Kumari Selja termed the lathicharge as torturous. “The party stands with farmers. The Duty Magistrate was seen exhorting the police to crack the head of farmers,” she said.Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the state government was behaving like General Dyer.“Farmers protesting peacefully were chased as if they were animals. It has proved that the real enemies of annadata (farmers) are Dushyant Chautala and Manohar Lal Khattar. The video of the Karnal Duty Magistrate has proved that Chief Minister and his deputy had ordered the police lathicharge. Farmers, who give their sweat and blood in the fields, are drenched in blood now,” he said.Abhay Chautala, INLD general secretary, described the lathicharge as a “cowardly act” of the BJP-JJP government.“Under the garb of Section 144 of the CrPC, the BJP surpassed all limits of cruelty. Even elderly farmers, some 70 years old, were not spared. They were chased in the fields, and their legs and arms were broken. The CM should apologise to farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-was-pre-planned-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda-303620
29-08-2021||Ambala||Activists of Charuni, Narpat groups clash||Activists of the BKU (Charuni) and a group of workers led by Narpat Rana under the banner of BKU (Bhaichara Haryana) today clashed at the Shahzadpur grain market.The BKU (Charuni) was holding its district-level meeting at the grain market when Rana, along with some activists, reached there and started raising slogans against BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni. Carrying black flags, Narpat group activists demanded the arrest of Charuni.Unhappy, activists of the Charuni group confronted the Narpat group and asked them to leave.Later, a verbal spat broke out which took an ugly turn. A video of the incident also went viral in which the farm activists were seen snatching flags, pushing and hitting each other with sticks.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “Narpat has been working on the directions of the government and he has been repeatedly trying to disturb the atmosphere.”On the other hand, Narpat said: “Charuni has been disturbing the law and order and we have already said we would protest against him. Charuni was holding a meeting. We went there to mark our protest, but his activists misbehaved with us and assaulted us. Our five activists have suffered injuries.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/activists-of-charuni-narpat-groups-clash-303619
29-08-2021||---||Farmers threw stones first, 10 cops hurt: Haryana ADGP||Chandigarh, August 28The Haryana Police today issued a statement, claiming that it were the farmers who first resorted to stone pelting.Explaining the chronology of events, ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Virk said, “Around noon, farmers who were present at the Bastara toll plaza blocked the Karnal highway. They tried to leave for Karnal city. When the cops tried to stop them, they turned violent.”He added, “Some protesters threw stones and some attacked with spade.”As per the law, mild force was used to remove them from that place, he said.“Four farmers have been injured along with 10 cops.”He said on June 7 this year, SKM leaders at Tohana had assured that they would never resort to violent means, but still many incidents had taken place where they had resorted to violence.“It is the duty of the police force to maintain law and order when a protest goes violent,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-threw-stones-first-10-cops-hurt-haryana-adgp-303618
29-08-2021||---||Won’t give in, SKM warns Khattar government||Sonepat, August 28The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday condemned the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal and termed it as brutal violence unleashed by the BJP-JJP government on the protesters.The SKM demanded immediate dismissal of SDM Karnal Ayush Sinha, whose video went viral on social media in which he was reportedly seen giving orders to police personnel to “break the heads of protesters”.The SKM members — Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakka’, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav — in a joint statement said that this has happened in the Chief Minister’s constituency where farmers resisted the CM’s programme peacefully through their black flag protest.Lathicharge without provocationMany farmers were injured after the police lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes. — Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU leaderThe government’s brutal action and illegal orders of the SDM to the police force are condemnable and have brought disgrace to our democracy, the SKM said.While PM Modi was attending a Jallianwala Bagh virtual rally, the “Jallianwala Bagh” unleashed in Karnal is doubly shameful, the SKM added.The SKM warned the Khattar-Dushyant Chautala government that farmers would not retreat and that the current historic movement cannot be suppressed by such barbaric acts of the anti-people government.The government’s efforts at repression would only strengthen the farmers’ resolve and the peaceful movement. The struggle would only be intensified in the coming days, the SKM claimed.Yogender Yadav, SKM member, said that soon after the incident, all members held a meeting over the phone and decided to block highways across Haryana.Initially, it was decided to block the highways till 5 pm, but later, it was decided to do so till the release of the farmers detained by the police in Karnal, he added.Besides, SKM leader Darshan Pal also released a video message in which he appealed to farmers to block highways against the Karnal lathicharge incident.The police action drew protests elsewhere in the state when farmers blocked highways in Kurukshetra, Ambala, Panipat, Jind, Rewari, Narwana, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Kitlana toll, Gohana, Rohtak, Bhiwani, on the KMP as well as in Uttarakhand, the SKM claimed.Farmers, commuters argueAmbala: Hundreds of farmers blocked roads and national highways at nine locations in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts. Farmers in Ambala blocked the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway at the Shambhu toll plaza, and the Ambala-Hisar NH. In Kurukshetra, farmers blocked roads at seven locations, including the Delhi-Chandigarh highway in Shahabad, near Umri, Pehowa road, Ismailabad road, and Ladwa-Yamunanagar road. At some places, farmers and commuters were seen arguing due to the blockade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-give-in-skm-warns-khattar-government-303617
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apologise for lathicharge on Haryana protesters: Punjab CM to Manohar Lal Khattar||Expressing shock at the “brutality” of the Haryana Police, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today slammed his counterpart in the neighbouring state for “assault” on peacefully protesting farmers, leaving many injured in the lathicharge.Pointing out this was not the first time farmers had been subjected to “brute force” at the hands of the Haryana Police, Captain Amarinder said it was evident that the BJP-led ML Khattar government was doing so in a desperate bid to end the farmers’ stir against the farm laws.The Chief Minister demanded an apology from the Haryana CM and aid for the injured farmers.“This is no way to treat our ‘annadatas’,” said Captain Amarinder, warning the BJP would have to bear the consequences in the forthcoming Assembly elections in Punjab and other states. — TNSHighway blocked near AboharAbohar: On a call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers on Saturday blocked national and state highways for an hour over the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal. This brought road traffic to a standstill. In Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, farmer organisations blocked traffic by staging a sit-in from 4 to 5 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apologise-for-lathicharge-on-haryana-protesters-punjab-cm-to-manohar-lal-khattar-303350
29-08-2021||---||Farmers blocking NH-44 lathicharged; 12 injured||Karnal, August 28The Haryana Police resorted to a lathicharge at the Bastara toll plaza here after farmers tried to disrupt traffic on NH-44 in protest against a state-level BJP meeting being held in the city. Some of the farmers reportedly hurled stones at the police personnel. In the clash, 10 policemen and 12 farmers were injured.Subsequently, several farmers’ leaders, including BKU (Charuni) state core committee member Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, were detained. They were let off later in the evening.The police action triggered a statewide protest by farmers, who blocked the Panchkula-Sonepat national highway. State highways in Karnal, Hisar, Jind and Kaithal districts too were blocked. Asking the farmers to get their medico-legal reports (MLR) prepared, Charuni said: “The next course of action will be chalked out in Karnal on Monday. The farmers had assembled peacefully at the toll plaza, but the police used force against them.” Ganga Ram Punia, SP, however, said they had only used “mild force.”Farmers said since the police had sealed all roads leading to the venue of the BJP meeting, they decided to assemble at Bastara. At 11 am, they headed for Karnal but were stopped by the police. “We had appealed to the farmers to express their point of view in a democratic way, but they did not do so, forcing the police to take action,” explained Karnal Range IGP Mamta Singh.It’s shamefulThe blood of farmers has again been shed, shaming India. Rahul Gandhi, CongCM flays farmersIt is unconstitutional to oppose any meeting. If they had to protest, it should have been peaceful. If they hurl stones and block road, the police will have to take action. We will take action against all those at fault — policemen or farmers. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMTN Assembly adopts resolution against farm laws||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-blocking-nh-44-lathicharged-12-injured-303467
29-08-2021||Parveen Arora||10 injured as police lathicharge farmers heading towards Karnal to protest against BJP meet; highways blocked||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 28Around 10 farmers were injured after the police reportedly resorted to lathicharge to disperse a group of farmers who were heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and BJP state president OP Dhankhar attended the state-level meeting.Farmers blocked the national highway-44 near Bastara toll plaza amid deployment of heavy police force.The NH-44 blockade was lifted after farmers detained by police were released in the evening.Tense situation prevailed at NH-44 after a face-off situation between farmers and police. Stones were pelted from both sides. Police resorted to lathi-charge on farmers. While farmers ran in fields, police chased them.Police also took control on the Bastara toll plaza.Toll plazas were closed in Karnal, Panipat and Ambala following farmers' protest.Farmers also blocked toll plaza at Panipat on NH-44 for around one hour.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar referred the " and said nobody should create a hurdle in the programme of anyone. "They were allowed to raise their issue in a democratic way and peacefully. If they pelted police with stones and blocked roads, the action was initiated by the police," the CM said.The BKU had given a call to farmers to reach Bastara toll plaza in large numbers, where they assembled.Later, farmers blocked roads at Jalmana, Assandh and Nissing to protest against the police lathicharge at Bastara toll plaza.There was a tense situation at Bastara toll plaza as farmers were adamant to move towards Karnal to protest against the CM's programme.IG Mamta Singh was present at the toll plaza.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni also reached here, after which the farmers blocked national highway.Charuni addressed the farmers and appealed them not to take law into hands, but to protest peacefully.In Kaithal, farmers also blocked roads at Titram Mor in Kaithal and Cheeka.Earlier, Charuni gave an ultimatum by 5pm to police to release all the detained farmers.In Jhajjar, farmers blocked Delhi-Rohtak highway at Jakhoda bypass near Tikri border in protest against Karnal cane-charge.Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has condemned the lathicharge and referred it to an inhuman act of the police. “Farmers were protesting peacefully around 15 km from the BJP’s meeting venue. It was the constitutional right of the farmers. The action shows the intention of the government seems to have already made up its mind to beat up the farmers. There should be impartial investigation into the whole incident and strict action should be taken against the erring police personnel and officials,” Hooda said.Former leader of the Haryana Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Kiran Choudhry also condemned the lathi charge. “It is a condemnable act of the government and with this its countdown has started. The people will teach the BJP-JJP alliance a lesson in coming days. Instead of addressing the issues of the farmers, protesting on Delhi borders’ for the last nine-months, the government is using force on farmers,” Chaudhary said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-injured-as-police-lathicharge-farmers-heading-towards-karnal-to-protest-against-bjp-meet-highways-blocked-303276
