30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Paralympics: Haryana announces Rs 6 cr reward for Sumit Antil, Rs 4 cr for Kathuniya||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday announced a cash reward of Rs 6 crore for Sumit Antil who won a gold medal and set a world record in javelin throw at the Tokyo Paralympics.He also declared a reward of Rs 4 crore for Yogesh Kathuniya for winning the silver medal in discus throw F-56.Haryana government will also give government jobs to them, an official statement said here.The chief minister said that Antil has won the hearts of the people of Haryana as well as the entire nation by winning a gold medal with his “historic” performance.  The chief minister said that Yogesh Kathuniya, a resident of Bahadurgarh who won a silver medal in Discus Throw F-56, has brought laurels not only to Haryana but also to the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Antil after his victory and said his performance will inspire youngsters.The 23-year-old from Sonepat in Haryana, who lost his left leg below the knee after he was involved in a motorbike accident in 2015, sent the spear to 68.55m in his fifth attempt, which was a new world record.The PM also lauded Kathuniya and noted the help and support provided by the para athlete’s mother in ensuring his success.“Delighted that he brings home the Silver medal. His exemplary success will motivate budding athletes. Congrats to him. Wishing him the very best for his future endeavours,” Modi said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paralympics-haryana-announces-rs-6-cr-reward-for-sumit-antil-rs-4-cr-for-kathuniya-304240
30-08-2021||Sanjay Yadav||‘Injured in clash with cow smugglers, not in Karnal’, says ‘farmer’ whose photo went viral||Gurugram, August 30A local Gau Rakshak injured in a clash with cow smugglers has moved cybercrime cell against alleged misuse of his pictures on social media as that of an injured farmer.The photo, according to him, was shared by a local leader and allegedly retweeted by many senior Congress leaders.As per the complaint filed by Gau Rakshak Tinku, a resident of Kadarpur village, yesterday his colleague Monu Manesar alias Mohit Yadav told him that a photo of his injured head with multiple stitches has gone viral on social media.In a clash with cow smugglers, Tinku was injured on August 26 and had got around 80 stitches on his head. An FIR was registered at Sector 65 police station.“I was shocked to see that a man on his twitter profile -- ‘Imran Pratapgarhi’ @ShayarImran used my photo for political advantage. He had claimed that it was photo of a farmer who was injured near Karnal during the clash between police and farmers. While around 17,000 people liked and retweeted the post, some senior Congress leaders also shared the same on Facebook. It’s an attempt to incite violence,” Tinku said in his complaint.He also submitted proofs of Twitter, Facebook posts which have now been deleted.“We have not received any complaint yet. If a complaint is received action will be taken as per the law,” said inspector Vipin Kumar, SHO of cybercrime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/injured-in-clash-with-cow-smugglers-not-in-karnal-says-farmer-whose-photo-went-viral-304228
30-08-2021||Parveen Arora||Farmers hold mahapanchayat at Karnal; demand FIRs against those involved in recent lathicharge||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 30The kisan mahapanchayat comprising a large number of farmers here on Monday took three decisions.Gurnam Singh Charuni addressed the farmers.It was decided that FIRs should be registered against those involved in the recent lathicharge on farmers.Also read:Bring Karnal SDM, policemen to book: Rakesh Tikait on lathichargeRLD workers in UP’s Muzaffarnagar burn effigy of Haryana CM over lathicharge on farmersPunjab, Haryana farmers protest Karnal lathichargeGurnam Singh Charuni booked for call to block trafficKarnal Administration defends cops’ ‘mild’ action on protestersKarnal lathicharge: Bhupinder Hooda calls for judicial probeApologise for lathicharge on Haryana protesters: Punjab CM to Manohar Lal KhattarThey served an ultimatum till September 6.Charuni appealed to the farmers to reach the mahapanchayat in UP on September 5.He also threatened to gherao the Mini Secretariat in Karnal from September 7 if the demands were not met.They demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to the family and a job to the son of the deceased farmer.Charuni said they would urge the SKM to take stringent action as they would not let the farmers of Haryana to be beaten mercilessly by police.All farm unions of Haryana will raise the issue before the SKM.Charuni demanded a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the injured farmers.He said the farmers would assemble in the Karnal grain market on September 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-hold-mahapanchayat-at-karnal-demand-firs-against-those-involved-in-recent-lathicharge-304180
30-08-2021||Muzaffarnagar (UP)||RLD workers in UP’s Muzaffarnagar burn effigy of Haryana CM over lathicharge on farmers||Several workers of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) burnt an effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday to protest against the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal on August 28.Also read: Farmers’ unrest may spell trouble for BJP in election-bound UPThe party workers gathered at Pinna village here and raised slogans against the Haryana government.Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal in Haryana to protest against a BJP meeting.The police, however, said only four protesters were injured, while 10 cops also sustained injuries.Haryana Police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers, and several roads and highways, including toll plazas, were blockaded at different places in protest for hours on Saturday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rld-workers-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-burn-effigy-of-haryana-cm-over-lathicharge-on-farmers-304163
30-08-2021||---||Farmers block roads in Amritsar, against cane-charge in Haryana||Amritsar, August 29Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) on Saturday blocked vehicular traffic on the elevated road and the Bhandari railway overbridge (ROB) in the city to protest against cane charging of protesting farmers in Haryana.They squatted on the ROB and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Holding flags of the BKU, they raised slogans against Khattar for using power against the peaceful protesting farmers. The sit-in, which commenced at 10 am, concluded at 2.30 pm. They also raised slogans of unity between farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Karnail Singh Nangali, a farmer leader, said the farmers of two neighbouring states had been staging a peaceful protest for the past over nine months. However, the government was resorting to violent measures to suppress the movement.However, blocking of the two vital roads passing through the city caused traffic chaos. It resulted in traffic jam and commuters were greatly inconvenienced. A large proportion among the commuters was of young candidates who were heading to attempt written tests for recruitment in cooperative bank and in jail as warden. The examination centres for these jobs were opened at various government schools. They were harassed while on the way to their examination centres.Jatinder Singh, a resident of the GT Road, said his examination centre was at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaiyan Da Shivala. “Though being a local on the way I had to face traffic jams and bottlenecks. I hardly managed to reach the centre.” He claimed that many candidates, especially those coming from remote areas and villages, did not make it to the centre or reached quite late.Being a weekend, the proportion of local people was less in traffic, but the number of floating population like tourists and candidates was highest. They found it extremely tough to move from one part to another in the city.Burn effigies of khattar Government in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Farmers and labourers organised protests at different places in the area on Sunday against the brutal cane-charging by the Haryana Police on agitating farmers. The protesting farmers blocked roads, staged dharnas and burnt the effigies of the Union and the Khattar governments. The workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committees, Punjab, staged dharnas on the National Highway 54 near Rasulpur, Thathia Mahantan, Shakri, Doburji and at the crossing of Chabal village. The agitated farmers blocked traffic for hours together. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Dhanna Singh Lalughuman were among others who addressed on the occasion. The leaders alleged that the Union and the BJP-led state governments were adopting all types of tactics to defame and destabilise the farmers’ agitation, which was going on with great enthusiasm at the Delhi borders even after nine months. The members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and other organisations, too, lodged their protest in different villages of the district and burnt effigies of the Union and the Haryana governments. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-roads-in-amritsar-against-cane-charge-in-haryana-303885
30-08-2021||---||Arjuna awardee wrestler DSP Geetika Jakhar booked for assault||Hisar, August 29Geetika Jakhar, Arjuna awardee wrestler who is working as DSP with the Haryana Police, has landed in a controversy. She allegedly went to her uncle’s house in a police vehicle and entered into an argument with the family over a property dispute in Agroha, Hisar.Prakash Veer Singh, Geetika’s uncle, released the CCTV footage to media today. He said he had also filed a complaint with the higher authorities but no action had been taken.Singh alleged that Geetika, with her brother Balram Jakhar, who is a naib tehsildar, and others came to their residence on the night of August 26 in a vehicle of Fatehabad police and assaulted his father, wife and other family members.Geetika’s brother has denied all allegations. He said he had gone to his uncle’s house for some domestic work and but instead, his uncle’s family assaulted him. Geetika said she had gone to resolve the issue of ownership of their ancestral house.The Agroha police station SHO Priyansu Divan said both sides had lodged complaints against each other. While an FIR has been registered on the complaint of Balram Jakhar, the complaint filed by Prakash Veer has been referred to the DC and SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arjuna-awardee-wrestler-dsp-geetika-jakhar-booked-for-assault-304026
30-08-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak shooting: Property dealer’s daughter dies, SIT probe on||Neha (19), the daughter of the property dealer who was shot dead along with his family members at their home in Vijay Nagar on Friday, succumbed to injuries today.Neha, who was shot in the head, was rushed to PGIMS and later shifted to a private hospital in Gurugram by her relatives. She was brought back to PGIMS for treatment but could not be saved. The toll has risen to four. A SIT has been constituted to probe the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-shooting-property-dealers-daughter-dies-sit-probe-on-304028
30-08-2021||Hisar||One booked for impersonation in Hisar||The Hisar police have registered a case against four persons, including one of them, who impersonated as the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court, today.The police said the managing director of the Dakshin Haryana Vitran Nigam, Balkar Singh, had lodged a complaint that he got a call from a person who identified himself as the secretary of the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana HC and asked him to talk to the “Chief Justice”. The person posing as the “Chief Justice” asked the MD to reinstate an assistant lineman of the DHBVN, Balwan Singh, who had been dismissed from service after his conviction in a case of POCSO Act in 2013. He is currently out of jail on bail. Balwan Singh, Ravinder, Avatar Singh and Balraj Singh have been booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-booked-for-impersonation-in-hisar-304029
30-08-2021||Yamunanagar||Four plywood firm owners booked for Rs 12.44L fraud||Four persons allegedly committed a fraud of Rs 12.44 lakh with an owner of a plywood industry of Yamunanagar by issuing him a cheque that got bounced due to insufficient funds in their bank account.On the complaint of Gaurav Bansal, the owner of a plywood and veneer factory, a case was registered against Deepak Singla, Jyoti Singla, Neena and Vardaan Singla, proprietors of another plywood firm of Yamunanagar, under Sections 420, 406, 506 and 120B of the IPC at the City police station on Saturday.The case was registered on the directions of a Jagadhari court where Gaurav moved after the police didn’t act on his complaint.The complainant said he was dealing in the business of plyboard and allied products. He said he used to supply goods to the accused on their demand and an amount of Rs 12.44 lakh was outstanding.Gaurav said Deepak being partner of the firm issued Rs 12.44 lakh cheque on March 26, 2021, in his favour, which was dishonoured on April 28, 2021, due to insufficient funds in the account of the accused. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-plywood-firm-owners-booked-for-rs-12-44l-fraud-304030
30-08-2021||Kurukshetra||3 die, several injured in road accident||Three people were killed while over a dozen suffered injuries in a road accident on the Delhi-Amritsar NH near Khanpur Kolian village on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Brijpal, Kallu Ram and Anita, all residents of Uttar Pradesh. They were migrant labourers and were on their way to Punjab when a truck rammed into their stationed vehicle. The driver fled the scene after the accident.Mukesh Kumar, who suffered injuries, said: “We stopped at around 4:30 am when a truck rammed into our vehicle. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-die-several-injured-in-road-accident-304031
30-08-2021||Yamunanagar||17-year-old girl molested||A 17-year-old girl of Yamunanagar was allegedly raped multiple times. On the complaint of the mother of the victim, a case was registered against Himanshu, a resident of Ludhiana, on Saturday.The complainant said Himanshu met her daughter in 2019. He came to our house one day and raped her, she said.“Himanshu made an MMS of my daughter and blackmailed her. He also took my daughter to Saharanpur in UP, where he raped her and made an MMS again. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-year-old-girl-molested-304032
30-08-2021||---||No Covid deaths in 73 days in F’bad||Faridabad, August 29With the number of total Covid vaccinations (both jabs) crossing 15 lakh in the district, no death has been reported due to the virus in the district since June 16.“The number of active cases slid down to 6 on Sunday with no case of hospitalisation at present,” said a senior official of the district Health Department. He added that the last death due to Covid surfaced on June 16.“This speaks of the control the administration has gained on the spread of the infection. Speedy vaccination and awareness among the masses is another reason. Out the total 716 deaths recorded in the district, a total of 542 have been attributed to comorbidities,” he added.Infection controlledThis speaks of the control the administration has gained on the spread of the infection. Speedy vaccination and awareness among the masses is another reason. —Senior official, District health departmentNodal Officer Dr Ram Bhagat said the current sample positivity rate has slipped to zero per cent even though the cumulative positivity rate has been 9.31 per cent. The test rate has reached to 59,587 persons per population of one lakh.The overall recovery rate has reached to 99.28 per cent.Claiming that vaccination drive was in full swing, Dr Rajesh Sheokand, in charge of vaccination, said as many as 15,35,162 residents had been vaccinated till Saturday. Of these, 11,57,124 have received the first dose and 3,78,038 have got both doses.The total eligible population for vaccination in the district is around 14.50 lakh, of which 79.80 per cent and 26.07 per cent have received the first and both doses, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-covid-deaths-in-73-days-in-fbad-304033
30-08-2021||Karnal||Farmer dies of ‘heart attack’ in Karnal||As per the farmers, he participated in the protest at Bastara on Saturday and was also beaten up by cops. As a result, he suffered a heart attack that led to his death, they claimed.However, the SP and the DC said no medico-legal report of the farmer had been submitted. They said the death had no connection with the lathicharge. “The kin creamted the body without getting the autopsy done,” the SP said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-dies-of-heart-attack-in-karnal-304034
30-08-2021||Hisar||11-year-old Sirsa student sets record by reciting one to 100 in 30.39 seconds||Govt-Cong joint effort to curb paper leakA Bill prescribing strict punishment for paper leak, which was passed in the state Assembly recently, can at best be described as a joint effort by the BJP-JJP Government and the Opposition Congress. After being tabled, the Bill had to be withdrawn as it had several “deficiencies” and was “poorly drafted”. Later, the Bill was reintroduced after incorporating several “suggestions” of Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary. In the end, the ruling alliance and Opposition patted themselves on the back for the “joint effort” in passing a legislation to check malpractices in examinations.Hooda narrates joke, CM reads coupletIt was the one-on-one arguments between CM Manohar Lal Khattar and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on paper leak on the last day of the Monsoon session. While Hooda narrated a joke in the House to taunt the government that they had given birth to “lakhis and croreris” to buttress the point that entrance exam papers were selling in lakhs and crores, the CM read a couplet “Jo uthate hain ungli kirdaar par mere, lagta hai unke ghar mein aaina nahin hai”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-year-old-sirsa-student-sets-record-by-reciting-one-to-100-in-30-39-seconds-304035
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||11 Covid cases, one death reported in Haryana||Haryana reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Sunday. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-covid-cases-one-death-reported-in-haryana-304015
30-08-2021||Every street in Panchkula has become a garbage dumping ground. The attached picture is of Sector 6. It is deplorable that the MC||Panchkula streets become garbage dumping ground||Commuters suffer due to poor condition of roadsThe road near Geeta Chowk (Sector 5-6 & 7-8 roundabout) in Panchkula, speaks volumes about the poor upkeep of this widely used road, right up to the Sector 7-8 traffic signals (on NH-73) though it provides connectivity with the city’s all important Sectors. Since the commuters are the worst sufferers, the civic body should repair the potholed roads at the earliest. —Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaPublic figures should take up issue of roadsThere seems to be no shortage of money or funds when it comes to displaying hoardings and posters to extend personal greetings on various occasions such as Independence Day or occasions like Rakshabandhan or Janmastmi by local or aspiring political candidates in the city, but there is no one who wants to spend even a single penny on improving the condition of the roads in public interest. While almost all the main roads in the city are dotted with potholes especially after rain, these public figures should come forward to get these roads repaired in public interest. —Varun Sheokand, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-streets-become-garbage-dumping-ground-304017
30-08-2021||---||Ludhiana farmers block NH for two hours  to protest police action in Karnal||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, August 29In response to a call given by the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ (SKM) to block highways for two hours (12 noon to 2 pm) in protest against lathicharge by the police on protesting farmers in Karnal, activists of the Bharti Kisan Union – Ekta Ugrahan (BKU) today squatted on Ferozepur Road (NH-95) near MBD Mall.With the highway under siege by the farmers, commuters and travellers of public and private vehicles had a harrowing time. Several people, including women and children, who were carrying their luggage, were seen walking past the point where farmers were squatting on the road, to change passenger vehicles on the other side of the road to reach their destinations.The protesting farmers condemned the BJP government in Haryana, and an IAS official in particular for the indiscriminate lathicharge and manhandling of farmers in Karnal.They said such repressive measures to deal with peaceful protests by farmers in Haryana, Delhi or anywhere else would backfire and the farmers would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of three farm laws was accepted.BKU leaders Sudgar Singh Ghudani, Charan Singh Noorpura, Nirmal Singh, Sukhpreet Majri, Teerath Singh, Harjeet Kaur, Ranbir Kaur, Pawandeep, Inderjit and others came down heavily upon the Haryana bureaucrat for his orders to deal with the protesting farmers mercilessly while demanding that such officials should be dismissed for their misconduct.They made it clear to the Centre and other state governments that the farmers would relentlessly continue their agitation till acceptance of their demand and if any government or officials believe that use of force could deter them, they were mistaken.“We shall rebound with more zeal if pushed to the wall,” Ghudani said.Outfits stage protestMandi Ahmedgarh/ Payal/ Raikot: To protest against the lathicharge on farmers at Karnal in Haryana on Saturday, office-bearers and activists of constituent outfits of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha blocked traffic on highways and link roads of the region from 12 noon to 2 pm on Sunday.The police remained on toes, diverting traffic to alternative routes at Payal, Bassian, Lehra, Kila Raipur and Bhogiwal, where office-bearers and activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)- Ekta Ugrahan, BKU-Dakaunda, All India Kisan Sabha and Zamhoori Kisan Union had organised dharnas to express their anger against the Haryana Government.They lamented that the Haryana Police had brutally lathicharged peacefully demonstrating farmers, just to appease Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, thus exhibiting enmity against poor farmers of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ludhiana-farmers-block-nh-for-two-hours-to-protest-police-action-in-karnal-304067
30-08-2021||---||Registration must for Group C & D posts in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 29It is mandatory for the youth applying for the recruitment of Group-C and D in Haryana to get registered on the portal under ‘one time registration’. Under the scheme launched for the youth of the state, registration can be done on August 31.An official spokesperson said under this scheme, the general category youth could get themselves registered by paying a fee of Rs 500 while the reserved category applicants could get their registration done by paying a fee of Rs 250. Once registered, the registration will be valid for three years. It is mandatory to have a ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ to register on this portal. After one time registration, the candidate will get a unique ID number, which will be used in the process of Group-C and D posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registration-must-for-group-c-d-posts-in-haryana-304020
30-08-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: 1st batch passes out, college buildings not yet ready||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 29While the first batch of students of undergraduate courses of three new colleges set up in 2018 have completed their studies and graduated, the buildings of their institutions are still under construction. With no college campus, students had to study in some rooms of government schools.“Though I am happy to have been in the first batch which has graduated from the first college near my village, my biggest disappointment is that I could not study on the college campus,’’ said a student hailing from Mohna village.“It would have been ideal if classes were held on the college campus. The government school premises where classes were held, failed to give the feel of a college,” he added.“The new college should be started only when its building is ready and functional as part-time arrangements fail to provide the required infrastructure like spacious rooms, laboratories, library, sports and cultural facilities and adequate teaching and non-teaching staff,’’ said Krishan Atri, a former student associated with the NSUI.Claiming all new colleges set up in the district in 2018 remained short-staffed, he said availability of a few classrooms, with hardly any facility, made a mockery of higher education. This was perhaps the reason for low enrolment in the colleges, he added.While the new colleges at Nachauli and Ballabgarh are for girls, the college at Mohna village is a co-educational institute. The first batch had 650 students at Ballabgarh, 423 at Mohna and 86 at Nachauli college.Though classes of Ballabgarh and Mohna were held in government school buildings, but students of the science stream had to visit the Government College, Tigaon and Faridabad, for practicals. Students of Girls College, Nachauli, attended classes at Government College for Girls, Faridabad.Commenting on the situation, a senior district official said, “Buildings of new colleges are expected to be completed before the start of the next semester.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-1st-batch-passes-out-college-buildings-not-yet-ready-304022
30-08-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Notices served on 42 illegal Sonepat denim-dyeing units||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, August 29The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has served notices on 42 illegal jeans-dyeing units found operational in Friends Colony and the Pyau Manyari area of Kundli in Sonepat, reportedly for violating pollution norms and for emitting effluent without treatment in open areas.As per sources, the HSPCB has already sealed 12 of these illegal units, served closure notices on 16 and the process to serve closure notice on 14 industries was in the pipeline. It was found that maximum of these illegal dyeing units were unnamed and all were operating without any valid consent to operate (CTO) and consent to establishment (CTE) during the physical survey conducted by the HSPCB team.16 given closure noticesEven, these units have no effluent treatment plant and they were discharging their effluent directly into drains. These dyeing units are polluting in nature and covered under the Red category as per the categorisation list of the pollution control board. Varun Gulati, a social activist in Delhi, had filed a complaint to the HSPCB against these units last year.Survey found All such units unnamedWe have identified 42 illegal units there during the survey and maximum of these units were found unnamed. All these units are illegal as they have no consent to operate, consent to establishment or any other approval from the board. —Bhupender Singh Chahal, RO, HSPCB, SonepatAction will be initiatedWe have been taking note of illegal bleaching and dyeing units because these are a health hazard and create a lot of water pollution. Action will be initiated against all such illegal bleaching and dyeing units accordingly.S Narayanan, member secretary, hspcbHe alleged that the units were discharging their effluents directly into the drain without treatment, which joined the Yamuna. The effluents discharged were a big cause of pollution in the Yamuna, he said. He further alleged that he also approached the higher officials at the headquarters regarding his complaint, after he found no action was taken at the local level. Following the complaint, the HSPCB team conducted a survey and identified 42 illegal denim-dyeing units operational there.Taking serious note of it, Senior Environment Engineer also visited the area of Pyau Manyari and Friends Colony in Kundli. Bhupender Singh Chahal, RO, HSPCB, Sonepat, said, “We have identified 42 illegal units there during the survey and maximum of these units were found unnamed. All these units are illegal as they have no CTO, CTE or any other approval from the board.” S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB, said, “We have identified a total of 42 illegal units during a special drive, out of which 12 units have been closed down, while closure notices have been served on 16 units and the process of issuing closure notices are in the pipeline as all these denim-dyeing units have been found to be illegal during the inspection.” “We have been taking note of the illegal bleaching and dyeing units because these are a health hazard and create a lot of water pollution. Action will be initiated against all illegal bleaching and dyeing units accordingly”, Naryanan claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notices-served-on-42-illegal-sonepat-denim-dyeing-units-304024
30-08-2021||Kaithal||Fit India Freedom Run||Law varsity signs MoUSonepat: A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University (DBRANLU), Sonepat, and Devi Ahilya Bai University (DABU), Indore. Professor Vinay Kapoor Mehra, Vice-Chancellor (VC), DBRANLU and Professor Renu Jain, VC, DABU signed the document. Professor Mehra said the PhD students of both universities could do their research work with the law faculty of both universities. Both universities will also be able to offer full-time and short-term optional courses from time to time as per the contractual conditions.Career counselling sessionFaridabad: The Centre for Career Counselling, Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, has organised a career counselling session online. Sukrut Bhushan who was the speaker of the day, exhorted the youth to concentrate and choose their area of interest before preparing for an entrance exam for any government sector job. He also elaborated on various courses available in the government sectors like banking, railways, insurance etc. He told students about the benefits of being a government employee. Around 80 participants from different courses were present in the session. Dr Shilpa Goel, organising secretary of the event, gave a welcome speech. Principal KK Gupta elaborated the scope about the opportunities in various sectors..Training programme concludesKarnal: Hands-on techniques in molecular biology-sponsored under the Government of India's Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) scheme was concluded at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), here. As many as seven participants from different parts of the country, such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Orissa, and Pondicherry participated and were trained in basic and advance molecular biology techniques.Short-term online workshopKurukshetra: The women in science (WIS) forum, KUK, organised the third module on writing or filling of patent application in short-term online workshop on careers and opportunities for women in STEM-2021. In the first lecture, Prof Neelu Sood, chairperson, department of botany, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, delivered talk on the importance of intellectual property rights (IPR). In her talk, she also discussed the ancient scientific inventions made by women, which revolutionised society as well as the industry. In the second lecture, Prof CC Tripathi, dean of engineering and director UIET, discussed about prototype product designing for patents. He also talked about different patents designed by the faculty members of UIET.Millennium school wins trophyKurukshetra: Students of The Millennium School, Kurukshetra, proved their mettle in the prestigious 'The Millennium Challenge' 2021. The rolling trophy for the speech-cum-presentation was bagged by the team of the Millennium School, Kurukshetra. Vudushi Bhardwaj of Class VIA and Ryan of Class VII B presented their views on the positive impact of technology on mankind. For poetry, Sanvi Aggarwal of Class VB bagged the title of the 'emerging star'. Besides this, Prikshit Deswal of Class XII was declared the 'promising speaker' in the debate. The competition was organised online by the Millennium School, Amritsar. As many as 200 students and 22 teams across the country participated. School principal Dr AK Singh congratulated all winners and teachers on this achievement.National webinarKurukshetra: Markanda National College, Shahabad, Markanda, in collaboration with Association of Indian College Principals and Haryana Government-Aided College Principals Association, organised a national webinar on the topic 'Responsibility of stakeholders in higher education'. Director, Sports and Youth Affairs Haryana Pankaj Nain in his chief guest address stressed upon skilled manpower with quality education. Dr Ajmer Malik, Vice-Chancellor, CDLU, Sirsa, in his keynote address highlighted the major policy breakthroughs in National Education Policy 2020 with regard to stakeholders and entrepreneurship.Awareness on personal hygieneAmbala: MM International School, Sadopur, Ambala, conducted a short awareness session on personal hygiene and apprised students that good personal hygiene was as simple as hand washing, which could reduce plethora of illness, infection and other disorders. Girls were also apprised of personal and menstrual hygiene. School principal Dr Nisha Sharma also motivated the students to make use of the acquired knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fit-india-freedom-run-304040
30-08-2021||---||Bring Karnal SDM, policemen to book: Rakesh Tikait on lathicharge||Karnal, August 29Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday demanded action against the Karnal SDM and police personnel for lathicharge on farmers at the Bastara toll plaza on the National Highway-44 on Saturday.Also read: Haryana Deputy CM Chautala promises action against officer for telling cops to ‘break’ farmers' heads'Break their head...', SDM tells police during farmers' protest, clarifies laterTo take on Haryana government, SKM plans ‘something big’Farmers in Punjab block roads, burn effigies over lathicharge on Haryana peasantsOn Sunday, Tikait met four injured farmers admitted at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and enquired about their health.“We will not sit patiently till an action is taken against the SDM and the cops. This incident has proved that the BJP want to take control of the country with the help of force but we won’t let them succeed,” Tikait said after meeting the farmers.Attends Kisan Mahapanchayat  in NuhOn Saturday, the BJP organised a state-level meeting in a hotel on Railway Road in the city to chalk out a strategy for the civic body and panchayat polls, which was attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, party president OP Dhankar, MLAs, ministers, MPs and other office-bearers. The farmers had given call to protest against the meeting and they assembled at the Bastara toll plaza. They tried to move towards the?city, but the police stopped them, leading to a clash between them that left many farmers and cops injured.After enquiring the health of the farmers, Tikait blamed the government for disturbing the peaceful environment of the state. “It will have to pay for it in coming days,” he added.Meanwhile, the BKU leader also accused the district authorities for not taking care of the injured farmers. “The injured farmers are being discharged from the hospital at the behest of the administration,” he alleged.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia, however, denied the allegations and said proper treatment was being given to the farmers. “We got to know that 15 medico-legal reports of the farmers have been made, while just 13 of the police personnel,” the SP said.The DC said: “I have also enquired about the farmers’ health and whether there was any lapse in treatment. They are happy with all facilities and the treatment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bring-karnal-sdm-policemen-to-book-rakesh-tikait-on-lathicharge-304042
30-08-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni booked for call to block traffic||Ambala, August 29The Ambala police have booked BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni for giving a call of road blockades across the state after the farmers were lathicharged in Karnal on Saturday.The case has been registered at Shahzadpur police station on the complaint of exemptee head constable Baljeet Singh, who stated that a meeting was held at Shahzadpur grain market by Charuni to discuss the issue of non-payment of cane dues by the sugar mill.Charuni, during his address, said the police had cane-charged farmers in Karnal. He gave the call of blocking all national highways. Following his call, the farmers blocked roads across Haryana.Need to Chalk out future strategyWe have been struggling for nine months... There’s been no outcome even after 11 meetings with the Centre... There is an urgent need to chalk out a strategy. —Gurnam Singh, BKU (charuni) chiefCommuters also faced inconvenience due to his call. A case has been registered under Sections 109, 265 and 283 of the IPC and 8A of the National Highway Act at the Shahzadpur police station.Two more cases, one each at Naggal police station and Ambala Sadar police station, have been registered against farm activists for blocking the Ambala-Hisar NH at Saini Majra toll plaza and Delhi-Amritsar NH at Shambhu toll plaza on Saturday.While nearly 150 farmers have been booked at Naggal police station, cases against 450 have been registered at Sadar police station. Similarly, cases have been registered in Kurukshetra district against farmers for blocking the national and state highways.In another FIR, Charuni has been named along with 14 members of his union at Shahzadpur police station in connection with a clash between his activists and that of BKU (Bhaichara Haryana).In his complaint to the police, Narpat Rana, president, BKU (Bhaichara Haryana), said Charuni was holding a meeting to instigate farmers against the government. “We were holding a protest with black flags against Charuni. Meanwhile, around 100 people from Charuni’s union started thrashing us. At least five of us suffered injuries.” he said.The case has been registered against Gurnam Singh Charuni, Malkit, Joginder, Deepak, Ajit, Jitender, Subhash, Karan, Manan, Rohit, Balwinder, Vicky, Silla, Sukhwinder and Maninder under Sections 148, 149, 323, 506 and 120B of the IPC.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “We have requested the Ambala police to ensure fair probe into the matter and for this, we will meet the SSP soon.”Meanwhile, ahead of the farmers’ meeting in Karnal, Charuni asked activists and representatives of farm unions to give their opinion on the stir so that a strategy could be chalked out for future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-booked-for-call-to-block-traffic-304005
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal lathicharge: Bhupinder Hooda calls for judicial probe||Ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda has sought a judicial probe into the Karnal lathicharge incident. “There should be an inquiry as to under what authority the officials in Karnal were ordering the cops to hit the farmers. Since this is the police jurisdiction, no civil officer can give such orders under such circumstances. This has to be the subject of probe,” he said.Hooda, who was talking to reporters in Chandigarh, reiterated that in a democracy everyone had the right to protest for their demands. TNSDy CM vows action against IAS officerChandigarh: Condemning Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha’s instructions to cops to “smash the heads of the protesting farmers”, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Sunday promised action against him. “The use of such kind of language by an IAS officer for farmers is condemnable... Action will be taken against him,” he told reporters here. He said: “The Karnal SDM said he didn’t sleep for two days. He probably doesn’t know the farmers haven’t slept for almost 200 days.” TNSDeepender seeks his suspension Hisar: Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Deepender Hooda has demanded the suspension of the Karnal SDM over the lathicharge incident on Saturday. At a press meet in Bhiwani on Sunday, he said the official’s behaviour would be remembered and he would pay for his misdemeanour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-lathicharge-bhupinder-hooda-calls-for-judicial-probe-304007
30-08-2021||---||Karnal Administration defends cops’ ‘mild’ action on protesters||Karnal, August 29A day after the clash between farmers and the police, Karnal Deputy Commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia defended the police action.They said mild force was used to disperse farmers from the National Highway-44 as they had blocked it, causing inconvenience to thousands of commuters. They had also attacked the police with stones and sickles, they alleged.The police have registered two different FIRs against farmers. In the first FIR, several farmers, including 27 by name, had been booked for attacking public servant, unlawful assembly and blocking the NH-44. In the second FIR, the police have booked 14 farmers by name, including BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni and hundreds others, for unlawful assembly and blocking NH-44 for three hours, said SP Punia.“Our duty magistrates were on the spot and they — time and again — appealed to the farmers to open the NH-44, but the farmers remained adamant. Moreover, they attacked the police personnel, forcing the authorities to use mild force to disperse them,” alleged the DC and the SP while interacting with mediapersons.The DC expressed regret for the words used by SDM Karnal Ayush Sinha while instructing the police personnel on Saturday.The video of the incident had gone viral. Yadav said some words were not appropriate, but his intention was not bad. Moreover, the SDM was seen giving directions to the cops on Railway Road on Saturday morning while the lathicharge took place in the afternoon at the Bastara toll plaza, which is 10-15 km away from the venue in the video. “Being the head of the administration, I regret the words used by the SDM. The entire video was not shown, but only a clip went viral,” he added.Meanwhile, around 40 farmers got their medico-legal report conducted till Sunday evening.Moreover, the BKU has decided to hold a meeting on Monday at the Gharaunda grain market to chalk out a strategy over the lathicharge and registration of FIRs against the farmers. “We will hold a meeting of farmers on Monday in Karnal to decide the future course of action. Our leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, will chair the meeting,” said Bhadhur Singh Mehla, district IT cell president, BKU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-administration-defends-cops-mild-action-on-protesters-304009
30-08-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Gurugram property prices set to rise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29Buyers of residential and commercial property in the millennium city will have to shell out more, with the Gurugram Bench of the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) imposing registration and processing fee on promoters for the registration of new real estate projects.Now, a registration fee of Rs 10 per square metre will be levied in hyper/high potential areas, while it would be Rs 5 per sqm in the medium/low potential area.HighlightsUnder the HRERA Gurugram (fixing of standard fees to be levied on promoter) Regulations, 2021, which were approved by the authority recently, fee @ Rs 10 per sqm will be charged for hyper/high potential area for residential/industrial projects. It will be Rs 5 per sqm for the medium/low category. The rates for the commercial projects will be Rs 20 per sqm for hyper/high potential area, while the rate for plotted colonies will be Rs 10 for per sqm for all categories.Similarly, the authority will charge a processing fee of Rs 10 per sqm for the floor area in residential/commercial/industrial projects and Rs 10 per sqm of the total plotted area in case of a plotted colony.Suresh Aggarwal, president of the Haryana Property Dealers Welfare Association, said the levy of the fee would have a ‘cascading effect’ on the prices of the residential and commercial properties in Gurugram.“The real estate promoters will pass on the increased cost of the projects to the customers,” he added.Moreover, for the extension of the registration of the real estate project, the promoter will to have shell out Rs 10 per sqm of the floor area. For plotted colony also, an amount of Rs 10 per sqm of the total area of the plotted colony will be charged.The promoters will have to pay 50 per cent of the registration for “delayed registration” for the delay of six months. An amount of 50 per cent of the registration fee for every subsequent six months will have be deposited with HRERA for “delayed registration”.For the extension of the project, promoters will pay half of the registration fee for residential, industrial, commercial and plotted colonies. Real estate agents will pay Rs 5,000 as mandatory registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-property-prices-set-to-rise-304011
30-08-2021||Panipat||To take on Haryana government, SKM plans ‘something big’||Enraged over the police lathicharge on farmers in Karnal, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is planning “something big” to confront the BJP-JJP government.Though the SKM has not taken any concrete decision over the Karnal incident so far, the lathicharge was the centre of discussion among the top leadership today.The farm leaders, however, are busy preparing for the kisan rally scheduled for September 5 at Muzaffarnagar.A senior farmer leader said the attack on peacefully protesting farmers in the state raised temperatures. It’s a matter of concern for the SKM too, he added.Today, the matter was discussed and every farmer leader in the state is angry about the incident, he said.“The SKM thinktank is preparing for the Muzaffarnagar rally and it is thinking that the police action could be the plan of the BJP to distract the SKM leaders from the rally’s preparations,” said sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-take-on-haryana-government-skm-plans-something-big-304013
30-08-2021||---||Karnal lathicharge: Punjab farmers block highways for 2 hrs, burn effigies of Khattar govt||Bathinda, August 29Expressing resentment against the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana, activists of various farm unions under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) protested at several locations, including toll plazas, in Bathinda district on Sunday.Widespread angerBKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said roads were blocked at 56 places for two hours and effigies of the Khattar government were burnt at various places across the state.Won’t change standAfter seeing success of our Delhi protest, the Centre has panicked. It wants to end stir forcibly. But we will not budge until the repeal of farm laws. — Rajvir Singh, Farmer LeaderFarmers gathered at the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway in Rampura, Jeeda and Lehra Bega toll plazas, Balluana, Ghudda (Bathinda-Badal road), Maiser Khana, Talwandi Sabo (Bathinda-Sardulgarh road) and several other pockets of the district to protest the lathicharge. Protesting farmers blocked the roads from 12 pm to 2 pm and in some villages burnt effigies of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Harjinder Singh Baggi said: “On Saturday, a group of farmers were peacefully protesting in Karnal where the Haryana CM was scheduled to attend a meeting. However, on the directions of senior officials, the police resorted to lathicharge, leaving many farmers seriously injured.”Union leaders demanded strict action against officials who ordered the lathicharge and punitive action against cops who carried out the orders.Paramjit Kaur, another farmer leader said: “We demand release of farmers arrested during the protest and free treatment for the injured from hospitals with proper medical facilities.Similar protests were witnessed in many parts of neighbouring Mansa district where farmers owing allegiance to different unions blocked roads and raised slogans against the Haryana and central governments. Farmers blocked highways at six locations for two hours. Farmers in 62 villages burnt effigies of the Haryana Government to lodge their protest.Condemning the lathicharge, farmer union leaders along with activists protested against the BJP at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. “Peaceful protests against BJP ministers and leaders will continue in future as well. The use of force cannot suppress our voice,” said Kaur.In Sangrur and Barnala, farmers blocked various roads and announced that they would intensify their agitation in coming days. Members of Kirti Kisan Union blocked the Sangrur-Barnala road at Bahadurpur village and raised slogans against central government.In Fatehgarh Sahib, farm organisations blocked the traffic on GT Road Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khamano, Bassi Pathana and Amloh town. Farmers staged sit-ins at several places and even on link roads. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on all roads, causing inconvenience to commuters. SKM leader Gursatinder Singh Jallah termed the lathicharge shameful.(With inputs from Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-lathicharge-punjab-farmers-block-highways-for-2-hrs-burn-effigies-of-khattar-govt-303905
30-08-2021||Mohali||Protest against Karnal lathicarge: Mohali chokes as farmers take to the streets||The framers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, blocked various arterial roads here today to protest the lathicharge on “peacefully protesting farmers” in Haryana.The blockade led to huge traffic jams causing inconvenience to the commuters.The farmers gathered at the McDonald chowk on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in Zirakpur and blocked the traffic for nearly two hours. They, however, allowed the ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass through.The police personnel were seen diverting traffic to save the commuters from harassment. The farmers raised slogans against the BJP and the Haryana Government for the use of force against “peacefully protesting farmers” at Karnal on Saturday.The protesting farmers also burnt the effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Addressing the gathering, farmer leaders Prem Singh and Deedar Singh Shatabgarh said on one side “the Centre is bent upon harassing the farmers and is not interested in fulfilling their genuine demands” and on the other side, the Haryana Government was lathicharging the protesters to “suppress their voice”.“The Centre should not remain under any illusion. The use of force is only increasing the anger of farmers,” they said. The two further said the government had “stooped” to such a level that they were not even sparing the elderly and the children.Due to the lathicharge, one of the elderly farmer has died, they claimed and announced that the BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter any of the Punjab villages.Surjit Singh, Baljinder Singh, Jagtar Singh, Manish Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Hardeep Singh also addressed the protesting farmers.Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers converged at the Mullanpur Barrier on the Kurali-Baddi road and blocked the traffic for over two hours. The farmers also gathered at the Landran traffic light point and disrupted traffic on the Mohali-Sirhind road. — TNSDismiss SDM, demands BadheriSikh farmer leader and president of the Chandigarh unit of the All-India Jatt Mahasabha Rajinder Singh Badheri on Sunday demanded the removal of the SDM for “inflicting torture” on protesting farmers at Karnal. Badheri also said the SDM should be “prosecuted for intent to murder” as Sushil Kajal, a farmer from Raipur Jattan village in Karnal district, who was injured during the protest, died on Sunday. “His martyrdom will not go unnoticed,” he said.Let us debate farm laws: Sood to farmersOn his visit to Daria village on Sunday, Arun Sood, president of BJP’s Chandigarh unit, challenged farm activists for an open debate on the contentious agro-marked laws. The farm activists said, they have asked Sood for a time and place for the debate. “I went to Sood and humbly asked for time and place for the debate. He told me, its Janmashtami tomorrow, so we can meet a day after and debate these laws,” said Harjeet Singh, one of the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-against-karnal-lathicarge-mohali-chokes-as-farmers-take-to-the-streets-303875
30-08-2021||Vibha Sharma||Farmers’ unrest may spell trouble for BJP in election-bound UP||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 29A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial and paid homage to martyrs of April 13, 1919 massacre, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait today compared Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar with General Dyer.Tikait tweeted saying the “behaviour of Haryana CM Khattar was like General Dyer” and that “brutality of the Haryana Police on farmers will not be tolerated”. Significantly, while attacking the Haryana Government for yesterday’s lathicharge on farmers, the farmer leader from western Uttar Pradesh also added that ‘kisan sabka hisab karega’.Worries in bjp campBrutality won’t be tolerated: TikaitWith members of farming/rural communities in the two neighbouring states sharing what is popularly known as “roti-beti ka rishta” (very close ties), “farmers’ unrest in Haryana may spell more trouble for the ruling BJP in poll-bound UP than it may have anticipated,” according to some observers.Notably, Jat leaders, including Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, have already criticised the police action amid the mounting Opposition’ attack against the Khattar government and the demand for a strict action against the officer caught on camera asking the police to “break farmers’ heads”.For the BJP leadership facing flak over “mismanagement” in UP during the second wave of Covid and trying to sooth upset farmers in western UP with better SAP for sugarcane, the happenings in Haryana could not have come at a more inappropriate time, the observers believe. Some independent surveys have suggested a dip in fortunes of the ruling party in the politically critical state. According to these surveys, BJP’s ratings have dropped by almost 10-12% in terms of votes as compared to what it polled in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-unrest-may-spell-trouble-for-bjp-in-election-bound-up-303913
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana farmers protest Karnal lathicharge||A day after the lathicharge on protesting farmers in Karnal, members of various farmers’ unions in Punjab blocked major highways in the state between 12 noon and 2 pm on Sunday. Commuters were stopped at various toll plazas.The protests were held at 250 sites, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed.In Haryana, the farmers continued to demonstrate at toll plazas on NH-44, without impeding the traffic flow.The Karnal police, meanwhile, have filed two FIRs for attacking a public servant and unlawful assembly. The Ambala police have registered three FIRs and the Kurukshetra police eight.Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni is among those booked. A BKU meeting is scheduled to be held on Monday to chalk out the future course of action. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait visited the injured in a Karnal hospital. He sought action against the SDM who ordered the lathicharge. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-farmers-protest-karnal-lathicharge-303903
30-08-2021||Gurugram||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait criticises government’s action against farmers; terms them ‘Sarkari Talibani’||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday came down heavily on the government’s action against farmers terming them ‘Sarkari Talibani’.“Yesterday’s attack on famers has proved that Sarkari Talibani has taken over the country. They call us Khalistani and yesterday an officer ordered cops to hit farmers on the head. What else would qualify them as Talibanis,” said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Nuh.Demanding action against SDM, Karnal, Aayush Sinha, Tikait said he should be posted in Naxal-affected areas.Sinha, who is duty magistrate, was caught in a video reportedly asking cops to show no mercy and hit farmers on the head.Calling the Kisan Credit Card scheme as a disguise to encroach on lands, Tikait asked farmers to sell their produce to government at twice the price.“Modi promised doubling our income in 2022 so let’s do it and sell our produce to them at double rate on January 1, 2022.They have crossed all limits and now we will show no tolerance,” he added.Farmer leader Yogender Yadav, who was also present, urged the farmers to reach in high numbers at Muzzafar Nagar Kisan Rally on September 5.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Nuh Aftab Ahmed asked the government to act on Karnal lathi-charge.“They have reached their lowest and can’t stoop any further. If they sit quiet now they will lose all rights to even seek pardon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-criticises-governments-action-against-farmers-terms-them-sarkari-talibani-303803
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy CM Chautala promises action against officer for telling cops to ‘break’ farmers' heads||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday disapproved of the remarks of a duty magistrate who asked police to “break” farmers’ heads during their protest in Karnal and promised action against him.A 2018-batch IAS officer, deputed as duty magistrate during the farmers’ protest in Karnal, was caught on camera asking police to “break farmers’ heads”.Deputy CM-cum-JJP leader Chautala promised the action against the magistrate amid mounting opposition’s attack against the M L Khattar government over the Saturday lathicharge on farmers and their demand of strict action against the magistrate.“The 2018-batch IAS officer’s video has gone viral. Using such a language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala.“I think during their training, officers are taught how to face such situations and how to maintain balance in their actions. But what he said clearly does not meet the ethical standards which are expected from such officers,” said Chautala, censuring the officer’s remark.“Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said.The deputy chief minister, however, also condemned the farmers’ violence, including stone-pelting at police, during their protest in Karnal.“Do you support the kind of action which was seen from the other side?” he asked.Referring to the Karnal incident, he said he was “saddened by the events” but questioned the ultimate motive of farmer leaders.“I am saddened by the events, but I want to ask through the media where are those 40 leaders. After all, what is their ultimate motive?” he asked.He also questioned why Haryana has been made the epicentre of protests.Chautala asserted that there was “no insecurity or fear among farmers” over the farm laws but “some farm leaders and middlemen are fuelling the agitation using their shoulder”.“They want to weaken Haryana’s agrarian economy, they want to break its system. They want to put Haryana under turmoil. Why this movement is not going to Punjab, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, why are the people of Haryana being provoked?” he asked.“Their aim is to destabilise the Haryana economy,” Chautala said.He said “new mandis are being built in Haryana, crops are being procured at Minimum Support Price, what, after all, is the issue left here?”The JJP leader said the Centre is even open to amendments in farm laws, but despite that, the unions are not coming forward for talks.“Unless the talks are held, no solution can be found,” Chautala said.He also insinuated that the farmers’ agitation in Haryana will last till the Punjab polls.“It will become clear in five months if this prolonged agitation is not because of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-cm-chautala-promises-action-against-officer-for-telling-cops-to-break-farmers-heads-303794
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab block roads, burn effigies over lathicharge on Haryana peasants||Farmers blocked roads and highways in Punjab for two hours on Sunday in protest against the lathicharge on peasants in Haryana.Owing allegiance to various farmer bodies, the protesters burnt the effigies of the BJP-led government in Haryana for using “force” on farmers in Karnal.Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting.The two-hour-long agitation in Punjab that started at 12 noon also caused inconvenience to commuters, who got stuck in traffic snarls at several places.The protest caused disruption of vehicular traffic at many places and affected routes along the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Amritsar-Ganganagar highway and Ferozepur-Zira road.Kisan Sangharsh Mazdoor Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher strongly condemned the lathicharge on farmers by the Haryana police.During a protest in Amritsar, Pandher said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should resign on moral grounds as he has no right to continue on the post after the police action on farmers.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) staged protests at 56 places in the state and castigated the “shameful” act of the Khattar government.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the Haryana police action on farmers in Karnal.“Deplorable assault on the protesting Farmers is an attack on Fundamental Rights of every Indian...earned after innumerable sacrifices during the freedom struggle, It impinges and impedes on the spirit of the Constitution and Breaks the Backbone of India’s democracy!!” he said in a tweet and also shared a video of “use of force” by police on farmers in Haryana.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had expressed shock on Saturday at the “brazen brutality” of the Haryana police and had slammed Khattar for “unleashing such a vicious assault on the peacefully protesting farmers”, many of whom were injured in the lathicharge. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-in-punjab-block-roads-burn-effigies-over-lathicharge-on-haryana-peasants-303783
