08-11-2020||World||Popularity of Kamala Harris books surge after election||Books by and about Kamala Harris proved to be a popular purchase following the election. The vice president-elect was the subject or author of four books on Amazon’s top 10 Sunday.Click here for complete coverage of US election 2020They included her own children’s book “Superheroes Are Everywhere,” her memoir “The Truths We Hold: An American Journey,” a children’s book by her niece Meena Harris called “Kamala and Maya’s Big Idea” and Nikki Grimes’ illustrated “Kamala Harris: Rooted in Justice.”Harris made history as the first Black woman to become vice president. The California senator, who is also the first person of South Asian descent elected to the vice presidency, will become the highest-ranking woman ever to serve in government.President-elect Joe Biden also got a spot on the charts just outside of the top 10. Dr. Jill Biden’s children’s book “Joey: The Story of Joe Biden” landed in 14th place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/popularity-of-kamala-harris-books-surge-after-election/story-USr2RoWr2e7UVOc3P5xZLN.html
08-11-2020||World||First plane with Israeli tourists lands in UAE after the historic Abraham Accords||The first flight carrying Israeli tourists to the United Arab Emirates landed Sunday in the city-state of Dubai, the latest sign of the normalization deal reached between the two nations.FlyDubai flight no. FZ8194 landed at Dubai International Airport just after 5:40pm, bringing the tourists to the skyscraper-studded city after a roughly three-hour trip. The low-cost carrier had sent one of its Boeing 737s to Ben-Gurion International Airport in Tel Aviv earlier Sunday morning to pick up the passengers.The flight flew across Saudi Arabia and then over the waters of the Persian Gulf to reach the UAE, a federation of seven sheikhdoms also home to Abu Dhabi.The arrival of tourists comes as Dubai in particular tries to revive its vital tourism industry amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The UAE and Israel have agreed to launch regular commercial flights between their countries soon, while other recent flights have carried business and governmental delegations.FlyDubai plans to begin its flights to Tel Aviv later this month. The airline said described Sunday’s flight as a “charter” for the incoming tourists.Also Read | UAE delegation, US officials visit Israel; Palestinean concerns unheededIt comes as Israel and the UAE, which had maintained covert contacts for years, brought their diplomatic relationship out into the open. It signed a normalization deal with Israel alongside Bahrain at a White House ceremony in September, making the them the third and fourth Arab nations to currently have peace with Israel.But while Egypt and Jordan earlier signed peace deals, the UAE has said it anticipates having a “warm” peace with Israel. The Emirates also hopes the deal with aid its efforts to purchase advanced F-35 fighter jets from the U.S. The deals also unite three nations that remain suspicious of Iran.However, the agreements did not address the decades-long conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, who view the pacts as a stab in the back from their fellow Arabs and a betrayal of their cause for a Palestinian state. The agreements, which were seen as a foreign policy win for President Donald Trump ahead of the Nov. 3 election, now face the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-plane-with-israeli-tourists-lands-in-uae-after-the-historic-abraham-accords/story-I8jaxJBCyWA5pLe4p59dEO.html
08-11-2020||World||Joe Biden may bring respite to China-US ‘Cold War’, but feud to continue: Chinese observers||The victory of Joe Biden in the US presidential election may provide a respite to China from President Donald Trump’s declaration of the “Cold War” and offer a limited chance to reset the turbulent ties even as high-intensity rivalry is expected to continue, Chinese observers said on Sunday.Click here for complete coverage of US election 2020 Trump’s four years in power is the worst phase in China-US relations as the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC), headed by President Xi Jinping, struggled to deal with what Chinese officials said is the most elusive and unpredictable American leader ever since the former US president Richard Nixon’s historic visit to Beijing in 1972, establishing ties for the first time with the Communist nation. Trump pushed aggressively on all aspects of the US-China ties, including with his relentless trade war, challenging Chinese military hold on the disputed South China Sea, its constant threats to Taiwan and branding coronavirus as ‘China virus’ after it emerged from Wuhan in December last year. The Biden tenure could usher in a “buffering period” for already-tense China-US relations, and offer an opportunity for breakthrough in resuming high-level communication and rebuilding mutual strategic trust between the two countries, a report in the state-run Global Times said. Deteriorating relations between China and the US have entered a vicious circle, leading to damaged strategic mutual trust, suspended high-level communication and little concrete cooperation, Xin Qiang, deputy director of the Centre for US Studies at Fudan University, told the daily.Also Read | China opposes US’ move to remove ETIM from terrorist outfit list Under Biden, it might now be expected that China and the US will resume pragmatic cooperation on vaccines, the anti-epidemic fight and climate change, Xin said. Jin Canrong, associate dean of the School of International Studies at Renmin University of China in Beijing, said that Biden will usher in a “buffering period” for worsening China-US relations. “Biden will be more moderate and mature on handling foreign affairs,” Jin said. Much has been written in the overseas media that no matter who wins the White House, the next US president is most likely to take a “get tough” stand on the China policy, Wang Xiangwei, a columnist of the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post, said. “That is certainly true, but from Beijing’s perspective, a Biden presidency is more likely to put a floor under the current free-fall in relations, judging by his recent remarks on China and those of his foreign policy advisers,” he said in his column on Sunday. Instead of the Trump administration’s increasingly bare-knuckled and full-throttled approach to demonising the Chinese leadership and ramping up the ideological confrontation as well as constricting China’s economic progress, a Biden presidency could lead to a new normal in relations characterised by intensifying confrontation and competition on issues like technology and human rights but increased cooperation on global issues including climate change, he said. “If that is the case, Biden will probably take an overall harder line against China but avoid pushing the two countries to a new Cold War,” Wang said, referring to Biden’s comment in an interview that he sees Russia as a bigger threat to the US and China as a “serious competitor”. However, the pending change in the US leadership won’t change the overall direction of Washington’s China policy, observers said. Regardless of who resides in the White House, the US will to some extent maintain its current approach towards China, a report in the Global Times said. Biden’s China policy won’t simply slip back into the Obama era approach of 2016 as during the past four years, China-US relations and the global landscape have changed significantly, it said. “We should not put too much expectation on Biden because to contain and confront China is a strategic consensus between the two major parties of the US,” Jin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-may-bring-respite-to-china-us-cold-war-but-feud-to-continue-chinese-observers/story-g2SI0kANfnaG6iNCzfWw8O.html
08-11-2020||World||5 US states approve measures eradicating potentially racist language, symbols||Alabama voters reversed themselves from a few years ago and removed racist vestiges of segregation from the state constitution that courts long ago ruled unconstitutional. Rhode Island did a similar a U-turn to eradicate the word “plantations” from the state’s official name.In a year when discussions of racial justice have dominated US society like few others, five states voted to cleanse the public sphere of words, phrases and symbols that to many were painful reminders of the nation’s history of slavery and the systematic oppression of Black people.Brendan Skip Mark, who teaches political science at the University of Rhode Island, believes the decisions were linked to the revulsion and widespread protests that followed the police killing of George Floyd in Minnesota in May.“In many ways this has sparked a national conversation on race, and I think we’ve seen a lot of people who are more willing to take concrete steps to address racism than they were in the past,” Mark said.Read also: After the vote: A timeline of how a president takes powerIn addition to the votes in Alabama and Rhode Island, residents of Utah and Nebraska decided to strip their constitutions of unenforceable provisions that allowed slavery as a punishment for criminal convictions. And Mississippi voters approved a state flag without the familiar X-shaped design of the Confederate battle flag.The votes are a positive sign in a nation where racial tension always has existed, said Stacy Moak, who teaches in the social work department at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.“Affirmative votes for these changes shows a willingness on the part of Americans to provide for a more inclusive community. These changes, by themselves, are not enough — but they are encouraging signs of progress in the right direction,” she said in an interview conducted by email.The Alabama measure begins the process of removing Jim Crow language from the 1901 Constitution that was intended to entrench white supremacy. Voters in the mostly white, conservative state had rejected similar proposals twice since 2000.Courts had previously struck down the legality of the segregationist provisions that were enshrined in the document long ago, but the language banning mixed-race marriage, allowing poll taxes and mandating school segregation remained.Glenn Crowell, a Black Republican from Montgomery, was among the roughly 67% of voters who supported scrapping those sections.“It just doesn’t make any sense nowadays,” said Crowell, 63. Yet another statewide vote will be required to approve the revisions after legislators consider a draft in 2022.In neighboring Mississippi, about 71% of voters approved a new state flag featuring a magnolia and the words “In God We Trust” to replace the Confederate-themed flag that state legislators voted to retire in June after the nation erupted in demonstrations following Floyd’s killing.Mississippi voters also eliminated an 1890s provision that aimed to ensure white control of the state by requiring majorities of both the popular vote and the 122 state House districts to win statewide office. Now, only a popular vote majority is required.To the west, Utah and Nebraska approved provisions similar to Alabama’s to delete constitutional language allowing slavery as a possible punishment in criminal cases.The measures, which passed by 81% in Utah and 68% in Nebraska, got relatively little attention before the vote.But the fact that states even placed the measures on ballots shows that protests and the national discussion on racism are having an impact, said Deirdre Cooper Owens, director of the humanities in medicine program at the University of Nebraska.“Symbolism matters, and so does language,” she said by email.The vote was closest in Rhode Island, once a hub of the trans-Atlantic slave trade, where about 53% of voters supported the proposal to strip the words “and Providence Plantations” from the state’s formal name, first adopted in 1790. A similar measure failed in 2010.Like elsewhere in the country, Rhode Island has seen protests over Floyd’s death, and in racially diverse Providence, a truth commission was established to consider the state’s historic ties to slavery, land seizures, systemic racism and possible reparations.“This ballot initiative is part of a broader shift in Rhode Island to reconcile with the past,” said Mark, the political scientist. “I think this is a unique moment in history.”All those ballot measures involved changing symbols or wiping away reminders of injustices of long ago. In California, where voters were asked to reconsider a more contemporary race-related issue, they balked.The liberal-minded state rejected a proposition that would have repealed a 1996 initiative prohibiting affirmative action programs in public employment, education or contracting. Supporters said the measure lost for several reasons, including a lack of time to persuade voters during a busy election year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-us-states-approve-measures-eradicating-potentially-racist-language-symbols/story-K9rsEdBrg7gpjhQX0n8goK.html
08-11-2020||World||China to advance construction of rail line in Tibet, close to Arunachal Pradesh||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday instructed officials to expedite the construction of the new $47.8 billion railway project connecting the country’s southwest Sichuan province to Linzhi in Tibet close to the Indian border in Arunachal Pradesh, saying it would play a key role in safeguarding stability in the border areas.The Sichuan-Tibet Railway will be the second railway line into Tibet after the Qinghai-Tibet Railway project. It will go through the southeast of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, one of the world’s most geologically active areas, according to the Chinese official media.The Sichuan-Tibet Railway starts from Chengdu, capital of Sichuan province and travels through Ya’an and enters Tibet via Qamdo, shortening the journey from Chengdu to Lhasa from 48 hours to 13 hours.Linzhi, also known as Nyingchi, is located close to Arunachal Pradesh border.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of south Tibet which is firmly rejected by India.Linzhi also has an airport which is one of the five airports built by China in the Himalayan region.The Ya’an-Linzhi section runs 1,011 km with 26 stations. Trains are expected to run at speeds between 120 and 200 kms per hour. The total cost of the entire Sichuan-Tibet Railway project is around 319.8 billion yuan ($47.8 billion), according to a recent report by the state-run Global Times.In a video conference, ahead of the commencement of the construction of the project, Xi identified it as a major measure in facilitating the ruling Communist Party’s general plan for governing Tibet in the new era, and stressed the project’s important role in safeguarding national unity, promoting ethnic solidarity and consolidating stability in border areas.He made the instruction ahead of the beginning of the construction of the Sichuan-Tibet Railway’s Ya’an-Nyingchi section on Sunday, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.The Sichuan-Tibet Railway will not only accelerate and enhance the overall economic development of the Tibet region, but will play an important role in safeguarding border stability, the Global Times said.Read also: Curbing Covid-19 pandemic swiftly was vital in China’s ongoing economic recoveryThe project would significantly contribute to the economic and social development of the western region, especially in Sichuan province and Tibet Autonomous Region, Xi said.Underlining the complex geological and climatic conditions, as well as fragile ecological environment along the project line, he called for leveraging China’s advantage of concentrating resources to get things done to accomplish this historic task, which is arduous but glorious.The construction should be carried out in a scientific, safe and eco-friendly way, Xi said, apparently referring to the fragility of the area as it is one of the world’s most active seismic regions.Speaking at the meeting, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang emphasised prioritising the safety, reliability and quality of the project, and called for coordinated efforts in promoting construction, epidemic prevention and people’s well-being.The 1,011-km section between Ya’an in Sichuan and NyingChi in Tibet is the third part of the Sichuan-Tibet Railway, which will be carried out by the China State Railway Group Co., Ltd.The project’s Chengdu-Ya’an section became operational in December 2018, and the construction of the Lhasa-Nyingchi section started in June 2015, the Xinhua report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-advance-construction-of-rail-line-in-tibet-close-to-arunachal-pradesh/story-4mKlFQfI1iptVOddbv8mnJ.html
08-11-2020||World||Nepal minister thanks India for gifting ventilators despite ‘troubled’ relations||Aiming at spreading “positivity and enhance coordination between the two countries”, India on Sunday gifted 28 ICU ventilators to Nepal to battle with the Covid-19 pandemic.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In a recent ceremony held at the Health Ministry of Nepal, Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra handed over the ICU ventilators to Health Minister Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal who in turn thanked India for the help “in this time of crisis despite having troubled relations in the past”.While addressing the programme, Kwatra said, “Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi aims to spread positivity and enhance coordination between the two countries. These 28 ventilators are a sample of it.”He reiterated India’s solidarity and commitment lies with the Government and people of Nepal, reaffirming India’s commitment to providing all necessary help in this regard in the future.As the programme proceeded, Dhakal thanked the Government and the people of India for “helping Nepal in this time of crisis”. “Despite having troubled relations in the past, India has not hesitated in helping Nepal fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.”Also Read | Can resolve all issues through dialogue, says Nepal PM OliDhakal further reiterated Nepal’s commitment towards India by saying “Gaashkatayara”, which in Nepali means sacrificing for the sake of others.On September 15, India had gifted 2,000 vials of Remdesivir to Nepal. Also, on April 22, India had provided Hydroxychloroquine to treat the patients affected with the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-minister-thanks-india-for-gifting-ventilators-despite-troubled-past-relations/story-6v8GMtQ6kit1GzHrXDV1wM.html
08-11-2020||World||Johnson denies his Trump ties weaken UK-US bond under Biden||Britain and the United States will work together to support democracy and combat climate change, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Sunday, while denying that his close ties to President Donald Trump would hurt UK-US relations once President-elect Joe Biden takes office.Click here for complete coverage of US election 2020Johnson congratulated Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on their victory and said the two countries’ “common global perspective” would be vital to shore up a rules-based global order that is under threat.“The United States is our closest and most important ally,” said Johnson, who has yet to speak to Biden. “And that’s been the case under president after president, prime minister after prime minister. It won’t change.”Johnson told The Associated Press during an interview Sunday at his offices in 10 Downing St. that he looked forward to “working with President Biden and his team on a lot of crucial stuff for us in the weeks and months ahead: tackling climate change, trade, international security, many, many, many, many, many other issues.”Conservative Party leader Johnson is widely seen as an ally — and to critics, a copy — of the populist, “America First” Trump, who has referred to Johnson approvingly as “Britain Trump.” Last year, Biden called the British leader a “clone” of Trump, and he has criticized Britain’s exit from the European Union, which Johnson has championed and led.But Johnson said “there is far more that unites the government of this country and government in Washington any time, any stage, than divides us.”“We have common values. We have common interests. We have a common global perspective,” said Johnson. “There’s a huge amount of work we need to do together to protect those values: a belief in democracy, in free speech around the world, in human rights, in free trade, in the rules-based international order.”He shrugged off suggestions that Biden’s victory would scupper chances of a UK-US trade deal, and make it more urgent for Britain to secure a post-Brexit free trade deal with the 27-nation EU.Also Read | UK says US ties will go ‘from strength to strength’ whoever winsBritain had been hoping to secure a quick trade agreement with the US after its official departure from the EU in January. The change in administration in Washington leaves prospects of a deal uncertain and could raise pressure on Johnson to seal a deal with the EU before the UK makes an economic split from the bloc at the end of this year.Post-Brexit trade talks are due to resume Monday, with the deadline imposed by the two sides just days away.“I’ve always been a great enthusiast for a trade deal with our European friends and partners,” said Johnson, who has repeatedly said he is prepared to walk away from the Brexit trade talks without an agreement. “I think it’s there to be done. The broad outlines are pretty clear. We just need to get them to do it if we can.”Johnson said he still hoped to get a US trade deal but knew the Americans would be “tough negotiators.”“I’ve never believed that this was going to be something that was going to be a complete pushover under any US administration,” Johnson said, adding “I think there’s a good chance we’ll do something.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-denies-his-trump-ties-weaken-uk-us-bond-under-biden/story-IMDahGyFKNV3Qx9aFrwYTK.html
08-11-2020||World||Azerbaijan announces capture of Karabakh city, Armenia denies it||Azeris celebrated on the streets of Baku after President Ilham Aliyev said on Sunday his country’s forces had taken Shusha, the second-largest city in the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave, but Armenian officials denied the city had been captured.Shusha, which Armenians call Shushi, is of cultural and strategic importance to both sides and is located 15 km (9 miles) south of the enclave’s largest city Stepanakert.At least 1,000 people have died in nearly six weeks of fighting in and around Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous enclave internationally recognised as part of Azerbaijan but populated and controlled by ethnic Armenians.“(This day) will become a great day in the history of Azerbaijan,” Aliyev said, announcing that Baku’s troops had taken Shusha/Shushi.In Baku, Azeris gathered in large numbers to celebrate, waving flags and chanting slogans, while drivers sounded their car horns.Officials from the Nagorno-Karabakh region and Armenia’s Defence Ministry denied Aliyev’s statement.Read also: Armenia PM asks Putin to start talks on providing security amid Karabakh war“Shushi remains an unattainable pipe dream for Azerbaijan. Despite heavy destruction, the fortress city withstands the blows of the enemy,” the Nagorno-Karabakh Rescue Service said.Armenia’s defence ministry said that heavy fighting for the strategic site continues, while the Defence Army of Nagorno-Karabakh said they had repelled multiple attempts by the Azeri side to advance on the town.Emboldened by Turkish support, Azerbaijan has the upper hand in the bloodiest fighting in more than 25 years in the South Caucasus. In just over a month, it has retaken much of the land in and around Nagorno-Karabakh that it lost in a previous war over the territory in the 1990s.Turkish leaders congratulated Azerbaijan on Sunday.“I congratulate my Azeri brothers’ Shusha victory. I believe (it) is a sign that the rest of the occupied lands will be liberated soon too,” Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said, addressing crowds in Turkey’s northwestern province of Kocaeli.The city could serve as a key staging post for an Azeri assault on the enclave’s largest city, Stepanakert. Both have come under heavy shelling in recent days. Azerbaijan’s defence ministry said allegations that it had shelled civilian areas were ‘misinformation’.The town is also culturally significant to both sides, Thomas de Waal, analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said.Its population was predominantly made up of Azeris before the previous conflict, making it historically significant for Azerbaijan. For Armenians, it is the site of Karabakh’s cathedral, de Waal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/azerbaijan-announces-capture-of-karabakh-city-armenia-denies-it/story-IOYAzGJI0mYQ52BhrOQIKO.html
08-11-2020||World||Iran’s president calls on Biden to return to nuclear deal||Iran’s president called on President-elect Joe Biden to “compensate for past mistakes” and return the US to Tehran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, a state-run news agency reported Sunday.Hassan Rouhani’s comments mark the highest-level response from Iran to Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris clinching the Nov. 3 election.“Now, an opportunity has come up for the next US administration to compensate for past mistakes and return to the path of complying with international agreements through respect of international norms,” the state-run IRNA news agency quoted him as saying.Under President Donald Trump, tensions between the US and Iran have escalated, reaching fever-pitch earlier this year. One of Trump’s signature foreign policy moves was unilaterally withdrawing the US from Iran’s nuclear deal in 2018, which had seen Tehran limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.The US has since reimposed punishing sanctions on Iran that have crippled its economy, which was further battered by the coronavirus outbreak. In an effort to pressure Europe to find a way around the sanctions, Iran has slowly abandoned the limits of the nuclear deal.“The people of Iran, though their heroic resistance against the imposed economic war, proved that the US maximum pressure policy was doomed to fail,” Rouhani said. He added Iran “considers constructive engagement with the world as a strategy.”Meanwhile, Iran on Sunday reached its highest ever single-day death toll from the coronavirus with 459 new deaths recorded. This brings Iran’s total recorded deaths from the virus to 38,291 nationwide. Another 9,236 new confirmed cases of the virus were confirmed over the past 24 hours, bringing total confirmed cases to more than 682,000 nationwide since February.Iran has struggled to contain the virus and has seen daily surges and highs over the past month. The capital, Tehran, has been the hardest-hit and recently extended some lockdown measures across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-president-calls-on-biden-to-return-to-nuclear-deal/story-cYUzttqbDPaKYU4PuVjJSM.html
08-11-2020||World||Donald Trump’s Iran policy can be an opportunity for Joe Biden||The next US president will have to come to terms with “the will of the Iranian people” and end the economic war against the Islamic Republic, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said in a speech Thursday. Bluster aside, there is a kernel of truth to his prediction — and President Donald Trump’s Iran policy may make negotiations easier for President-elect Joe Biden.Rouhani, who will have to run for the presidency next year, is dealing with an economy that has been pummeled by the sanctions that the US imposed after 2018, when it withdrew from the 2015 nuclear agreement. Both Trump and Biden have said they would negotiate with Iran after the 2020 election. In those negotiations, the Biden administration should use Trump’s “maximum pressure” policy to its advantage.Also Read: What Iran’s tit-for-tat missile attack on US interests means for IndiaThis sounds like a contradiction. When Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal, Biden and most Democrats denounced what they perceived as reckless petulance. Former Secretary of State John Kerry even advised Iran’s foreign minister to wait out the Trump administration until the 2020 elections, in the hopes of salvaging the agreement.Biden has also pledged that the US will re-enter the nuclear agreement if Iran “returns to strict compliance with the deal,” he wrote in the March/April issue of Foreign Affairs. This means that he would lift many of the nuclear sanctions that Trump has re-imposed if Iran brings its low enriched uranium stockpiles back under the limits in the 2015 deal.Biden’s position is more moderate than many Democrats who argue that the US should re-enter the nuclear deal unconditionally. Nonetheless, his stated position risks missing an opportunity.But don’t take my word for it: Biden himself and many of his top advisers have acknowledged that the 2015 agreement must be improved. Limits on low enriched uranium production, for example, which can be further enriched into fuel suitable for a nuclear weapon, begin to expire in 2026. Last month, a U.N. ban on selling advanced conventional weapons expired. In a few years, Iran will be able to begin installing more efficient, advanced centrifuges.Biden has said that he would pursue fixes to the nuclear deal after the US rejoined the agreement. He has described this as using “our renewed commitment to diplomacy to work with our allies to strengthen and extend” the agreement, and work with those allies to more effectively push back against “Iran’s other destabilizing activities.”Also Read: Iran’s supreme leader mocks US election using Donald Trump’s wordsThat is a worthy goal. But it makes no sense to think that Iran would be more inclined to make concessions it has not already made after economic sanctions are lifted. Here the Trump administration has done its successor a favor. Not only has Trump imposed nuclear sanctions on Iran’s oil exports and crucial economic sectors such as metals and petrochemicals, but it has also imposed a series of sanctions on Iran for its support of terrorism.Just last month, the Trump administration sanctioned Iran’s oil ministry, its national oil company and its national tanker company for support for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Quds Force. The administration’s 2019 decision to sanction Iran’s central bank was also tied to its financial support for terrorism, not its nuclear program.So Biden could lift nuclear-related sanctions but still keep terrorism-related ones in place if the Iranians do not agree to make further concessions. Mark Dubowitz, the chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told me that Biden is in a position to ask Iran’s regime to “help me, help you.”There are a few reasons for this. For one, Republicans could win back the presidency in four years. As Iran has learned, any agreement with the US that is not ratified by the Senate as a treaty can be withdrawn by the next president.There is also the broader issue of risk and perception of risk for financial markets. If the Iranian regime wants money to invest in its oil sector and economy, large banks and corporations must be assured that they will not face problems down the road. Biden alone cannot make those assurances if Iranian banks continue to engage in terror financing and money laundering. This will require Iran to up take more substantive reforms on its own.None of this is to say that Biden cannot and will not lift some sanctions in exchange for some Iranian concessions. All of that is likely to happen. The test for the Biden administration will be to use the leverage Trump has created to improve the 2015 nuclear agreement and pressure Iran to end its regional aggression.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Eli Lake is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering national security and foreign policy. He was the senior national security correspondent for the Daily Beast and covered national security and intelligence for the Washington Times, the New York Sun and UPI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-iran-policy-can-be-an-opportunity-for-joe-biden/story-aFZA2meuHFEU7rjhL0mP7O.html
08-11-2020||World||UK military chief warns global uncertainty could risk another world war||Current global uncertainty and anxiety amid the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic could risk another world war, the head of Britain’s armed forces has warned.In an interview aired to coincide with Remembrance Sunday, the annual commemorations for those who have been killed and wounded in conflict, Nick Carter, Britain’s Chief of the Defence Staff, said an escalation in regional tensions and errors of judgement could ultimately lead to widespread conflict.“I think we are living at a moment in time where the world is a very uncertain and anxious place and of course, the dynamic of global competition is a feature of our lives as well, and I think the real risk we have with quite a lot of the regional conflicts that are gong on at the moment, is you could see escalation lead to miscalculation,” Carter told Sky News.Asked if that meant there was a genuine threat of another world war, Carter replied: “I’m saying it’s a risk and we need to be conscious of those risks.”Carter, who became the British military chief in 2018, said it was important to remember those who had died in previous wars as a warning to those who might repeat past mistakes.“If you forget about the horror of war, then the great risk I think is that people might think that going to war is a reasonable thing to do,” he said.“We have to remember that history might not repeat itself but it has a rhythm, and if you look back at the last century, before both world wars, I think it was unarguable that there was escalation which led to the miscalculation which ultimately led to war at a scale we would hopefully never see again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-military-chief-warns-global-uncertainty-could-risk-another-world-war/story-GPBZz4lDilltqHPog1gsjK.html
08-11-2020||World||Pak presence in rights council ‘intolerable’, says UN-accredited NGO||Pakistan’s presence in the United Nations Human Rights Council is “intolerable” given its rights record, said Geneva-based NGO UN Watch, adding that religious minorities in the south Asian country suffer from discrimination, sectarian violence and forced conversions. The NGO’s, that monitors the performance of the United Nations, condemnation comes after Pakistan government defended the beheading of a French teacher in Paris by an Islamic terrorist by claiming that the blasphemy in the garb of freedom of expression is ‘intolerable’.French President Emmanuel Macron has been facing criticism from various Muslim-majority countries after he took a tough stand on radical Islam and defended cartoons of Prophet Muhammad. Macron’s remarks did not go well with Pakistan Prime Minister Khan who slammed the French President, saying that he has “chosen to deliberately provoke Muslims”.In a reply to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s remark ‘Blasphemy in the garb of freedom of expression is intolerable’, the UN watch said: “Your presence on the U.N. Human Rights Council is intolerable.”Also Read | Pak PM Imran Khan involves in ‘demagoguery’ over Macron’s remarkIn another tweet, the UN Watch shared a statement dated September 28 where it has presented its views against the election of Pakistan in the rights council. In October, Pakistan was re-elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council despite opposition from activist groups over its abysmal human rights records. Blasphemy laws are exploited to attack and persecute members of religious minorities, particularly Christians, the document stated.“Religious minorities in Pakistan suffer from discrimination, sectarian violence and forced conversions. A Christian mother of five, Asia Bibi spent eight years on death row in Pakistan for blasphemy after she got into a dispute with local Muslim women over a cup of water. Two Pakistani politicians were killed for supporting her,” read the document. The NGO had pointed out Pakistan ranks in the bottom 20 per cent of the Reporters Sans Frontiers (RSF) world press freedom index. Pakistani children are subjected to multiple forms of violence and abuse including exploitative labour practices, sexual abuse and child marriage, the NGO had stated in the document. “According to the United Nations Children’s Fund, Pakistan has the sixth-highest number of child brides in the world. Human Rights Watch (HRW) reports that “an average of 11 cases of child sexual abuse are reported daily across Pakistan,” including of girls as young as 5. Furthermore, child labour remains a serious problem, including the sale of children into domestic servitude and kidnapping,” the NGO stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-presence-in-rights-council-intolerable-says-un-accredited-ngo/story-MQqB9bWs1taI5E1EgWw6TI.html
08-11-2020||World||Aung San Suu Kyi’s party set to win Myanmar vote with weak opposition||Voters in Myanmar’s biggest city, Yangon, turned up early Sunday in large numbers to vote in nationwide elections that are expected to return to power the party of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won the last elections in 2015 in a landslide, ending more than five decades of military-dictated rule in the country.With Myanmar under threat from a coronavirus surge, mask wearing was mandatory in the lines at polling stations, and many voters also donned plastic face shields and gloves. Body temperatures were taken and hand sanitizing gel was freely dispensed by officials, but social distancing rules were only fitfully observed.Traditional campaigning ahead of the election was severely limited by social distancing and quarantines in some areas.Also Read: Myanmar elections: What you need to know“The voter turnout here is more than we expected,” said Zaw Win Tun, a neighbourhood administrator and official at Yangon’s Pho Myae polling station. “I think people are excited to vote, as they would like to escape from the political struggles. They want real democracy.” He did not elaborate, but appeared to be referring to a power struggle between Suu Kyi’s civilian government and the military.The ability of Suu Kyi’s administration to run the country has been hamstrung by a clause in the 2008 army-drafted constitution giving the military 25% of the seats in Parliament, allowing it to block constitutional reforms.At another polling station, 19-year-old Eaint Yadanar Oo said she was excited because it was her first time voting.“I came here to vote to perform my civic duty,” she said. She explained that she was afraid of the coronavirus pandemic, but that she “came here with full protection because I want better educational and job opportunities.” More than 90 parties are competing for seats in the lower and upper houses of Parliament, while there were also elections at the state levels. There were more than 37 million people eligible to vote, including 5 million first-timers.With the opposition in disarray, Suu Kyi, who is the nation’s leader with the title of state counsellor, remains Myanmar’s most popular politician. But her government has fallen short of expectations, with economic growth doing little to alleviate widespread poverty and a failure to ease tensions among the country’s fractious ethnic groups.Suu Kyi, 75, cast her ballot late last month in the capital, Naypyitaw, as citizens 60 years of age and over were encouraged to vote in advance, along with those who were forced by the coronavirus to stay away from their home constituencies.Her party’s main challenger, as it was five years ago, was the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party, which has led the opposition in Parliament.Also Read: Don’t turn away from Rohingya’s plight, UK urges worldThe Election Commission said it would begin to announce results Monday morning. But it may take up to a week to collect all the votes, some of which will come from remote jungle areas.The election is widely seen as a referendum on Suu Kyi’s leadership.“There is no major party really putting an alternative, a credible alternative, forward,” Yangon-based political analyst Richard Horsey said, explaining part of the reason Suu Kyi’s side has a winning hand in Myanmar’s heartland, where its ethnic Burman majority lives.Even more important for the ruling party’s prospects, he said, is “the personal support, even love, that many people have for Aung San Suu Kyi herself, almost irrespective of how the government administration performs, how the economy performs and so on.” One such fan is 32-year-old voter Mee Mee, a business owner. She said she was excited because in her travels around the country she could see changes and development initiated by Suu Kyi’s government putting the country on the right track.“I like Auntie Suu. She’s good,” said Mee Mee, referring to Suu Kyi by how she is popularly known. “I believe in her and what she’s doing.” The affection for Suu Kyi does not extend to the borderlands, the states occupied by the myriad ethnic minorities who have been seeking greater political autonomy for decades.Suu Kyi’s ambitious plans to reconcile with the minorities have foundered. Their grievances have frequently erupted into armed rebellion, posing major threats to national security.The ethnic political parties in 2015 had cooperated with Suu Kyi’s party to ensure victory against candidates from the Union Solidarity and Development Party. But this year, the ethnic parties, disappointed with her failure to reach a deal to expand their political rights, are supporting only their own candidates.The Union Election Commission caused major controversy when it cancelled voting in some areas where parties critical of the government were certain to win seats. The commission said those areas were dangerous because of insurgencies, but critics said the agency was carrying out the NLD’s bidding. More than 1 million people are estimated to have been disenfranchised.The plight of Myanmar’s Muslim Rohingya ethnic minority — an issue of major concern outside the country — played no real role in the campaign. A brutal 2017 counterinsurgency campaign by Myanmar’s army drove about 740,000 Rohingya to flee across the border to Bangladesh, leading to a World Court investigation of possible genocide.Long-standing prejudice against the Rohingya, whom many consider illegal immigrants from South Asia despite their families having been settled in Myanmar for generations, has deprived most of Myanmar citizenship and basic rights, including voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-s-party-set-to-win-myanmar-vote-with-weak-opposition/story-AesOBy4fp7p7y7mw87SgmN.html
08-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump may have been voted out, but Trumpism lives on||It won in the parts of the country and with the voters whom Trump catered to over four years, constantly jabbing the hard edges of almost every contentious cultural issue into Red America, on the bet that fear and anger were a winning hand. It almost was.Joe Biden defeated Trump to win the presidency, and is on pace to win up to 306 electoral votes, a total that would match what Trump exaggerated as a “landslide” four years ago. In a typical election year, such a victory would mean Biden would have carried other Democrats along with him. Instead, several promising Democratic Senate and House candidates, including incumbents, lost.For Trump, the situation was the inverse. His popularity among his base voters helped protect incumbent Republicans but was not enough to save him. He won more votes for president than any other candidate. Except Biden. The rejection of Trump was personal.The election did little to suggest that the country was suddenly less polarized. Trump wrung out votes from areas where he already had a core of support, in rural and small-town America. Biden did the same, only more, in urban and suburban America while also holding down Trump margins in some rural areas. The outcome didn’t change the fact that much of the country is still speaking two different political languages.Full 2020 US Presidential Election Coverage“This defied everyone’s expectations. Everyone said if Joe Biden wins, Democrats win the Senate. If Trump wins, Republicans win the Senate,” said Rahm Emanuel, the former mayor of Chicago and chief of staff to President Barack Obama. “That’s not what happened. Clearly there was an undertow.“Life is not binary,” Emanuel said. “It’s more complicated. Florida, a state that voted for Trump, voted for the minimum wage. Illinois, a state that voted for Biden, voted down a progressive income tax. California, cobalt blue, voted against affirmative action in the place of employment.”Emanuel said that Democrats may have erred in not offering clearer plans about how they would rebuild the economy while also gaining control over the virus and in not batting back Republican efforts to label them socialists.“Trump played to people’s fatigue about Covid,” he said. “If we had brought the same sense of urgency to getting the economy moving as we did getting Covid under control, it might have been different.”Instead, some Democrats were advocating for expanding the Supreme Court and ending the filibuster in the Senate, proposals that might have prompted fear about one-party control.“It’s clear there was more voter frustration with Trump than with the ideology of the Republican Party,” said Mike Murphy, a strategist to several Republican presidential campaigns who broke with his party over Trump. “Clearly the presidential race was operating in its own world from the congressional race.”Since Trump campaigned largely on friendly turf, he also helped Republican candidates in those areas.“Trump lifted Republican candidates by vastly boosting turnout in areas of Republican strength,” said David Axelrod, former senior adviser Obama. “In the states and districts that favor Republicans, they ran up the score.”Many voters offered a consistent refrain about Trump: They liked his policies but could not abide his anger-fueled personality, his constant use of Twitter as a weapon, and the way he ridiculed anyone who dared disagree with him.Biden’s call for a return to decency, and his appeal to be a president for all Americans and not just the base of his party, was an important part of his formula.But the closeness of the race, even with the president’s persistently low approval ratings, was also a testament to the inherent power of an incumbent seeking re-election. There’s a reason only three elected incumbents before Trump had lost in nearly a century.When an incumbent loses, the challenger’s party often gains. In 1980, when Ronald Reagan defeated President Jimmy Carter, Republicans took 12 Senate seats from Democrats. In 1992, Bill Clinton’s victory over President George H.W. Bush also came with three Democratic Senate victories over incumbent Republicans. When Franklin D. Roosevelt defeated President Herbert Hoover in 1932, Democrats gained nearly 100 House seats and a dozen in the Senate, giving Roosevelt the muscular majorities he needed to pass sweeping New Deal legislation.But no president in recent memory had maintained such iron-grip allegiance from his own party as Trump, with only a handful of Republicans in Congress ever willing to cross him, fearing that they were always one presidential tweet away from a primary challenge. They stuck with him during his impeachment, when only Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, voted to convict him, and Trump ostracized him. And several were sticking with him even in defeat, offering up unproven allegations of voter fraud.Some voters liked Trump’s tough talk on trade and getting other nations to pay more for common defense. They gave him credit, right or wrong, for an economy that was buoyant before the pandemic struck. And Trump played to Americans’ fatigue from all the restrictions imposed because of the virus by saying the warnings of his own administration’s top public health officials were overblown.Still, there was a collective limit to how much more of Trump’s always-in-your-face presidency they were willing to take.Not enough, though, to deliver Biden a majority in the Senate, at least not until the outcome of two runoff elections in Georgia in January.But some Democrats also noted that they held most seats in swing states, and that Biden won in some competitive districts. “There are also many districts that Biden flipped from 2016, like my district,” said Rep. Elaine Luria of Virginia. She said her margin of victory over the same opponent more than doubled from 2018.“The bottom line on Republicans winning in traditionally Republican-held seats was their unprecedented turnout,” Luria said. “Trump was not able to capitalize on that turnout himself, because his actions and rhetoric over the last four years made him unpalatable to the majority of Americans.”Biden clearly was seen as both a necessary and acceptable alternative. He had no pithy slogan like “Hope and Change” when he was Obama’s running mate in 2008. Rather, he tapped into a national desire to stop the noise, to turn the page from a period so marked by rage and hate inspired from the White House itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-voted-out-but-trumpism-still-alive/story-waAnN8zXSHPGGJd4nStdRK.html
08-11-2020||World||Biden taps Vivek Murthy to co-chair Covid-19 team: Report||Former US Surgeon General Vivek Murthy will co-chair a Coronavirus task force that President-elect Joe Biden will announce on Monday as his first major step towards combating the pandemic, his top campaign promise.After his inauguration on January 20, Biden will issue a string of executive orders reversing some of President Donald Trump’s most controversial decisions. He will return the US to the Paris Accord, remove the travel ban on people from some Muslim-majority countries, resume funding for WHO and reinstate protections for undocumented immigrants brought as children, according to a report in The Washington Post.Murthy, an Indian American, will co-chair the task force with David Kessler, a former Food and Drug Administration commissioner and Dr Marcella Nunez-Smith, a Yale University professor. The team will have 12 members.The president-elect spoke briefly about this team in his victory speech Saturday. “On Monday, I will name a group of leading scientists and experts as Transition Advisors to help take the Biden-Harris Covid plan and convert it into an action blueprint that starts on January 20th, 2021,” he said.“That plan will be built on a bedrock of science. It will be constructed out of compassion, empathy, and concern.”The president-elect gave no further details, but multiple news reports named Murthy as co-chair.Biden ran his presidential campaign on the promise of tacking the epidemic as his top priority and accused Trump of failing to respond adequately to the crisis and not being transparent about its severity. More than 237,000 Americans have been killed and 9 million have been infected and new cases have been surging again.Murthy had been advising Biden for months on Covid-19; once every week, according to some accounts, that gave rise to speculation about a possible berth for the Indian American physician who shot to fame as President Barack Obama’s Surgeon General.He was the 19th Surgeon General of the United States — also called America’s Doctor — from December 15, 2014 to April 21, 2017Many Indian Americans hope to land somewhere in a Biden administration, and there is even a list of names put together of potential appointees by Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Victory Fund, a group of Democrats who promote AAPI candidates and political effort.It gave the list to the Biden transition team chair Ted Kaufman in September. It contained “dozens” of names, including “many Indian Americans”. But the group has been tight-lipped about names and numbers.Every incoming administration is expected to fill some 4.000 federal positions with political appointees, from members of the cabinet to senior positions in state, defence and other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-taps-vivek-murthy-to-co-chair-covid-19-team-report/story-4yq081iBAfL07wlVIhKwYL.html
08-11-2020||World||Myanmar elections: What you need to know||Amid a raging pandemic, voting is underway in Myanmar as the country’s most popular leader Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi faces an election that is being seen as a test of her leadership of the country over the last five years. The ability of Suu Kyi’s administration to run the country has been very limited due to a clause in the 2008 army-drafted constitution that gives the military 25 per cent of the seats in Parliament, allowing it to block constitutional reforms. Suu Kyi has also faced criticism from around the world for her handling of the Rohingya refugee crisis. Here’s everything you need to know about the Myanmar elections:1. More than 90 parties are competing for seats in the lower and upper houses of the national Parliament. There are more than 37 million people eligible to vote, including 5 million first-time voters.2. Voters will exercise their franchise to elect members for the upper and lower houses of the national Parliament, the House of Nationalities and the House of Representatives respectively, as well as to the assemblies of Myanmar’s seven states and seven regions — a total of 1,171 seats.3. The President is elected by the bicameral national Parliament. chief ministers of the states and regions are appointed by the President.4. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won the last elections in 2015 in a landslide, ending more than five decades of military-directed rule in the country.Read more: Myanmar Election: Nobel winner Suu Kyi’s party expected to win second term5. Her main challenger is the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party, which has led the opposition in Parliament.6. Suu Kyi’s government faced many challenges with respect to the economy, rising inequality, simmering tensions among the country’s fractious ethnic groups and the coronavirus pandemic.7. The election results will be announced on November 9 but it may take up to a week to collect all of the results, some of which will come from remote jungle areas.8. The elections will be held against the backdrop of the continuing Rohingya crisis, a nationalist Buddhist resurgence, and an assertion by a military that runs the country along with the elected civilian government in a hybrid system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-elections-what-you-need-to-know/story-Ekir1iYT0zVMSTYJuX9sZN.html
08-11-2020||World||Curbing Covid-19 pandemic swiftly was vital in China’s ongoing economic recovery||China’s economy continues to recover from its contraction earlier this year, showing the economic benefits from swift control of the pandemic and a rapid resumption of manufacturing.While Europe and the US face renewed surges of Covid-19 infections, in China factories are capitalizing on a global rush for medical equipment and work-from-home technology. That trend was underlined in trade data released Saturday. Inflation and credit reports for October due this week should also signal stable underlying demand.China’s recovery on the back of successful virus control to date is indicative of the wider picture in Asia Pacific. Taiwan has seen its economy rebound, benefiting from stable domestic demand and buoyant exports to the US and China. South Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand are all, for now, recovering after seeing infection rates drop.That contrasts with the current outlook in Europe, where the largest economies are locking down once more, and the US, where the case count is hitting records. The UK has already added stimulus to combat this new slump, and both the Federal Reserve and European Central Bank have said more is needed.Meanwhile, China is effectively isolated from the rest of the world, with very few options to travel overseas and inbound travel banned or heavily restricted from an increasing number of countries.While that separation is for pandemic control measures, further signs that the global economy is becoming less integrated are emerging. China’s economic plans for the next five years set out a greater focus on the domestic economy.What Bloomberg Economics Say...“China’s data will shed light on the strength of the economy’s recovery at the start of fourth quarter. Credit growth probably slowed sharply, but it would mainly reflect reduced business days due to the golden week holiday, not a sign of weakening momentum. Factory-gate deflation probably moderated while cooling food prices may have pushed consumer price inflation to below 1%.”Read full Asia Week AheadElsewhere, the ECB holds a virtual symposium, the UK reports third-quarter GDP data and central bankers in New Zealand, Egypt and Mexico set rates.Click here for what happened last week and below is our wrap of what else is coming up in the global economy.Europe, Middle East, AfricaData this week will give a snapshot of the UK economy in the third quarter, as statisticians report growth and unemployment figures. With all parts of the country now in some form of lockdown, both are likely to paint a more rosy picture than the current reality.Meanwhile, officials from the Bank of England, who boosted their bond buying plan this month, are out in force. Governor Andrew Bailey is due to deliver public comments on three separate days, and his colleagues Andy Haldane and Silvana Tenreyro are also scheduled to speak.The ECB holds its annual forum -- normally in the Portuguese hilltown of Sintra, this time virtual -- entitled “Central banks in a shifting world.” President Christine Lagarde will give an opening speech on Wednesday, and will be joined by Fed Chair Jerome Powell and BOE’s Bailey for a policy panel on Thursday.Markets will be watching developments in Turkey, where President Recep Tayyip Erdogan fired the country’s central bank governor on Saturday.Egypt may hold interest rates on Thursday after cutting in late September, amid expectations of a slight uptick in price pressures.US and CanadaIn the US, the economic calendar includes the latest details on inflation, consumer confidence and job openings.In Canada, Senior Deputy Governor Carolyn Wilkins, who is scheduled to leave the central bank in a month, is set to give a speech about life after Covid-19.AsiaA summary of Bank of Japan opinions from its most recent meeting and a speech by a board member will shed light on the current state of thinking at the central bank, while bankruptcy and lending data out Tuesday will give the latest indications of how the BOJ’s virus response measures are supporting companies.Korean jobless figures have given mixed signals recently, with a resurgence beyond the tech sector needed to generate more employment. New data are due Thursday. The Philippines will release GDP data on Tuesday and Malaysia will publish its figures on Friday.On Wednesday, New Zealand’s central bank is expected to leave its main policy levers unchanged.Latin AmericaMexico’s central bank meets Thursday, with policy makers potentially going for one more quarter-point cut to 4%. In the run-up to the decision, officials will get new inflation data and September industrial production will underscore the slack remaining in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.Rock-bottom interest rates and a vast budget-busting income support program have already seen Brazil’s retail sales more than rebound from the pandemic. Wednesday’s report on September’s results should show further gains.Closing out the week, Argentina reports October inflation, Peru’s central bank may hold steady at a record-low 0.25%, while Colombia’s retail sales data should show a pickup in demand with the economy coming out of a strict lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/curbing-covid-19-pandemic-swiftly-was-vital-in-china-s-ongoing-economic-recovery/story-kGh1kNJxaNmNSHuotjHyXN.html
08-11-2020||World||First time since Covid-19 pandemic, Queen Elizabeth II seen wearing face-mask in public||Queen Elizabeth II donned a face mask in public for the first time during the coronavirus pandemic when attending a brief ceremony at Westminster Abbey last week to mark the centenary of the burial of the Unknown Warrior.While the 94-year-old has been seen in public on several occasions over the past few months, she had not been pictured wearing a face covering until now.On Wednesday, during her first public engagement in London since March, she wore a black mask that was edged with white. Pictures of the ceremony were officially released late Saturday.“It was wonderful to see Her Majesty in such good spirits and good health,” Dr. David Hoyle, the Dean of Westminster, said after the service. “We talked about the centenary and the life of the abbey. This is the place where she was married and she’s conscious of those associations.”The brief service was attended by just the dean and the queen’s equerry, Lieutenant Colonel Nana Kofi Twumasi-Ankrah. The queen left a bouquet of orchids and myrtle, based on her own wedding bouquet from November 1947. She bowed her head after a prayer from the dean.The queen had requested a ceremony take place as the pandemic had derailed plans for the centenary of the interment of the Unknown Warrior.The grave is the final resting place of an unidentified British soldier who died during World War I. His body was brought back from Northern France and buried at Westminster Abbey on Nov. 11, 1920.The ceremony took place a day before a four-week lockdown came into force in England. As well as forcing the closure of an array of businesses, places of worship are having to operate within limits.Face coverings are required by law in certain indoor settings such as on public transport, in shops and places of worship. The British government also recommends they are worn in indoor places where social distancing may be difficult and where people come into contact with those they do not normally meet.Other members of the royal family have been seen regularly wearing face coverings during the pandemic. The queen was criticised for not wearing one last month when she visited the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down in southern England alongside her grandson Prince William.The queen took the opportunity during her rare trip to London to visit Buckingham Palace, her official residence in the capital.Before the U.K. was put into full lockdown on March 23, the queen and her 99-year-old husband, Prince Philip, moved to Windsor Castle, which is around 25 miles (40 kms) west of London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-first-time-queen-elizabeth-ii-seen-wearing-mask-at-tribute-to-unknown-warrior/story-CZjObRTOCMHjYo8L2r3BZP.html
08-11-2020||World||Joe Biden defeats Donald Trump for White House, says ‘time to heal’||Democrat Joe Biden defeated President Donald Trump to become the 46th president of the United States on Saturday, positioning himself to lead a nation gripped by a historic pandemic and a confluence of economic and social turmoil.His victory came after more than three days of uncertainty as election officials sorted through a surge of mail-in votes that delayed processing. Biden crossed the winning threshold of 270 Electoral College votes with a win in Pennsylvania.Trump refused to concede, threatening further legal action on ballot counting.Biden, 77, staked his candidacy less on any distinctive political ideology than on galvanizing a broad coalition of voters around the notion that Trump posed an existential threat to American democracy. The strategy proved effective, resulting in pivotal victories in Michigan and Wisconsin as well as Pennsylvania, onetime Democratic bastions that had flipped to Trump in 2016.Biden’s victory was a repudiation of Trump’s divisive leadership and the president-elect now inherits a deeply polarized nation grappling with foundational questions of racial justice and economic fairness while in the grips of a virus that has killed more than 236,000 Americans and reshaped the norms of everyday life.Biden, in a statement, declared it was time for the battered nation “to unite and to heal.”“With the campaign over, it’s time to put the anger and the harsh rhetoric behind us and come together as a nation,” he said. “There’s nothing we can’t do if we do it together.”Biden was on track to win the national popular vote by more than 4 million, a margin that could grow as ballots continue to be counted.Nonetheless, Trump was not giving up.Departing from longstanding democratic tradition and signaling a potentially turbulent transfer of power, he issued a combative statement saying his campaign would take unspecified legal actions. And he followed up with a bombastic, all-caps tweet in which he falsely declared, “I WON THE ELECTION, GOT 71,000,000 LEGAL VOTES.” Twitter immediately flagged it as misleading.Trump has pointed to delays in processing the vote in some states to allege with no evidence that there was fraud and to argue that his rival was trying to seize power — an extraordinary charge by a sitting president trying to sow doubt about a bedrock democratic process.Kamala Harris made history as the first Black woman to become vice president, an achievement that comes as the U.S. faces a reckoning on racial justice. The California senator, who is also the first person of South Asian descent elected to the vice presidency, will become the highest-ranking woman ever to serve in government, four years after Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.Trump is the first incumbent president to lose reelection since Republican George H.W. Bush in 1992.He was golfing at his Virginia country club when he lost the race. He stayed out for hours, stopping to congratulate a bride as he left, and his motorcade returned to the White House to a cacophony of shouts, taunts and unfriendly hand gestures.In Wilmington, Delaware, near a stage that has stood empty since it was erected to celebrate on Election Night, people cheered and pumped their fists as the news that the presidential race had been called for the state’s former senator arrived on their cellphones.On the nearby water, two men in a kayak yelled to a couple paddling by in the opposite direction, “Joe won! They called it!” as people on the shore whooped and hollered. Harris, in workout gear, was shown on video speaking to Biden on the phone, exuberantly telling the president-elect “We did it!” Biden was expected to take the stage for a drive-in rally after dark.Across the country, there were parties and prayer. In New York City, spontaneous block parties broke out. People ran out of their buildings, banging on pots. They danced and high-fived with strangers amid honking horns. Among the loudest cheers were those for passing U.S. Postal Service trucks.People streamed into Black Lives Matter Plaza near the White House, near where Trump had ordered the clearing of protesters in June, waving signs and taking cellphone pictures. In Lansing, Michigan, Trump supporters and Black Lives Matter demonstrators filled the Capitol steps. The lyrics to “Amazing Grace” began to echo through the crowd, and Trump supporters laid their hands on a counter protester, and prayed.Americans showed deep interest in the presidential race. A record 103 million voted early this year, opting to avoid waiting in long lines at polling locations during a pandemic. With counting continuing in some states, Biden had already received more than 74 million votes, more than any presidential candidate before him.Trump’s refusal to concede has no legal implications. But it could add to the incoming administration’s challenge of bringing the country together after a bitter election.Throughout the campaign, Trump repeatedly refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power, arguing without evidence that the election could be marred by fraud. The nation has a long history of presidential candidates peacefully accepting the outcome of elections, dating back to 1800, when John Adams conceded to his rival Thomas Jefferson.It was Biden’s native Pennsylvania that put him over the top, the state he invoked throughout the campaign to connect with working class voters. He also won Nevada on Saturday pushing his total to 290 Electoral College votes.Biden received congratulations from dozens of world leaders, and his former boss, President Barack Obama, saluted him in a statement, declaring the nation was “fortunate that Joe’s got what it takes to be President and already carries himself that way.”Republicans on Capitol Hill were giving Trump and his campaign space to consider all their legal options. It was a precarious balance for Trump’s allies as they try to be supportive of the president -- and avoid risking further fallout -- but face the reality of the vote count.On Saturday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had not yet made any public statements -- either congratulating Biden or joining Trump’s complaints. But retiring GOP Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, who is close to McConnell, said, “After counting every valid vote and allowing courts to resolve disputes, it is important to respect and promptly accept the result.”More than 236,000 Americans have died during the coronavirus pandemic, nearly 10 million have been infected and millions of jobs have been lost. The final days of the campaign played out against a surge in confirmed cases in nearly every state, including battlegrounds such as Wisconsin that swung to Biden.The pandemic will soon be Biden’s to tame, and he campaigned pledging a big government response, akin to what Franklin D. Roosevelt oversaw with the New Deal during the Depression of the 1930s. But Senate Republicans fought back several Democratic challengers and looked to retain a fragile majority that could serve as a check on such Biden ambition.The 2020 campaign was a referendum on Trump’s handling of the pandemic, which has shuttered schools across the nation, disrupted businesses and raised questions about the feasibility of family gatherings heading into the holidays.The fast spread of the coronavirus transformed political rallies from standard campaign fare to gatherings that were potential public health emergencies. It also contributed to an unprecedented shift to voting early and by mail and prompted Biden to dramatically scale back his travel and events to comply with restrictions. The president defied calls for caution and ultimately contracted the disease himself.Trump was saddled throughout the year by negative assessments from the public of his handling of the pandemic. There was another COVID-19 outbreak in the White House this week, which sickened his chief of staff Mark Meadows.Biden also drew a sharp contrast to Trump through a summer of unrest over the police killings of Black Americans including Breonna Taylor in Kentucky and George Floyd in Minneapolis. Their deaths sparked the largest racial protest movement since the civil rights era. Biden responded by acknowledging the racism that pervades American life, while Trump emphasized his support of police and pivoted to a “law and order” message that resonated with his largely white base.The third president to be impeached, though acquitted in the Senate, Trump will leave office having left an indelible imprint in a tenure defined by the shattering of White House norms and a day-to-day whirlwind of turnover, partisan divide and Twitter blasts.Trump’s team has filed a smattering of lawsuits in battleground states, some of which were immediately rebuffed by judges. His personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, was holding a news conference in Philadelphia threatening more legal action when the race was called.Biden, born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and raised in Delaware, was one of the youngest candidates ever elected to the Senate. Before he took office, his wife and daughter were killed, and his two sons badly injured in a 1972 car crash.Commuting every night on a train from Washington back to Wilmington, Biden fashioned an everyman political persona to go along with powerful Senate positions, including chairman of the Senate Judiciary and Foreign Relations Committees. Some aspects of his record drew critical scrutiny from fellow Democrats, including his support for the 1994 crime bill, his vote for the 2003 Iraq War and his management of the Clarence Thomas’ Supreme Court hearings.Biden’s 1988 presidential campaign was done in by plagiarism allegations, and his next bid in 2008 ended quietly. But later that year, he was tapped to be Barack Obama’s running mate and he became an influential vice president, steering the administration’s outreach to both Capitol Hill and Iraq.While his reputation was burnished by his time in office and his deep friendship with Obama, Biden stood aside for Clinton and opted not to run in 2016 after his adult son Beau died of brain cancer the year before.Trump’s tenure pushed Biden to make one more run as he declared that “the very soul of the nation is at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-defeats-donald-trump-for-white-house-says-time-to-heal/story-K9eE2opunKdotCSyDsTjZJ.html
08-11-2020||World||Not a good loser: Trump vows a long court fight||Moments after news channels called the results of the US Presidential elections in favour of Joe Biden, Donald Trump said in a statement from his campaign: “Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated.”Trump’ s missive against mail-in and provisional ballots continued over Twitter on Saturday as he wrote: “Tens of thousands of votes were illegally received after 8pm on Tuesday, Election Day...changing the results in Pennsylvania and certain other razor thin states...” The social media company flagged these tweets for being “disputed” and possibly “misleading”. Since November 4 midnight when Trump prematurely declared himself victorious, his campaign has mounted legal challenges in states as Michigan, Arizona, Georgia, Nevada and Pennsylvania. On Friday, his campaign issued a statement: “This is about the integrity of our entire election process. We will pursue this process through every aspect of the law to guarantee the American people have confidence in our government.” David Bossie, who served as deputy campaign manger for President Donald Trump in 2016, spearheads the legal effort. Other members of the legal team include former New York City Mayo Rudy Giuliani, Jay Sekulow and Pam Biondi from his impeachment defense team, son Eric Trump and former acting director of national intelligence Richard Grenell. A Supreme Court judge issued an order that late-arriving ballots in Pennsylvania be separated by all county boards pending further orders of the high court. State officials have said they were already keeping those ballot apart, but Republicans had argued they were not convinced if all counties were doing it uniformly. A state judge granted the Trump campaign’s request to observe Philadelphia poll workers as they process the remaining mail-in ballots. However, the judge denied halting the count after a deal was struck to have 60 observers of each party observe the process. Later, the Trump campaign filed a federal lawsuit intending to stop the Philadelphia vote count. This request was ultimately denied. In Nevada, a lawsuit was filed alleging that ineligible votes were cast in the Las Vegas area. Lawsuits filed in Michigan and Georgia over the electoral process were dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-a-good-loser-trump-vows-a-long-court-fight/story-Q0FkGQKqo3b43FVLl5EZYN.html
08-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Kamala Harris gives America a Second Family full of firsts||Kamala Harris’s husband Doug Emhoff on Saturday tweeted a picture of them hugging, a photo taken soon after she was projected as vice-president-elect of the US, with the words: “So proud of you”.Harris was jogging when the news broke, and tweeted a video of a call with her boss, Joe Biden, “We did it, we did it Joe! You’re going to be the next President of the United States!”Harris is a first in a number of ways: the first woman, the first Black person and the first Indian-American to serve the second highest office in the US.Her husband will make history, too. He will be the first man and first Jewish person to serve as a spouse to a president or vice president. Harris is Baptist.And everyone from political strategists to racial justice activists are waiting to see whether those firsts will be mere symbolic wins or the beginning of a sea change on gender and race relations and the launch of an enduring Democratic coalition.The symbolism alone is important. Strategists say Black women are the backbone of the Democratic Party. They vote in large numbers, help staff its volunteer efforts and power its wins in key races, but they have not always been well-represented among its candidates or in its policy decisions.In an interview with CBS’s “60 Minutes” last month, Harris vowed that she would bring her diverse perspective to the Biden administration. “What I will do, and I promise you this — and this is what Joe wants me to do, this was part of our deal — I will always share with him my lived experience as it relates to any issue that we confront,” she said. “And I promised Joe that I will give him that perspective and always be honest with him.”That experience includes being the daughter of an Indian immigrant and a Jamaican-born father. She was raised biracial and interfaith. She is a Christian, but also attended Hindu temples with her mother.That side of Harris’s background could help galvanise Asian-American voters, the fastest-growing racial or ethnic group in the US and one both Democrats and Republicans have tried to woo. That experience also means being the first graduate of a historically Black college in such a high office. Harris attended Howard University in Washington and is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, the nation’s oldest Black sorority. Members have turned up at her events and been active donors, many giving $19.08 to note the year the group was founded.Harris, 56, has not shied away from using her background as a touchstone for outreach. She attended virtual campaign events with South Asian celebrities such as actress Mindy Kaling, comedian Aasif Mandvi and former US attorney and Trump antagonist Preet Bharara.And she had a starring role in Biden campaign ads targeting both Black and Asian-American voters, including one that featured words in Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Tamil, Hindi and Filipino.Cheryl Hori, founder of Democratic consulting firm Pacific Campaign House, said, “This will be historic for Asian-Americans, full stop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-kamala-harris-gives-america-a-second-family-full-of-firsts/story-gY7yhvcQBicRuopqdzcaUK.html
08-11-2020||World||A president who changed the party: Trump stamp on GOP will last long||President Donald Trump’s claims of opponents who are “trying to steal the elections” have led even US news channels to censor him. Most mainstream Republican leaders have declined to either support or criticise him, preferring to speak blandly about the need to honour the electoral process. This has drawn the ire of his son, Don Trump Jr, who accused party leaders of “sitting on the sidelines.” One of the targets: Nikki Haley, the Indian-American seen as a Republican presidential hopeful. She has carefully praised Trump’s leadership but stopped there. An angry Republican tweeted, “Nikki Haley is doing what?” eliciting praise from Trump’s son. One congressman accused Haley of “eulogizing” when others were “fighting” for the president. Haley’s dilemma is shared by all moderate Republicans when faced with Trump’s reckless language. Only those confident of local support or near retirement, like Senators Susan Collins and Pat Toomey, have openly refuted Trump. Trump, admitted the New York Times, “will remain a hero” for the Republican electorate. As far as his base is concerned, he has again defied the establishment they despise. Pollsters, including of his own party, had predicted a landslide for Joe Biden. Instead, Trump clawed back seats in the lower house and may retain his Senate majority. His share of the popular vote rose two percentage points. Though accused of being a racist, Trump won more minority votes than any Republican candidate in 60 years. When asked what he would do if defeated, the president used to half-jokingly say he would run in 2024. After his electoral performance, Trump’s aura with the US working class has only grown. The Republican Party was always a chimera: a pro-business head grafted on to a working-class body. Trump seized the base of the party, argued its leadership was no different from the liberal establishment, and tossed out tenets of rightwing ideology like free trade and fiscal sobriety. Trump used his popularity with the faithful to bring the party leadership to its knees. Many Republican leaders quietly prayed for a sweeping Biden victory. “A cleansing landslide,” wrote National Review editor Rich Lowry of their hopes, so that “every trace of Trump and his enablers would be erased from the Republican Party” — except that didn’t happen. Instead, the middle-class intellectuals and businessmen who crafted the party’s rightwing ideology are likely to be pushed further to the margins. In his first term, Trump depended on members of the Republican mainstream to staff his government. While he had his way on trade and the fiscal deficit, he went along with them on regulations and taxes. If he has a second term, the party fears he will move to impose his 19th century nativism in other areas such as ending the US’s overseas alliances and close down migration. Triumphant Trumpism will be a bane for a President Biden. Biden had hoped to work with mainstream Republicans and resurrect bipartisanship in Washington. After these poll results, Republican leaders will avoid shaking his hand and instead join Trump’s plans to wage a four-year guerrilla war against the new administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-president-who-changed-the-party-trump-stamp-on-gop-will-last-long/story-0ODXpmlTcZykqnMDQwCz0I.html
08-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Yes, he can too||Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, was on Saturday elected the 46th President of the United States, beating Donald Trump in a bitterly contested fight, and Kamala Harris made history by becoming the first woman, the first person of Indian descent and the first Black person elected to the office of the Vice President.Biden, 78, won the 2020 White House race after he was projected to win Pennsylvania, the tipping-point state whose 20 electoral college votes carried the Democrat well past the 270-vote. He also clinched Nevada on Saturday afternoon, shortly after he won the presidency by taking Pennsylvania, increasing his tally from 264 to 290.Donald Trump, whose tally stood at 214 (the figure may change), will be the first one-term US President in 30 years. He was on his golf course when Biden was declared winner.“I am honored and humbled by the trust the American people have placed in me and in Vice President-elect Harris. In the face of unprecedented obstacles, a record number of Americans voted. Proving once again, that democracy beats deep in the heart of America,” President-elect Biden said in a statement, adding: “With the campaign over, it’s time to put the anger and the harsh rhetoric behind us and come together as a nation. It’s time for America to unite. And to heal. We are the United States of America. And there’s nothing we can’t do, if we do it together.”Biden’s victory came after more than three days of uncertainty as election officials went through mail-in votes that delayed the processing of some ballots. Biden was the Vice President during President Barack Obama’s two terms. Obama, whose campaign during his presidential election pivoted on the slogan “Yes, We Can”, endorsed Biden and his running mate Harris for the 2020 race.Vice President-elect Harris said she and President-elect Biden have a lot of work to do. “This election is about so much more than Joe Biden or me. It’s about the soul of America and our willingness to fight for it. We have a lot of work ahead of us.”US President Trump indicated it was not over from his end. In a statement issued just after the race was called for Biden, he said: “We all know why Joe Biden is rushing to falsely pose as the winner, and why his media allies are trying so hard to help him: they don’t want the truth to be exposed. The simple fact is this election is far from over. Joe Biden has not been certified as the winner of any states, let alone any of the highly contested states headed for mandatory recounts, or states where our campaign has valid and legitimate legal challenges that could determine the ultimate victor. In Pennsylvania, for example, our legal observers were not permitted meaningful access to watch the counting process. Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media.”“Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated. The American People are entitled to an honest election: that means counting all legal ballots, and not counting any illegal ballots. This is the only way to ensure the public has full confidence in our election...”The US President has put together a legal team to shepherd the challenges, hoping, perhaps, for a repeat of the 2000 recount which gave George W Bush his first term as President. The Trump campaign has called for donations to fund the legal fight. “This Election Isn’t Over,” it has said in texts and mail to supporters. “The President needs YOUR HELP! We can’t allow the Left-wing MOB to undermine our Election. President Trump needs his fiercest and most loyal defenders, like YOU, to step up and FIGHT BACK!” But the President’s aides and allies in the Republican Party are also reportedly trying to prepare him for conceding, while arguing for his right to seek a recount of votes and sue to correct irregularities. “Mr. Trump’s legacy will be diminished greatly if his final act is a bitter refusal to accept a legitimate defeat,” The Wall Street Journal, a conservative media giant, wrote in an editorial on Saturday. Biden was at home in Wilmington when news broke of his victory. It was not immediately known if Trump planned to call Biden, as has been the practice, but he has demanded recounts in two states and has filed several lawsuits challenging the counting process, and has alleged fraud and irregularities.Biden has indicated he is ready to move on and said in a speech on Friday he had gone to work already, getting updates and briefings on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Biden had continued to increase his lead over Trump in Pennsylvania when counting resumed Saturday morning. He was also building on his lead in Georgia (16 electoral college votes), which is headed for a recount as requested by Trump, and in Nevada (6). He is also ahead in Arizona, whose 11 electoral college votes have already been given to him by some news organisations, but the President has been chipping away at his lead. Trump leads in North Carolina (15) and Alaska (3). “My fellow Americans, we don’t have a final declaration of victory yet, but the numbers tell a clear and convincing story: We are going to win this race,” the former Vice President had said in a speech from his hometown Wilmington, Delaware, late on Friday, with Kamala Harris, his vice presidential nominee by his side.“But while we’re waiting for the final results, I want people to know we are not waiting to get to work,” he added. Biden, who ran on the promise of tackling the pandemic as his top priority, said he and Harris on Thursday met a group of experts on the crisis and its impact on the economy. He went on to reiterate his promise to begin tackling the crisis from the first day in office.Celebrations began as news of Biden’s win broke. “It’s a new day in America. We can now put the rancor and the frenzy of electioneering behind us and move to governing,” said Shekar Narasimhan of AAPI fund in a statement, adding: “Biden and Harris have won a hard-fought election with States across the country and a record number of votes cast for them. As the first African American and Indian American to be the Vice President-elect, Kamala Harris has a special place in our hearts and we wish her the very best and offer her our full support. We pray for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to be successful in healing and uniting the country.” MR Rangaswamy, the founder of Indiaspora, a bipartisan body, said: “At Indiaspora, we believe, like President-elect Biden does, that the core principles shared by America and India as democracies will continue to be a source of strength in the bilateral relationship between the two nations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-yes-he-can-too/story-4QjlUUNyOfVVBu2dCzVjRL.html
08-11-2020||World||Poll says China’s increase in exports driven by global economic recovery||China’s foreign trade is expected to have grown quite strongly in October due to a recovery in global markets and the domestic economy, a Reuters poll showed, but there are fears that the coronavirus upsurge overseas could slow trade in coming months.In October, exports are expected to have risen 9.3% from a year earlier, according to a median estimate of a Reuters poll of 20 economists, down slightly from the 9.9% gain in September.Imports likely rose 9.5% on year, which economists regarded as a solid increase though it would be slower than in September, when imports rebounded 13.2%.China’s trade surplus is expected to have widened to $46 billion in October from $37 billion in September, according to the poll.The forecasts could suggest the recovery in the world’s second-largest economy from the initial impact of the coronavirus pandemic remains intact.China’s economy is expected to expand around 2% this year - the weakest in over three decades but still much stronger than other major economies as it emerged faster from the coronavirus crisis, having been the first country to be hit by the pandemic.The upward momentum was also evident in China’s official manufacturing survey for October, as the new export orders sub-index expanded at a quicker pace.Analysts at Nomura said in a research note that a pause in the re-opening of some overseas economies due to a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, and a high base last year would have weighed on October’s import growth. They also expected less growth in crude oil imports.Some analysts also noted there were fewer working days last month compared with same period last year due to the long national holiday, which might lead to a slightly softer reading.And they said China’s trade performance could suffer over the next few months as stringent virus control measures are re-imposed by trade partners due to recent resurgence of Covid-19 infections in Europe and the United States.Some companies reported that second wave in infections abroad had lengthened procurement periods for imports of raw materials and increased transport costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poll-says-china-s-increase-in-exports-driven-by-global-economic-recovery/story-ejjlaJo2JmwW5ahQnapByK.html
