14-11-2020||World||‘Sal Mubarak’: US President-elect Joe Biden wishes on Diwali||Extending his greetings on the auspicious occasion of Diwali, US President-elect Joe Biden on Saturday wished for hope, happiness and prosperity. “To the millions of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and Buddhists celebrating the Festival of Lights, @DrBiden and I send our best wishes for a #HappyDiwali. May your new year be filled with hope, happiness, and prosperity. Sal Mubarak,” Joe Biden wished on behalf of wife Dr Jill Biden as well.  To the millions of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and Buddhists celebrating the Festival of Lights, @DrBiden and I send our best wishes for a #HappyDiwali. May your new year be filled with hope, happiness, and prosperity. Sal Mubarak.Outgoing President Donald Trump too extended Diwali greetings with a photo of lighting a lamp in the White House.On Friday (US time), Joe Biden cemented his victory after Georgia, the last state where counting was going on, called in for Biden. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign has dropped its lawsuit challenging the results of the votes in the state of Arizona in the November 3 presidential election. In a court filing on Friday (local time) Trump’s lawyers said, “Since the close of yesterday’s hearing, the tabulation of votes statewide has rendered unnecessary a judicial ruling as to the presidential electors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sal-mubarak-us-president-elect-joe-biden-wishes-on-diwali/story-ebRgjNyVhxitO8febGnMJN.html
14-11-2020||World||Donald Trump extends wishes on Diwali||US President Donald Trump on Saturday extended wishes on the occasion of Diwali. Taking to Twitter, Trump shared a photo of him lighting a lamp in the White House. pic.twitter.com/w9YruJ4AYcEarlier in the day, US Secretary of the State Mike Pompeo and the State Department also extended wishes on the occasion of Diwali.“Happy Diwali! We wish everyone safety and good health as you celebrate the Festival of Lights. Even if physically apart from family and friends, may the spirit of the season bring joy and light,” the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs at State Department tweeted. It is believed that on this day Lord Rama (the seventh incarnation of Lord Vishnu) returned from a 14-year-long exile, during which he fought and won a battle against the demon king Ravana.People across India and around the world celebrate the festival by decorating their houses, exchanging gifts, and offering prayers in order to commemorate the “victory of light over darkness, good over evil, and knowledge over ignorance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-extends-wishes-on-diwali/story-Mr2m8Z3qfx2nlkWdRDTFJO.html
14-11-2020||World||Joe Biden likely to break barriers, pick woman to lead Pentagon||President-elect Joe Biden is expected to take a historic step and select a woman to head the Pentagon for the first time, shattering one of the few remaining barriers to women in the department and the presidential Cabinet.Michele Flournoy, a politically moderate Pentagon veteran, is regarded by U.S. officials and political insiders as a top choice for the position.Her selection would come on the heels of a tumultuous Pentagon period that has seen five men hold the top job under President Donald Trump. The most recent defense secretary to go was Mark Esper, who was fired by Trump on Monday after pushing back on issues including troop withdrawals and the use of the military to quell civilian unrest.If confirmed, Flournoy would face a future that is expected to involve shrinking Pentagon budgets and potential military involvement in the distribution of a coronavirus vaccine.Democrats have long sought to name a woman to the top post in a department that didn’t open all combat jobs to female service members until about five years ago. Flournoy had been the expected choice of Hillary Clinton if she had won the 2016 election. Her name surfaced early as a front-runner for Biden’s Cabinet, said officials who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss personnel matters.Seen as a steady hand who favors strong military cooperation abroad, Flournoy, 59, has served multiple times in the Pentagon, starting in the 1990s and most recently as the undersecretary of defense for policy from 2009 to 2012. She serves on the board of Booz Allen Hamilton, a defense contractor, which could raise concerns from some lawmakers. But her moderate views would likely ensure wide bipartisan support in a position that requires Senate confirmation.Few other names have been mentioned, though former Department of Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson was listed as a possible choice at one point. Choosing a woman would be consistent with Biden’s pledge to have a diverse Cabinet.She has been outspoken on American foreign and defense policy, particularly over the past year. She favors closer international cooperation after four years of a Trump White House that touted an “America First” policy and was more distrustful and critical of allies.“Whoever the next president is,” she said in March, “whether it’s a second Trump term or Vice President Biden or whoever it is, one of the top agenda items is going to try to, I think, repair some of that perception” that America may no longer be a reliable partner. “But I don’t think it’s going to be easy or happen overnight. I think it’s going to take a lot of work over a number of years to recover that trust and that standing.”She has also cautioned against drastic, immediate changes.“One of the most dangerous tendencies is for — after a change of administration, particularly when there’s a change of party — for the new team to come in and use the term ‘repudiation.’ But to come in and assume that everything their predecessors did was wrong, you know, they throw the baby out with the bathwater, basically, and they overcorrect in another direction,” she said in a Hudson Institute forum.Arnold Punaro, a retired Marine two-star general and former staff director of the Senate Armed Services Committee under then-Democratic Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, said recently that he regards Flournoy as “incredibly well-qualified” to lead the Pentagon.The Defense Department is one of three Cabinet agencies — the others being Treasury and Veterans Affairs — that have never been led by a woman. Some of the 28 men who have held the top defense job since it was created in 1947, including three who served in Trump’s administration — Jim Mattis, Esper and current acting Secretary Christopher Miller — have been military veterans. Flournoy did not serve in the military.Like Mattis and Esper, Flournoy views China as the most significant long-term challenge to American predominance on the world stage. In July, she said the United States is losing its military technological advantage over key competitors like China and that reversing this trend must be the Pentagon’s top priority.She has, however, also warned against abandoning the Middle East and instead advocates “more modest levels of continuous presence” there. As an example, she has backed a limited role in Afghanistan that focuses more on countering the terror threat and less on rebuilding the country.“We want to reduce our commitment, but we want to do it in a way that’s smart and that safeguards our interests in the process,” she said in March about Afghanistan, adding that she hopes “we don’t just cut and run.” Trump has pushed for a full troop withdrawal from Afghanistan by the end of the year, but so far the Pentagon has no orders to do that.On North Korea, she said in an October online forum that while nuclear disarmament should remain the ultimate goal, she finds it “hard to see” Kim Jong Un agreeing to give up all his nuclear weapons, which she said he sees as his regime’s “survival card.”On Iran, Flournoy has argued for a revised approach of deterring the Islamic Republic by breaking the familiar pattern of sending more American forces to the Gulf in response to Iranian provocations, as the Trump administration did in May 2019 after what it called credible threats to U.S. interests in the region.Flournoy is a co-founder of Westexec Advisors, a consulting firm that provides advice and geopolitical risk analysis to corporate clients. She works with a mixture of former senior government officials — including Antony Blinken, a former deputy secretary of state and currently Biden’s top foreign policy adviser — and military experts such as retired Army Gen. Vincent Brooks, who led U.S. forces in Korea until 2019.In 2007, Flournoy helped create a think tank, the Center for a New American Security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-likely-to-break-barriers-pick-woman-to-lead-pentagon/story-mk4EUZToWP8bnR5fOIifZO.html
14-11-2020||World||White House planning for second Trump term despite defeat: Official||The White House is planning for President Donald Trump to serve a second term despite his reelection loss, a top official said Friday.“We are moving forward here at the White House under the assumption that there will be a second Trump term,” the outgoing president’s trade advisor Peter Navarro said on Fox Business Network.Trump has yet to concede nearly a week after US media announced that his Democratic challenger Joe Biden had defeated him in the November 3 presidential election.The president has made few public appearances since then and launched legal challenges in several states, alleging election fraud, but without providing any proof.“What we seek here is verifiable ballots, certifiable ballots and an investigation into what are growing numbers of allegations of fraud under signed affidavits by witnesses,” Navarro said, repeating the unsubstantiated claims by Trump supporters. Lamenting what he called “an immaculate deception,” Navarro said any speculation about what Biden might do on trade policy or with regard to China “I think is moot at this point.”Senior US federal and state election officials on Thursday said there is “no evidence” that hackers were able to tamper with the vote, and most world leaders have congratulated Biden on his victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-planning-for-second-trump-term-despite-defeat-official/story-uLH7wJ6C0KBcs7IDJAyuGK.html
14-11-2020||World||Boris Johnson wishes on Diwali, mentions British Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Covid-19 in his message||Extending wishes on the occasion of Diwali, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday expressed his respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have gone out of their way to help others during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19).In a video message that he posted on his Twitter handle, Johnson could be seen lighting the lamp. Johnson said he is confident that “we will triumph over Covid-19”. “Happy Diwali and BandiChhorDivas! I know that this year celebrations will be different, but I am filled with respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have gone out of their way to help others throughout this pandemic,” he tweeted. Happy #Diwali and #BandiChhorDivas!I know that this year celebrations will be different, but I am filled with respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have gone out of their way to help others throughout this pandemic. pic.twitter.com/YhqWpq3JQHIn his message, the UK Prime Minister talked about how Diwali this year under the shadow of coronavirus would be different and urged people to follow social distancing in order to prevent spread of the disease.“Namaste and Happy Diwali everybody. Millions of lamps are once again being lit as a spectacular joyful festival of Diwali is here. And of course, I knew that this year, as with so many other events, Diwali is not going to be the same. People across this country are making huge sacrifices, your lives have been put on hold, I know, your work and businesses have been disrupted. Let’s all take comfort from the meaning at the heart of this fantastic festival, and that the many millions of Diwali lights all over the world shine through the darkness as beacons of hope for a better future,” Johnson said.“Diwali celebrates the victory of light over darkness, good over evil, knowledge over ignorance. So too, I have every confidence that we triumph over Covid-19. And as we all pull together, and play our part in defeating this virus, I’m filled with all and respect for the way British Hindus, Sikhs and Jains have risen to this challenge, and have gone out of their way to help others from the amazing doctors and nurses on the frontline, who cared for the sick throughout this crisis, to the temples that have used their kitchens to feed the vulnerable and support our key workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-wishes-on-diwali-mentions-british-hindus-sikhs-jains-covid-19-in-his-message/story-SltqxUg1p59PUljO5MznHP.html
14-11-2020||World||No terrorists on our soil: Iran denies report al Qaeda’s No 2 leader killed in Tehran||Al Qaeda’s second-in-command, accused of helping to mastermind the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa, was killed in Iran in August by Israeli operatives acting at the behest of the United States, the New York Times reported on Friday, citing intelligence officials.Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, who went by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri, was gunned down by two men on a motorcycle in the streets of Tehran on Aug. 7, the Times reported.The killing of Masri, who was seen as a likely successor to al Qaeda’s current leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri, was kept secret until now, the newspaper said.It was unclear what, if any, role the United States had in the killing of the Egyptian-born militant, the Times said. U.S. authorities had been tracking Masri and other al Qaeda operatives in Iran for years, it said.Al Qaeda has not announced his death, Iranian officials have covered it up and no government has publicly claimed responsibility, the Times said.Iran on Saturday denied the report, saying there were no al Qaeda “terrorists” on its soil.Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said in a statement that the United States and Israel sometimes “try to tie Iran to such groups by lying and leaking false information to the media in order to avoid responsibility for the criminal activities of this group and other terrorist groups in the region”.The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump’s “scare-mongering tactic against Iran has become routine,” Khatibzadeh said. A U.S. official, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, declined to confirm any details of the Times’ story or say whether there was any U.S. involvement. The White House National Security Council did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Masri, one of al Qaeda’s founding leaders, was killed along with his daughter, the widow of former al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden’s son, Hamza bin Laden, the Times reported.Osama bin Laden orchestrated the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States and was killed in a U.S. raid in Pakistan in 2011.Shi’ite Iran and al Qaeda, a Sunni Muslim militant organization, have long been enemies.Masri had been in Iran’s “custody” since 2003 but had been living freely in an upscale suburb of Tehran since 2015, the Times cited unnamed U.S. intelligence officials as saying.U.S. counterterrorism officials believe Iran, also a U.S. enemy, may have let him live there to conduct operations against U.S. targets, the Times said.It was not immediately known what, if any, impact Masri’s death has had on al Qaeda’s activities. Even as it has lost senior leaders in the nearly two decades since the attacks on New York and Washington, it has maintained active affiliates from the Middle East to Afghanistan to West Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-denies-report-al-qaeda-s-no-2-leader-killed-in-iran/story-imofcYfeJBRMAL5BMpRKFO.html
14-11-2020||World||US top diplomat arrives in France on touchy 7-nation tour||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in Paris on Saturday at the start of a seven-country tour of Europe and the Middle East, a trip that is certain to be awkward since all the nations on his schedule have congratulated Joe Biden for his victory in the U.S. presidential race.The trip is aimed at shoring up the priorities of the outgoing administration of President Donald Trump. It will include visits to Israeli settlements in the West Bank that have been avoided by previous secretaries of state.The United States’ top diplomat — as well as its president and much of his Republican Party — have not accepted the results of the American election, and the unusual circumstances will likely overshadow the issues.French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian noted on Friday the “difficult subjects” on the table, from the situation in Iraq and Iran, terrorism, the Middle East and China.”For the moment, my counterpart is Mike Pompeo, until Jan. 20…,” Le Drian said on BFMTV, referring to the date when Trump’s term ends. “He’s coming to Paris. I receive him.”That meeting will take place Monday, Le Drian said, suggesting that Pompeo also will meet with French President Emmanuel Macron.The French president, who spoke with Biden four days ago to offer congratulations, has had a tense relationship with Trump. Both leaders initially worked to woo each other with gestures of extravagance, such as Macron making Trump the guest of honor at a Bastille Day military parade. Trump later pulled out of the Paris global climate accord, a blow to Macron.After France, Pompeo’s tour takes him to Turkey, Georgia, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The leaders of all of those countries have offered public congratulations to Biden.Beside France, Turkey, Georgia and Qatar have had fractious relationships with the Trump administration, and it was not clear whether Pompeo planned public engagements with their leaders — or whether he would take questions from the press, with whom he has had a frosty relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-top-diplomat-arrives-in-france-on-touchy-7-nation-tour/story-kFLxmJrLIDNFaV8mBlR06J.html
14-11-2020||World||China finds coronavirus on packaging of Saudi shrimp||The western Chinese city of Lanzhou said on Saturday it had detected the new coronavirus on the packaging of a batch of shrimp imported from Saudi Arabia, as China ramps up testing of frozen foods. The Lanzhou Municipal Health Commission said in a statement on its website that it had found one positive sample on Friday on the inner packaging of imported frozen shrimp from Saudi Arabia that had passed through customs in the coastal city of Tianjin.The cold storage plant in Lanzhou where the case was discovered had been temporarily closed, all employees of the plant had been tested, all food involved was sealed and the whereabouts of all food sold had been determined, the statement said.The commission said the shrimp had been purchased by Zhanjiang Guolian Aquatic Products Co Ltd, entered the country on Oct. 21 and reached Lanzhou on Nov. 8.The positive sample in Lanzhou follows the detection of the virus on the packaging of a batch of Brazilian beef in Wuhan on Friday, and on Argentinian beef samples in Shandong and Jiangsu provinces this week.The World Health Organization says the risk of catching Covid-19 from frozen food is low, but China has repeatedly sounded alarms after detecting the virus on imported food products, triggering disruptive import bans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-finds-coronavirus-on-packaging-of-saudi-shrimp/story-S5NzeNtN1OeWEPYfriw6kO.html
14-11-2020||World||Hong Kong tightens anti-virus rules as local transmissions rise||The Hong Kong government will tighten social-distancing restrictions and introduce mandatory testing for some groups after locally transmitted Covid-19 cases rose in the past week.The new measures will be in place from Monday until Nov. 26, the city’s Food and Health Secretary, Sophia Chan, said at a press conference.Hong Kong reported three new locally transmitted coronavirus cases Saturday, one of which was from an unknown origin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-tightens-anti-virus-rules-as-local-transmissions-rise/story-6z2G6VLjthgFtiZBTw1FNK.html
14-11-2020||World||Germany to prioritize vaccinations in care homes||German Chancellor Angela Merkel says nursing home workers and the people they are caring for will be among the first to get access to coronavirus vaccines.Merkel said Saturday in her weekly video address that staff and residents of nursing homes will “receive priority” as soon as a vaccine is available.Almost 1 million people in Germany live in nursing and care homes. The country is seeking to buy 100 million doses of a vaccine being developed by German pharmaceutical company BioNTech and U.S. partner Pfizer.Germany’s disease control agency reported a further 22,461 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the 24 hours to Saturday, as well as 178 additional deaths. Since the start of the pandemic, Germany has recorded 773,556 confirmed cases and 12,378 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-to-prioritize-vaccinations-in-care-homes/story-Eg8tZptvirYtRxdG2vGjHO.html
14-11-2020||World||Typhoon Vamco leaves 53 dead, 22 missing in Philippines||The death toll from Typhoon Vamco that battered the Philippines this week has climbed to 53, the Philippine National Police (PNP) said on Saturday.The PNP said 22 people were still missing in the flash floods and landslides triggered by the typhoon, which tore through the main island of Luzon from Wednesday to Thursday.The toll is likely to rise as rescuers continue to search for the missing.The focus now is on rescuing the victims in the provinces of Cagayan and Isabela in the northern Philippines. Using rubber boats, rescuers scramble to pluck residents stranded on rooftops of submerged houses in Cagayan and Isabela.Philippine Coast Guard footage showed a big swath of the provinces submerged in brown floodwaters triggered by the spilling water from Magat Dam, a large rock-fill dam on the Magat River in the main island of Luzon.Cagayan Governor Manuel Mamba said in an interview with radio DZBB on Saturday that one rescuer was electrocuted on Friday night.Mamba, who described the flooding as the worst in memory, appealed for helicopters, adding that some of the flooded areas cannot be accessed by land.Evacuation centres are full, he said, adding some victims were moving in with neighbours amid Covid-19 concerns.Typhoon Vamco lashed a big part of Luzon, home to approximately half of the country’s 110 million population and 70 per cent of economic activity.Non-stop torrential rains have been dumped by Vamco and the cyclones before it forced operators of dams in Luzon to open the floodgates to release water, as the reservoir’s levels breached the spilling marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/typhoon-vamco-leaves-53-dead-22-missing-in-philippines/story-UxrMaj0UzOIJeC9z3upArJ.html
14-11-2020||World||Amid Covid-19 surge, Paris hospitals begin to see signs of hope||Dry-coughing as he pedals — a hack, hack, hack after-effect of his own personal battle with Covid-19 — the doctor cycles through the dark of pre-dawn Paris, speeding to a crisis meeting at his hospital where, way back in February, the disease carried away the first of what has now become more than a quarter-million dead in Europe. In the nine months since then, critical care chief Philippe Montravers and the 150 doctors and nurses he leads at the towering Bichat Hospital in Paris have become experts about their enemy. That knowledge is proving invaluable against the second deadly surge of the virus that is again threatening to overwhelm European health systems. Puffing and spluttering as he pedals, because his lungs are still congested, Montravers details the progress that he and his team have made in their care since they fought off the gruesome initial wave of cases last spring, therapeutic advances that are helping Bichat and other hospitals better resist the renewed tide of infections. Bichat in February was the first hospital outside Asia to record the death of a person infected with the virus: an 80-year-old tourist from China.“In the first wave, people didn’t dare come to the hospital. They were scared, scared of being infected,” Montravers recalls. “When they arrived, they were on their last legs, exhausted, unable to move, and so — hop! — we intubated and ventilated them.” Now, there are steroid treatments that weren’t available to Bichat’s doctors in the first surge. They have also learned not to put patients on ventilators if at all possible and to instead keep them awake and bathed in oxygen, dispensed through face masks instead of invasive tubes. The sick are also savvier, and are seeking help earlier for their symptoms, making them easier to treat. Added together, these and other advances mean that patients more often are spending days instead of weeks in critical care and surviving in greater numbers.“We’ve won about 15 days in caring for them and the mortality has dropped by nearly half,” Montravers says. That picture is reflected nationwide, too. Although France now has more patients hospitalized with the virus than during the April peak of the initial wave, there are about 2,000 fewer in intensive care. The situation remains dire, with one death in four in France now linked to Covid-19 and the country again largely locked down. But hospitals appear to be holding, with capacity to survive the surge’s high point projected to sweep across France in coming days.“The system is on the verge of cracking but, at the same time, there is a bit of hope at the end of the tunnel,” Montravers says. At another of Paris’ major hospitals, anesthetist nurse Damien Vaillant-Foulquier is also starting to believe that they will see off this wave of infections, too. When the system was struggling with coronavirus cases in the spring, he was switched from his specialty job of putting people to sleep for surgeries and instead thrown into the fight in intensive care wards, including intubating patients on respirators. But he has not been drafted this time, even as cases snowballed, enabling him to continue caring for non-Covid-19 patients getting liver transplants and cancer surgeries.“In September-October, I and most of my colleagues were convinced that we’d be heading back to the ICUs,” he said. “But for the moment, no.” Bichat has been able to set aside more resources for life-saving nonvirus treatments, too. In March-April, the hospital that specialises in heart and lung transplants, among other things, stopped about two-thirds of surgeries to free up space and staff for virus patients, Montravers says. This time, just one-third of surgeries are being postponed. Those that have gone ahead even as teams fought the virus surge included a lung transplant last week and another the week before that. The illuminated towers of Notre-Dame Cathedral loom against the lightening sky as Montravers pedals to his morning meeting. There, he and other hospital administrators discuss how best to divvy up their beds and personnel. One of the questions he’s asking himself as he rides is what might the next 48 hours hold? Should he mothball more operating rooms to divert additional resources to fighting the virus? “The situation at the hospital is complicated because we’re not sure where we are going, exactly,” he says. From personal experience, Montravers is doubly aware of how the virus can spring nasty surprises. He and his wife, who also works in a hospital, “were totally destroyed for two weeks” when they were infected, laid low by fevers, headaches, pain and coughs. He lost 5 kg (11 pounds) of muscle, which he is now trying to regain on his bike. But the good news on his morning ride was that the previous night had been calm in his critical care department; they took in just one additional coronavirus patient, a 70-year-old woman with breathing difficulties. They still had beds to spare in an operating room that was converted for critical-care use in case of any sudden avalanche of virus cases. So far, they had not been needed.“It’s not an overwhelming tide, as we could have been expecting,” he said. “Things are not doing so badly and not as badly as we expected one month ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-covid-19-surge-paris-hospitals-begin-to-see-signs-of-hope/story-iGGcdXvYrKMrUCJEGmrpSP.html
14-11-2020||World||WHO approves first ever vaccine for emergency use against polio||The World Health Organization listed a polio vaccine produced by Indonesia’s Bio Farma PT for emergency use, the first approval of its kind amid outbreaks in several parts of the world.Bio Farma’s unlicensed nOPV2 dose is aimed at containing so-called circulating vaccine-derived polio viruses in several African and East Mediterranean countries as well as the Western Pacific and Southeast Asian regions, the WHO said in a statement on Friday.The WHO said these can occur if a weakened strain of the polio virus contained in an oral vaccine circulates among under-immunized populations for a long time. The emergency listing will allow vaccines to be made available faster when there is a threat, and could pave the way for similar measures to be adopted for a Covid-19 product, it said.“The assessment essentially weighs the threat posed by the emergency against the benefit that would accrue from the use of the product based on a robust body of evidence,” the organization said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-approves-first-ever-vaccine-for-emergency-use-against-polio/story-Q6ICtIaMmH90j7gcp2OKON.html
14-11-2020||World||Coronavirus: Donald Trump sticks to ‘no national lockdown’ stance||US President Donald Trump has ruled out a national lockdown under his administration to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, saying such a move costs lives, impacts the economy and “the cure cannot be worse than the problem itself”. “The United States experienced the smallest economic contraction and the most rapid economic recovery of any major Western nation. We went down less and we went up more, which is quite a combination of facts,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday. The coronavirus has killed 244,302 people with over 10 million confirmed cases in the US so far. “While healthy Americans have gone back to work and to school, we continue to spare no expense to protect the elderly and vulnerable. According to some estimates, a national lockdown cost USD 50 billion a day and hundreds of thousands of jobs every single day,” he said. “Ideally we won’t go to a lockdown. This administration will not be going to a lockdown. Hopefully... whatever happens in the future. Who knows which administration it will be. I guess time will tell. But I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown,” Trump said. According to media projections, Democrat Joe Biden, 77, has won the November 3 presidential election. However, Trump, the Republican incumbent, has alleged election fraud and mounted legal fights in a number of battleground states.Also Read: Joe Biden, set to take over as US President in Jan 2021, tweets urgent action needed on Covid-19 “There won’t be necessity. Lockdowns cost lives and they cause a lot of problems. The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself,” said the president. Lockdown, among other things, he said, results in depression, loss of jobs, and business closures. “It’s a terrible thing. So this administration, under no circumstances, will go to a lockdown. But we’ll be very vigilant, very careful. We understand the disease. It’s a complicated disease but we understand it very well,” he said. He asked all Americans to remain vigilant especially as the weather gets colder and it becomes difficult to go outside and to have outside gatherings. Trump did not take any questions from the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-donald-trump-sticks-to-no-national-lockdown-stance/story-yj2dyiku0MVUIEqZbugWUJ.html
14-11-2020||World||UK PM Johnson, Prince Charles mark Diwali with victory of light over darkness messages||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prince Charles used the analogy of victory of light over darkness as reflective of overcoming the coronavirus pandemic crisis as part of their annual messages to mark the festival of Diwali on Saturday. Johnson issued his 10 Downing Street statement to mark the “spectacular, joyful festival of Diwali”, which bursts through the autumnal darkness with an underlying theme of hope and triumph over Covid-19.Also Read: PM Modi greets nation on Diwali, hopes for ‘brightness and happiness’ “This year, perhaps more than any other, Diwali holds a potent meaning for all of us; because just as surely as Lord Rama defeated the demon king Ravana and brought his wife Sita home, and just as Diwali celebrates the victory of light over darkness, good over evil, knowledge over ignorance, so too – I have every confidence – that we shall triumph over Covid-19,” Johnson said. He reiterated the “mantra” for a year when Diwali is being marked in a locked down setting across the UK for people to wash hands, wear a face covering, and keep their distance from anyone not part of the household. “Let’s all take comfort from the meaning at the heart of this fantastic festival. And let the many millions of Diwali lights all over the world shine through the darkness as beacons of hope for a better future,” he said, adding his wishes for British Sikhs for Bandi Chhor Divas. Meanwhile, Prince Charles released a Diwali message video through his South Asian diaspora-led charity British Asian Trust and pointed out how the festival this year coincides with his own 72nd birthday. “The Festival of Lights is, I know, a special time for families and friends to come together to share gifts and sweets and to enjoy each other’s companies. Very sadly this year, the ongoing public health crisis means that this will simply not be possible for so many of you and I can so well imagine how difficult and disappointing this must be,” said the heir to the British throne.Also Read: ‘Very poor’ tag for Delhi’s air as IMD predicts foggy Diwali “Amid these strange and difficult circumstances, however, I hope that you might still draw strength from the message of Diwali – that ultimately good will triumph over evil, hope over despair and light over darkness,” he said. The royal also praised the British Hindu, Sikh and Jain communities for coming together to do really “vital work” during the pandemic as symbolic of the underlying Diwali message of “timeless values of duty and service”, which resonates with people of all faiths and none. “Together you are an indispensable part of what makes this country so special. Happy Diwali and a happy, peaceful and prosperous year ahead,” he said, as he concluded his message by lighting a candle and the words “Shubh Diwali”. The Leader of the Opposition Labour Party, Sir Keir Starmer, also struck a similar note with his Diwali and Bandi Chhor message for British Hindus and Sikhs. “As the Hindu community celebrates this time of victory of good over evil, lightness over darkness and knowledge over ignorance, we are reminded of the hope that Diwali brings,” he said in a statement. “This is particularly significant this year as the world battles the health, economic and social crisis caused by Covid-19...as you light your lamps and pray for happiness and prosperity for all, remember that light will always dispel the darkness of despair and that these difficult times will also come to pass and be replaced by times of great joy and celebration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-prince-charles-mark-diwali-with-victory-of-light-over-darkness-messages/story-pYhOLWChN47gUoenLRdHlM.html
14-11-2020||World||‘Time will tell’: Donald Trump comes closest yet to admitting defeat||US President Donald Trump came close but stopped just short on Friday of acknowledging he lost the November 3 election to Democrat Joe Biden and said “time will tell.”Trump, who has refused to concede he lost the election, was speaking at a briefing at the White House on the Covid-19 pandemic.“Ideally we won’t go to a lockdown,” he said. “I will not go. This administration will not be going to a lockdown.“Hopefully, the, the whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration it will be, I guess time will tell but I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown,” Trump said.Trump then stood by while several other speakers addressed the administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic which has left more than 243,000 people dead in the United States.Click here for the complete coverage of the US electionsTrump then left the event in the White House Rose Garden without responding to reporters who were shouting questions such as, “When will you admit you lost the election, sir?” The remarks were Trump’s first since November 5, when he falsely claimed to have won and said the election was “rigged” against him.US networks projected on Friday that Biden won the state of Georgia, giving him 306 votes in the Electoral College that determines the White House winner. Trump finished with 232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-will-tell-donald-trump-comes-closest-yet-to-admitting-defeat/story-pg9gGiK9n26AahJrupWsBK.html
14-11-2020||World||Covid-19 in US: Oregon, New Mexico order lockdown as other states resist||The governors of Oregon and New Mexico ordered near-lockdowns Friday in the most aggressive response yet to the latest wave of coronavirus infections shattering records across the US, even as many of their counterparts in other states show little appetite for reimposing the hard-line restrictions of last spring.“We are in a life-or-death situation, and if we don’t act right now, we cannot preserve the lives, we can’t keep saving lives, and we will absolutely crush our current health care system and infrastructure,” Democratic Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico said in imposing a two-week stay-at-home order.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown ordered a two-week “freeze” starting Wednesday, under which all businesses will be required to close their offices to the public and mandate work-from-home “to the greatest extent possible.”While most Oregon stores will remain open, gyms, museums, pools, movie theaters and zoos will be forced to close, and restaurants and bars will be limited to takeout. Social gatherings will be restricted to six people.The Democratic governor warned that violators could face fines or arrest.“For the last eight months, I have been asking Oregonians to follow to the letter and the spirit of the law, and we have not chosen to engage law enforcement,” Brown said. “At this point in time, unfortunately, we have no other option.”Both states had lockdowns earlier in the year, but the coronavirus is coming back with a vengeance across the country, and the US is facing a long, dark winter. The scourge is blamed for 10.7 million confirmed infections and almost a quarter-million deaths in the US, with the closely watched University of Washington model projecting nearly 439,000 dead by March 1.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDeaths have climbed to about 1,000 a day on average. New cases per day are soaring, reaching another all-time high on Thursday of more than 153,000. Hospitals are getting swamped.Still, there is little will among many governors and other elected officials for going back to the kind of lockdowns and large-scale business closings seen last spring. Some governors also continue to resist issuing statewide mask rules.Among the reasons given: public fatigue, fear of doing more damage to already-crippled businesses, lack of support from Washington, and the way efforts to tame the virus have become fiercely politicized.“I think that governors and mayors are, again, in a really tough spot. The American population is emotionally and economically exhausted,” Dr. Megan Ranney, an emergency physician and professor at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island.President Donald Trump asked all Americans to remain “vigilant” but ruled out a nationwide “lockdown.”“Hopefully, whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration it will be, I guess time will tell, but I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown,” Trump said in his first public remarks since his defeat by President-elect Joe Biden.Governors in many states, such as New York, Maryland, Virginia and Minnesota, have taken largely incremental measures over the past few days, such as limiting the size of gatherings, making businesses close early, restricting capacity or cutting off alcohol sales earlier in the evening.Nevada Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak has repeatedly argued that containing the virus is largely up to individuals.“Some people are going to ask, ‘Why not limit retail, or casino resorts, or restaurants right now?’ That’s a fair question,” he said. “That is the tightrope of trying to balance controlling the Covid-19 spread, protecting our hospitals from surges, and at the same time, not destroying and shutting down our economy.”In Texas, which this week became the first state to surpass 1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has emphasized new treatments and vaccines that are expected to become available soon.Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has taken an even harder line against new restrictions, suing after El Paso closed nonessential businesses because of a surge so severe that mobile morgues are being brought in. An appeals court Thursday temporarily lifted the shutdown.Officials have gotten pushback from some constituents, especially business owners who fear for their livelihoods.In Ohio, Bahram Akradi, founder, chairman and CEO of Life Time health clubs, objected when the governor added gyms to a list of businesses that could be shuttered if cases continue to rise.“Another shutdown would just be completely devastating and simply unjust,” Akradi said. He added: “The damage of not allowing people to have healthy activity is much more than the gain.”Also Read| ‘Operation Warp Speed made Pfizer vaccine possible’: US president Donald TrumpIn Montana, where cases are up more than 16% in the past week, Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock said he is wary of imposing tougher statewide restrictions without additional federal aid to unemployed individuals and small businesses.“I never wanted to punish the businesses that are doing right in this pandemic to keep their employees and customers safe. Shutting down those businesses would do just that,” he said.The political perils of statewide mandates have been on display in Wisconsin. Democratic Gov. Tony Evers issued a “safer at home” order in March that was challenged by Republican lawmakers and struck down by the conservative-controlled state Supreme Court in May.The result has been a hodgepodge of local limits across the state, with some of the strictest in places like Milwaukee, which is moving forward with imposing steep fines of between $500 and $5,000 for violations of local health orders.Other governors have likewise relied on local and county officials to tackle the crisis, creating a patchwork of restrictions around the country. But that strategy has its limits against a virus.In Tennessee, Nashville Mayor John Cooper said he doesn’t plan on reinstating restrictions on the city’s honky-tonks and other businesses. He said shutting down just one county would probably be ineffective against the virus because the surrounding areas wouldn’t be following the same guidelines.“We are also subject to what goes on in our state, and we can’t keep just our county safe,” Cooper said.Some economists say the crisis has been falsely portrayed as a choice between the economy and public health. Instead, they argue that the economy cannot recover until the virus is brought under control and people are confident enough to go shopping, eat at restaurants and do other things again.Experts have argued, too, that strict but relatively short lockdowns could ultimately result in less economic pain than the half-measures employed now, which have only succeeded in dragging out the crisis.Dr. Michael Fine, former director of Rhode Island’s Health Department, said the outbreak requires more aggressive strategies. Closing bars earlier in the evening, he said, “might have worked in July, but there’s not a chance they’ll work now. It’s like taking an eyedropper to a forest fire.”“Short of very profound lockdowns, I don’t think we have a chance of slowing the spread,” Fine said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-in-us-oregon-new-mexico-order-lockdown-as-other-states-resist/story-rxvhwc7YsCDOFIu3FlsfbP.html
14-11-2020||World||She fell from the sky: How the Covid-19 pandemic crashed into Russia’s legendary space city||The Star City Closed Administrative Territorial Unit is barely an hour’s drive northeast of the Kremlin, but for decades the town never appeared on any maps. Only after the Soviet Union fell apart was its location revealed.Even now, it is shrouded by forests, and behind its tall concrete walls lies the somber infrastructure of Russia’s legendary space program, and the Soviet-era apartment blocks that its cosmonauts and scientists call home.Star City’s medical clinic stands in a wooded area just past a monument to Yuri Gagarin, who became the first man in space in 1961, and a soaring symbol of Cold War-era glory. To this day, flowers are often placed at his feet.For around a decade, physician Natalya Lebedeva worked out of the Star City clinic as a paramedic. One autumn, she and another doctor were called out to the 12th-floor apartment of a young musician.“We walk in and he’s in nothing but his underwear,” the other paramedic recalled. “And Natalya screams, ‘Grab him!’“Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe young man was heading for the open window.“If she hadn’t screamed, I wouldn’t have noticed. It didn’t even cross my mind that he might try to jump,” the paramedic said.They wrestled the young man away from the ledge. “It’s good that he was wearing underwear, at least. Otherwise, I don’t know what I might have grabbed.”Bleak tales peppered with black humor were part of everyday life for Lebedeva and her team as they navigated Russia’s often maddeningly bureaucratic and underfunded medical system.So was the pressure, working in a close-knit and closed-off town, a place of rumor and recrimination, heroism and national pride.“Star City is not just some city. The residents there are not easy,” said Irina Antropova, who worked with Lebedeva on the town’s ambulance service from 2006 until 2009. Fewer than 6,000 people live in the town’s dozen or so apartment blocks, many of them working for the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center. “They are cosmonauts, the families of cosmonauts, military personnel.”In the circular building housing the training center’s centrifuge, a 300-ton arm spins cosmonauts around an 18-meter radius until the force of gravity acting on their bodies is multiplied up to eight times, replicating the feeling of re-entering the atmosphere, of falling to Earth.A new diseaseWhen the first whispers of a new disease in China reached Russia in January, Lebedeva, a doctor trained in neurology, was working as the head of Star City’s ambulance service.The team was close, ambulance driver Vladimir Chizhenko said. “We all lived as one collective.”But medical work in Star City wasn’t standard fare. The clinic’s head doctor, Olga Minina, once received a late-night call on her mobile phone from a worried father asking about the health of his child. The father was cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev, and he was calling from space.Covid-19: Deaths, cases breaking global recordsThe town’s status, and the fame of its residents, ramped up the stress. Rumors spread fast in the insular town. “As it is a closed city, and outsiders do not have access to the territory, they all live there, stewing in this world of theirs,” Antropova said.Lebedeva, 51, wasn’t married and lived alone. Private and independent by nature, friends said, she responded to the panopticоn in which she lived by keeping to herself.“Of course, everyone was interested in her personal life,” Antropova said. “So she kept it all very secret.”Lebedeva had moved to the Moscow region from her hometown in southern Russia after her mother died, and she began working as a Star City doctor in the 2000s.In 2009, the town stopped being a military base. But its clinic, though now fully civilian, didn’t join the standard Russian healthcare system. Instead, in 2010 it entered the structure of the Federal Medical and Biological Agency (FMBA), a sparse network of medical facilities servicing Russia’s nuclear facilities and security services, the high-level scientific research sector and aerospace.Under the FMBA, with its direct reporting line to the Kremlin, Star City’s clinic was a highly strung place.Lebedeva was a buffer, shielding her team of drivers and paramedics, defending them in disputes, four members of the team said, recalling fierce arguments with the head doctor over hours and pay.“Then we would spend time ‘resuscitating’ her after those meetings,” said a medical worker who spoke on condition of anonymity.Minina, the head doctor, said that she and Lebedeva were close, even in the tense atmosphere of Star City.“The residents who are on my watch, each one of them is a celebrity,” Minina said. “So, of course I can be quite tough, because for me – one misstep and it’s the firing squad.”Minina recalled occasions when she too would shield Lebedeva and the ambulance team from complaints. They’d leave work together, exhausted, she said, but Lebedeva would still suggest they get coffee together, or go visit the church across town.“We may have had our differences,” Minina said. “But she was a person that I could call at 4 a.m. and she’d get the job done. I trusted her very much.”Antropova, the ambulance leader’s former coworker, said Lebedeva would take all the stress in her stride, saying, “Well, yes, well, yes, it’s not easy, but Irina, I’ll survive it.”But even before the pandemic hit, she seemed different, ambulance driver Chizhenko said. She’d stopped joining the team on their lunch breaks, going for a walk instead, he said.“I would tell her, why are you putting up with this? Leave this job. With your qualifications, you can always find another job. And recently, she had started to agree with me.”On February 28, Chizhenko, tired of battles over pay, worked his last shift before handing in his notice. Two days later, the first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus in Moscow was discovered.Preparing for spaceThat day, March 1, NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy arrived in Star City to prepare, together with two Russian cosmonauts, for a six-month stint on the International Space Station.As they trained, coronavirus cases in Russia crept up, and restrictions grew. “I hear the streets in Moscow are quiet and empty,” Cassidy told a specialist spaceflight magazine toward the end of the month. “Here in Star City, it’s kind of like this oasis in the woods.”On March 23, the astronauts laid flowers by Gagarin’s statue, and the next day set off for Russia’s space launch facility in Kazakhstan. It would be Star City’s last public event before lockdowns began.Microsoft says Covid-19 researchers were targeted by Russian, North Korean hackersWithin a week, the number of reported coronavirus cases in Russia had shot up four times to more than 1,500. Moscow and the surrounding region – including Star City – went into lockdown. Regulations were strict: Residents could leave their homes only to reach the nearest shop or pharmacy, or to walk pets within a 100-meter radius.Hospitals and healthcare workers across Moscow began to prepare for a crisis.“He warned us”Raisa Ketseleva, daughter of Star City ambulance driver Victor Ketselev, 59, said her father had planned to be on holiday in Belarus in April.“When this whole pandemic started … Dad had a big meeting at work and they said that it would reach their facility, too,” she said. So he canceled his trip. “He said: ‘I’m not going to abandon my colleagues. I will stay and work.’“Ketseleva said that at first, she didn’t understand how serious the pandemic was. Many friends simply didn’t believe the coronavirus was real. “They didn’t show us that sort of thing” on state TV. Her father, though, “understood that it was an illness that could end in death. He warned us.”He also told her that despite his ambulance work, the only protective equipment he had was a basic face mask.Lebedeva was keenly aware of the danger facing her team. “She was very anxious about her work, about her department, about us … and members of our families, because all this fell on her shoulders,” her deputy, senior paramedic Marina Izmaylova, recalled.Lebedeva began to lobby for staff to have access to protective gear and coronavirus tests, former coworker Antropova said.“They were not being tested at the start of April,” Antropova said Lebedeva told her at the time. “The head doctor was refusing to test them, because if anyone tested positive, they would have had to put everyone” on quarantine. And if that happened, Star City would be left without medical care.Head doctor Minina, however, painted a different picture: She said she personally secured 200 test kits – hard to come by at the time – from a research institute in Moscow. But there were guidelines and systems in place, and it was too early to test staff when there were no confirmed cases in the town, she said.Some protective gear, earmarked for pandemic response, had been provided by the FMBA, and the team had far better kit than in neighboring clinics. Still, Minina said, she searched hard for additional supplies, amid a “super deficit” of masks on the market. In a statement, the FMBA said Star City’s clinic was provided with sufficient PPE for visits to patients with suspected COVID-19 and that testing of staff began March 25.On April 2, the problem of testing and protective equipment blew up into an argument in the Star City clinic, said a doctor at the clinic who spoke on condition of anonymity. “Everything started boiling there,” the doctor said.The virus reaches star cityOn April 11, on the eve of Star City’s annual celebration of Gagarin’s liftoff into space, ambulance driver Ketselev developed a sore throat.On April 13, his temperature began to rise, his daughter said.On April 15, his colleagues from the Star City clinic showed up to do a coronavirus test. A top Gagarin Training Center official had just tested positive, and mass testing of clinic staff had begun.The next day, Ketselev’s test came back positive, his daughter said.By that point, his shift partner had developed a cough. The partner’s wife and child were coughing, too, Ketselev’s daughter said. The third ambulance driver, a young man who had replaced Chizhenko when he quit, also fell ill, Chizhenko said.Cloth masks highly preventive against Covid-19, says new CDC studyOn April 18, with his temperature soaring, Ketselev called Lebedeva and told her he was in agony. She said he should go to hospital, and after a long night searching for bed space, Ketselev was taken away in an ambulance. His daughter spent the next morning frantically ringing hospitals in the area, trying to work out where he might be.By April 22, 27 staff members of the Star City clinic had tested positive for coronavirus, a letter sent to the town’s mayor on that date showed. So had 10 of their family members. Head doctor Minina, too, was in the ICU, with damage to 75% of her lungs, she said.In the letter, cardiologist Svetlana Zakharova, who had taken over from Minina, asked the mayor to press the Moscow region health ministry for support.” The organization of medical support for the population of the Star City Closed Administrative Territorial Unit has become exceptionally difficult, especially the provision of emergency medical care,” according to the letter, seen by Reuters.“At that point … we were truly fighting for our lives,” said senior paramedic Izmaylova, who was also hospitalized with severe COVID symptoms.On April 20, Lebedeva was hospitalized in Moscow after testing positive.Before liftoff, a close encounterIn the days before the virus started to spread in Star City, the three astronauts were preparing for liftoff at the Russian cosmodrome in Baikonur.On the morning of April 9, liftoff day, the three men, dressed in their white spacesuits, met with Dmitry Rogozin, head of the Russian space agency. They also met with Evgeny Mikrin, deputy head of RSC Energia, which had built the Soyuz rocket they were about to take.The astronauts spoke with the officials through a wall of glass, a quarantine measure. They walked out to the launchpad without the traditional crowds of well-wishers lining their way. At 11:05 a.m. Moscow time, they blasted into space.Two days after returning from the liftoff, rocket designer Mikrin, 64, started to feel unwell. A coronavirus test came back positive.Covid-19 vaccine could make social divisions worseOn April 12, Andrey Voloshin, a pilot and Gagarin Training Center official, also tested positive, a test results message seen by Reuters showed, becoming Star City’s first confirmed case. He had not attended the liftoff, but had met the party returning from Baikonur, Star City Mayor Evgeny Barishevsky said.By the end of the month, 10 employees of the Gagarin Training Center had tested positive, local authorities reported. The space agency said 173 employees of Russia’s overall aerospace industry were sick, and six had died.Mikrin would die of the disease on May 5. President Vladimir Putin wrote a short statement expressing his condolences online.A spokesman for the Russian space agency, Roscosmos, said that the liftoff group had tested negative immediately before and after the trip to Baikonur. Although tests were known to be unreliable in those early days, he said, there was no concern because strict quarantine measures had been followed throughout the liftoff.Still, within weeks of Russia’s first confirmed case, the coronavirus had penetrated the closed walls of Star City and crossed the high-security gates of its cosmonaut training center. It had radiated across Russia’s revered space program during a moment of international attention and national pride, and had, potentially, come within an inch of glass away from traveling to space in a cosmonaut.The search for someone to blameIn Star City, with the clinic in the grip of the outbreak, a hunt was launched for someone to blame, the doctor at the clinic said.“They wanted to blame us, that it was us that infected them, not the other way around,” the doctor said of officials with the space program. “They wanted to blame the doctors.“And then they started coming down hard on [Lebedeva], claiming she fell ill, infected everyone,” the doctor said.Head doctor Minina said she didn’t know of any probe into the outbreak at the time; she herself was already in the hospital. But she said that reports had spread widely around the town blaming Lebedeva for rocket designer Mikrin’s positive test – despite the fact that he wasn’t a resident, and the two had had no contact at all. But the rumor was there.A Roscosmos spokesman said he recalled some talk of accusations of negligence at the time, but it did not come from the space agency. “We did not initiate [any investigation] ... nor add to any rumors,” he said. That wouldn’t even be within the agency’s purview, he said.According to the Gagarin Training Center, responding to a request for comment, the center had no issues with the Star City clinic’s work at all.Lebedeva phoned several colleagues and close friends from her hospital bed, four people said. She had been admitted to the central FMBA hospital #83 in Moscow.Her illness wasn’t severe. “Her temperature was a little over 37 degrees,” or 98.6 Fahrenheit, and “her lungs were affected only to a small degree,” her friend Antropova said.During several calls from the ward, Lebedeva repeatedly said that she was being blamed for being the source of the outbreak, a friend said. “She called me and said … ‘I am going to be jailed. It’s the end for me.’““I said … ‘How were you supposed to have prevented this, how? How? Come on. What are you, God?’“ the friend recalled.But Lebedeva was in tears. She said she had been contacted by investigators from the police.Ketseleva, the ambulance driver’s daughter, said that some weeks later, Star City police officer Maxim Statsenko visited her at home. He refused to disclose what he was investigating, she said. “But I asked him questions, of course, and I understood that they were searching for who fell sick first.”Reuters called Officer Statsenko to ask him about Lebedeva and his investigation. “I don’t know anything,” he said, and hung up.In a statement, the FMBA said: “The detection of COVID-19 among the employees of [the Star City clinic] led to an internal audit by the management of the FMBA’s interregional directorate #170. No charges were brought against N.V. Lebedeva as a result of the audit. The management of the FMBA and the [Star City clinic] also had no issues with the work of N.V. Lebedeva.”Star City doctors criticized the idea of blaming anyone at all during a pandemic or searching for who infected whom. “We did everything by the book,” head doctor Minina said. “I’m a doctor, not a ballerina. I got sick because I was on the front line.”On April 23, ambulance driver Ketselev was hooked up to a ventilator. Chances of recovery for patients on a ventilator were known to be low.From her hospital bed, Lebedeva wrote a WhatsApp message to Minina: “I have understood that this is the virus of panic and fear.”A fall to earthLebedeva was last active on WhatsApp at 00:21 on Friday, April 24, said a friend and former colleague at the Star City clinic, Natalya Zhernakova.That day, several friends couldn’t reach her by phone. They began calling the FMBA hospital, friend Antropova recalled, but “the hospital told them that all information about Lebedeva was ‘closed.’“On Saturday, Lebedeva’s friends contacted the Star City clinic ambulance service, Antropova said. “And her colleagues already… They had already received the information,” Antropova said, her voice breaking.“They had been told that Natalya … had committed suicide.”She had fallen from the window of the Moscow hospital’s coronavirus ward and died from her injuries, a television channel reported.The FMBA released a statement on April 27: “On April 24, 2020, as the result of an unfortunate accident, Natalya Lebedeva tragically died.”The word “accident” angered many of Lebedeva’s friends, who believe she committed suicide out of desperation.Responding to a request for comment, the FMBA said her death was a tragic event and that law enforcement officials have opened an investigation.With no confirmation of the manner of Lebedeva’s death from the FMBA, the town stewed.“They’ll cover it all up, because it’s space. Serious people are involved,” the doctor at the clinic said. “That’s why they wanted to blame it all on the ambulance service.”A week after Lebedeva’s death, Ketseleva was told that her father, the ambulance driver, had died. Her mother was left to grieve alone and in quarantine for another month.Ketseleva was sent a video, seen by Reuters. The person recording it walks through the empty corridors of Star City’s clinic. Benches are cordoned off with red-and-white hazard tape. At reception, the camera turns a corner.There, under a bouquet of flowers, stand portraits of Ketselev and Lebedeva, a black ribbon on each.Swan songIn early May, a funeral cortege traveled slowly through Star City, followed by two ambulances with sirens on throughout. The coffin for Lebedeva, whose surname is derived from the Russian word for swan, lebed, was white.Star City resident Dmitry Saraev and others wrote on social media of watching from their windows. “This mourning escort became Natasha’s swan song, performed not by her but by her staff and vehicles,” Saraev wrote.Star City ambulance dispatcher Tatyana Krivushina, 65, fell sick soon after her mother, who died in late May. Krivushina died on June 6.In the last days of August, the head of the FMBA, Veronika Skvortsova, visited Star City. Pulling up in a black Mercedes, she toured the Gagarin Training Center, posing for a photograph in front of а Soyuz rocket training simulator.Skvortsova also toured the Star City clinic. Among her festive welcome party was Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman in space.Skvortsova talked to doctors and inspected the clinic’s equipment, an official video showed. In the 2.5-minute clip, the outbreak at the clinic wasn’t mentioned.At one point on her tour, Skvortsova visited the clinic’s reception area. A press photo shows her standing in the corner by a noticeboard.Behind her is the table on which the memorial bouquet was placed next to the framed photographs of Ketselev and Lebedeva. By the time of the official visit, the flowers and the portraits were gone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/she-fell-from-the-sky-how-the-covid-19-pandemic-crashed-into-russia-s-legendary-space-city/story-pMvc5aDo120btkbAzL1hCO.html
14-11-2020||World||‘Operation Warp Speed made Pfizer vaccine possible’: US president Donald Trump||US President Donald Trump on Friday said that Operation Warp Speed made it possible for Pfizer to develop its coronavirus vaccine in partnership with BioNTech while addressing the press at the White House. Operation Warp Speed a joint partnership program between several drugmakers, US Defence Department and the US Health and Human Services to help speed up the research, development, production and manufacturing of vaccines to stop the spread of coronavirus. ‘It’s been an incredible effort. As a result of Operation Warp Speed, Pfizer announced on Monday that it’s China virus vaccine is more than 90% effective,” said Donald Trump who was accompanied by the chief adviser for the Defense Department’s Project Warp Speed Moncef Slaoui and vice president Mike Pence. This is the first time the US president has spoken publicly after his defeat in the US presidential election. LIVE: President @realDonaldTrump delivers an update on Operation Warp Speed https://t.co/6UQ0SZMsCQ“In July my administration reached an agreement with Pfizer to provide $1.95 billion to support the manufacturing and distribution of 100 million doses… Our investment will allow citizens access to the vaccine made by Pfizer free of charge. Pfizer said that they are not a part of Operation Warp Speed but it turned out to be an unfortunate misrepresentation. They are a part of it, that’s why we gave them $1.95 billion,” he further added. He said that his administration made it possible to develop a treatment ‘ahead of schedule’ and compared to that any other administration would take ‘four or five years’ to do the same. Trump also said that his administration is working to secure an emergency use authorization following which distribution process will be charted out. He said it is a ‘matter of a few weeks’ till they figure out the distribution process.Frontline workers, elderly population and high-risk individuals will be inoculated in the beginning, said the US president. Trump also said that there will be no lockdown and cited that it results in loss of livelihoods. He said, “This administration will not go into a lockdown. It leads to depression, job losses, loss of livelihoods and costs lives.”He further said, “Hopefully whatever happens in the future, who knows, which administration it will be, I guess time will tell, but I can tell you this administration will not go to a lockdown.”Trump also praised his own administration for the handling of the pandemic and said that it is doing better than most of its ‘peer countries’. He also said that the US continues to test in large numbers and has a low case fatality rate. US has recorded more than 11,000,000 cases so far and its death toll is now close to 250,000. It has recorded more than 100,000 cases for the last two days in a row. Praising his handling of the US economy, Trump said, “We reduced unemployment by half and we have doubled our growth. This is rapid recovery when compared to other Western nations. We went down less, went up more.”Trump also took a jibe at New York governor Andrew Cuomo who has earlier said that his administration will set up a team which will review the vaccine and recently lamented that the Trump administration will be in charge of vaccine distribution. Trump said that Cuomo is doing the wrong thing from the perspective of public health and accused him of politicising the situation. He said, “New York does not trust the vaccine. It pains me. Cuomo has to let us know when they are ready.” Trump also said that they are ready to roll out the vaccines for New York as soon they let the government know that they are ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/operation-warp-speed-made-pfizer-vaccine-possible-us-president-donald-trump/story-9On6rtIrlhFSAExomqHABL.html
14-11-2020||World||Rishi Sunak appeals for virtual Diwali in UK; lights diyas||Calling himself a “practicing Hindu”, chancellor Rishi Sunak lit diyas outside his house in Downing Street and on Friday appealed to the Indian community in the UK to celebrate Diwali virtually, admitting that this year the celebrations will be “difficult”.Diwali has almost become a mainstream festival in the UK, with members of the royal family, ministers and others joining celebrations in temples and highlighting its message of triumph of good over evil. The Prime Minister holds a Diwali reception every year.However, the Downing Street reception will not be held this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, home secretary Priti Patel and others took to social media to wish people. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall also extended greetings.Sunak, son-in-law of Infosys founder N R Narayana Murthy, appealed to people to follow restrictions in force in the current lockdown to last until December 2. Several councils and the London mayor have cancelled public celebrations, opting for virtual events.Sunak said: “Faith is important to me, I’m a practising Hindu, I pray with my kids, visit the temple when I can. For us as Hindus, Diwali is special, and it’s going to be difficult this year. We’re going to get through this (coronavirus oandemic)”.“But we’ve got Zoom, we’ve got the phone, and most importantly, we’ve got each other. Whether you can see someone or not the bond of family, that bond of love is always going to be there. And it will be there on 3 December as well…to keep everyone safe right now, just follow the rules.”Several temples have moved to online events, while Diwali-related material and sweets continue to sell briskly in shops in London and other towns with large population of Indian origin, such as Leicester, Birmingham and Manchester.Piara Singh Clair, deputy mayor of Leicester, which is reputed to hold one of the largest Diwali celebrations outside India, said: “This year, we all need to find different ways to celebrate important festivals like Diwali and Christmas”.“Although we can’t meet up with our extended families in person this year, and Leicester’s usual celebrations have had to be put on hold, our virtual Diwali event will help bring people together for an experience they can share with a family member or a friend – wherever they are in the world”.Leicester’s virtual Diwali event to be streamed live on Saturday includes sessions on rangoli, dance, prayers, animation of the history of Diwali in the city, story-telling sessions and traditional and Bollywood music.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rishi-sunak-appeals-for-virtual-diwali-in-uk-lights-diyas/story-B60oui1HQ4BQzsB7uiG7iN.html
14-11-2020||World||Microsoft says Covid-19 researchers were targeted by Russian, North Korean hackers||Hackers working for the Russian and North Korean governments have targeted more than half a dozen organizations involved in Covid-19 treatment and vaccine research around the globe, Microsoft said on Friday.The software company said a Russian hacking group commonly nicknamed “Fancy Bear” - along with a pair of North Korean actors dubbed “Zinc” and “Cerium” by Microsoft - were implicated in recent attempts to break into the networks of seven pharmaceutical companies and vaccine researchers in Canada, France, India, South Korea, and the United States.Microsoft said the majority of the targets were organizations that were in the process of testing Covid-19 vaccines. Most of the break-in attempts failed but an unspecified number succeeded, it added.Few other details were provided by Microsoft. It declined to name the targeted organizations, say which ones had been hit by which actor, or provide a precise timeline or description of the attempted intrusions.The Russian embassy in Washington - which has repeatedly disputed allegations of Russian involvement in digital espionage - said in an email that there was “nothing that we can add” to their previous denials.North Korea’s representative to the United Nations did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment. Pyongyang has previously denied carrying out hacking abroad.The allegations of cyber espionage come as world powers are jockeying behind the scenes in the race to produce a vaccine for the virus.They also highlight how Microsoft is pressing its case for a new set of global rules barring digital intrusions aimed at healthcare providers.Microsoft executive Tom Burt said in a statement his company was timing its announcement with Microsoft President Brad Smith’s appearance at the virtual Paris Peace Forum, where he would call on world leaders “to affirm that international law protects health care facilities and to take action to enforce the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-says-covid-19-researchers-were-targeted-by-russian-north-korean-hackers/story-b3SthPm4d5EXBi15h1N4nL.html
