22-11-2020||World||Pakistan minister deletes tweet containing Macron Nazi jibe||A Pakistani minister on Sunday withdrew comments she made earlier that President Emmanuel Macron was treating Muslims like Nazis had treated Jews in World War Two.France’s foreign minister had demanded Pakistan authorities withdraw the comments posted on Twitter by Pakistan’s Federal Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari.She posted the remarks following a clash between Pakistan and France over the publication of images of the Prophet Mohammad by a French magazine. The images have sparked anger and protests in the Muslim world, especially in Pakistan.“Macron is doing to Muslims what the Nazis did to the Jews - Muslim children will get ID numbers (other children won’t) just as Jews were forced to wear the yellow star on their clothing for identification,” Mazari had said in a tweet linking to an online article.The article was however amended earlier on Sunday to reflect the fact that the idea, if implemented, would be applied to all children in France and not just to Muslim children.In a follow-up tweet on Sunday, Mazari initially doubled down on her claims following a condemnation by France’s foreign ministry late on Saturday, which described them as “blatant lies, imbued with an ideology of hatred and violence.”Later on Sunday, however, Mazari tweeted: “The article I had cited has been corrected by the relevant publication, I have also deleted my tweet on the same.”She said she had been alerted to the correction by the French ambassador to Pakistan.Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian had told RTL radio the comments were unacceptable and should be withdrawn from Twitter, but said he was remaining prudent because some media had been taken advantage of and had since clarified their articles.Pakistan’s parliament at the end of October passed a resolution urging the government to recall its envoy from Paris, accusing Macron of “hate-mongering” against Muslims.Macron had paid tribute to a French history teacher who was beheaded by an 18-year-old man of Chechen origin for showing cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in a class on freedom of speech.French officials have said the beheading was an assault on the core French value of freedom of expression.After satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo re-published the cartoons in September, Macron defended secularism, saying the freedom of belief went hand in hand with freedom of expression including the right to blaspheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-minister-deletes-tweet-containing-macron-nazi-jibe/story-gyRtW6D9phMtD5rb4wgP6H.html
22-11-2020||World||Pak oppn alliance holds massive rally despite govt refusing permission||The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an 11-party opposition alliance, held a massive rally in Peshawar on Sunday despite refusal of permit from the government which cited the rise in Covid-19 cases.Doctors had warned that Peshawar was fast becoming a new hot spot for coronavirus. In his address to the rally, PPP chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari predicted that the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan would be falling in January.Earlier on Sunday, Khan accused the PDM leaders of “playing reckless politics with people’s safety”. He tweeted that “the same PDM members who had wanted a strict lockdown and criticised me earlier [are] now playing reckless politics with people’s safety”.He added, “They are even defying court orders and holding a jalsa (rally) when cases are rising dramatically.” The opposition parties insist that they would observe safety precautions, and alleged that the government’s intentions to stop their rally was entirely political.Information minister Shibli Faraz said that if Covid cases rose in Peshawar in the coming days, the government would register an FIR against PDM leaders.In reply to the government’s insistence that the PDM postpone its rally, the joint leader of the opposition movement, Maulana Fazlur Rehman said that the Imran Khan government was a ‘big corona’ itself .“This government is the representative of a stolen mandate. It is not the representative of the people,” said Rehman, while addressing a press conference in Peshawar.Speaking of the government’s warnings against holding rallies, the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI-F) leader said that they found no other excuse, so started raising a hue and cry about the spread of coronavirus.Besides Rahman and Bilawal, the rally was addressed by PML-N vice-president Maryam Nawaz, but not by former PM and PML-N supremo Nawaz Sharif, who addressed the previous PDM rally from London via a video link, apparently due to severe kidney pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-oppn-alliance-holds-massive-rally-despite-govt-refusing-permission/story-GigAzmAqVjxcwTaPU6BSdP.html
22-11-2020||World||Pompeo touts Iran policy in Gulf ahead of Biden presidency||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Sunday defended his tour of Gulf Arab states and the Trump administration’s continued efforts to squeeze Iran, even as a new US administration led by Joe Biden prepares to enter the White House in January.Although Pompeo has not taken questions from US-based reporters traveling with him over the past 10 days, he sat down with the Saudi-owned broadcaster Al-Arabiya in Dubai for brief televised remarks Sunday.“Our policies don’t change. Our duty doesn’t change. My responsibilities don’t change,” he said. “I still have an obligation — every hour, every minute — to defend the American people and to keep them foremost in our efforts, and we’ll do that. We’ll do that to the very last minute.” In what was likely his final tour of the Persian Gulf as secretary of state, he touted the Trump administration’s Mideast strategy that focused on Iran as “the central threat inside the region” and for a maximum pressure campaign that hampered Iran’s ability to support militias in Iraq, Lebanon and Syria.“It’ll be our policy until our time is complete,” he said, stopping short of saying when he’d cease work as the top U.S. diplomat.President Donald Trump has refused to concede to Biden, despite the Trump campaign’s futile efforts to block the certification of votes in various states.The Trump administration is attempting to ramp up pressure on Iran before Biden takes office as president. Biden has said he wants to return to rapprochement with Iran. Analysts say Biden is expected to be more willing to engage the Iranians in order to avoid major escalation, although he’s likely to press Tehran on its missile program and not just its nuclear program.Trump is viewed favorably by Gulf heavyweights Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates for pulling the U.S out of a nuclear accord with Iran and reimposing sweeping sanctions that have drained Iran of vital oil revenue.Pompeo is scheduled to travel to Saudi Arabia late Sunday to meet Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman before heading back to Washington.His tour also included stops in France, Turkey and Israel, including an Israeli settlement in the occupied West Bank and a museum that honors Christian Zionists.Trump was recently talked back from moving ahead with a military strike on Iran’s main nuclear site by advisors who included Pompeo, according to a New York Times report.When asked about this, a State Department official traveling with Pompeo told reporters that “all options are on the table” and that the Trump administration “will continue to pursue its policies until it’s not in office anymore.” Pompeo started his Gulf tour in the UAE capital of Abu Dhabi early Saturday, meeting the emirate’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, who’s seen as the day-to-day ruler and the powerful figure behind the country’s major policy decisions.The State Department said they discussed the progress of the UAE’s decision to normalize ties with Israel — a move that was followed by Bahrain and Sudan.They also discussed “security cooperation and countering Iran’s malign influence in the region, as well as that of China,” the U.S. statement said.Also Read | US hits Iran with new sanctions as Pompeo defends strategyPompeo “also underscored the importance of Gulf unity.” The UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Egypt have largely balked at U.S. efforts to reconcile with Qatar, which they accuse of sponsoring terrorism and backing violent Islamist groups across the region.The quartet cut ties with Qatar in mid-2017 and have demanded the gas-rich Arab state shutter its flagship Al Jazeera news network among other demands, which Qatar has rejected outright, along with the accusations.Pompeo departed Abu Dhabi for Qatar on Saturday, although there are no direct commercial flights due to the stalemate.He had lunch with the ruler, Emir Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, and met with Qatar’s foreign minister. The State Department said Pompeo discussed regional issues, and “the importance of a united Gulf to stand against the Iranian regime’s destabilizing activity, and the risk to the region presented by China.” Qatar, however, has warm ties with Iran. The two countries also share a massive underwater gas field in the Persian Gulf.While in Qatar, Pompeo additionally met with representatives of the Afghan government and Taliban, where the warring sides are holding talks about the future of the country.Despite a sharp rise in violence this year, Washington plans to withdraw an estimated 2,500 troops before the middle of January, leaving about 2,000 soldiers in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-touts-iran-policy-in-gulf-ahead-of-biden-presidency/story-0knSoOttL07W9qsvFcEjsO.html
22-11-2020||World||US expects to start Covid-19 vaccination program in early December: Official||The United States expects to kick off a Covid-19 vaccination program in early December, the head of the government’s Covid-19 vaccine effort said on Sunday.Moncef Slaoui, the chief adviser for Operation Warp Speed, a program to facilitate and accelerate vaccination effort, told CNN that the government’s plan is to ship vaccines to the immunisation sites within 24 hours of emergency use authorisation by Food and Drug Administration (FDA).According to US media reports, FDA vaccine advisors have scheduled a meeting from December 8-10 to discuss approval after Pfizer and Moderna announced that their vaccine candidates are 95 per cent effective.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine may need ‘emergency authorisation’Slaoui said that he expects companies to ship the vaccines on the second day of the approval. Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE have submitted to FDA for emergency use authorisation after announcing that the final efficacy analysis of its vaccine candidate, BNT162b2, undergoing phase 3 trial met all of the study’s primary efficacy endpoints. In a video shared on Friday, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said that the request for emergency use authorisation for the Covid-19 vaccine is now in the FDA’s hands.“This is a historic day, a historic day for science and for all of us. It took just 248 days to get from the day we announced our plans to collaborate with BioNTech to our FDA submission day,” he added.The Phase 3 trial of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate began on July 27 and as of November 13, as many as 41,135 volunteers have received its second dose. BNT162b2 is an mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate, the same technology used by Moderna to come up with its mRNA-1273 vaccine candidate. Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE expect to produce up to 50 million vaccine doses globally in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021.“We have operated at extraordinary speed in our clinical development program, from concept to regulatory filing, while always maintaining our focus on safety,” said Bourla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-expects-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-program-in-early-december-official/story-kqQ7AwZT6FpYr1yiI7ItxH.html
22-11-2020||World||Covid-19: Prepare for economic shock, warns Rishi Sunak||Multi-billion-pound borrowing and steep decline in national income during the Covid-19 pandemic has set the stage for the UK facing “economic shock”, chancellor Rishi Sunak said on Sunday, as Britons remained anxious over meeting families during Christmas.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to announce a ‘Covid winter plan’ to be followed during Christmas on Monday. The current lockdown in England is set to end on December 2, but caution over easing by experts has prompted continuing curbs during the Christmas period.Sunak, whose political stock has risen during the pandemic after he extended billions of pounds for furlough, grants to the self-employed and subsidies to businesses, indicated that income tax would need to rise next year. Pandemic-related borrowing has already reached nearly £250 billion.He wrote in The Sunday Times: “People will see the scale of the economic shock laid bare. We can see the data every month, and obviously the shock that our economy is facing at the moment is significant.”“Once we get through (the crisis) we’ll have to figure out what the best way of returning to sustainable public finances is. I’m hopeful that by the spring, with positive news on both mass testing and vaccines, we can start to look forward.”Sunak is due to present the annual Spending Review in the House of Commons on Wednesday. Besides the debilitating economic impact of Covid-19, the UK also faces a hit from January 1, when the Brexit process is completed and the UK moves out of the EU.The three-tier alert system before lockdown imposed earlier this month is expected to be strengthened with more curbs at each level, following criticism that the system was not effective enough. The revised system will be in place from December 3.A prime minister’s spokeswoman said: “Everyone’s efforts during the current national restrictions have helped bring the virus back under control, slowed its spread and eased pressures on the National Health Service.”“But the prime minister and his scientific advisers are clear the virus is still present - and without regional restrictions it could quickly run out of control again before vaccines and mass testing have had an effect. That would put in jeopardy the progress the country has made, and once again risk intolerable pressure on the NHS.”As of Saturday evening, there were 19,875 new cases and 341 deaths in the last 24 hours across the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-prepare-for-economic-shock-warns-rishi-sunak/story-8JG4rGao2u5eGaoxTIOpOO.html
22-11-2020||World||From India to Brazil: Astra-Oxford shot is key to escaping pandemic for many nations||Trial successes from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. have buoyed hopes that a Covid-19 vaccine is coming soon. But much of the world, outside of rich nations like the U.S., is counting on another company’s shot to escape the crisis.Findings from the final stage of AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine studies are due to be released shortly, and the stakes for lower- and middle-income nations are immense. The shot developed with the University of Oxford accounts for more than 40% of the supplies going to those countries, based on deals tracked by London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd.The Astra vaccine costs a fraction of the price set by Pfizer and will be manufactured in multiple countries, from India to Brazil. It should be easier to deploy far and wide than other shots that need to be stored at ultra-cold temperatures. But if the U.K. partners can’t match the lofty efficacy levels Pfizer and Moderna delivered or roll out their inoculation quickly, the pandemic might continue spreading death and disease in countries relying on it.Also Watch: PM Modi hold review meeting to discuss India’s vaccine strategy “There’s a lot riding on the Astra vaccine,” said Suerie Moon, co-director of the Global Health Centre at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva. For lower-income countries, “it’s huge.”Pfizer applied Friday for an emergency use authorization in the U.S., and may begin the rollout in mid-December. While wealthy nations are in a position to receive the first supplies of the Pfizer and Moderna shots thanks to significant quantities they’ve snapped up in advance, most regions are depending heavily on companies following the front-runners, especially AstraZeneca, Novavax Inc. and Johnson & Johnson. Supplies will likely struggle to meet demand in the months after vaccines arrive, raising concerns about global access.Also Read | Sputnik V priced lower than Pfizer and Moderna vaccineGreater Population“The vast majority of the global population live in low- and middle-income countries,” said Mark Eccleston-Turner, a law and infectious disease specialist at Keele University in England. “It’s not just a problem for people over there, far away from us. This is a problem for most people in the world.”A global program called Covax has made strides in an ambitious effort to deploy future vaccines equitably around the world, getting dozens of countries to join and securing deals for 700 million doses so far.AstraZeneca reached an agreement to supply the initiative, while a collaboration including the Serum Institute of India agreed to accelerate the production of Astra or Novavax shots for low- and middle-income nations, priced at a maximum of $3 per dose, with an option to secure more. A Covax pact with Sanofi and partner GlaxoSmithKline Plc followed last month.The program, led by the World Health Organization, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, expects more deals in the coming weeks. Pfizer and BioNTech, along with Moderna, remain in talks with Covax.AstraZeneca has easily been the most active in reaching supply accords. Of all the volumes committed globally, almost a third -- about 3.2 billion doses -- are set to come from the U.K. company, according to Airfinity. More than 50 lower- and middle-income countries would receive Astra and Oxford’s shot, in regions including Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Eastern Europe, along with wealthy governments too, the research group found.If the vaccine is successful, fulfilling that demand won’t be easy. In the U.K., a shortfall in supplies of the shot expected by the end of the year casts doubt on how swiftly AstraZeneca will be able to immunize the public. Yet the company has said it’s confident it can begin supplying hundreds of millions of doses on a rolling basis once it gains approval.Price AdvantageOne of the key factors behind the reliance on the Astra-Oxford vaccine is the initial price. Astra has said it won’t profit during the pandemic and that the vaccine will cost between $4 and $5 a dose, though health advocates worry what that company and others will charge when the crisis is deemed over.The U.S. agreed in July to obtain the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine in a deal that sets the price at $19.50 a dose, or $39 for a two-shot immunization, a level BioNTech said could become a benchmark for developed nations. Moderna said it’s charging $32 to $37 a dose for smaller deals and less for bigger purchases.“Those prices really risk putting vaccines out of reach for a lot of the world,” said Margaret Wurth, senior researcher at Human Rights Watch in New York.Astra-Oxford also has advantages beyond cost when it comes to the rollout in low- and middle-income countries. The global scope of manufacturing eases worries about countries restricting exports, and the product should be easier to transport and store, according to Eccleston-Turner, the Keele expert.The jab importantly can be kept at refrigerator temperatures, while those from Pfizer and Moderna, based on novel messenger RNA technology, require freezing for longer-term storage and transport.That’s why so many countries are eagerly awaiting the Astra results and focusing on the next candidates, including those from China. Russia also plans to produce the Sputnik V vaccine in other countries such as India and Brazil.“All of the wealthy countries are now fairly well positioned,” said Moon, the health specialist in Geneva. For developing countries, “it’s not as if they have been sitting back and saying we’ll see what trickles down to us. They’ve been aggressively pursuing what they can with the means at their disposal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-india-to-brazil-astra-oxford-shot-is-key-to-escaping-pandemic-for-many-nations/story-82SuTXAyp7l2FmYcELyMeP.html
22-11-2020||World||The Clean Network: All about US initiative to purge Chinese tech companies from 5G network||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Sunday announced that Brazil, Ecuador, and the Dominican Republic are now members of The Clean Network, a Trump administration’s initiative to purge Chinese tech companies from 5G network. The top US diplomat tweeted that “53 Clean Countries, 180 Clean Telcos, and dozens of leading companies” have joined the tide toward trusted 5G network.Pompeo had unveiled the Clean Network initiative in April, calling upon countries and corporations to join the effort to safeguard the privacy and thwart any attempt to obtain most sensitive information by “malign actors”, explicitly naming the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). In August, the State Secretary announced the expansion of the Clean Network program which included Clean Carrier, Clean Store, Clean Apps, Clean Cloud, and Clean Cable. The Trump administration has termed some of the largest telecom companies around the globe as “Clean Telcos”, including Jio in India and O2 in the United Kingdom. Also Read | Canadian MPs urge Justin Trudeau government to toughen stand on Chinese ‘intimidation’, Huawei’s roleHere is everything you need to know about the US initiative:Clean Carrier: The State Department said that Chinese carriers pose a danger to US national security. It stated that such companies should not provide international telecommunications services to and from the United States.Clean Store: The program is aimed at removing untrusted applications from US mobile app stores. The department accused Chinese apps of threatening privacy, proliferating viruses, censoring content, and spreading propaganda and disinformation. Clean Apps: The Trump administration called Huawei an arm of China’s “surveillance state”, accusing it of trading on the innovations and reputations of leading US and foreign companies. The initiative is aimed at preventing untrusted Chinese smartphone manufacturers from pre-installing trusted apps or from making available for download on their apps store. Clean Cloud: It is aimed at preventing US citizens’ most sensitive personal information and businesses’ most valuable intellectual property, including COVID-19 vaccine research, from being stored and processed on cloud-based systems accessible to foreign adversaries. The department singled out Chinese companies such as Alibaba, Baidu, China Mobile, China Telecom, and Tencent.Clean Cable: Pompeo said that the administration is working to ensure that the CCP can’t compromise information carried by the undersea cables that connect the US and other countries to the global internet. The state department said that it will work with foreign partners to ensure that undersea cables around the world aren’t similarly subject to compromise.Clean Path: Pompeo announced that the Department of State will begin requiring a Clean Path for all 5G network traffic entering and exiting US diplomatic facilities. The 5G Clean Path is an end-to-end communication path that does not use any transmission, control, computing, or storage equipment from untrusted IT vendors.Later, the US dealt a massive blow to Huawei Technologies Co Ltd. by expanding the scope of Foreign Direct Product Rule, which was aimed at preventing Huawei from circumventing US law. The Commerce Department added 38 Huawei affiliates to its Entity List which identifies foreign parties prohibited from receiving certain sensitive technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-clean-network-all-about-us-initiative-to-purge-chinese-tech-companies-from-5g-network/story-A4GK6YmkxnPNAb7BMt25MO.html
22-11-2020||World||Vladimir Putin says he’s not ready to recognize Joe Biden as US President||Russian President Vladimir Putin said he’s ready to work with any U.S. leader, but still isn’t ready to recognize the election victory of Joe Biden.“We will work with anyone who has the confidence of the American people,” Putin said on Russian state TV Sunday. “But that confidence can only be given to a candidate whose victory has been recognized by the opposing party, or after the results are confirmed in a legitimate, legal way.”The comments are some of the most detailed since the election from Putin, one of a dwindling number of leaders who haven’t recognized Biden as the next U.S. head of state. Russia, accused by U.S. intelligence agencies of intervening in 2016 to help get Trump elected, has been wary of Biden, fearing an increase in sanctions pressure and clashes over human rights.Putin described the Kremlin’s decision not to congratulate Biden as “a formality” with no ulterior motives. When asked if the move could damage U.S.-Russia relations, he said: “there’s nothing to damage, they’re already ruined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-says-he-s-not-ready-to-recognize-joe-biden-as-us-president/story-agKWCSqxOiluK5hnJLQYWP.html
22-11-2020||World||Sputnik V priced lower than Pfizer and Moderna vaccines||The price per dose of the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V will be much lower than that of the vaccines of US drug giants Pfizer and Moderna, said the Russian vaccine’s official Twitter account on Sunday.“Translating pharma lingo: the announced price of Pfizer of USD 19.50 and Moderna of USD 25-USD 37 per dose actually means their price of USD 39 and USD 50-USD 74 per person. Two doses are required per person for the Pfizer, Sputnik V and Moderna vaccines. The price of Sputnik V will be much lower,” the official account said.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11. Sputnik V was developed by the Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Russian Healthcare Ministry.On November 11, Russia had said that its vaccine Sputnik V is 92 per cent effective at protecting people from Covid-19 according to the first interim analysis.On November 17, Moderna, in its official statement, had announced that the independent, U.S. NIH-appointed Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the Phase 3 study of mRNA-1273 has informed Moderna that the trial has met the statistical criteria pre-specified in the study protocol for efficacy, with a vaccine efficacy of 94.5%.Similarly, on November 18, Pfizer had said that final results from the late-stage trial of its coronavirus vaccine was found to be 95 per cent effective and had no serious side effects on older people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-priced-lower-than-pfizer-and-moderna-vaccines/story-KenRjLm5mxV1vD5rT3i7oN.html
22-11-2020||World||G20 to back ‘equitable’ access to coronavirus vaccine: Report||G20 leaders will pledge to “spare no effort” in ensuring the equitable distribution of coronavirus vaccines worldwide and reaffirm support for debt-laden poor countries, according to a draft communique seen by AFP Sunday.The leaders also struck a unified tone on supporting “multilateral” trade as well as the global fight against climate change, but the closing document lacks firm details on many of the issues dominating the virtual summit hosted by Riyadh.The two-day gathering that began Saturday comes as international efforts intensify for a large-scale rollout of coronavirus vaccines after a breakthrough in trials, and as EU and other leaders call for G20 nations to plug a $4.5-billion funding shortfall.“We have mobilised resources to address the immediate financing needs in global health to support the research, development, manufacturing and distribution of safe and effective Covid-19 diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines,” the draft document said.“We will spare no effort to ensure their affordable and equitable access for all people, consistent with members’ commitments to incentivise innovation.”The communique offered no details on how the effort will be funded. There could be changes in the final version of the document, which will be released later Sunday by the Saudi hosts.In a comment echoed by other world leaders, French President Emmanuel Macron said Saturday the coronavirus crisis was “a test for the G20”, stressing there “will be no effective response to the pandemic unless it is a global response”.G20 nations have contributed more than $21 billion to combat the pandemic, which has infected 56 million people globally and left 1.3 million dead, and injected $11 trillion to “safeguard” the virus-battered world economy, summit organisers said. But the group’s leaders face mounting pressure to help stave off possible credit defaults across developing nations. G20 nations have extended a debt service suspension initiative (DSSI) for developing countries until June next year, but UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has pushed for a commitment to extend it until the end of 2021.The draft communique, however, did not offer a firm commitment.G20 finance ministers will examine the recommendation when the IMF and World Bank meet next spring “if the economic and financial situation requires” an extension by another six months, it said.- Closing ranks on climate -On trade, the club of the world’s richest nations also emphasised that supporting a multilateral system “is now as important as ever”.“We strive to realise the goal of a free, fair, inclusive, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable, and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open,” the communique said.Ahead of the summit, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said she hoped the US will adopt a more multilateralist stance under the incoming administration of Joe Biden.US President Donald Trump’s robust “America first” trade policy has rankled world leaders. Von der Leyen also added that she expected consensus and a “new momentum from the new US administration” on climate change, and a reversal of Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord.Differences within the G20 group surfaced at last year’s summit in the Japanese city of Osaka as the United States demanded the insertion of a separate paragraph on issues such as environmental protection.But under the Saudi chairmanship, G20 leaders projected a unified stance, with the draft communique reiterating support for tackling “pressing” environmental challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g20-to-back-equitable-access-to-coronavirus-vaccine-report/story-2s7TOXq3ZNByIZylfx0KuM.html
22-11-2020||World||Jill Biden s policy director Mala Adiga has roots in Karnataka’s Udupi||The appointment of Mala Adiga as policy director of Jill Biden, the first lady of US president-elect Joe Biden, has brought joy to Kakkunje village in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district. She belongs to the family of K Suryanarayana Adiga, founder of the erstwhile undivided Dakshina Kannada districts private sector Karnataka Bank Limited, and Aravind Adiga, who won the Man Booker prize in 2008. Mala Adiga is the niece of Nirmala Upadhya who is her father’s elder sister. She told reporters in Kundapur that Mala is an affectionate and lovely girl. She treasures relationships and has her roots firmly in India, Nirmala said. Nirmala, 87, said Mala had called her up on Saturday to share the news of being made a senior staffer at White House when Biden takes office as President of the USA in January. She had congratulated on the new responsibility. Malas father Dr Ramesh Adiga (84) is the second among three siblings. He had left for the US when he was 25 to hone his skills as a vascular surgeon. Malas mother Jaya Adiga had studied medicine in Vellore. Nirmala recalled meeting Mala at a family get-together in Bengaluru in 2019. Nirmala had then travelled with her daughter Sujatha Nakkatthaya and family to Bengaluru in November 2019. Mala had come to Bengaluru with husband Charles and daughter Asha to attend the event with her parents. They had come to Kundapur seven years ago and had fallen in love with the beaches there. She had offered puja at the Kakkunje temple and they visited their ancestral house in Babbarianakatte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jill-biden-s-policy-director-mala-adiga-has-roots-in-karnataka-s-udupi/story-cfNKHQBIS4oB9Xi5HPTecL.html
22-11-2020||World||Frequent, rapid testing can curb Covid-19 transmission within weeks: Study||Testing half the population weekly with inexpensive, rapid-turnaround Covid-19 tests can drive the pandemic toward elimination within weeks even if the tests are significantly less sensitive than gold-standard clinical diagnostics, a new study says. The research, published in the journal Science Advances, noted that such a strategy could lead to “personalised stay-at-home orders” without shutting down restaurants, bars, retail stores and schools. According to the scientists, including those from the University of Colorado at Boulder in the US, the sensitivity levels of the different types of Covid-19 tests currently used across the world vary widely. Antigen tests require a relatively high viral load -- about 1,000 times as much virus compared to the PCR test -- to detect an infection, they said. Another test, known as RT-lamp can detect the virus at around 100 times as much virus compared to the PCR, the study noted. The scientists added that the benchmark PCR test requires as little as 5,000 to 10,000 copies of the viral genetic material, RNA, per milliliter of sample -- meaning it can catch the virus very early or very late.“Our big picture finding is that, when it comes to public health, it’s better to have a less sensitive test with results today than a more sensitive one with results tomorrow,” said study lead author Daniel Larremore from the University of Colorado at Boulder in the US. “Rather than telling everyone to stay home so you can be sure that one person who is sick doesn’t spread it, we could give only the contagious people stay-at-home orders so everyone else can go about their lives,” Larremore said.In the study, the scientists assessed whether test sensitivity, frequency, or turnaround time is most important to curb the spread of Covid-19.They analysed available literature on how viral load climbs and falls inside the body during infection, when people tend to experience symptoms, and when they become contagious.Using mathematical modelling the scientists forecasted the impact of screening with different kinds of tests on three hypothetical scenarios -- in 10,000 individuals; in a university-type setting of 20,000 people; and in a city of 8.4 million.They found that when it came to curbing spread, the frequency and turnaround time are much more important than test sensitivity.Citing a hypothetical example, the researchers said in a large city, widespread twice-weekly testing with a rapid, but less sensitive test, reduced the degree of infectiousness of the virus by 80 per cent. But twice-weekly testing with a more sensitive PCR test, which takes up to 48 hours to return results, reduced infectiousness by only 58 per cent, the study noted. When the amount of testing was the same, it said the rapid test always reduced infectiousness better than the slower, more sensitive PCR test.This is because about two-thirds of infected people have no symptoms, and as they await their results, they continue to spread the virus, the scientists explained. “This paper is one of the first to show we should worry less about test sensitivity and, when it comes to public health, prioritise frequency and turnaround,” said study senior author Roy Parker from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in the US. The researchers believe the findings demonstrate the power of frequent testing in shortening the pandemic and saving lives.In one scenario, in which four per cent of individuals in a city were already infected, they said rapid testing three out of four people every three days reduced the number ultimately infected by 88 per cent and was “sufficient to drive the epidemic toward extinction within six weeks.” “These rapid tests are contagiousness tests. They are extremely effective in detecting Covid-19 when people are contagious,” said Michael Mina, another co-author of the study from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in the US.Some rapid tests, he added can return results in 15 minutes while the PCR tests can take several days. “Within a few weeks we could see this outbreak going from huge numbers of cases to very manageable levels,” Mina said.The researchers believe it is time to change the Covid-19 testing strategy from something made available to those with symptoms, to thinking of it as a vital tool for breaking transmission chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/frequent-rapid-testing-can-curb-covid-19-transmission-within-weeks-study/story-0ETqnJyZcYMu7azz5dl77L.html
22-11-2020||World||Boris Johnson to end England’s coronavirus lockdown on December 2||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to end an England-wide lockdown as scheduled on Dec. 2 and will announce a return to regional restrictions as statistics show that coronavirus infections have stabilized.Johnson’s office also confirmed plans to begin a nationwide Covid-19 vaccination program next month, assuming regulators approve a vaccine against the virus. The government also will increase mass testing in an effort to suppress the virus until vaccines can be rolled out.Johnson’s office said late Saturday that the government plans to return to using a three-tiered system of localized restrictions in England, with areas facing different lockdown measures based on the severity of their outbreaks. More communities are expected to be placed in the two highest virus alert categories, it said.The government put England under a four-week lockdown that started Nov. 5. The Cabinet is to discuss the plans Sunday, and the prime minister aims to give Parliament the details on Monday, according to the statement.The U.K. as a whole has the worst virus death toll in Europe, at over 54,700 deaths.Johnson announced the lockdown in England on Oct. 31 after public health officials warned that an exponential rise in new daily coronavirus infections was threatening to overwhelm the National Health Service as the winter flu season approached. The lockdown closed non-essential business like many shops, gyms, bars, restaurants — although takeout was permitted. It also banned most social gatherings but schools remain open.New known cases of Covid-19 have started to drop across the U.K., with the number of positive tests during the past seven days falling 13.8% from the week before. Some 2,861 Covid-related deaths were reported over the last 7-day period, 17 fewer than a week earlier. Still, the infection rate remains high, at 244 cases for every 100,000 people.Health Secretary Matt Hancock told reporters Friday that the lockdown has been successful in slowing the spread of the virus, though he stressed that people needed to keep following the rules to keep cases down.Professor Jonathan Van-Tam, the government’s deputy chief medical officer, warned that any gains from the November lockdown could be quickly lost to a virus that takes “just seconds” to spread.People should “keep up the pressure on this virus and push down on it as much as we can right to the end of the period (of lockdown),” he said.The government’s scientific advisory group, known as SAGE, is expected to publish reports on Monday showing that Johnson’s earlier three-tiered strategy wasn’t strong enough and recommending tougher restrictions when it returns.Under that system, a “medium” alert level requires restaurants and pubs to close at 10 p.m. and prohibits residents from mixing in groups larger than six. The “high” level prevents people from gathering indoors with anyone not in their household or extended “support bubble.”In areas under a “very high” alert, pubs and bars only can remain open and serve alcohol only if it comes with a hearty meal. People are advised not to travel in or out of those areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-to-end-england-s-coronavirus-lockdown-on-december-2/story-Qfq7fT3pjgiSa4Au8kMi4N.html
22-11-2020||World||Indian-origin homeless man arrested for pushing woman onto subway tracks in front of incoming train||A 24-year-old Indian-origin homeless man has been arrested and booked on suspicion of attempted murder after he pushed a woman onto subway tracks just as a train was entering the station.Aditya Vemulapati was arrested and booked on suspicion of attempted murder, reckless endangerment, attempted assault in the first degree and assault in the second degree, according to a criminal complaint filed by Manhattan prosecutors.A report in NBC News said a judge ordered Vemulapati held until his December 4 court date.Video footage from the station showed Vemulapati at a subway station in Union Square here pushing Liliana Llanos just as the incoming train pulled into the station. Llanos miraculously escaped and sustained only minor injuries. She fell in between two train tracks and narrowly missed the train’s impact as it passed over early morning Thursday.Vemulapati was taken into custody at the scene, police said.The report said Llanos had headphones on and was listening to Bible passages. Witnesses say she was waiting for the train when Vemulapati approached her, appearing to talk to himself. From the footage it appeared that he had timed the shove just as an incoming train was approaching the station and pushed her without saying a word, the report added.“It’s very disturbing. We see him waiting, calculating for the train to approach the station and at the opportune moment he pushed the victim onto the tracks,” Kathleen O’Reilly, NYPD Chief of Transit Capt., said.“She fell fortunately for her between the roll bed and rails, and by the grace of God sustained only minor injuries,” O’Reilly said.After shoving the woman, Vemulapati saw the police approaching and laid down on the platform. Police are saying Vemulapati is emotionally disturbed.Llanos, who was taken to a hospital, sustained minor cuts to her head and body. Her husband was grateful she was able to return to their Sunset Park apartment, saying she “got a new life today.” The NBC report added that the incident marked the second subway push arrest made on Thursday. Another man was taken into custody after police said he pushed a UPS worker onto the tracks at the 42nd Street-Bryant Park Station on Wednesday night. Police said Justin Pena attacked the victim after the man refused to give him money.The incident led the president of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) to draw attention to the mental health problems in the city that carry over to subway platforms.“It’s gotta be addressed, and I’m desperate for this mayor or the next to take it on,” MTA President Sarah Feinberg said. “This city has a mental health crisis, we have got folks in this city who desperately need mental health care,” Feinberg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-homeless-man-arrested-for-pushing-woman-onto-subway-tracks-in-front-of-incoming-train/story-QuRSF2aPEabOWT5tyb2kPI.html
22-11-2020||World||Opposition Pakistan Democratic Movement calls Imran Khan’s PTI govt ‘illegitimate’, ‘big corona’||The opposition Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) chief Fazlur Rehman on Saturday lashed out at Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government, saying that the incumbent government was a ‘big corona’ itself, days after the alliance was not allowed to hold a rally in Peshawar.“This government is the representative of a stolen mandate. It is not the representative of the people,” said Rehman, while addressing a press conference in Peshawar, where a rally in defiance of government warnings is due to held on Sunday by the opposition parties, reported The News International.Speaking of the government’s warnings against holding rallies, the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI-F) leader said that they found no other excuse, so started raising a hue and cry about the spread of coronavirus.“This illegitimate government itself is a big corona,” he said.Rehman said that the opposition’s campaign against the government had reached its peak and the organisational structure of the movement is now complete.He further added that it was time for ‘Pakistan’s Trump’ to be removed from office.“A historic rally will take place tomorrow in Peshawar,” vowed the JUI-F leader, and added that the next PDM rally will be held in November 26 in Larkana, which will be hosted by his party.The PDM on Friday had vowed to defy the government ban on its public gathering in Peshawar on Sunday and warned the district administration that the use of force to stop the protesting citizens could spark street battles.While speaking at a joint press conference at the Peshawar Press Club, the representatives of the opposition parties declared that rallies across the country will be held as the PDM planned, until Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government is removed, reported Dawn.This came after the Peshawar deputy commissioner had refused to allow the opposition to hold their rally scheduled for November 22 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, citing COVID-19 concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-pakistan-democratic-movement-calls-imran-khan-s-pti-govt-illegitimate-big-corona/story-I08VnNhZIMPKNbmweOlUgK.html
22-11-2020||World||Violence erupts in Brazil after Black man beaten to death at Carrefour store||More than 1,000 demonstrators attacked a Carrefour Brasil supermarket in the southern Brazilian city of Porto Alegre on Friday after security guards beat to death a Black man at the store.The killing, which has sparked protests across Brazil, occurred late on Thursday when a store employee called security after the man threatened to attack her, cable news channel GloboNews said, citing the Rio Grande do Sul state military police.Amateur footage of the fatal beating and tributes to the Black victim were published on social media. He was identified in local media by his father as 40-year-old Joao Alberto Silveira Freitas.News website G1 later reported that an initial analysis by the state forensics institute indicated the cause of death could be asphyxiation. In a statement on Friday, the local unit of France’s Carrefour SA said it deeply regretted what it called a brutal death and said it immediately took steps to ensure those responsible were legally punished.It said it would terminate the contract with the security firm, fire the employee in charge of the store at the time of the incident, and close the store as a mark of respect.In a series of tweets in Portuguese on Friday night, the Chairman and CEO of Carrefour, Alexandre Bompard, said that the images posted on social media were “unbearable.”“Internal measures have immediately been implemented by the Carrefour Brazil, notably towards the security company involved. These measures do not go far enough. My values, and the values of Carrefour do not allow for racism and violence,” Bompard said.He called for a complete review of employee and sub-contractors’ training on security, diversity and tolerance values.“I have asked the teams of Carrefour Brazil to fully cooperate with judicial authorities to get to the bottom of this odious action,” he added In Porto Alegre, protesters on Friday afternoon handed out stickers depicting the Carrefour logo stained with blood and called for a boycott of the chain. They held up a banner in Portuguese reading “Black Lives Matter” and signs calling for justice for Beto, a nickname for the victim.The protest turned violent on Friday evening as the demonstrators smashed windows and delivery vehicles in the supermarket’s parking area. A Reuters witness saw police firing teargas at the protesters.In Sao Paulo, dozens of protesters smashed the front windows of a Carrefour store with rocks, pulled off the front doors and stormed the building, spilling products into the aisles before dispersing. In Rio de Janeiro, roughly 200 shouting protesters gathered outside of another Carrefour store location.Nov. 20 is honored in many parts of Brazil as Black Awareness Day. Brazilians like to think of their country as a harmonious ‘racial democracy’ and far-right President Jair Bolsonaro denies the presence of racism. But the influence of slavery, abolished in 1888, is still evident. Black Brazilians are almost three times as likely to be victims of homicide, according to 2019 government data.“The culture of hate and racism needs to be combated at its source and the full weight of the law should be used to punish those that promote hate and racism,” Rodrigo Maia, the speaker of Brazil’s lower house of Congress, wrote in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/violence-erupts-in-brazil-after-black-man-beaten-to-death-at-carrefour-store/story-U3dpaSn9eJzqeiODxee00I.html
22-11-2020||World||WHO Covid envoy fears third wave, calls Europe response ‘incomplete’||A World Health Organization (WHO) special Covid-19 envoy predicted a third wave of the pandemic in Europe in early 2021, if governments repeat what he said was a failure to do what was needed to prevent the second wave of infections. “They missed building up the necessary infrastructure during the summer months, after they brought the first wave under the control,” the WHO’s David Nabarro said in an interview with Swiss newspapers.“Now we have the second wave. If they don’t build the necessary infrastructure, we’ll have a third wave early next year,” said Nabarro, a Briton who campaigned unsuccessfully to become the WHO director general in 2017.Europe briefly enjoyed sinking infection rates that are now surging again: Germany and France on Saturday saw cases rise by 33,000 combined, Switzerland and Austria have thousands of cases daily, while Turkey reported a record 5,532 new infections.Nabarro singled out Switzerland’s move to allow skiing - with masks required in gondolas - as other Alpine nations like Austria have shuttered resorts. Nabarro said Switzerland could reach a “very high level of sicknesses and deaths”. “Once the infection rates sink, and they will sink, then we can be as free as we want,” Nabarro was quoted as saying by the Solothurner Zeitung. “But right now? Should ski resorts open? Under what conditions?” Nabarro lauded the response of Asian countries like South Korea, where infections are now relatively low: “People are fully engaged, they take on behaviours that make it difficult for the virus. They keep their distance, wear masks, isolate when they’re sick, wash hands and surfaces. They protect the most endangered groups.”Nabarro also said Asia did not relax restrictions prematurely. “You must wait until case numbers are low and stay low,” he said. “Europe’s reaction was incomplete.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-covid-envoy-fears-third-wave-calls-europe-response-incomplete/story-c7vMdRddbLWCmxfHwYkS1L.html
22-11-2020||World||Trump skips G20 session on Covid-19 to play golf||US President Donald Trump on Saturday skipped a session of the virtual G20 summit dedicated to discussing pandemic preparedness to play golf at his club outside the capital as the country braced for a new surge in Covid-19 cases after Thanksgiving, a national holiday. He tweet-stormed his unfounded election fraud claims the rest of the day.Trump delivered his main speech virtually at around 8 am local time, according to the daily guidance issued by the White House of his schedule. Shortly after, he was tweeting about the election, and around 10 am, his motorcade was rolling for the Trump National Golf Club in Loudon, Virginia.The outgoing American president spoke of the “need to work together to restore strong economic growth and jobs as we overcome the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a statement issued by the White House about his speech at the virtual summit of G20 leaders hosted by Saudi Arabia.Trump told the world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, of “the aggressive actions and safety measures” taken by his administration and the “pioneer groundbreaking treatments”, vaccines and therapies developed at “record-setting speed”.“It’s been a great honour to work with you, and I look forward to working with you again for a long time,” he told the summit, according to an audio recording of his remarks obtained and reported by UK’s Observer. The White House statement did not contain this remark, paraphrased or otherwise.Nearly every G20 leader has already congratulated President-elect Joe Biden either through public remarks or in phone conversations — Modi has done both, and is among the handful of world leaders to have spoken to Biden.These remarks reflected American president’s current priorities, along with his decision to skip the session on pandemic preparedness even as the US was the hardest hit in the world, with more than 12 million confirmed infections and 255,000 deaths, nearly a fifth of all the cases and mortalities globally.“I was at the Virtual G-20 meeting early this morning and the biggest subject was Covid,” he noted in a tweet later. He did not say why he did not stay, then, for the preparedness session.President Trump’s is focused instead on reversing his election defeat to Biden. He and his Republican allies have filed more than 30 lawsuits, without any success. His efforts suffered another setback on Saturday when a federal judge in Pennsylvania, a battleground state that carried President-elect Biden across the 270 mark, threw out a Trump campaign lawsuit saying it was “without merit”.The Trump campaign said the dismissal was an opportunity to approach the Supreme Court now.Some Republicans are running out of patience, though the party is mostly behind him. Pat Toomey, a Republican senator from Pennsylvania, called for Trump to accept the election outcome shortly after the court ruling and said, “President Trump has exhausted all plausible legal options to challenge the result of the presidential race in Pennsylvania. ... I congratulate President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on their victory.”Liz Cheney, a member of the House Republican leadership, also urged Trump to give up. “If the president cannot prove these claims (of election fraud) or demonstrate that they would change the election result, he should fulfil his oath to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States by respecting the sanctity of our electoral process,”Trump’s allies, meanwhile, pressed ahead with their efforts to block the certification of votes in Michigan, another key state he lost.Biden is projected to win the election 306-232, but Trump has refused to concede and sought to overturn the outcome of the election through unfounded allegations of fraud and irregularities and wild conspiracy theories suggesting among other things the involvement of Hugo Chavez, the Venezuelan leader who died in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-skips-g20-session-on-covid-19-to-play-golf/story-DmGu2LACUKoemb8P7FsFEO.html
22-11-2020||World||Pompeo meets Taliban, Afghan negotiators in Doha||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has met negotiators from the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha, amidst signs of progress in their stalled talks and an uptick in violence that threatens to jeopardise the peace push in the war-torn country. This was the first meeting of the top American diplomat with the Taliban and the Afghans representatives after the US’ recent announcement that it will reduce the number of American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq to 2,500 each by January 15 next year. The US currently has a little over 4,500 troops in Afghanistan.Also Read: IS attack hits Afghan capital; Mike Pompeo joins peace talks “Met with both Taliban and Islamic Republic of Afghanistan’s negotiating teams in Doha. I commend both sides for continuing to negotiate and for the progress they have made. I encourage expedited discussions on a political roadmap and a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire,” Pompeo said in tweet on Saturday. Pompeo met today with Taliban Political Deputy and Head of the Political Office Mullah Beradar and members of the Taliban negotiating team, State Department Principal Deputy Spokesperson Cale Brown said. During the meeting, Pompeo commended both sides for continuing to negotiate and for the progress they have made, he said. In his meeting with the Taliban, Pompeo commended both sides for continuing to negotiate and for the progress they have made. He called for a significant reduction in violence and encouraged expedited discussions on a political roadmap and a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire.Also Read: Rocket attack in Kabul by Islamic State kills 8 “Pompeo and the negotiators discussed ways to reduce violence, and he encouraged expedited discussions on a political roadmap and a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire,” Brown said. Pompeo reiterated that the people of Afghanistan expect and deserve to live in peace and security after 40 years of war and bloodshed, he said, adding tha the US Secretary of State also meet with Qatari Foreign Minister Al Thani in Doha and discuss bilateral and regional issues “We appreciate Qatar’s ongoing support as a host to the Afghan peace negotiations. A united Gulf remains crucial for countering Iran’s malign influence in the region,” Pompeo said in another tweet. The US signed an agreement with the Taliban in February to promote a negotiated end to the protracted conflict. Afghan government and Taliban negotiators have been meeting in Doha on a regular basis to try to broker a peace deal but have yet to yield any major breakthrough. Meanwhile, violence in Afghanistan has spiked in recent months. Pompeo’s visit came in the wake of a rocket attack which struck densely populated areas of Kabul, killing at least eight people in the latest outbreak of violence in the Afghan capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-meets-taliban-afghan-negotiators-in-doha/story-f02g16XlHs5UHa8bbxcokL.html
22-11-2020||World||Trump wants courts to step in, maintain US ‘integrity’ as Biden set to form cabinet||As US President-elect Joe Biden is set to name top leaders for his cabinet as early as next week, President Donald Trump continues to question the outcome of the November 3 election. Trump on Saturday said that his investigators had found ‘hundreds of thousands of fraudulent votes which would be enough to “flip” at least four states and added that he hopes the courts would maintain the integrity of elections by doing ‘what has to be done’.“Why is Joe Biden so quickly forming a Cabinet when my investigators have found hundreds of thousands of fraudulent votes, enough to “flip” at least four States, which in turn is more than enough to win the Election? Hopefully the Courts and/or Legislatures will have........the COURAGE to do what has to be done to maintain the integrity of our Elections, and the United States of America itself. THE WORLD IS WATCHING!!!” Trump tweeted.While the Trump campaign can still seek a recount of the Georgia votes under the state’s law, its Republican leaders appear in no mood to indulge his efforts to question the election outcome.“We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan and, as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors, just as we have said throughout this election,” Lee Chatfield, Speaker of the Republican-controlled state House and Mike Shirkey, leader of the Republican-controlled Senate, said in a joint statement after their meeting with Trump at the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-wants-courts-to-step-in-maintain-integrity-of-the-us-as-biden-set-to-form-cabinet/story-fs60fFKiMZTHfRihrmTo2M.html
22-11-2020||World||Donald Trump skips G20 session on Covid-19 pandemic to visit golf club||US President Donald Trump, who participated in his final Group of 20 summit on Saturday, skipped a special side-conference focused on coronavirus pandemic and was later spotted at his golf course outside Washington.It was unclear all week whether Trump would even be present for the year’s G20, which is being mostly virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic.When the summit started, Trump was among the nearly two dozen world leaders beaming in from the White House situation room, CNN reported.However, only 13 minutes into the summit, Trump was sending tweets focused on his efforts to overturn the results of the US presidential election.By 10 am Eastern Time, the President had departed the White House on his way to his namesake golf club outside Washington DC.He was there when the “side event on pandemic preparedness” got underway, featuring remarks from French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, South Korean President Moon Jae-in and several other world leaders. Trump did not participate.He is due to join another session of the G20 on Sunday morning, according to the White House schedule. But that is likely the last time Trump will meet a summit setting with other world leaders as the end of his presidency nears.CNN reported that Trump’s influence on the global stage is at a low ebb after losing the election. Most of the other G20 leaders have congratulated President-elect Joe Biden on his victory, with a notable exception in Russian President Vladimir Putin.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said that Trump in his remarks “discussed with other world leaders the need to work together to restore strong economic growth and jobs as we overcome the Covid-19 pandemic.”“During his remarks, President Trump highlighted how the United States marshalled every resource at its disposal to respond to the crisis, as well as the unprecedented economic recovery of the United States on a foundation of tax and regulatory cuts, energy independence, and fair trade deals,” the spokeswoman said in a statement.“He spoke about the aggressive actions and safety measures the United States took to protect the vulnerable, pioneer groundbreaking treatments, and develop vaccines and therapies at record-setting speed, which will save millions of lives. President Trump also reaffirmed the importance of the G20 working together for future economic growth and prosperity,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-skips-g20-session-on-pandemic-to-visit-golf-club/story-tLwT4LLm3IEf8tMp2KTZuJ.html
22-11-2020||World||9 Iraqi security personnel, civilians dead in IS ambush: Police||Six Iraqi security personnel and three civilians were killed in an ambush Saturday carried out by the Islamic State group north of Baghdad, police and a local official said.A police source said a roadside bomb hit a car and that jihadists opened fire on a rescue team of policemen and state-aligned paramilitary forces when they arrived at the scene, about 200 kilometres (120 miles) from the capital.Four members of the Hashed al-Shaabi and two policemen died along with three civilians, Mohammed Zidane, the mayor of Zouiya, 50 kilometres from the city of Tikrit, told AFP.Also Read: US decision to reduce troops in Afghanistan, Iraq draws ireHe updated an earlier civilian death toll of two.There was no immediate word of casualties among the assailants, but Zidane said those killed among the Hashed, a coalition of mainly Shiite forces, were Sunni tribesmen.Both the mayor and police said the ambush was the work of Islamic State (IS) jihadists, although no immediate claim of responsibility was issued.Eleven people were killed on November 8 in an IS attack on a lookout post at Al-Radwaniyah, near Baghdad airport on the outskirts of the capital.IS swept across a third of Iraq in 2014, seizing major cities across the north and west and reaching the suburbs of the capital. After a fierce three-year fight backed by a US-led military coalition, Iraq declared IS defeated in late 2017.The coalition has significantly drawn down its troops this year. Also Read: Pentagon to cut troop levels to 2,500 in Iraq, AfghanistanIS’ sleeper cells have continued to wage hit-and-run attacks on security forces and state infrastructure, particularly in desert areas where troops are stretched thin.Attacks with high tolls and close to the capital have been rare, however.The latest attacks come as the United States announced that it will withdraw another 500 troops, reducing its deployment to 2,500 soldiers. Most other countries’ contributing forces to the coalition have pulled out since the coronavirus pandemic hit.However, the Iraqi government has “clearly indicated it wants to maintain its partnership with the United States and coalition forces as we continue to finish the fight against ISIS”, the US Middle East commander said Thursday, using another acronym for the jihadist group.General Kenneth McKenzie cited estimates that IS still has a body of 10,000 supporters in the Iraq-Syria region and remains a real threat.“The progress of the Iraqi Security Forces has allowed the United States to reduce force posture in Iraq,” he said.But US and coalition forces have to remain to help prevent IS from reconstituting as a cohesive group able to plot major attacks, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/9-iraqi-security-personnel-civilians-dead-in-is-ambush-police/story-dtlzM9L2AxGOM7IQRGQOOM.html
22-11-2020||World||Explorers livestream footage from Earth’s deepest underwater valley||China livestreamed footage of its new manned submersible parked at the bottom of the Mariana Trench on Friday, part of a historic mission into the deepest underwater valley on the planet.The “Fendouzhe”, or “Striver”, descended more than 10,000 metres into the submarine trench in the western Pacific Ocean with three researchers on board, state broadcaster CCTV said.Only a handful of people have ever visited the bottom of the Mariana Trench, a crescent-shaped depression in the Earth’s crust that is deeper than Mount Everest is high and more than 2,550 kilometres long.The first explorers visited the trench in 1960 on a brief expedition, after which there had been no missions until Hollywood director James Cameron made the first solo trip to the bottom in 2012. Cameron described a “desolate” and “alien” environment.Video footage shot and relayed by a deep-sea camera this week showed the green-and-white Chinese submersible moving through dark water surrounded by clouds of sediment as it slowly touched down on the seabed.Fendouzhe, which has made multiple dives in recent days, had earlier this month set a national record of 10,909 metres for manned deep-sea diving after landing in the deepest known point of the trench, Challenger Deep, just shy of the 10,927-metre world record set by an American explorer in 2019.The mission on November 10 beamed up the world’s first live video from Challenger Deep.The submersible, equipped with robotic arms to collect biological samples and sonar “eyes” that use sound waves to identify surrounding objects, is making repeated dives to test its capabilities. It is carrying so much equipment that engineers added a bulbous forehead-shaped protrusion containing buoyant materials to the vessel to help maintain its balance.Fendouzhe, China’s third deep-sea manned submersible, is observing “the many species and the distribution of living things on the seabed”, scientists on board told CCTV.The water pressure at the bottom of the trench is a crushing eight tons per square inch, around a thousand times the atmospheric pressure at sea level, yet scientists have found the dark, frigid waters of the trench to be teeming with life. The Chinese researchers will collect specimens for their work, CCTV said.Previous studies have found thriving communities of single-cell organisms surviving on organic waste that had settled on the ocean floor, but very few large animals. The mission will also conduct research on “deep-sea materials,” CCTV said, as China pushes ahead in deep-sea mining.Beijing this month set up a joint training and research centre with the International Seabed Authority, which will train professionals on deep-sea technology as well as conducting research on mining for valuable minerals at the bottom of the ocean.Fendouzhe is expected to set standards for China’s future deep-sea vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explorers-livestream-footage-from-earth-s-deepest-underwater-valley/story-GhnNy5LzDyxOH8xDayck1K.html
22-11-2020||World||UK’s Prince Harry welcomes Princess Diana interview inquiry||Britain’s Prince Harry has joined his brother William in welcoming a new investigation into how the BBC secured a famous and controversial 1995 interview with their mother Princess Diana, with a source describing it as a “drive for truth”.A former Supreme Court justice is leading a new inquiry into how the broadcaster obtained the interview and whether executives covered up any wrongdoing after accusations that the late princess was tricked into taking part. Prince William, the second in line to the throne, said earlier this week that the investigation was a step in the right direction and a source close to Harry said on Saturday that the prince was getting regular updates. The person familiar with the situation also questioned some British media reports which asked why Harry, living in California with his wife Meghan and son Archie, had not joined his brother in welcoming the investigation earlier.“Sadly, some people are not just seeing this as a drive for truth, but also trying to use this as an opportunity to try to drive a wedge between the brothers,” the person said.Diana’s Panorama interview with Martin Bashir was watched by more than 20 million viewers in Britain and became one of the defining moments of her failed marriage to Prince Charles. It included an admission of an affair and the line that there “were three of us in this marriage”, referring to Charles’ relationship with his now second wife, Camilla Parker-Bowles. This month, Diana’s brother Charles Spencer said the BBC had failed to apologise for what he said were forged documents and “other deceit” which led him to introduce Diana to Bashir.The BBC has said the broadcaster is determined to get to the truth about Spencer’s assertions and has appointed John Dyson, one of the country’s most senior retired judges, to lead the inquiry. Bashir has made no public comment on the situation and the corporation says the journalist, who gained global renown from the interview, is currently on sick leave, recovering from heart surgery and from contracting Covid-19. Harry and Meghan moved to California after stepping back from royal duties in January and have signed a multi-year production deal with Netflix as part of their plans to be more financially independent.The source added that the couple had decided to share their property in England, Frogmore Cottage, with his cousin Eugenie but would stay there when they visit the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-prince-harry-welcomes-princess-diana-interview-inquiry/story-xb9U9Mcnxee3zxkbAglbON.html
22-11-2020||World||Covid-19 cases in California climb to a record as state curfew begins||California added 15,442 new coronavirus cases, hitting a new high as the state’s evening curfew kicks in Saturday night.The cases topped Friday’s record of 13,005 infections, bringing the total to almost 1.1 million. The number of deaths increased by 86 to 18,643, state data showed. The increased patient load left California’s hospitals with just 1,921 intensive-case unit beds available, near the low in July.A 10 pm to 5 am curfew will be imposed in most counties for a month to ease the rate of infection, affecting areas that encompass 37 million people, or 94% of the population.Only 10 countries globally have more cases than California, where the number of cases now exceeds those in Mexico and Germany, which have been hot spots for the pandemic.Also Read | Moderna to charge $25-$37 for Covid-19 vaccine, CEO tells paperGovernor Gavin Newsom said earlier in the week that the curfew will stop nonessential work and gatherings to “flatten the curve again,” reflecting growing alarm among state officials as the third wave of coronavirus infections to hit the state gathers momentum.The jump in California cases come as infections across the U.S. have surpassed 12 million, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended against all travel on cruise ships, citing the high risk of infection.Officials have also urged residents to avoid travel and scale back Thanksgiving gatherings -- or cancel them altogether. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti tweeted Saturday to remind residents to celebrate virtually or only with members of the same household.The California order’s impact on businesses will be limited, and appears intended largely to prevent late-night socializing. Restaurants will need to close outdoor dining by 10 p.m., but they can continue offering takeout afterward. People working overnight shifts in factories, warehouses or logistics jobs won’t be affected. Grocery stores open 24 hours will be able to stay that way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-in-california-climb-to-a-record-as-state-curfew-begins/story-uz67cvKVIfk5usaBSLudrO.html
22-11-2020||World||Moderna to charge $25-$37 for Covid-19 vaccine, says CEO||Moderna will charge governments between $25 and $37 per dose of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, depending on the amount ordered, Chief Executive Stephane Bancel told German weekly Welt am Sonntag (WamS).“Our vaccine therefore costs about the same as a flu shot, which is between $10 and $50,” he was quoted as saying.Also Read | As some countries rush to buy Covid-19 vaccine in advance, will others be left out?On Monday, an EU official involved in the talks said the European Commission wanted to reach a deal with Moderna for the supply of millions of doses of its vaccine candidate for a price below $25 per dose.“Nothing is signed yet, but we’re close to a deal with the EU Commission. We want to deliver to Europe and are in constructive talks,” Bancel told WamS, adding it was just a “matter of days” until a contract would be ready.Moderna has said its experimental vaccine is 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19, based on interim data from a late-stage clinical trial, becoming the second developer to report results that far exceeded expectations after Pfizer and its partner BioNTech.The EU has been in talks with Moderna for its experimental Covid-19 vaccine at least since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-to-charge-25-37-for-covid-19-vaccine-ceo-tells-paper/story-oCRSSMW2vRE5VfgnEs2wJP.html
22-11-2020||World||Joe Biden poised to name cabinet||US President-elect Joe Biden is moving quickly to fill out his administration and could name top leaders for his cabinet as early as next week as President Donald Trump’s attempts to question the election outcome continue to fail. Biden has already decided on who will lead the treasury department. That pick, along with his nominee for secretary of state, may be announced before Thanksgiving, which falls on November 26.Indian American Mala Adiga was named on Friday as policy director to Jill Biden, the incoming first lady. She is a lawyer who earlier served in the departments of state and justice in the Obama administration, and had worked on the 2008 Obama-Biden campaign.Vivek Murthy, another Indian American, is among leading contenders for secretary of health and human services. Georgia on Friday certified Biden as the winner in the state and Michigan Republicans declared they had seen nothing so far to warrant reversing the outcome in their state after a meeting with Trump.The Trump campaign can still seek a recount of the Georgia votes under the state’s law, but its Republican leaders appear in no mood to indulge his efforts to question the election outcome with nothing more than stray instances of irregularities.“We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan and, as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors, just as we have said throughout this election,” Lee Chatfield, Speaker of the Republican-controlled state House and Mike Shirkey, leader of the Republican-controlled Senate, said in a joint statement after their meeting with Trump at the White House. The meeting was unprecedented in itself and seen as a sign of the president’s growing desperation. In his first public appearance in days - a briefing on pricing of medicines-- Trump falsely claimed once again he had won, but took no questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-poised-to-name-cabinet/story-wuX5TZ8JuwdcaoEpcAWO8I.html
22-11-2020||World||Rocket attack in Kabul by Islamic State kills 8||The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for deadly rocket attacks on Saturday on the Afghan capital that left at least eight people dead. In a statement on its Telegram channels, IS said 28 Katyusha rockets fired by “soldiers of the caliphate” hit Kabul’s heavily fortified Green Zone that houses “the presidential palace, embassies of Crusader states, and the headquarters of Afghan forces”.  Mortar shells slammed into different parts of the Afghan capital on Saturday, also wounding 31 others, an Afghan official said. The shells were fired from two cars, interior ministry spokesperson Tariq Arian said. At least one rocket landed in the Iranian embassy compound.Violence in Afghanistan has spiked in recent months with increasingly horrific attacks often claimed by the Islamic State group affiliate. The Taliban have also continued near daily assaults on beleaguered Afghan government forces.US secretary of state Mike Pompeo met negotiators from the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha on Saturday, amid signs of progress in their talks as Washington speeds up its withdrawal.“I would be most interested in getting your thoughts on how we can increase the probability of a successful outcome”, Pompeo said as he met the Afghan government side, noting the shared interest in such a scenario.The Afghan government and the Taliban are “very close” to breaking a deadlock in peace talks, a senior Afghan official said Saturday, adding that the US troops military presence was still necessary.“We are close, we are very close,“ said Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rocket-attack-in-kabul-by-islamic-state-kills-8/story-CpQbch646G01i5Qdo1lRyI.html
22-11-2020||World||Covid-19: Donald Trump’s eldest son tests positive; Europe at risk of third wave||Donald Trump Jr, the son of US President Donald Trump, tested positive for Covid-19 this week, although he is experiencing no symptoms. He has been “quarantining at his cabin since the result,” a spokesman said. Trump on Saturday tweeted that his son was doing “very well”. “My son Donald is doing very well. Thank you!” he posted after the disclosure of the diagnosis.Andrew Giuliani, the son of the president’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, also said he tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The news came as the US reached a record for daily cases of more than 195,000.  China used the Covid-19 crisis for strategic gains across the Indo-Pacific region, the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) has said in a report which noted the pandemic was replete with “significant” geopolitical ramifications.China’s increasingly active drive and India’s rivalry with Pakistan will continue to dominate the regional security environment when the pandemic dies down, said Strategic Survey 2020: The Annual Assessment of Geopolitics, which was launched virtually on Friday.“Competition intensified in the region. Beijing seemed steadily more intent on asserting strategic primacy in its maritime littoral. The US government…saw evidence that China was taking advantage of other governments’ preoccupation with the Covid-19 pandemic to gain strategic advantage throughout what the US, its allies and other states including India and Indonesia increasingly referred to as the Indo-Pacific region”, it said.Europe is risking a third virus wave early next year unless it takes more action now, according to David Nabarro, the World Health Organization’s special envoy on Covid-19 preparedness and response.His comments came as Germany added nearly 23,000 new coronavirus infections as of Saturday morning, lifting the total above 900,000. Germany is already in a partial lockdown that has closed museums, bars and restaurants but kept schools and most shops open. That may be extended well into next month as Europe’s biggest economy seeks to regain control over the spread of the coronavirus before people head home for the holidays, Bloomberg News reported on Friday.The UK government, meanwhile, is preparing to relax its lockdown to allow “several” families to form a bubble for up to a week over the Christmas period, the Telegraph said on Saturday.Russia had 467 deaths from Covid-19 in the past day, a new daily record, the government’s virus response centre said on Saturday. There were also 24,822 new coronavirus cases in Russia, which was also a daily recordOntario, Canada’s largest province, ordered a lockdown in Toronto and one of its suburbs from Monday, a declaration that forces shopping malls, restaurants and other businesses to close their doors to slow a second wave. All non-essential retail stores in Toronto and Peel will have to close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-donald-trump-s-eldest-son-tests-positive-europe-at-risk-of-third-wave/story-Gn8AzvRppmW6daIRIoTYPN.html
22-11-2020||World||US surpasses 12 million Covid-19 cases: Report||The United States surpassed 12 million Covid-19 cases Saturday, according to the Johns Hopkins University real-time tracker.The world’s largest economy currently has 12,019,960 cases and 255,414 deaths, both by far the worst global tolls. The new toll comes just six days after the US crossed the 11-million case threshold.Cases have been surging in the US at an alarming rate, forcing many cities to re-impose punishing lockdown measures.Also Read | Pfizer seeks emergency use of its Covid-19 vaccine in USHealth authorities have urged people to stay home for next week’s Thanksgiving holiday, when Americans usually travel from coast to coast to be with their families.New York City has shut down schools for its 1.1 million students, while California began imposing a 10:00 pm to 5:00 am curfew from Saturday. Chicago -- the US’ third-largest city -- has been under stay-at-home orders since Monday.On Friday, President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr, announced he had tested positive for Covid-19 and is quarantining.His positive test follows infections for a string of others connected to the White House, including his father, who was hospitalized, the president’s wife Melania and Trump’s youngest son Barron.President Trump’s administration has been heavily criticized for its response to the pandemic and for downplaying the dangers.On Monday, President-elect Joe Biden expressed frustration over Trump’s refusal to cooperate on the White House transition process, saying “more people may die” of coronavirus without immediate coordination on fighting the pandemic.There is, however, a new sign of hope: US biotech giant Pfizer and German partner BioNTech announced Friday they will seek approval to roll out their coronavirus vaccine early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-surpasses-12-million-covid-19-cases-report/story-fmTI0Ck3q4WY37saEZkvgO.html
22-11-2020||World||World Bank warns G20 against doing too little to tackle debt problems||World Bank President David Malpass on Saturday warned G20 leaders that failing to provide more permanent debt relief to some countries now could lead to increased poverty and a repeat of the disorderly defaults seen in the 1980s.Malpass said he was pleased by progress made by the Group of 20 major economies on increasing debt transparency and providing debt relief to the poorest countries, but more was needed.“Debt reduction and transparency will enable productive investment, a key to achieving an earlier, stronger and more lasting recovery,” Malpass told G20 leaders during a videoconference meeting. “We need to guard against doing too little now, and then suffering disorderly defaults and repeated debt restructurings as in the 1980s,” he said.The so-called ‘lost decade’ of the 1980s saw many highly indebted countries in Latin America and elsewhere unable to pay their debts, delaying growth and efforts to reduce poverty. Malpass, who began pushing for debt relief early in the Covid-19 crisis, warned that debt challenges were becoming more frequent, including in Chad, Angola, Ethiopia and Zambia, and failure to provide “more permanent debt relief” left a bleak outlook for reducing poverty.G20 leaders are poised to formally endorse extension of a temporary freeze in official bilateral debt payments by the poorest countries, and adoption of a common framework for debt restructuring in the future.Some countries, including China, have remained reluctant to embrace the need for debt cancellation, although top economists say that will likely be needed in some cases. Private sector creditors have also failed to join in, despite repeated calls by G20 leaders, civil society groups and the United Nations.Malpass said the Bank was working closely with the G20 in countries affected by fragility, conflict and violence, including the Sahel, Somalia, Lebanon, Gaza and the West Bank.In Sudan, he said he was hopeful that arrears clearance could move quickly, especially given the inflow of refugees from neighboring Ethiopia, which would allow substantial World Bank funding to begin flowing almost immediately.The United States last month moved to remove Sudan from its list of state sponsors of terrorism, clearing away one of the hurdles facing the heavily indebted African country, which has some $60 billion in external debt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-bank-warns-g20-against-doing-too-little-to-tackle-debt-problems/story-aiXYutsgqXlSZ3PVDD7XVK.html
22-11-2020||World||US air travelers surge over 1 million in holiday-season uptick||More than 1 million people flew through US domestic airports on Friday, the second-highest daily total since the coronavirus pandemic hit last spring, even as officials warn against travel around the Thanksgiving holiday.Airline passengers still lag substantially behind normal levels, but data posted by the Transportation Security Administration show that at least some people are bucking suggestions they stay home in light of the rapid growth in Covid-19 infections.A total of 1,019,836 people passed through US airport security screening portals on Friday, 40% of the nearly 2.6 million who flew on the equivalent day last year, according to TSA data.Since passenger counts plummeted from mid-March, only Oct. 18 had more people boarding flights. Friday’s total was well above the one-week average of 829,000 passengers a day.The increase came in spite of recent warnings from carriers, including American Airlines Group Inc., United Airlines Holdings Inc. and Southwest Airlines Co., about softening holiday travel demand. The period around Thanksgiving is traditionally one of the busiest for travel.“There has been a deceleration in system bookings and an uptick in cancellations as a result of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases,” United said in a regulatory filing.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday urged people not to travel for Thanksgiving, which is Thursday, and to limit gatherings to those in the same household.Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, recommended that people “think twice” about traveling over the holidays.Various governors have echoed the call to restrict gatherings for the popular holiday, while not necessarily issuing formal guidance.“Think about those you love and what you would do to protect them. It’s up to each and every one of us to be responsible and prevent the spread of Covid this holiday season,” Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, said Saturday on Twitter.Meanwhile, Republican and Democratic governors from several Midwestern states issued a joint video urging people to stay home for Thanksgiving, according to the Associated Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-air-travelers-surge-over-1-million-in-holiday-season-uptick/story-A9hr6v6MxsF9O9lGsHdZVM.html
22-11-2020||World||England will end Covid-19 lockdown with stricter tiered system||England will end a national Covid-19 lockdown on Dec. 2 and move into tougher tiered regional restrictions than before, with more areas facing severe constraints to prevent the virus from reigniting, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s office said. Johnson ordered England in to a month-long lockdown in early November after infection cases and deaths started to rise again, angering businesses and some of his own political party over the economic consequences.A second wave of infections has started to flatten, official data shows, but scientific advisers are expected to warn on Monday that previous regional restrictions did not go far enough and harder measures are needed to prevent another national lockdown. “The Prime Minister and his scientific advisors are clear the virus is still present - and without regional restrictions it could quickly run out of control again before vaccines and mass testing have had an effect,” a spokeswoman said. “That would put in jeopardy the progress the country has made, and once again risk intolerable pressure on the NHS (National Health Service).”Britain has suffered the worst death toll in Europe and the deepest economic contraction of any G7 nation, prompting sharp criticism of Johnson’s handling of the pandemic. Prior to the latest lockdown, England had been placed into three tiers, with the toughest measures imposed in northern England, where movement was limited and pubs were forced to close unless they sold substantial meals. Johnson’s office said the prime minister would set out a new Covid Winter Plan on Monday, with more areas placed into the higher restrictions under the tiered system. He will discuss it with his cabinet of leading ministers on Sunday and present to parliament on Monday. The plan will also include details on interactions at Christmas.Ministers will announce which areas will be placed into which tier on Thursday, with lawmakers able to vote on the system before it comes into force. The tiers will be reviewed. The move is likely to be met with fierce resistance from some lawmakers who argue that the country cannot afford to close shops and hospitality again after unemployment numbers and debt jumped, and economic output plunged 20% in the second quarter. The government has argued that the virus will overwhelm hospitals and cripple the economy if it is left unchecked.The opposition Labour Party said a package of support would be needed for any business having to close. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are also under varying levels of restrictions, set by their local governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-leader-to-end-england-s-national-lockdown-on-dec-2/story-AXW9JBXanIFkykwioXb5BN.html
22-11-2020||World||Donald Trump’s Pennsylvania lawsuit is ‘incoherent conspiracy,’ voters say||The Trump campaign’s lawsuit seeking to block Pennsylvania from certifying its election result is based on “absurd” logic contradicted by the facts in its own complaint, groups representing voters told a federal judge.President Donald Trump, who alleges a vast Democratic conspiracy in his refusal to concede defeat in the Nov. 3 election, has “utterly failed” to produce evidence of such a fraud while seeking to scrap tens of thousands of votes over technical disputes related to mail-in ballots, the groups said in a filing Friday evening.The campaign seeks “to justify mass disenfranchisement with an incoherent conspiracy theory,” the groups, including the Pennsylvania chapters of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the League of Women Voters, said in the filing in Williamsport.“We did not establish a representative democracy to ask courts to ‘declare’ who wins our elections,” the groups said.US District Judge Matthew Brann, an Obama appointee, is simultaneously weighing the Trump campaign’s amended request for an injunction and Pennsylvania’s motion to dismiss the suit.The campaign seeks to audit 1.5 million ballots in Democratic-leaning counties and subject them to a “statistical analysis” to determine how many may be “illegal,” who the ballots were cast for, and provide an estimate on many should be thrown out.Trump Challenge to Election Results Hits Hardest at Black VotersThe campaign claims that at least 70,000 ballots were probably counted illegally in Pennsylvania because voters were allowed to fix, or “cure,” minor errors in Democratic-leaning counties before Election Day, while some Republican-led counties rejected such ballots.The voter groups said in their filing that election workers’ extensive documentation of voters who were allowed to “cure” errors contradicts the suit’s claim about a conspiracy. Workers also went to great lengths to help voters cast completed ballots, they said, contradicting the claim that officials were secretly counting defective ones.“Plaintiffs do not explain why, if these counties were conspiring to count defective ballots, they went out of their way to help voters fix mistakes to cast non-defective ballots,” the groups said. And while the campaign claims that the counties’ curing process was intended “to favor Biden,” similar protocols were used in several counties where voters favored Trump by wide margins, according to the filing.Those Republican-leaning counties aren’t named in the suit.The groups’ filing included examples of individual voters whose ballots would be rejected over seemingly irrational deficiencies if the campaign succeeds, including 73-year-old Natalie Price of Montgomery County, northwest of Philadelphia.“A day or two before the election, Ms. Price was notified that her ballot had been rejected because she did not write her name and address on the ballot declaration, which seemed unnecessary because it was pre-printed on the envelope,” according to the filing. Price traveled to a polling place and “added this duplicative information to her ballot.”For that, the filing says, the Trump campaign would deem her vote “illegal.”Michigan Lawmakers Who Met Trump Stand by Election OutcomeRejecting mail-in ballots from certified registered voters because they were given a chance to fix minor errors before Election Day would be a violation of the right to vote, they said. No evidence has been presented that ballots were cast by unregistered or invalid voters, they said.“While plaintiffs’ allegations and claims continue to twist and turn, in search of a legal theory that could justify this lawsuit, their ultimate goal has remained the same: to disenfranchise” millions of voters “in an effort to overturn an unfavorable election result,” the said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-pennsylvania-lawsuit-is-incoherent-conspiracy-voters-say/story-YPcR7rL7hnYKm27iPryVjI.html
22-11-2020||World||Donald Trump stays mum on sharing vaccines as leaders push for equality||Leaders of the world’s richest countries pushed for equality in the race to vaccinate people against the coronavirus, while President Donald Trump stayed quiet on sharing US-made vaccines with other nations.The battle to counter the pandemic dominated the first day of a virtual summit of Group of 20 nations on Saturday, hosted by Saudi Arabia.The US president told his counterparts that any American who wants the vaccine will be able to get it, and singled out American producers Pfizer Inc., whose jab has been developed along with a German company, and Moderna Inc., according to officials who asked not to be named discussing the talks, which weren’t open to the press.Trump praised American leadership, claiming credit for what he said was an efficient fight against the virus and success in bolstering the nation’s economy. But he said nothing about granting access to American vaccines by the rest of the world.US coronavirus deaths continue to soar, having recently passed 250,000, with the nation repeatedly reaching a record for daily cases. Total infections are nearing 12 million, with states including Ohio and California posting new Covid-19 case highs.Shortly after Trump’s remarks he left the virtual session -- while UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson was speaking -- and was replaced first by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and then White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow, according to officials familiar with the meeting. Some other leaders also dropped off after giving their speeches, the officials said.Trump later departed the White House for his Virginia golf course. The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Russia in August trumpeted its success in becoming the first nation to register a Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V. US and European rivals, though, are now moving faster to produce their vaccines and obtain regulatory approval. The European Union has reached a deal with Pfizer, which is partnered with Germany’s BioNTech SE, and is negotiating an accord with Moderna.China, meanwhile, is already rolling out mass vaccine output to fight the disease, offering it as a tool of soft power.Echoing Trump, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said it was up to each individual to decide whether to be vaccinated, adding that the pandemic shouldn’t justify attacks on people’s freedom.Pfizer Covid Vaccine Faces Hurdles After FDA Filing FridayTrump wasn’t alone in praising his own country’s efforts. But Russian President Vladimir Putin also said his country is ready to share its vaccines with others that need it. That’s even as Russia hasn’t produced enough doses to start mass inoculation of its own population.“The main risk, of course, remains the likelihood, despite some positive signals, of mass, long-term unemployment and the accompanying rise in poverty and social dislocation,” Putin said in his speech. “And the role of the G-20 is to ensure this doesn’t happen.”“It is a case when competition may be inevitable, but we must proceed primarily from humanitarian considerations and make it a priority,” Putin added about vaccine availability, according to an official Kremlin translation of his remarks.China, likewise, made a point of offering up its vaccines. “China will honor its pledge, provide help and support to developing countries, and strive to make vaccines a global public good that is accessible and affordable to all countries,” President Xi Jinping told the meeting, according to state broadcaster CCTV.Xi also called on G-20 members to support the World Health Organization in coordinating resource allocation to ensure equitable and efficient distribution of vaccines worldwide.Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told the meeting the G-20 should work to secure the “affordable and fair distribution of Covid-19 vaccine for everyone.” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also said countries should share vaccines, and stressed the importance of multilateral cooperation against the virus, according to a G-20 official.South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, who holds the rotating chairmanship of the 55-nation African Union, called for all countries to have “equitable and affordable access” to a vaccine once it becomes available and urged the G-20 to help ensure any funding shortfalls are addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-stays-mum-on-sharing-vaccines-as-leaders-push-for-equality/story-E1C87kCPoY4uKBDjXYGRYJ.html
22-11-2020||World||One man’s ‘lie’ led to harsh lockdown in South Australia||South Australia’s drastic six-day coronavirus lockdown was triggered by a “lie” to contact tracers from a man who tested positive and restrictions across the state are set to be lifted much sooner than first planned, authorities said on Friday.The shock announcement came just two days after the state government ordered people to stay at home and shut many businesses to combat what was considered a highly contagious outbreak of coronavirus.South Australia state Premier Steven Marshall told a media conference in Adelaide that one man at a pizza bar tied to the outbreak told contact tracers he had only bought a pizza there, when he had actually worked several shifts at the food outlet alongside another worker who tested positive.Authorities assumed the man, who wasn’t named, had caught the virus during a very short exposure, leading them to believe the strain must be highly contagious.“Their (the man’s) story didn’t add up. We pursued them. We now know that they lied,” Marshall told reporters. “Had this person been truthful to the contact tracing teams, we would not have gone into a six-day lockdown.”“To say I am fuming about the actions of this individual is an absolute understatement. This selfish actions of this individual have put our whole state in a very difficult situation.”While the outbreak was still worrying, Marshall said restrictions would be lifted early with a stay-at-home order ending at midnight on Saturday when most businesses would also be allowed to open.Asked what punishment the individual might face, Police Commissioner Grant Stevens said there was “no penalty” for lying to tracers under the current law, though that would likely be reviewed.“I think it is stating the obvious to say that this person’s actions has had a devastating impact on our community,” said Stevens. “The hardship is not lost on us.”Stevens said a team reviewing information provided by the man to contract tracers wasn’t satisfied with “the feeling they got from this”. Stevens would not be drawn on the man’s likely motivation for misleading contact tracers.Home to about 1.8 million people, South Australia has recorded 25 cases from the latest cluster, linked to a returned traveller from the UK. The number of new cases in the state was still expected to rise over the next few days.The country as a whole has been relatively successful on containing the virus with only around 95 cases currently active.The state of Victoria on Friday reported its 21st day of zero cases, a well-earned reward for a marathon lockdown of the country’s second-largest city, Melbourne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-man-s-lie-led-to-harsh-lockdown-in-south-australia/story-0z9OwLKwPw5AoRTrEwCZnK.html
22-11-2020||World||IS attack hits Afghan capital; Mike Pompeo joins peace talks||Mortars slammed into a residential area of the Afghan capital, killing eight people Saturday, hours before outgoing US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo held what are likely his last meetings with the Taliban and Afghan government negotiators trying to hammer out a peace deal.The attack in Kabul, which was blamed on Islamic State militants, also injured 31 people.The assault came as peace talks were underway in Qatar, where Pompeo told Afghan government negotiators that the US will “sit on the side and help where we can” in the negotiations with Taliban militants.Two Taliban officials told The Associated Press that the two warring sides have found common ground on which to move forward the stalled talks. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media, did not elaborate.In Kabul, at least one of the 23 mortar shells fired from two cars hit inside the Iranian Embassy compound. No one was injured, but it damaged the main building, the Iranian Embassy said in a tweet. At least 31 people were hurt elsewhere in the city, according to the Afghan Interior Ministry.The local Islamic State affiliate issued a statement claiming the attack that targeted the so-called Green Zone in Kabul which houses foreign embassies, the presidential palace and Afghan military compounds, according to SITE Intelligence Group.In Doha, Pompeo also met with the co-founder of the Taliban, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who signed the peace agreement with Washington in February ahead of the so-called intra-Afghan talks. The insurgent group’s spokesman, Mohammad Naeem, tweeted that further prisoner releases were discussed in the meeting, in addition to those that the two warring sides committed to ahead of peace talks under the US deal.Naeem said the Taliban also repeated their demand that Taliban leaders be removed from the United Nations sanctions list. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed earlier Saturday issued a statement assailing the Afghan government for requesting the U.N. maintain sanctions on Taliban leaders.For most Afghans, the overriding concern has been a sharp rise in violence this year and a surge of attacks by the Taliban against Afghanistan’s beleaguered security forces, since the start of peace talks in September.The announcement this week that the United States will accelerate its planned troop withdrawal has lent greater urgency to the intra-Afghan negotiations and to the calls for a reduction in violence. Washington announced it would withdraw another estimated 2,500 troops before the middle of January leaving about 2,000 American soldiers in Afghanistan.The Taliban have, however, held to their promise not to attack US and NATO troops.The United States has been pressing in recent weeks for a reduction in violence, while the Afghan government has been demanding a cease-fire. The Taliban have refused, saying a cease-fire will be part of negotiations.There are many within the Afghan government who want February’s peace deal scrapped. President-elect Joe Biden has previously advocated a small, intelligence based force in Afghanistan to focus on counter-terrorism.Meanwhile, Abdullah Abdullah, head of the government’s High Council for Reconciliation, condemned in a tweet Saturday’s attack on the capital, calling it a “cowardly” act. The council oversees the government’s negotiating team at the table with the Taliban in Doha.Pakistan, whose Prime Minister Imran Khan visited on Tuesday Kabul for the first time since he came to office, condemned the attack and warned “it is important to be vigilant against the spoilers who are working to undermine the peace efforts.” He did not identify “the spoilers.”Hours before the attack rattled Kabul, a bomb attached to a car killed one security personnel and wounded three others in an eastern neighborhood of the capital, said Kabul police spokesman Ferdaws Faramarz.Violence in Afghanistan has spiked in recent months with increasingly horrific attacks often claimed by the Islamic State group affiliate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-attack-hits-afghan-capital-pompeo-joins-peace-talks/story-6Sf2ZgzvupIvq5gDjxCmtI.html
22-11-2020||World||Protests staged across France against bill on police images||Thousands of people took to the streets in Paris and other French cities Saturday at the urging of civil liberties campaigners and journalist groups to protest a proposed security law they say would impinge on freedom of information and media rights.Pending legislation in France’s parliament would create a new criminal offense for publishing images of police officers with intent to cause them harm. Offenders would face a maximum penalty of up to one year in prison and a 45,000-euro ($53,000) fine.The government says the proposal is intended to protect police officers from online calls for violence. Critics fear that, if enacted, the measure would endanger journalists and other observers who take videos of officers at work, especially during violent demonstrations.In Paris, several thousand demonstrators gathered on the Trocadero square near the Eiffel Tower, chanting “Freedom, freedom” and “Everyone wants to film the police.”Reporters without Borders, Amnesty International France, the Human Rights League, journalists’ unions and other groups encouraged people to attend the protest. The crowd included many journalists and students.“We are not here to defend a privilege of our profession, press freedom and journalists’ freedom,” Edwy Plenel, co-founder and editor of investigative website Mediapart, said. “We are here to defend fundamental rights, the rights of all people.”Some members of the anti-government yellow vest movement also joined the demonstration.The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and France’s human rights ombudsman have also voiced concerns that the new provision could undermine fundamental rights.In response to the criticism, Prime Minister Jean Castex said Thursday that the measure would be amended to specify that it “won’t impede the freedom of information” and that it will focus only on images broadcast with “clear” intent to harm a police officer.Emmanuel Poupard, secretary general of the National Journalists Union (SNJ), said Saturday that he thinks the new amendment “doesn’t change anything.”The police image law “has only one goal: to boost the sense of impunity of law enforcement officers and make invisible police brutality,” he said.Protesters argue that recording officers in action is essential to being able to condemn and curb the actions of violent officers. They also worry how courts would determine whether images were posted with intent to harm.In July, three French police officers were charged with manslaughter over the death of a delivery man, Cedric Chouviat, that bystanders caught on video. Chouviat’s death had similarities with the killing of George Floyd in the US state of Minneapolis, which sparked outrage around the world and a series of Black Lives Matter demonstrations in France.The proposed law is championed by lawmakers from President Emmanuel Macron’s party, which has a majority in the National Assembly.Lawmakers are scheduled to vote Tuesday on the bill, which also includes other security measures. It will then go to the Senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-staged-across-france-against-bill-on-police-images/story-qsGjOQUFVZ3V0TGDas10HO.html
22-11-2020||World||Putin compares covid-induced economic crisis to great depression||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday at the G20 summit called the economic crisis caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic ‘a major world crisis’ since the Great Depression.“The scale of the challenges that humanity faces in 2020 is truly unprecedented. The coronavirus epidemic, global lockdown and freezing of economic activity have triggered a systemic economic crisis that the modern world has probably not known since the Great Depression,” Putin said at the summit as quoted by Sputnik.Putin further praised the US for its contribution to the world economic recovery during his economic speech and added that mass unemployment and poverty remain major issues for the world.“US President [Donald Trump] just spoke about the efforts of the United States, indeed, this is a very big contribution to the restoration of the US economy and, therefore, to the restoration of the world economy,” Putin said.He added, “The main risk, of course, remains ... despite some positive signals, the main risk will still remain massive long-term, so-called stagnant mass unemployment. With the subsequent growth of poverty and social disorder.”The Russian President further called for equal access to Covid-19 vaccines. “Russia supports the key project considered by the current summit, which aims to make efficient and safe vaccines accessible for everyone. There is no doubt that immunizing drugs should be common public property.He added, “And our country, Russia, of course, is ready to provide the vaccines developed by our scientists to those in need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-compares-covid-induced-economic-crisis-to-great-depression/story-WaiLaISbAk2RSYT29sZBLP.html
22-11-2020||World||Trump’s attempts to overturn poll outcome fail, Joe Biden forges ahead||Georgia on Friday certified President-elect Joe Biden as the winner in the state and Michigan Republicans declared they had seen nothing so far to warrant reversing the outcome in their state after a meeting with President Donald Trump, rebuffing his efforts to overturn the election.The Trump campaign can still seek a recount of the Georgia votes under the state’s law, but its Republican leaders appear in the mood to indulge the president and his allies’ efforts to question the election outcome with nothing more than stray instances of irregularities and loads of allegations and wild theories.“We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan and, as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors, just as we have said throughout this election,” Lee Chatfield, Speaker of the Republican-controlled state House and Mike Shirkey, leader of the Republican-controlled Senate, said in a joint statement after their meeting with the president at the White House. The meeting was unprecedented in itself and seen as a sign of the president’s growing desperation. In his first public appearance in days, the outgoing president falsely claimed once again he had won. It was a briefing on pricing of medicines but he took no questions.Trump has refused to admit defeat, launched legal challenges that have all fallen without impacting outcome, and his lawyers and allies have taken to citing conspiracy theories that have together tainted the election among the president’s supporters who, polls show, believe it was unfair.The Trump administration has refused to cooperate with the incoming Biden team, which has had to resort to workarounds to prepare itself to take charge on January 20. Biden met a bipartisan group of governors to discuss Covid-19, which he has said will be a top priority for his administration.He has also continued to announce members of his team. Indian American Mala Adiga was named on Friday as policy director to Jill Biden, the incoming First Lady. She is a lawyer who earlier served in the departments of state and justice in the Obama administration, and had worked on the 2008 Obama-Biden campaign.The president-elect is expected to name members of his cabinet around Thanksgiving next week, and Vivek Murthy, another Indian American, is among leading contenders for secretary of health and human services. The former surgeon general currently co-chairs Biden’s advisory team on Covid-19.Biden has also met CEOs and business leaders and the US chamber of commerce, the most powerful lobbyist for the private sector, has urged the president start the transition process without any delay. Republican governors, who are critics of the president, have also joined in.The public face of the Trump administration’s obduracy is Emily Murphy, a Trump-appointee who heads the federal General Services Administration, which must under law officially issue an “ascertainment” recognizing Biden’s election to kickstart the transition process. She has refused thus far.Asked if the Biden administration can get access to everything, they needed pending that ascertainment, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters Friday “the administration has done “everything statutorily required, and we will continue to do that”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-attempts-to-overturn-poll-outcome-fail-joe-biden-forges-ahead/story-cO8B3j0ch1WRvfLMTBtzEM.html
22-11-2020||World||US-European ocean monitoring satellite launches into orbit||A US-European satellite designed to extend a decades-long measurement of global sea surface heights was launched into Earth orbit from California on Saturday.A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying the satellite blasted off from Vandenberg Air Force Base at 9:17 a.m. and arced southward over the Pacific Ocean. The Falcon’s first stage flew back to the launch site and landed for reuse.The Sentinel-6 Michael Freilich satellite was expected to deploy its solar panels and later make first contact with controllers.Named for a former NASA official who had a key role in developing space-based oceanography, the satellite’s main instrument is an extremely accurate radar altimeter that will bounce energy off the sea surface as it sweeps over Earth’s oceans. An identical twin, Sentinel-6B, will be launched in 2025 to ensure continuity of the record.Space-based sea level measurements have been uninterrupted since the 1992 launch of the US-French satellite TOPEX-Poseidon, which was followed by a series of satellites including the current Jason-3.Sea surface heights are affected by heating and cooling of water, allowing scientist to use the altimeter data to detect such weather-influencing conditions as the warm El Nino and the cool La Nina.The measurements are also important for understanding overall sea level rise due to global warming that scientists warn is a risk to the world’s coastlines and billions of people.“Our Earth is a system of intricately connected dynamics between land, ocean, ice, atmosphere and also of course our human communities, and that system is changing,” Karen St. Germain, NASA’s Earth Science Division director, said in a pre-launch briefing Friday.“Because 70% of the Earth’s surface is ocean, the oceans play an enormous role in how the whole system changes,” she said.The new satellite is expected to have unprecedented accuracy.“This is an extremely important parameter for climate monitoring,” Josef Aschbacher, the European Space Agency’s director of Earth observation, told The Associated Press this week.“We know that sea level is rising,” Aschbacher said. The big question is, by how much, how quickly.Other instruments on board will measure how radio signals pass through the atmosphere, providing data on atmospheric temperature and humidity that can help improve global weather forecasts.Europe and the United States are sharing the $1.1 billion (900 million euro) cost of the mission, which includes the twin satellite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-european-ocean-monitoring-satellite-launches-into-orbit/story-4V9KoiI6f85ft5TKQjwyoO.html
22-11-2020||World||Michigan lawmakers who met Trump stand by election outcome||Two Michigan lawmakers who met with Donald Trump amid the president’s effort to overturn the state’s decisive vote for Joe Biden said they haven’t yet seen any reason to alter the result.“We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan,” Michigan Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey and House Speaker Lee Chatfield, both Republicans, said in a joint statement on Friday. “We will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors.”They added that allegations of fraud “should be taken seriously” and “thoroughly investigated,” but that certifying the Michigan vote “should be a deliberate process free from threats and intimidation.”Trump responded to the lawmakers in a pair of Saturday morning tweets asserting his team would show “massive” voter fraud. Thus far, more than two weeks after Election Day, Trump’s lawyers haven’t provided evidence that widespread irregularities occurred.Also Read | Trump tweets about voter ‘Fraud’ during G-20 opening meetingThe lawmakers’ meeting with Trump on Friday came after a bipartisan backlash against the president and his lawyers, who’ve discussed trying to persuade legislatures to appoint electors to vote for Trump, even though Biden won.Trump’s team is focused on Michigan, even though Biden leads the president there by roughly 156,000 votes, or 2.8 percentage points. The state has yet to certify its results. Trump won Michigan in 2016 by 0.3 points, or less than 11,000 votes.Longshot bidsThe effort in Michigan is part of a series of long-shot bids Trump and his allies are using in a bid to reverse his defeat. The president’s legal advisers have also suggested that state legislators in Pennsylvania could ignore the popular vote and choose pro-Trump electors. They’ve pressured state and local officials in Arizona and Georgia not to certify their election results, though Georgia on Friday brushed aside those pleas and moved forward with certification.Democrats and some Republicans, along with election lawyers and Biden’s aides, say efforts to overturn the Democrat’s victory don’t stand a chance of succeeding and are merely the result of Trump’s refusal to accept he lost. But they’ve warned that the president’s legal and public relations onslaught could inflict long-lasting damage on the nation’s democratic system and shake the public’s confidence in elections.Before the meeting with the Michigan lawmakers, Trump repeated his false claim that he defeated Biden. “I won, by the way. But, you know, we’ll find that out,” the president said during remarks Friday to reporters on prescription-drug pricing.Arranging meetingRudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal attorney who’s leading the campaign’s legal push, was involved in arranging the Friday meeting, according to a person familiar with the matter.White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters earlier Friday that “this is not an advocacy meeting” and that nobody from the campaign would be there.“He routinely meets with lawmakers from all across the country,” McEnany said of Trump. In fact, it’s rare for Trump to host state lawmakers at the White House, and the president has largely remained out of sight since losing to Biden.Earlier Friday morning, as Shirkey left Detroit for Washington, he was surrounded by demonstrators at the airport who chanted “protect our votes.” Chatfield defended his decision to attend, tweeting earlier Friday: “No matter the party, when you have an opportunity to meet with the President of the United States, of course you take it.”Shirkey and Chatfield had both earlier dismissed the idea of overruling voters to overturn Biden’s victory.“That’s not going to happen,” Shirkey told news outlet Michigan Bridge earlier this week.Chatfield said in a Nov. 6 tweet that “whoever gets the most votes will win Michigan! Period. End of story.”‘History will judge’Michigan’s Democratic congressional delegation said in a joint statement on Thursday evening that “history will judge” Shirkey and Chatfield “on whether they choose to acknowledge the results of the election and defend our democracy, or simply be loyal to one man.”Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat, said Friday on CNN that the state’s election was secure. “The voters have spoken and there’s a procedure now that we’re going through to certify those results,” she said. “Any attempts to interfere or obstruct that process is, you know, at the very least improper.”Benson said the state board of canvassers is expected to meet Monday to certify the results, telling CNN that every county in Michigan has submitted its certification to the state.Trump’s legal team had sought to stop Michigan from certifying the results, citing irregularities in Detroit, but dropped its lawsuit Thursday morning.Giuliani claimed in a statement that the campaign had already accomplished its goal, after two Republican members of the canvassing board in Wayne County, which includes Detroit, sought to rescind their votes certifying the election results. But Benson said they couldn’t reverse their decision, and the next step would be for the state canvassing board to certify Michigan’s election results.Giuliani asserted at a news conference in Washington on Thursday that without Detroit’s votes, Trump would have won the state of Michigan.Biden responseBob Bauer, senior adviser to Biden, told reporters on Friday that such a move to flip the outcome in Michigan “can not be done.”“The Constitution does not permit a state legislature to do what Donald Trump wants the state legislature to do,” Bauer said.Democrats and some Republicans in Washington have widely condemned Trump’s efforts to subvert the will of the voters in swing states to flip the election in his favor.“It is difficult to imagine a worse, more undemocratic action by a sitting American President,” said Utah Senator Mitt Romney, a Republican who’s been critical of Trump.Nebraska GOP Senator Ben Sasse also issued a critical statement after Giuliani staged a bizarre, 90-minute news conference on Thursday. Giuliani alleged without evidence that there was a “massive fraud” in Michigan, but Sasse countered that the president’s legal team has “refused to actually allege grand fraud” in court.“So no, obviously Rudy and his buddies should not pressure electors to ignore their certification obligations under the statute. We are a nation of laws, not tweets,” Sasse said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michigan-lawmakers-who-met-trump-stand-by-election-outcome/story-0ftpvnuNDBslnwMm80BlkK.html
22-11-2020||World||Pakistan opposition parties to hold Peshawar rally on Sunday, vow to define govt ban||The opposition parties in Pakistan will hold a planned public gathering in Peshawar on Sunday, defying the ban imposed by the Imran Khan-led government.The opposition parties, under the banner Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), said they will defy the order passed by the deputy commissioner of Peshawar and go forth with the public gathering.The PDM politicians have said that “selected ministers” of the federal government cannot hide behind the “curtain of the pandemic”, according to news agency ANI.They have also warned “street fights” if the government tries to forcibly stop the rally.Dr Nafeesa Shah of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) - led by Bilawal Bhutto Zardari - said that the rally is being held against the bad governance of Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf-led (PTI) government and the leaders will not rest until he resigns.She also alleged that the recently concluded Gilgit-Baltistan election which resulted in a win for the PTI, was a product of election engineering.The PDM consists of 11 major opposition parties of Pakistan who have stated that they will use all democratic options present to oust Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan from power. The PDM has also held major rallies in Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-parties-to-hold-peshawar-rally-on-sunday-vow-to-define-govt-ban/story-U2MiBzWem2oMmfuxPMTbhM.html
22-11-2020||World||Donald Trump tweets his son doing ‘very well’ after Covid-19 infection||A day after Donald Trump Jr. announced that he was infected with coronavirus, US President Donald Trump tweeted that he was doing “very well” in quarantine. “My son Donald is doing very well. Thank you!” the president tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDonald Trump Jr., who was diagnosed earlier this week, was symptomatic and was following all medically recommended guidelines for treating the illness, a spokesperson told news agency Associated Press on the condition of anonymity.Over 250,000 people have lost their lives to the virus in the US, which is the highest death toll of any country.In October, President Trump, first lady Melania Trump and their son Barron were also infected with the disease. The president spent three days in a military hospital, where he was treated with experimental drugs, while the first lady recovered at the White House. Donald Trump Jr.’s girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, tested positive for the coronavirus in July.White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie were among those who have also been infected with the virus, working for the president. President-elect Joe Biden made President Trump’s response to the virus a top issue in the recently concluded US election.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-son-doing-very-well-in-quarantine-after-coronavirus-infection/story-Gg3mSPuSvpOK3xIpNITBAO.html
