30-11-2020||World||Moderna vaccine 94.1% effective, seeks US, EU||Moderna will apply for US and European emergency authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine after full results from a late-stage study showed it was 94.1% effective with no serious safety concerns, it said.Moderna also reported that its vaccine’s efficacy rate was consistent across age, race, ethnicity and gender demographics as well as having a 100% success rate in preventing severe cases of a disease that has killed nearly 1.5 million people. The filing sets Moderna’s product up to be the second vaccine likely to receive US emergency use authorisation this year following a shot developed by Pfizer and BioNTech which had a 95% efficacy rate.“We believe that we have a vaccine that is very highly efficacious. We now have the data to prove it,” Moderna Chief Medical Officer Tal Zaks said. “We expect to be playing a major part in turning around this pandemic.”Of the 196 people who contracted Covid-19 out of over 30,000 volunteers, 185 had received a placebo and 11 got the vaccine. Moderna reported 30 severe cases, all in the placebo group, which means the vaccine was 100% effective against severe cases. In addition to filing its US application, Moderna said it would seek conditional nod from European Medicines Agency, which is reviewing its data.World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus insisted on Monday it would do everything possible to find the animal origins of Covid-19. “We want to know the origin and we will do everything to know the origin,” he said, urging critics who have accused the UN agency of handing the reins of the probe to China to stop “politicising” the issue.“We need to know the origin of this virus because it can help us to prevent future outbreaks,” he said. “There is nothing to hide. We want to know the origin, and that’s it.”He also urged Brazil to be “very, very serious” about the worrisome rise in virus cases.US scientist Dr Anthony Fauci, meanwhile, warned that America should prepare for a “surge upon a surge” in coronavirus cases as millions of travellers return home after the Thanksgiving holiday. “We may see a surge upon a surge” in two or three weeks,” he told CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-vaccine-94-1-effective-seeks-us-eu/story-Ik1FAv4bEksRDbw7Ok9dKO.html
30-11-2020||World||Joint oppn holds rally, Maryam chides Imran||The 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) held a rally in Multan on Monday despite arrests of hundreds of its activists. The rally, held at a makeshift venue after the government blocked most parts of Multan, also saw the political debut of Aseefa Bhutto-Zardari, the youngest child of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, representing her brother Bilawal, who has been self isolating after testing positive for Covid-19. Aseefa said she would stand by her brother “every step of the way”.She called the Imran Khan government a “selected” government. “Despite the cruelty and oppression by the selected [government], so many of you have gathered here. This selected [government] will have to go!”PML-N leader Maryam Nawaz welcomed Aseefa into politics and said the entry of women was a good sign for Pakistan. Earlier, speaking to a local TV channel, Maryam attacked Prime Minister Imran Khan, calling him a “puppet prime minister” who should have “some courage” to question the country’s top spy agency – Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) – as to why it is tapping his telephone calls. She was responding to Khan’s admission that he was aware that the agencies tap his phone calls. “The ISI taps phone of the prime minister and others. If any guts left in this puppet (Imran Khan) he should take on the ISI on this matter,” she said.Pakistan’s cultural capital Lahore has once again topped the list of world’s most polluted cities. “Lahore ranks the most polluted city in the world,” according to air pollution data released by the US Air Quality Index on Monday. Lahore reported a particulate matter (PM) rating of 423. Pakistan’s financial capital Karachi ranked at 7 on the AQI. New Delhi came in second with a PM of 229, while Nepal’s capital Kathmandu ranked the third-worst city with a PM of 178.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joint-oppn-holds-rally-maryam-chides-imran/story-GxqyxyPH2OuvPITZRUIwvM.html
30-11-2020||World||Iran official alleges Israel ‘remotely killed’ scientist||A top Iranian security official on Monday accused Israel of using “electronic devices” to remotely kill a scientist who founded the Islamic Republic’s military nuclear programme in the 2000s.Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of the country’s Supreme National Security Council, made the comment at the funeral for Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, where Iran’s defence minister General Amir Hatami separately vowed to continue the man’s work “with more speed and more power”. Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade, repeatedly has declined to comment on the attack.Fakhrizadeh headed Iran’s so-called AMAD programme, which Israel and the West have alleged was a military operation looking at the feasibility of building a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency says that “structured programme” ended in 2003. US intelligence agencies concurred with that assessment in a 2007 report.Israel insists Iran still maintains the ambition of developing nuclear weapons, pointing to Tehran’s ballistic missile programme and research into other technologies. Iran long has maintained its nuclear programme is peaceful. Shamkhani’s remarks drastically change the story of Fakhrizadeh’s killing on Friday. Authorities initially said a truck exploded and then gunmen opened fire on the scientist, killing him. State TV’s English-language broadcaster Press TV reported earlier Monday that a weapon recovered from the scene of the attack bore “the logo and specifications of the Israeli military industry.” State TV’s Arabic-language channel, Al-Alam, claimed the weapons used were “controlled by satellite,” a claim also made on Sunday by the semi-official Fars news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-official-alleges-israel-remotely-killed-scientist/story-Ik9fBaOa4NRoT9ib2GAxnN.html
30-11-2020||World||US Election 2020: Meet the ‘trailblazers’ of Joe Biden’s economic team||US president-elect Joe Biden on Monday announced key members of his economic team, pinning hopes on them to tackle the huge economic challenges faced by the United States. Biden assured that the team will deliver immediate economic relief for the American people during the ongoing crisis and help rebuild the economy.The septuagenarian leader said in a statement that the team is comprised of “respected and tested groundbreaking” public servants who will help the communities hardest hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and address the structural inequities in the US economy. He added that the team will work tirelessly to ensure every citizen enjoys a fair return for their work and an equal chance to get ahead.“This team looks like America and brings the seriousness of purpose, the highest degree of competency, and unwavering belief in the promise of America,” the statement read.Meet Biden’s economic team:Janet Yellen: The former Federal Reserve chair has been nominated for the treasury secretary position. Biden’s transition team announced the nomination, saying, if confirmed, she will be the first woman to lead the department in its 231-year long history. Yellen served as the 15th chair of the Federal Reserve, becoming the first woman to lead America’s central banking system since its creation. The American economist has previously been confirmed by the Senate on four separate occasions, which indicates her acceptability across the aisle.Also Read | Janet Yellen to forge US economic comeback as Biden’s treasury pickNeera Tanden: The Indian-American lawyer has been tapped as the director of the Office of Management and Budget, the top position in the White House responsible for managing the administration’s budget. If confirmed, Tanden would be the first woman of colour and first South Asian-American to lead the Office of Management and Budget. According to the transition team, Tanden’s career has focused on “pursuing policies designed to support working families, foster broad-based economic growth, and curb rampant inequality.”Also Read | Who is Neera Tanden? Joe Biden’s possible Indian-American pick for budget chiefWally Adeyemo: The African-American veteran of the executive branch has been nominated for the position of deputy secretary of the treasury. Adeyemo, an expert on macro-economic policy and consumer protection, previously served as deputy director of the national economic council, deputy national security advisor, and the first chief of staff of the consumer financial protection bureau. If confirmed, Adeyemo would be the first African-American deputy secretary of the treasury.Cecilia Rouse: The 56-year-old African-American woman has been nominated to serve as chair of the council of economic advisers. Rouse, a leading labour economist, was confirmed by the Senate as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) in 2009. If confirmed, she would become the first African-American and the fourth woman to lead the CEA in the 74 years of its existence.Jared Bernstein: The former chief economist to Biden in the first years of the Obama administration will serve as a member of the CEA. During his previous stint in the Obama-Biden administration, Bernstein was considered to be a progressive and a strong advocate for workers. He has also served as executive director of the White House task force on the middle class and as an economic advisor to President Obama.Heather Boushey - The distinguished economist will serve as a member of the CEA. She is a long-time economic counsellor to Biden and currently serves as president and CEO of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a non-profit research and grant making organisation. Boushey previously served as chief economist for secretary of state Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential transition team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-meet-the-trailblazers-of-joe-biden-s-economic-team/story-inM3cslbLzcYQgjbufWNNM.html
30-11-2020||World||‘Need to know origin of novel coronavirus, let’s not politicize probe’: WHO chief Tedros||The World Health Organization insisted Monday it would do everything possible to find the animal origins of Covid-19, insisting that knowledge was vital to preventing future outbreaks.“We want to know the origin and we will do everything to know the origin,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters.He insisted the UN health agency was intent on getting to the bottom of the mystery, and urged critics who have accused it of handing the reins of the probe to China to stop “politicising” the issue. “WHO’s position is very, very clear. We need to know the origin of this virus, because it can help us prevent future outbreaks,” Tedros said.The United States, which with more than 262,000 deaths is the country hardest hit by the pandemic, has been harshly critical of the WHO’s handling of the crisis and has accused it of kowtowing to China and of dragging its feet on investigating how the outbreak first started.Other critics have also voiced concern that the agency may have allowed China to dictate the terms of an international investigation into the origins of the virus, which first surfaced in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.Since then, more than 1.46 million people have died and nearly 63 million have been infected worldwide.The WHO has for months been working to send a team of international experts, including epidemiologists and animal health specialists, to China to help probe the animal origin of the novel coronavirus pandemic and how the virus first crossed over to humans.The organisation sent an advance team to Beijing in July to lay the groundwork for the international probe.But it has remained unclear when the larger team of scientists would be able to travel to China to begin epidemiological studies to try to identify the first human cases and their source of infection.Last week, the WHO’s emergencies chief Michael Ryan said the agency was hoping to send the international team to Wuhan “as soon as possible”.Tedros meanwhile rejected on Monday criticism over lacking transparency on the probe, stressing that the names of the experts on the team and the terms of reference had been made public.“There is nothing to hide. We want to know the origin. I don’t want to have any confusion on that.”Scientists initially believed the killer virus jumped from animals to humans at a market selling exotic animals for meat in the city of Wuhan, where the virus was first detected late last year.But experts now think the market may not have been the origin of the outbreak, but rather a place where it was amplified.It is widely assumed that the virus originally came from bats, but the intermediate animal host that transmitted it between bats and humans remains unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/need-to-know-origin-of-novel-coronavirus-let-s-not-politicize-probe-who-chief-tedros/story-Y8oY6sE49RKeu4jSXwFRwM.html
30-11-2020||World||Joe Biden, Kamala Harris to receive first intelligence briefing Monday||President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will begin receiving the nation’s most sensitive secrets Monday as they prepare to assume office on Jan 20.The pair are to receive the highly classified Presidential Daily Brief, a summary of the most important information collected across the US intelligence community that is prepared and delivered by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Outgoing President Donald Trump approved the briefings for Biden last Tuesday, a day after his administration approved the formal transition process to his successor.It was not immediately clear how Biden and Harris would receive the briefing, which is tailored to the needs and interests of its top recipient. For Trump, that has meant a focus on visuals and a preference for paper. His predecessor, Barack Obama, came to embrace the briefing being presented on a modified secure tablet. Given its sensitivity, the leather-bound briefing is usually delivered in person by a career member of the intelligence community, though Trump has increasingly let that process lapse.“On a given day, I might read about terrorist cells in Somalia or unrest in Iraq or the fact that the Chinese or Russians were developing new weapons systems,” Obama wrote in his memoir. “Nearly always, there was mention of potential terrorist plots, no matter how vague, thinly sourced, or unactionable—a form of due diligence on the part of the intelligence community, meant to avoid the kind of second-guessing that had transpired after 9/11.”He added that his wife, Michelle, called it “The Death, Destruction, and Horrible Things Book.”Much of the information in the PDB requires no immediate response, Obama wrote, “The goal was to have a continuously up-to-date sense of all that was roiling in the world, the large, small, and sometimes barely perceptible shifts that threatened to upset whatever equilibrium we were trying to maintain.”The PDB, as it is known, is just one component of the intelligence briefings presented to an incoming administration. Biden and Harris will also be able to receive in-depth subject matter briefings from intelligence experts, as well as a run-down of extremely classified covert operations underway during the Trump administration, the latter necessary to determine if they want to maintain or modify those operations once they assume office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-kamala-harris-to-receive-first-intelligence-briefing-monday/story-KxsXudmIn8sNLynx9C0QsM.html
30-11-2020||World||‘America the Beautiful’ is White House theme for Christmas||“America the Beautiful” is this year’s Christmas theme at the White House.Melania Trump says it pays tribute to and showcases the “majesty” of the United States.Ornaments on the official Christmas tree in the Blue Room — a towering Fraser fir from Shepherdstown, West Virginia — were designed by students from across the country who were asked by the National Park Service to highlight the people, places and things that make their states beautiful.First responders and frontline workers, coping with a pandemic that has killed more than 266,000 people in the United States and infected more than 13 million others, are recognized with a tree and other decorations in the Red Room.The annual gingerbread White House — more than 400 pounds (181 kilograms) of dough, gum paste, chocolate and royal icing — for the first time includes the Rose Garden, recently renovated by the first lady, as well as the First Ladies’ Garden.It’s the final Christmas in the White House for the Trump family, although President Donald Trump continues to insist — despite evidence to the contrary — that he won the Nov. 3 election.President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris be sworn into office on January 20.Volunteers from around the country helped decorate the executive mansion after Thanksgiving with 62 Christmas trees, 106 Christmas wreaths, more than 1,200 feet (366 meters) of garland, more than 3,200 strands of lights and 17,000 bows. The White House led the news media on a tour of the decor on Monday before a reception for the volunteers.“Over the past four years I have had the honor to travel to some of our nation’s most beautiful landmarks and meet some of the most compassionate and patriotic American citizens,” the first lady said in a written statement. “From coast to coast, the bond that all American’s share is an appreciation for our traditions, values, and history, which were the inspiration behind the decorations this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/america-the-beautiful-is-white-house-theme-for-christmas/story-OFCS5GuiK9zsOt8eAcceNI.html
30-11-2020||World||Jared Kushner to travel to Saudi Arabia, Qatar this week||President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner will travel to Saudi Arabia and Qatar this week as part of negotiations to end a longtime boycott of Qatar.Kushner, along with Mideast envoy Avi Berkowitz and former special representative for Iran, Brian Hook, will try to negotiate with Gulf leaders over the dispute, a White House official said. The official spoke on condition of anonymity as the official was not authorized to publicly discuss the trip.Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates cut ties to Qatar in June 2017 as part of a wider political dispute over Doha’s support of Islamists, its relationship with Iran and other matters. The four countries also launched an economic boycott, stopping Qatar Airways flights from using their airspace, closing off the small country’s sole land border with Saudi Arabia and blocking its ships from using their ports.Qatar will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup. The country is also home to the sprawling Al-Udeid Air Base, which hosts some 10,000 American troops and the forward headquarters of the US military’s Central Command.This may be Kushner’s last trip to the region as President Donald Trump has only a few more weeks in office. President-elect Joe Biden will be inaugurated January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jared-kushner-to-travel-to-saudi-arabia-qatar-this-week/story-8UWmVup86MFYofk88uYBiI.html
30-11-2020||World||Biden confirms nomination of Janet Yellen, ex-Federal Reserve chair, as treasury secretary||US president-elect Joe Biden on Monday confirmed the nomination of former Federal Reserve chair, Janet Yellen, for the position of the treasury secretary. Biden’s transition team announced the nomination, saying if confirmed, she will be the first woman to lead the department in its 231-year long history. The team said that Yellen has previously been confirmed by the Senate on four separate occasions, indicating her acceptability across the aisle.“Janet Yellen is nominated to serve as Secretary of the Treasury. If confirmed, she will be the first woman to lead the Treasury Department in its 231-year history,” the transition team said in a statement.After the announcement, the American economist said that the country faces “great challenges”, and vowed to work every day towards rebuilding the American dream. Taking to Twitter, Yellen described the American dream as “a society where each person can rise to their potential and dream even bigger for their children.” We face great challenges as a country right now. To recover, we must restore the American dream—a society where each person can rise to their potential and dream even bigger for their children.As Treasury Secretary, I will work every day towards rebuilding that dream for all.Christine Lagarde, president of the European Central Bank, extended congratulations to Yellen and hailed her as a “trailblazer for women”. The former chairperson of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said that she looks forward to tackling the global economic challenges together. “Congratulations to my friend Janet Yellen on her nomination as US Treasury Secretary. Her intelligence, tenacity and calm approach make Janet a trailblazer for women everywhere. I look forward to tackling yet again the global economic challenges we are facing, together,” she tweeted.Yellen served as the 15th chair of the Federal Reserve, the first woman to lead America’s central banking system since its creation. She also served as vice-chair of the federal body from 2010 to 2014, following an earlier term on the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.Also Read | Joe Biden looks to fill out economic team with diverse picksThe transition team announced other key members of Biden’s economic team, including Neera Tanden as the director of the Office of Management and Budget and Wally Adeyemo as deputy secretary of the Treasury. It assured that the crisis-tested economic team will help Biden and vice president-elect Kamala Harris lift America out of the current economic downturn.“These choices reflect the president-elect’s commitment to building an administration that looks like America, drawing on the diverse backgrounds and lived experiences of some of our nation’s foremost economic experts,” the team stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-formally-nominates-janet-yellen-ex-federal-reserve-chair-as-treasury-secretary/story-4MB3crlOAvXqVOfokefahI.html
30-11-2020||World||The first pets of America: From Kennedy horses to Obama’s dogs||President-elect Joe Biden will be bringing with him the first shelter dog to White House come January, news which has lifted the spirits of all dog-loving Americans, maybe even across party lines. Pets have always been a bipartisan topic and it started trending again on Monday after news of Biden injuring his foot while playing with his dog Major surfaced online.Here are some other pets who spent time at the White House:Barack Obama’s dogs Bo and SunnyObama in his 2008 victory speech kept his word to his daughters by giving them the pet he had promised if his campaign won. “I love you both more than you can imagine. You have earned the puppy that is coming with us!” Obama jokingly announced to an exuberant crowd at Chicago’s Grant Park. Four years later, after he won his re-election bid, the Obamas welcomed another canine to the White House. Michelle Obama in her eponymous podcast has also talked about living vicariously through her daughters as pets were not allowed in her childhood home.George Bush’s cat IndiaAccording to the presidential pet museum archives, President George Bush and First lady Laura Bush adopted India sometime in late 1991. Bush owned the Texas Rangers baseball team and their beloved black cat was named after Texas Rangers player Rubén Sierra, who was dubbed as ‘El Indio’. The name created quite the furore in Kerala in 2004, where protestors burned an effigy of the President over his choice of name. India passed away just two weeks before the Obamas were scheduled to move into the White House.George HW Bush’s dog RangerBush senior loved pets just as much as his son. The former president’s dog Ranger was known at the White House for having the best puppy dog eyes that showed up when begging for treats. Ranger was much loved by the White House staff and had to be put on a weight loss program. Bush Senior sent out a memo to his staff asking them to refrain from feeding Ranger. In the letter, the late president wrote that all offices should take a “formal pledge”. “WE AGREE NOT TO FEED RANGER. WE WILL NOT GIVE HIM ANY BISCUITS. WE WILL NOT GIVE HIM FOOD OF ANY KIND,” the pledge read. Ranger was also given his own escort to help him stick to his weight reduction program.President Kennedy’s horsesThe Kennedy family had a rather unusual collection of pets. Jacqueline Kennedy was an equestrian and she loved riding on the White House grounds. John F Kennedy’s daughter Caroline had her own pony Macaroni, and according to the John F Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, the president of Pakistan gifted Kennedy a horse named Sardar sometime in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-first-pets-of-america-from-kennedy-horses-to-obama-s-dogs/story-wik8zeuUkjayTv44amNHlJ.html
30-11-2020||World||Trump targets ‘hapless’ Georgia governor again, suggests ways to detect ‘voter fraud’||US President Donald Trump targeted the governor of Georgia for not helping him overturn the election and came up with his own set of suggestions to establish unproven claims of electoral fraud. The outgoing president asked why Brian Kemp, a Republican, didn’t use his “emergency powers” to overrule the decision of the secretary of state. “Why won’t Governor @BrianKempGA, the hapless Governor of Georgia, use his emergency powers, which can be easily done, to overrule his obstinate Secretary of State, and do a match of signatures on envelopes. It will be a “goldmine” of fraud, and we will easily WIN the state....,” Trump tweeted. Why won’t Governor @BrianKempGA, the hapless Governor of Georgia, use his emergency powers, which can be easily done, to overrule his obstinate Secretary of State, and do a match of signatures on envelopes. It will be a "goldmine" of fraud, and we will easily WIN the state....The tweet was flagged by Twitter, saying “this claim about election fraud is disputed” as it has done to many of Trump’s posts in the past.The Republican leader suggested officials check the number of envelopes against the number of ballots, claiming that they “may just find” more ballots than envelopes received. “So simple, and so easy to do. Georgia Republicans are angry, all Republicans are angry. Get it done!” he added.In the run-up to the 2020 presidential elections, Trump vehemently opposed mail-in ballots on the basis of unproven claims of election fraud. As compared to Republicans, more registered Democrats had requested for postal ballots for the elections in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.It directly reflected on the results when counting of mail-in ballots pushed Joe Biden ahead of Trump in key states, helping the Democrat reclaim the “Blue Wall”. Since then, Trump and his allies have been crying foul over the election results. Trump campaign filed several lawsuits and requested a recount in swing states but failed to get the desired results.Also Read | Donald Trump says 2020 election was probably least secure everDuring a Fox News interview aired on Sunday, Trump lashed out at the Georgia governor as well as secretary of state Brad Raffensperger for not intervening on his behalf. The president said that Kemp did nothing, adding he was “ashamed” that he endorsed the fellow Republican for governor’s office.On November 20, Georgia certified results showing a narrow win for Biden after a manual recount, with state Republicans signing off on it. Trump campaign has continued with its baseless claims of widespread voter fraud but several Republicans have broken ranks with the outgoing president and advised working on a smooth transition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-targets-hapless-georgia-governor-again-suggests-ways-to-detect-voter-fraud/story-O7zLCPoO0EgnWNOegDLDzN.html
30-11-2020||World||UK government to pay farmers for sustainable farming methods after Brexit||England’s farmers will begin losing their current state subsidies from next year and instead receive payments for efforts to protect the environment, under government plans.Ministers regard the reforms to agricultural policy after Brexit, set out in a new “roadmap” on Monday, as the most wide-ranging overhaul of farming and land management in England for 50 years.As subsidies based on European Union programs are phased out over the next seven years, a new system will encourage farmers to produce healthy food in a sustainable way that generates profit.“Rather than the prescriptive, top-down rules of the EU era, we want to support the choices that farmers and land managers take,” Environment Secretary George Eustice will say in a speech on Monday, according to extracts released by his office. “If we work together to get this right, then a decade from now the rest of the world will want to follow our lead.”Under the plan, a new “environmental land management” program will be introduced to encourage sustainable farming methods and the creation of habitats and new woodland to help tackle climate change, officials said. Payments will also be made to improve animal health, focusing initially on fighting disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-government-to-pay-farmers-for-sustainable-farming-methods-after-brexit/story-d9KyQK7WD2FxSTMC09KUBL.html
30-11-2020||World||Scotland Yard probes role of British mercenaries in fight against LTTE||Scotland Yard’s War Crimes Team, which is part of its Counter-Terrorism Command, has launched an investigation into the role of British mercenaries in fighting the LTTE rebels in Sri Lanka during the 1980s. The Metropolitan Police said it has received a referral in March concerning alleged war crimes leading to a scoping exercise, which has now been expanded into an investigation. It follows revelations that a private security company, Keenie Meenie Services (KMS), trained an elite unit of the Sri Lankan police called the Special Task Force (STF) in the 1980s to fight the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) rebels. The references emerged in a book by UK-based investigative journalist Phil Miller earlier this year, based on declassified UK government documents and freedom of information requests. The book, ‘Keenie Meenie: The British Mercenaries Who Got Away With War Crimes’, had also claimed that the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) received air support from some of these for-hire UK pilots. “We can confirm that the Met’s War Crimes Team - part of its Counter Terrorism Command – received a referral in March concerning war crimes alleged to have been committed by British Mercenaries in Sri Lanka during the 1980s,” a Met Police statement said. “Following receipt of the referral, the War Crimes Team began a scoping exercise into the matter and have subsequently launched an investigation. We are not prepared to discuss any further details of what remains an active and ongoing police investigation into this matter,” it said. Keenie Meenie, from the title of the book, is thought to be an Arabic slang for covert activities and was run by a retired colonel, Jim Johnson – a former Special Air Services (SAS) commander, who had conducted secret missions in Yemen and Oman. Johnson’s counter-insurgency experience came to the attention of then Sri Lankan President Junius Jayewardene at the start of Sri Lanka’s civil war in 1983, when the Anglophile leader was looking for British aid to defeat the Tamil Tigers. Britain refused to officially send troops to help Jayewardene, fearing it would have jeopardised “substantial commercial and defence” deals. “I welcome this police investigation which is long overdue. Much of the evidence against KMS is contained in British Foreign Office files which were kept classified for 30 years, allowing some senior KMS figures to pass away without ever facing justice,” said Miller, in reference to the Met Police probe. “More evidence is coming to light that shows KMS were linked to atrocities not just against Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority but also against the Sinhalese majority, so there are lots of questions to be asked about the extent of this British company’s role in Sri Lanka’s turbulent history,” he said. The Tamil Information Centre (TIC) in London had sent a detailed dossier of evidence to the Met Police earlier this year. “War crimes committed by the Sri Lankan state, ably assisted by British mercenaries caused death, displacement and massive suffering to the Tamil people. “All of those who committed those war crimes should be brought to justice. We hope that this investigation is the first step to ultimately a successful prosecution,” said Anuraj Sinna, a director of the Tamil Information Centre. The KMS personnel are alleged to have flown helicopter gunships that were involved in attacks on Tamil civilians. The company’s staff also trained Sri Lankan paramilitaries and commandos as well as giving operational advice at the highest level. Paul Heron, a solicitor at the Public Interest Law Centre which is representing TIC, said: “This is the first investigation that we know of into British mercenaries operating overseas and alleged to have committed war crimes. The KMS was involved in covert activities across the planet, from Nicaragua to Sri Lanka.” The KMS came into being in the 1970s with battle-hardened British veterans and, according to Miller’s book based on previously classified accounts, were active in controversial operations around the world with the UK governments of the time unable to fully control them. The IPKF is believed to have received air support from these for-hire British pilots, despite Indian diplomats publicly condemning the presence of UK mercenaries in Sri Lanka. According to the book, India’s secret use of British mercenaries lasted for four months after the Indo-Lanka accord was signed between former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Jayewardene in 1987. The book also traces the involvement of British mercenaries in atrocities against Tamil civilians that occurred prior to the arrival of the IPKF. The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) ran a military campaign for a separate Tamil homeland in the northern and eastern provinces of the island nation for nearly 30 years before its collapse in 2009 after the Sri Lankan Army killed its supreme leader Velupillai Prabhakaran. Sri Lanka’s human rights record, particularly over the impunity enjoyed by law enforcement officers, has been the subject of international condemnation. The UN Human Rights Council has called for an international probe into the alleged war crimes during the military conflict with the LTTE. According to the government figures, around 20,000 people are missing due to various conflicts including the 30-year-long separatist war with Lankan Tamils in the north and east which claimed at least 100,000 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scotland-yard-probes-role-of-british-mercenaries-in-fight-against-ltte/story-UqZtv96CmMB8dIugspgQ0M.html
30-11-2020||World||Russia, Syria under pressure at chemical weapons watchdog||Syria and Russia faced renewed pressure over allegations of chemical weapons use as member countries of the global toxic arms watchdog met on Monday.Moscow was urged by Western nations to “transparently” reveal the circumstances of the Novichok nerve agent poisoning of opposition figure Alexei Navalny.Damascus meanwhile faced calls for sanctions at the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) after investigators accused the Syrian regime of sarin attacks in 2017.Russia and Syria have repeatedly denied the accusations, alleging that Western powers have politicised the Hague-based OPCW.Syria had failed to meet 90-day deadline set in July to declare the weapons used in the attacks on the village of Lataminah and to reveal its remaining stocks, OPCW chief Fernando Arias said.“The Syrian Arab Republic has not completed any of the measures,” Arias told the meeting.He said “gaps, inconsistencies and discrepancies” remained in Syria’s account of its progress on its 2013 agreement to give up all chemical weapons following a suspected sarin attack that killed 1,400 people in the Damascus suburb of Ghouta.France proposed that the OPCW should “suspend the rights and privileges” of Syria for failing to meet the deadline, French ambassador Luis Vassy said, adding that the proposal was backed by 43 states.These would include Syria’s voting rights in the OPCW, depriving it of a voice at a body where it has been deflecting allegations of toxic arms use for years.Russia meanwhile came under pressure over the poisoning of Navalny, which the politician and western governments have blamed on the Kremlin.The OPCW has confirmed traces of the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok in samples taken from Navalny in hospital in Germany, where he is recovering.Arias said the OPCW was still in talks with Russia to send a fact-finding team there to investigate the incident, he said.In a joint statement, 55 countries including the United States, Japan, Canada, Australia and many in Europe said they “condemn in the strongest possible terms” the attack on Navalny.They urged Russia “to assist... by disclosing in a swift and transparent manner the circumstances of this chemical weapons attack” on Russian territory.The OPCW has 193 member states and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2013 for its work in destroying the world’s stocks of chemical weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-syria-under-pressure-at-chemical-weapons-watchdog/story-abTMv7uOjPXNqZQAQW8I0M.html
30-11-2020||World||Joe Biden looks to fill out economic team with diverse picks||President-elect Joe Biden is expected in the coming days to name several of his most senior economic advisers, a group that includes several liberal economists and policy specialists who established their credentials during the previous two Democratic administrations.Biden, who has placed a premium on diversity in his selection of Cabinet nominees and key advisers, is looking to notch at least a few firsts with his economic team selections.The Biden campaign has not yet announced the picks, but these are some of the individuals he’s expected to select to high-profile positions on his economic team, according to people familiar with the transition process who were granted anonymity to speak freely about the president-elect’s deliberations:JANET YELLEN, Treasury secretaryYellen became Federal Reserve chair in 2014 when the economy was still recovering from the devastating Great Recession. In the late 1990s, she was President Bill Clinton’s top economic adviser during the Asian financial crisis. Under Biden she would lead the Treasury Department with the economy in the grip of a surging pandemic.If confirmed, Yellen would become the first woman to lead the Treasury Department in its nearly 232-year history. She would inherit an economy with still-high unemployment, escalating threats to small businesses and signs that consumers are retrenching as the pandemic restricts or discourages spending.NEERA TANDEN, Office of Management and Budget directorTanden is the president and CEO of the liberal think tank Center for American Progress. She was the director of domestic policy for the Obama-Biden presidential campaign, but she first made her mark in the Clinton orbit.Tanden served as policy director for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign. Before that, she served as legislative director in Clinton’s Senate office and deputy campaign manager and issues director for Clinton’s 2000 Senate campaign. She also served as a senior policy adviser in the Bill Clinton administration.If confirmed, she would be the first woman of color and the first South Asian woman to lead the OMB, the agency that oversees the federal budget.But confirmation could prove difficult. Late Sunday a spokesman for GOP Sen. John Cornyn of Texas tweeted that Tanden “stands zero chance of being confirmed.” And Josh Holmes, a political adviser to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, also tweeted that confirmation was unlikely. Republicans hold the edge in the current Senate, although next year’s majority won’t be decided until Jan. 5 runoffs in two races involving GOP incumbents in Georgia.BRIAN DEESE, director of the White House National Economic CouncilDeese, a former senior economic adviser in the Obama administration and now the managing director and global head of sustainable investing at BlackRock, would be the top economic adviser in the Biden White House. He worked on the auto bailout and environmental issues in the Obama White House, where he held the title of deputy director of both the NEC and the OMB.CECILIA ROUSE, chairwoman of the Council of Economic AdvisersRouse is a labor economist and head of Princeton University’s School of Public and International Affairs. She served on the CEA from 2009 to 2011, and served on the NEC from 1998 to 1999 in the Clinton administration.Notably, she organized a letter earlier this year signed by more than 100 economists calling for more government action to mitigate the fallout for Americans caused by the coronavirus pandemic.Rouse, who is Black, would be the first woman of color to chair the CEA.Biden is also expected to name Heather Boushey, the president and CEO of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, and Jared Bernstein, who served as an economic adviser to Biden during the Obama administration, to serve on the council. Both Boushey and Bernstein advised Biden during the presidential campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-looks-to-fill-out-economic-team-with-diverse-picks/story-kOC8Nvy7VxsqExd6cYjFOI.html
30-11-2020||World||Iranian scientist was killed remotely, says security official||Israel assassinated a top Iranian nuclear scientist with a remotely controlled device, the head of Iran’s national security council said on Monday, appearing to contradict earlier official accounts of a roadside ambush.“The enemy used a completely new, professional and specialized method and technique,” said Ali Shamkhani, secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, according to the semi-official Tasnim news agency.“The operation was very complex and used electronic devices, and no one was present at the scene.”Officials had originally said that Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a veteran scientist who worked on nuclear and defense projects, was killed outside Tehran on Friday in a bomb and gun attack.State-run Press TV reported on Monday that “the remains” of a weapon collected from the site “bear the logo and specifications of the Israeli military industry.” It cited an unidentified person and didn’t provide any evidence to back up the claim.Fakhrizadeh was buried in northern Tehran on Monday next to the grave of Majid Shahriari, a nuclear scientist who was assassinated in a 2010 operation Iran also blamed on Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-scientist-was-killed-remotely-says-security-official/story-AG7uTiX2VehK7Hz9RKgYxM.html
30-11-2020||World||Dictionary.com picks ‘pandemic’ as its 2020 word of the year||On Dec. 31, China reported a cluster of pneumonia cases of unknown origin to the World Health Organization. By Jan. 31, WHO declared an outbreak of a novel coronavirus a global health emergency. Come March 11, the world was facing down the Covid-19 pandemic.Parents sat children down to explain what a pandemic is. Related terms usually restricted to medicine and science stormed into everyday conversation. Over time, we were pandemic baking and pandemic dating and rescuing pandemic puppies from shelters.All of which led Dictionary.com on Monday to declare “pandemic” its 2020 word of the year.Searches on the site for the word spiked more than 13,500% on March 11, senior research editor John Kelly told The Associated Press in an interview ahead of the announcement.“That’s massive, but even more telling is how high it has sustained significant search volumes throughout the entire year. Month over month, it was over 1,000% higher than usual. For about half the year, it was in the top 10% of all our lookups.”Another dictionary, Merriam-Webster, also selected pandemic as its word of the year earlier Monday.Kelly said pandemic beat out routine lookups usually intended to sort more mundane matters, such as the differences between “to, two and too.”“That’s significant,” Kelly emphasized. “It seems maybe a little bit obvious, and that’s fair to say, but think about life before the pandemic. Things like pandemic fashion would have made no sense. The pandemic as an event created a new language for a new normal.”Lexicographers often factor out routine lookups when evaluating word trends.The pandemic, Kelly said, made us all worthy of watercooler chatter with Dr. Anthony Fauci as our knowledge grew about aerosols, contact tracing, social distancing and herd immunity, along with the intricacies of therapeutic drugs, tests and vaccines that can help save lives.“These were all part of a new shared vocabulary we needed to stay safe and informed. It’s incredible,” said Kelly, who works with a team of lexicographers to come up with words of the year based primarily on site traffic.Asymptomatic, furlough, non-essential, hydroxychloroquine and a host of other pandemic-related words saw massive increases in lookups as well.Jennifer Steeves-Kiss, chief executive officer of Dictionary.com, said one key ingredient in the hunt for the site’s word of the year is sustained interest over time. Pandemic met that standard.“This has affected families, our work, the economy,” she said. “It really became the logical choice. It’s become the context through which we’ve had dialogue all through 2020. It’s the through line for discourse.”The word pandemic has roots in Latin and the Greek pandemos, meaning “common, public.” Breaking it down further, “pan” means “all” and “demos” means “people.” As evidenced in a medical text by a Dutch-born physician, Gideon Harvey, pandemic entered English in the 1660s in the medical sense, Kelly said. He noted that “demos” is also the basis for the word democracy.A pandemic is defined by Dictionary.com as a disease “prevalent throughout an entire country, continent, or the whole world; epidemic over a large area.” Its broader sense, as evidenced in its roots, can be used thusly: “A pandemic fear of atomic war.”Dictionary.com also noted other worthy search trends beyond the pandemic. After the May 25 death of George Floyd under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer, words around racial justice experienced spikes, including fascism, anti-fascism, defund and white fragility.“There was no way for us to leave that out of the conversation this year,” Kelly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dictionary-com-picks-pandemic-as-its-2020-word-of-the-year/story-W5ozQfgCcegEdGiNQnFdGJ.html
30-11-2020||World||French health body says nursing homes should get Covid-19 vaccine first||France’s top health advisory body said on Monday it had recommended Covid-19 vaccinations should target retirement homes residents and their staff first when doses reach the country.Haute Autorite de la Sante (HAS) suggested rolling out the campaign in stages and on a voluntary basis, like in many other countries.President Emmanuel Macron said last week that vaccines could start to be administered as soon as the end of the year in France, if approved by regulators, after hopes were raised of a quick roll-out following promising results from trials of several candidates.After those in nursing homes, amounting to around 840,000 people in France, a second phase would target those aged 65 and over, as well as some health workers, the HAS said.Three other stages would follow, aimed at people with underlying conditions such as diabetes, other exposed professionals and then adults with no known other conditions.“These recommendations will evolve other time as we get more data. We call for vaccination on a voluntary basis,” the head of HAS Dominique Le Guludec told reporters.The French government is due to detail in the coming days how it will handle its vaccines campaign. The European Union has so far secured deals with Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, CureVac, Pfizer and BioNTech as well as Moderna.With 1.9 billion doses expected at this stage to reach the EU, France aims to secure about 295 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-health-body-says-nursing-homes-should-get-covid-19-vaccine-first/story-gkGyK1bx14T2lXWV18MPWN.html
30-11-2020||World||UN hosts latest round of talks on Syria’s constitution||Delegations from Syria’s government, opposition and civil society are meeting in Geneva for the latest round of talks toward revising the war-battered country’s constitution.The UN envoy for Syria, Geir Pedersen, was hosting the various sides Monday a day after saying Swiss health officials signed off on hygiene measures in place to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Several cases cropped up among the Syrian envoys during a previous round of talks.Nearly a decade into Syria’s war, Pedersen acknowledged Sunday “challenges” in moving forward talks on the constitution, which notably do not include extremist factions that control some parts of Syria -- notably much of northwestern Idlib province.He said overcoming “deep mistrust” would take a long time, but hoped that work toward possible exchanges of detainees and the establishment of common “principles” in the discussions could help to overcome it.“I hope that what we have achieved is actually the beginning of starting to build trust between the parties and that this building of trust could then be a door opener to a broader political process,” he told reporters on Sunday.The meeting, involving 15 people from each delegation, is the fourth among the so-called Constitutional Committee. Another meeting is planned for January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-hosts-latest-round-of-talks-on-syria-s-constitution/story-g049NJ5om5iFH7u1yCyfYI.html
30-11-2020||World||Lahore again tops list of world’s most polluted cities; Delhi is second||Pakistan’s cultural capital Lahore has once again topped the list of world’s most polluted cities.“Lahore ranks the most polluted city in the world,” according to air pollution data released by the US Air Quality Index on Monday.According to the index, Lahore reported a particulate matter (PM) rating of 423. Pakistan’s financial capital Karachi ranked at 7 on the AQI. New Delhi came in second with a PM of 229, while Nepal’s capital Kathmandu ranked the third-worst city with a PM of 178.The United States Environmental Protection Agency regards air quality satisfactory if the AQI is under 50. Lahore’s AQI fell in the range of 301 and higher, which has been classified as “hazardous”. According to environmental experts and an earlier report by the Food and Agriculture Organisation, the cause of smog remains years-long pollution caused mostly by the transport sector and industries, and not just crop burning. Trans-boundary pollution is also not the main reason as the Met Department has confirmed that Punjab primarily experiences a westerly wave during winter.Out of the 162 brick kilns still operating on the old technology, around 80 were converted to zigzag recently, while work was under way on the others. Out of the 80 zigzag kilns, 30 have been newly built and the remaining converted.Brick kilns were shut down on November 7 till December 31. Even as the government claims to be cracking down on kilns, several of them were still operating, some even overnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lahore-again-tops-list-of-world-s-most-polluted-cities-delhi-is-second/story-U68MVlLH6stoYnLFT5mwYO.html
30-11-2020||World||Oman resumes issuing some tourist visas after Covid-19 suspension||Oman will resume granting tourist visas to people visiting on trips arranged by hotels and travel companies, after they were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic, state media said on Monday.The Gulf state resumed international flights on October 1, but only citizens and people holding valid existing residency and work visas could enter.The country’s coronavirus council also decided on Monday to restart a number of commercial and industrial activities, without giving further details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oman-resumes-issuing-some-tourist-visas-after-covid-19-suspension/story-s68128LXLpAnMZWOHBl65H.html
30-11-2020||World||Russia under renewed pressure to explain Navalny poisoning||Russia came under renewed pressure Monday to explain the nerve agent attack on opposition figure Alexei Navalny as the annual meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog got underway amid measures aimed at reining in the spread of coronavirus.Navalny fell ill on August 20 during a domestic flight in Russia, and was flown to Germany for treatment two days later. His allies accused the Kremlin of poisoning its fiercest opponent. Tests carried out by labs in Germany, France and Sweden and by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons established that Navalny was exposed to a Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.The organization’s director-general, Fernando Arias, told Monday’s meeting that according to the Chemical Weapons Convention, “the poisoning of an individual through the use of a nerve agent is a use of a chemical weapon.”A group of 56 nations issued a statement as the start of the annual meeting of the OPCW’s member states urging Moscow to disclose “in a swift and transparent manner the circumstances of this chemical weapons attack.”Russia, which denies involvement in Navalny’s poisoning, reacted bullishly in its written statement to the conference.“Instead of trying to look into what had happened, Germany and its allies resorted to megaphone diplomacy, unleashed a mass disinformation campaign against Russia and started to demand some ‘independent international investigation’ under the auspices of the OPCW,” Moscow’s statement said.In October, Moscow asked for OPCW experts to visit Russia to provide “technical assistance” in its investigations. Arias said talks are underway to define “all the legal, technical, operational and logistical parameters in order for this visit to take place.”The European Union has imposed sanctions on six Russian officials and a state research institute over the poisoning. Moscow responded earlier this month by announcing that it had adopted sanctions against a number of German and French officials.The OPCW’s annual meeting has been broken into two parts amid the coronavirus pandemic. Two days of talks this week will focus on approving the proposed 71.74 million euro ($86 million) annual budget for 2021. The second half of the meeting will take place next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-under-renewed-pressure-to-explain-navalny-poisoning/story-IqRjcOL974N9UyyBDSBNdL.html
30-11-2020||World||From frontline workers to all residents: How US’ 5-phase Covid-19 vaccination may work||US president-elect Joe Biden has kept the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among the top priorities of his administration, assuring that the government will listen to science to overcome the impacts of the pandemic. In a seven-point plan to beat Covid-19, the Biden-Harris administration has promised several measures, including access to regular, reliable, and free testing, and equitable distribution of treatments and vaccines.However, the distribution of the vaccine has to be prioritised because of the limited supply of doses immediately after the vaccine candidates get the required authorisation. Dr Celine Gounder, a member of Biden’s coronavirus advisory board, said that the president-elect will let the health experts decide on the prioritisation.Speaking to CNN, Dr Gounder admitted that the prioritising for a vaccine will be tricky, given the varying degree of risk associated with different groups. She said that health care workers, doctors, nurses, teachers, people working in food and meat processing industries, drugstores, and grocery check-out counters will be given priority as soon as a Covid-19 vaccine becomes available.Also Read | Beware of Covid-19 scams as vaccine approaches FDA approvalThe US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine (NASEM) has proposed a five-phase approach for an equitable allocation of a vaccine to US residents.Here is how it may work out:Phase 1: Health care workers and first responders.Phase 2: People with underlying conditions that put them at significantly higher risk of severe Covid-19 and older adults in overcrowded settings. Phase 3: Critical workers at high risk of exposure, teachers and school staff, people in homeless shelters and prisons, older adults not included in phase 1 and 2, and people with underlying conditions that put them at moderately higher risk.Phase 4: Young adults, children and essential service workers at increased risk of exposure not included in phase 1 and 2.Phase 5: All remaining US residents.Pfizer has applied to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use authorization for its vaccine, BNT162b2, after phase 3 trial met all of the study’s primary efficacy endpoints. The biotech firms said that the study indicated a vaccine efficacy rate of 95 per cent, close to the efficacy rate found in early trial results of Moderna’s vaccine candidate. An independent panel of experts is scheduled to meet on December 10 to discuss the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-frontline-workers-to-all-residents-how-us-5-phase-covid-19-vaccination-may-work/story-wW6KPkotG7LmVljC93M2iI.html
30-11-2020||World||After ban on China’s Huawei, UK to diversify 5G suppliers||The UK government on Monday confirmed the complete removal of Chinese telecom giant Huawei from Britain’s existing networks by 2027 and announced a strategy to diversify 5G suppliers so that the country doesn’t rely too much on a select few providers.The government had decided earlier this year to exclude high-risk vendors from those parts of the 5G and full-fibre networks that are critical to security and also from sensitive locations, and limit their presence in the periphery of those networks, capped at 35%.In July, in response to further US sanctions against Huawei, the UK government went further by setting a timetable to remove Huawei from 5G networks by the end of 2027. ZTE, another Chinese company, is also considered by London to be “high risk”.British operators have been told that they should stop procuring Huawei equipment affected by US sanctions by December 31, 2020 and remove Huawei 5G equipment from the network by the end of 2027 at the “absolute latest”.Culture secretary Oliver Dowden said, “We are taking bold steps to implement one of the toughest telecom security regimes in the world. A central part of that is combating high-risk vendors, and I have set out an unambiguous timetable for the complete removal of Huawei equipment from our 5G networks no later than 2027.”He added, “That decision is the right one, but it also risks leaving us overly reliant on too few suppliers. That is a dilemma faced by countries across the globe - and it is one the government is confronting head-on through the publication of this strategy.”Following the decision to remove Huawei equipment from future networks, the UK is now reliant on two mobile access network equipment suppliers: Nokia and Ericsson. This, the official statement said, represents an “intolerable” resilience risk.“Therefore, it is essential that we create a more diverse and competitive supply base for telecom networks. A more competitive and diverse supply market will increase quality, innovation and the resilience of our networks,” the statement said.The 5G supply chain diversification strategy is expected to help mitigate the resilience risks to 5G networks, and includes an initial fund of £250 million to begin work to create a more diverse, competitive, and innovative supply market for the telecom sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-ban-on-china-s-huawei-uk-to-diversify-5g-suppliers/story-goG9YvsoJ4Xj97gfRBMTzH.html
30-11-2020||World||Beware of Covid-19 scams as vaccine approaches FDA approval||The coronavirus vaccine inching toward approval in the US is desperately anticipated by weary Americans longing for a path back to normal life. But criminals are waiting, too, ready to use that desperation to their advantage, federal investigators say.Homeland Security investigators are working with Pfizer, Moderna and dozens of other drug companies racing to complete and distribute the vaccine and treatments for the virus. The goal: to prepare for the scams that are coming, especially after the mess of criminal activity this year with phony personal protective equipment, false cures and extortion schemes.“We’re all very excited about the potential vaccine and treatments,” said Steve Francis, assistant director for global trade investigations with Homeland Security Investigations. “But I also caution against these criminal organizations and individuals that will try to exploit the American public.”No vaccine has yet been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has approved the first treatment for Covid-19, the antiviral drug remdesivir. With vaccines and treatments both, it has warned about the potential for fraud.“The FDA is particularly concerned that these deceptive and misleading products might cause Americans to delay or stop appropriate medical treatment, leading to serious and life-threatening harm,” the agency said in a recent statement.The drug companies are to have safeguards and brand-protection features in place to help avoid fraud, but that may not be available until the second generation of vaccine because everything is operated on such an emergency basis, said Karen Gardner, chief marketing officer at SIPCA North America, a company that works as a bridge between the government, businesses and consumers. She said that makes it more important to educate health care providers on what the real thing looks like.“When you have anything in high demand and limited supply, there is going to be fraud,” she said. Desperation will drive people around normal channels.Meanwhile, investigators are learning about how the vaccine will be packaged and getting the message out to field agents, creating a mass database of information from more than 200 companies, so they can be prepared to spot fakes and crack down on dangerous fraud. They are monitoring tens of thousands of false websites and looking for evidence of fake cures sold online.Earlier this year as cases exploded, hospitals and governments grew short on masks, gloves and other protective gear. Scams grew, too. Tricksters preyed on unwitting citizens to hand over money for goods they’d never receive.Homeland Security Investigations started using its 7,000 agents in tandem with border, FDA and FBI officials to investigate scams, seize phony products and arrest hundreds of people. The effort is headquartered at the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, a government watchdog aimed at enforcement of its international trade laws and combating intellectual property theft.The agency has already analyzed more than 70,900 websites suspected as being involved in some type of Covid-19 fraud. Millions of fake or unapproved personal protective equipment products and antiviral pharmaceuticals were seized. Homeland Security Investigations made more than 1,600 seizures of products worth more than $27 million and made more than 185 arrests.Home test kits, for example, were only recently made available to the public in the past few weeks. But investigators seized tens of thousands of fake kits in the months before. On the dark web, scammers were selling domain names like “coronaprevention.org,” attractive to counterfeiters. In the US alone, more than 1,000 fake websites a day have been removed during the pandemic.A vaccine can’t come fast enough, as virus cases have topped 13 million in the US and many cities have started restricting movement again as the country heads into winter. The pandemic has killed more than 1.4 million people worldwide, more than 266,000 of them in the US, according to figures compiled by Johns Hopkins University. But Francis and other investigators are worried that desperation will make Americans more susceptible.If the FDA allows emergency use of a vaccine, there will be limited, rationed supplies before the end of the year.Gen. Gus Perna, in charge of the government’s efforts to distribute the vaccine, said on CBS’ “60 Minutes” the government was prepared to distribute the vaccine within 24 hours of approval. There’s a stockpile of the prospective vaccine itself plus kits of needles, syringes and alcohol swabs needed to give the dose. The secret stash is watched by armed guards.“We have taken extraordinary precaution in this area,” he said. “It’s such a commodity to us, we’re taking the full steps to make sure that the vaccine’s secure.”Who is first in line has yet to be decided. But Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said the hope is that enough doses are available by the end of January to vaccinate adults over age 65, who are at the highest risk from the coronavirus, and health care workers. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the US government’s top infectious-diseases expert, said it may take until spring or summer before anyone who is not high risk and wants a shot can get one.States already are gearing up for what is expected to be the biggest vaccination campaign in U.S. history. First the shots have to arrive where they’re needed, and Pfizer’s must be kept at ultra-cold temperatures — around minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit, or minus 70 degrees Celsius. Moderna’s vaccine also starts off frozen, but the company said it can be thawed and kept in a regular refrigerator for 30 days, easing that concern.Governments in other countries and the World Health Organization, which aims to buy doses for poor nations, will have to decide separately if and when vaccines should be rolled out broadly.Meanwhile, Homeland Security investigators and others are trying to send the message now to the public before the vaccines are approved and begin distribution. They say people should only get a vaccine from an approved medical provider. They shouldn’t respond to calls seeking personal information. And they shouldn’t click on social media posts purporting to sell cures.“If it sounds too good to be true, it is,” Francis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beware-of-covid-19-scams-as-vaccine-approaches-fda-approval/story-phVMknGIYDID1hCmRLWVeO.html
30-11-2020||World||‘Afghan lives matter’: China tells Australia, refuses to say sorry for controversial tweet||China on Monday refused to apologise after a Chinese diplomat posted a graphic image depicting an Australian soldier with a bloodied knife next to an Afghan child, a post described by Prime Minister Scott Morrison as “repugnant” and “false”.Following Morrison’s criticism, Australian media has called the photo fake though Twitter hasn’t taken it down yet.It marks the continuing escalation of tensions in China-Australia ties on issues ranging from human rights violations and trade policies.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, posted the photo seemingly depicting an Australian soldier next to a child, who is seen holding a lamb. The controversial post comes in the backdrop of an ongoing police investigation into a recent disclosure by Australia’s defence establishment that said the country’s soldiers had committed war crimes in Afghanistan. Recently, an inquiry report claimed to have learnt that from 2009-2013, about 25 Australian soldiers had been involved in the killings of 39 Afghan civilians and prisoners.“Shocked by the murder of Afghan civilians & prisoners by Australian soldiers. We strongly condemn such acts, & call for holding them accountable,” spokesperson Zhao tweeted the caption.PM Morrison issued a strong statement against the tweet, asking the social media platform to remove the photograph.He described Zhao’s tweet as “truly repugnant, deeply offensive, utterly outrageous” and that the “Chinese government should be totally ashamed of this post. It diminishes them in the world’s eyes”.“It is a false image and terrible slur on our defence forces,” Morrison said.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying, on Monday brushed aside the criticism and instead asked Australia to do some “soul-searching” in the face of the war crimes investigation.“The Australian government should do some soul-searching and bring the culprits to justice, and offer an official apology to the Afghan people and make the solemn pledge that they will never repeat such crimes,” Hua said on Monday.“Earlier, they said the Chinese government should feel ashamed, but it is Australian soldiers who committed such cruel crimes. Shouldn’t the Australian government feel ashamed? Shouldn’t they feel ashamed for their soldiers killing innocent Afghan civilians?” Hua argued.Hua added, “The Australian side is reacting so strongly to my colleague’s Twitter - does that mean that they think the cold-blooded murder of Afghan innocent civilians is justified while other people’s condemnation of such crimes are not justified?”“Afghan lives matter,” she added.Australia has criticised China for its handling of the Uighur minority living in the remote Xinjiang province, and has also called for an international investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, which first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.China’s list of complaints includes Canberra’s decision to block Chinese investment projects, ban Chinese tech firm Huawei from its 5G tender, and “incessant wanton interference in China’s Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan affairs,” as per a list circulated by the Chinese embassy in Australia.Last week, China announced that it will impose taxes on Australian wine of up to 212%.The Chinese commerce ministry said these were temporary anti-dumping measures to stop subsidised imports of Australian wine.Beijing has targeted other Australian imports in recent months, which include coal, sugar and barley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-lives-matter-china-tells-australia-refuses-to-say-sorry-for-controversial-tweet/story-A2fMZzPj7PFEzytLGkeiyK.html
30-11-2020||World||China sanctions leaders of US groups over Hong Kong actions||China on Monday said it is sanctioning leaders of US government-affiliated bodies that promote democracy around the world in response to what it calls practices that “blatantly meddle in Hong Kong affairs.”Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said the measures would cover the senior director for Asia at the National Endowment Democracy, John Knaus, the regional director for the Asia-Pacific at the National Democratic Institute, Manpreet Singh Anand, and two of the institute’s officials responsible for Hong Kong.Hua gave no details and the institute said in a news release that it had no further information but that it “remains steadfastly committed to these core principles and to continuing our work in support of democracy worldwide.”China has long accused such groups of encouraging dissidents who built grassroots movements to push for greater direct democracy in Hong Kong. Those burst out into street protests in 2014 and again last year, prompting a harsh crackdown from authorities.Also Read | India seeks answers from China on Ladakh peace plan. It is a make-or-break questionThe US has imposed sanctions on Chinese and Hong Kong officials over the passage of a National Security Law that imposed strict penalties for critics of the Beijing-backed government that has ruled the former British colony since it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.The sanctions ban the officials, including the head of Hong Kong’s local government, Carrie Lam, from traveling to the U.S. and freezes all dealings with American financial institutions.Hua told reporters Monday that “the relevant US practices blatantly meddle in Hong Kong affairs, grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs, seriously violate the international law and basic norms governing international relations.”“The US should immediately cease interfering in Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs and avoid going further down the wrong path,” Hua said at a daily briefing.Hong Kong is just one area where tensions between Washington and Beijing have risen over recent years.The Trump administration has cut off Chinese tech giant Huawei’s access to most US components and technology on security grounds, part of a feud over trade and technology that has led the White House to press the Chinese owner of video service TikTok to sell its US operation, which American officials say is a security risk.US accusations of Chinese human rights abuses, particularly against Muslim minority groups in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, have resulted in frequent angry exchanges between the sides. Frictions have also built over Washington’s support for Taiwan, which China claims as a breakaway province to be recovered by force if necessary, along with China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sanctions-leaders-of-us-groups-over-hong-kong-actions/story-0WOmzxMub28tItwApvJ8OM.html
30-11-2020||World||Time is running out for Brexit trade deal, UK minister says||Britain and the European Union are running out of time to clinch a Brexit trade deal but if good progress is made this week then the talks could be extended, Environment Secretary George Eustice said on Monday.With just over four weeks left until the United Kingdom finally exits the EU’s orbit on Dec. 31, both sides are demanding concessions from the other on fishing, state aid and how to resolve any future disputes.“We really are now running out of time, this is the crucial week, we need to get a breakthrough,” Eustice told Sky. “I really do think we are now in to the final week or 10 days, of course if great progress were made this week and you’re nearly there it’s always possible to extend those negotiations,” he said. Britain formally left the EU on Jan. 31 but has been in a transition period since then under which rules on trade, travel and business remain unchanged. From the start of 2021 it will be treated by Brussels as a third country.The two sides are trying to strike a trade deal on goods that would safeguard nearly $1 trillion in annual trade and buttress peace in British-ruled Northern Ireland.Talks between EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier and British chief negotiator David Frost continued on Sunday. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said it was a very significant week for Brexit.“David Frost had made clear that we’re continuing the negotiations because we still think there is a prospect that we can get an agreement and while there is we should persevere with those,” Eustice said.FISH Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney said a deal could be done this week, but there needed to be give and take on both sides.On fishing, Britain dug in its heels. While fishing alone contributed just 0.03% of British economic output in 2019, it is an emotive subject as many Brexit supporters see it as a symbol of the regained sovereignty that leaving the EU should bring. Combined with fish and shellfish processing, then the sector makes up 0.1% of UK GDP.Britain wants “zonal attachment” to agree a total allowable catch for the United Kingdom’s waters - a step that would give it a much larger quota share than if the fish maths were worked out on the EU’s proposals.“All we’re asking for ... is there to be annual negotiations based on the science and also for there to be a move towards a fairer, more scientific sharing methodology which is called zonal attachment which is broadly where the fish are to be found,” Eustice told BBC radio.“Under that analysis we currently only have access to about half of the fish in our own waters, that is profoundly unfair on our fishermen, we’ve been clear throughout that needs to change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-is-running-out-for-brexit-trade-deal-uk-minister-says/story-BfMVbYLbG2S0wVrtWoOgmM.html
30-11-2020||World||Iran says Israel remotely killed military nuclear scientist||A top Iranian security official on Monday accused Israel of using “electronic devices” to remotely kill a scientist who founded the Islamic Republic’s military nuclear program in the 2000s. Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of the country’s Supreme National Security Council, made the comment at the funeral for Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, where Iran’s defense minister separately vowed to continue the man’s work “with more speed and more power.”  Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade, has declined to comment on the attack. Fakhrizadeh headed Iran’s so-called AMAD program, which Israel and the West have alleged was a military operation looking at the feasibility of building a nuclear weapon. The International Atomic Energy Agency says that “structured program” ended in 2003. U.S. intelligence agencies concurred with that assessment in a 2007 report.Israel insists Iran still maintains the ambition of developing nuclear weapons, pointing to Tehran’s ballistic missile program and research into other technologies. Iran long has maintained its nuclear program is peaceful.Shamkhani’s remarks drastically change the story of Fakhrizadeh’s killing Friday. Authorities initially said a truck exploded and then gunmen opened fire on the scientist, killing him. State TV’s English-language Press TV earlier reported a weapon recovered from the scene of the attack bore “the logo and specifications of the Israeli military industry.” State TV’s Arabic-language channel, Al-Alam, claimed the weapons used were “controlled by satellite,” a claim also made Sunday by the semiofficial Fars news agency. None of the outlets immediately offered evidence supporting their claims.“Unfortunately, the operation was a very complicated operation and was carried out by using electronic devices,” Shamkhani told state TV. “No individual was present at the site.” Shamkhani also blamed the Iranian exile group Mujahedeen-e-Khalq as well for “having a role in this,” without elaborating. The MEK did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Monday’s service for Fakhrizadeh took place at an outdoor portion of Iran’s Defense Ministry in Tehran, with officials including Revolutionary Guard chief Gen. Hossein Salami, the Guard’s Quds Force leader Gen. Esmail Ghaani, civilian nuclear program chief Ali Akbar Sahei and Intelligence Minister Mamoud Alavi. They sat apart from each other and wore masks due to the coronavirus pandemic as reciters melodically read portions of the Quran and religious texts.Defense Minister Gen. Amir Hatami gave a speech after kissing Fakhrizadeh’s casket and putting his forehead against it. He said Fakhrizadeh’s killing would make Iranians “more united, more determined.” “For the continuation of your path, we will continue with more speed and more power,” Hatami said in comments aired live by state television.Hatami also criticized countries that hadn’t condemned Fakhrizadeh’s killing, warning: “This will catch up with you someday.” Overnight, the United Arab Emirates, which just reached a normalization deal with Israel, issued a statement condemning “the heinous assassination.” The UAE, home to Abu Dhabi and Dubai, warned it “could further fuel conflict in the region.” Last year, the UAE found itself in the middle of an escalating series of incidents between Iran and the US. Though long suspicious of Iran’s nuclear program, the Emirates has said it wants to de-escalate the crisis. The UAE just started passenger air service to Israel and Israelis are expected to vacation in the country over Hanukkah in the coming days.Hatami also called the nuclear arsenal of the US - and the stockpile of atomic bombs Israel long has been suspected of holding - “the most dangerous threat against humanity.” Mourners later buried Fakhrizadeh in the courtyard of Imamzadeh Saleh mosque in north Tehran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-israel-remotely-killed-military-nuclear-scientist/story-u9GCVE3jgJrO6mLzKRDLhI.html
30-11-2020||World||Iranian embassy tries to draw India’s attention to killing of its top nuclear scientist||The Iranian embassy in New Delhi has called on the international community to condemn the “act of state terror” after its top nuclear scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, was assassinated last Friday near Tehran. In a statement released on Monday, the embassy tried to draw the attention of the Indian government and people towards Fakhrizadeh’s “outstanding role in peaceful scientific projects in Iran” and accused Israel of conspiring to “incited chaos” in the region.“Iranian people expect that the international community condemn state terrorism and build a consensus to counter tension and adventurism in the region,” the statement read.The embassy praised the slain scientist for his contribution to the “national efforts in curbing the Covid-19 pandemic”. It further said that several top Iranian scientists and national heroes have been targeted over the past years, stressing that evidence “clearly indicates” foreign hands behind such attacks.“The recent assassination of the senior Iranian nuclear scientist also bears the clear hallmark of cowardly acts committed by the terrorist regime of Israeli, which has already assassinated a large number of scientific elites in Iran and all over the region,” the embassy added.Also Read | Iranian scientist killing could trigger serious confrontation with Israel. Here’s whyFakhrizadeh was long suspected by the West of masterminding secret nuclear programme for the country and in 2018, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had said, “Remember that name, Fakhrizadeh,” while warning about a secret atomic warehouse. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspected the alleged atomic warehouse site in February 2019 and found traces of uranium.The United States, Russia, China, Germany, Britain and France entered a deal with Iran in 2015, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA). In 2018, US President Donald Trump announced Washington’s withdrawal from the deal and imposed unilateral sanctions on Tehran as a part of its “maximum pressure” campaign. The Iranian embassy has also accused Israel of persuading Washington to leave the nuclear accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-embassy-tries-to-draw-india-s-attention-to-killing-of-its-top-nuclear-scientist/story-m9Q4uEVMrcnVyvc75VV9VN.html
30-11-2020||World||Kaavan, Pakistan’s lonesome elephant, starts new life in Cambodia||Pakistan’s lonely elephant Kaavan arrived in Cambodia by cargo plane on Monday to start a new life with fellow pachyderms at a local sanctuary, the culmination of years of campaigning for his transfer by American singer Cher.Cher was on the tarmac at the airport of Cambodia’s second-biggest city Siem Reap to greet Kaavan and was photographed in sunglasses, black face mask and white jacket meeting the vets who accompanied the elephant, who made the long journey in a custom-made crate.Animal rescue organisation Four Paws said Kaavan had another 90-minute drive ahead and would likely arrive at the sanctuary after nightfall, so he would be released in daylight on Tuesday.“Kaavan was eating, was not stressed, he was even a little bit sleeping, standing leaning at the crate wall. He behaves like a Frequent Flyer,” said Amir Khalil, a Four Paws vet.“The flight was uneventful, which is all you can ask for when you transfer an elephant.”Cher had written songs pressing for Kaavan’s release from grim, isolated conditions at Islamabad Zoo and she had spent the last few days with him in Pakistan.The multi award-winning singer has been with a film crew documenting Kaavan’s story and said she was proud to be part of an effort to free an elephant she said had been shackled to a shed for 17 years. Dozens of wildlife workers and experts led by Four Paws used a winch and rope to pull the sedated elephant into the crate before he was loaded onto the Russian-built cargo plane. Kaavan’s handlers took more than 200 kg (441 lbs) of food including bananas and melons to keep him busy on his journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kaavan-pakistan-s-lonesome-elephant-starts-new-life-in-cambodia/story-US0afKuYwV63SELV7ZxJnK.html
30-11-2020||World||Uproar in France over proposed limits on filming police||French activists fear that a proposed new security law will deprive them of a potent weapon against abuse — cellphone videos of police activity — threatening their efforts to document possible cases of police brutality, especially in impoverished immigrant neighborhoods.French President Emmanuel Macron’s government is pushing a new security bill that makes it illegal to publish images of police officers with intent to cause them harm, amid other measures. Critics fear the new law could hurt press freedoms and make it more difficult for all citizens to report on police brutality.“I was lucky enough to have videos that protect me,” said Michel Zecler, a Black music producer who was beaten up recently by several French police officers. Videos first published Thursday by French website Loopsider have been seen by over 14 million viewers, resulting in widespread outrage over police actions.Two of the officers are in jail while they are investigated while two others, also under investigation, are out on bail.The draft bill, still being debated in parliament, has prompted protests across the country called by press freedom advocates and civil rights campaigners. Tens of thousands of people marched Saturday in Paris to reject the measure, including families and friends of people killed by police.“For decades, descendants of post-colonial immigration and residents in populous neighborhoods have denounced police brutality,” Sihame Assbague, an anti-racism activist, told The Associated Press.Videos by the public have helped to show a wider audience that there is a “systemic problem with French police forces, who are abusing, punching, beating, mutilating, killing,” she said.Activists say the bill may have an even greater impact on people other than journalists, especially those of immigrant origin living in neighborhoods where relationships with the police have long been tense. Images posted online have been key to denouncing cases of officers’ misconduct and racism in recent years, they argue.Assbague expressed fears that, under the proposed law, those who post videos of police abuses online may be put on trial, where they would face up to a year in jail and a 45,000-euro ($53,000) fine.“I tend to believe that a young Arab man from a poor suburb who posts a video of police brutality in his neighborhood will be more at risk of being found guilty than a journalist who did a video during a protest,” she said.Amal Bentousi’s brother Amine was shot in the back and killed by a police officer in 2012. The officer was sentenced to a five-year suspended prison sentence. Along with other families of victims, in March she launched a mobile phone app called Emergency-Police Violence to record abuses and bring cases to court.“Some police officers already have a sense of impunity. ... The only solution now is to make videos,” she told the AP. The app has been downloaded more than 50,000 times.“If we want to improve public confidence in the police, it does not go through hiding the truth,” she added.The proposed law is partly a response to demands from police unions, who say it will provide greater protection for officers.Abdoulaye Kante, a Black police officer with 20 years of experience in Paris and its suburbs, is both a supporter of the proposed law and strongly condemns police brutality and violence against officers.“What people don’t understand is that some individuals are using videos to put the faces of our (police) colleagues on social media so that they are identified, so that they are threatened or to incite hatred,” he said.“The law doesn’t ban journalists or citizens from filming police in action ... It bans these images from being used to harm, physically or psychologically,” he argued. “The lives of officers are important.”A “tiny fraction of the population feeds rage and hatred” against police, Jean-Michel Fauvergue, a former head of elite police forces and a lawmaker in Macron’s party who co-authored the bill, said in the National Assembly. “We need to find a solution.”Justice Minister Eric Dupond-Moretti has acknowledged that “the intent (to harm) is something that is difficult to define” and the government appears ready to back revamping part of the proposed law.Activists consider the draft law one more step in a series of security measures passed by French lawmakers to extend police powers at the expense of civil liberties.A statement signed by over 30 groups of families and friends of victims of police abuses said that since 2005, “all security laws adopted have constantly expanded the legal field allowing police impunity.”Riots in 2005 exposed France’s long-running problems between police and youths in public housing projects with large immigrant populations.In recent years, numerous security laws have been passed following attacks by extremists.Critics noted a hardening of police tactics during protests or while arresting individuals. Hundreds of complaints have been filed against officers during the yellow vest movement against social injustice, which erupted in 2018 and saw weekends of violent clashes.Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said out of 3 million police operations per year in France, some 9,500 end up on a government website that denounces abuses, which represents 0.3%.France’s human rights ombudsman, Claire Hedon, is among the most prominent critics of the proposed law, which she said involves “significant risks of undermining fundamental rights.”“Our democracy is hit when the population does not trust its police anymore,” she told the National Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uproar-in-france-over-proposed-limits-on-filming-police/story-2fq42hR7sNdUhpQ1GTcl8L.html
30-11-2020||World||EU starts debate on how best to improve post-Trump US relations, officials say||The European Union will begin discussions on Monday on how best to improve transatlantic relations after the departure of US President Donald Trump, EU officials said.Ambassadors from the 27 EU countries are due to consider five broad policy areas on which they see greater opportunities for cooperation with President-elect Joe Biden after four strained years with Trump.Those areas on health, notably fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, boosting the economic recovery, combating climate change, promoting peace and security and upholding shared values, including a belief in multilateral rules.EU leaders are expected to debate transatlantic relations when they convene for a summit on December 10-11.Charles Michel, the former Belgian prime minister who heads the grouping of EU nations called the European Council, has invited Biden to an in-person summit in the first half of 2021, with a virtual summit perhaps soon after he takes office.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has said the United States and the European Union need to forge a new transatlantic alliance in areas such as climate change and the digital economy.Many European leaders watched with shock as Trump pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change agreement and the Iran nuclear deal, slapped tariffs on EU goods and spurned multilateral bodies that America has backed for decades.Von der Leyen said the EU was looking forward to the United States rejoining the Paris agreement, which Biden has said he will do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-starts-debate-on-how-best-to-improve-post-trump-us-relations-officials-say/story-QyzJxtsZEYROp6bflA2PzH.html
30-11-2020||World||China to impose sanctions on four over egregious behaviour on Hong Kong||China will impose sanctions on four people over their egregious behaviour regarding the Asian financial hub of Hong Kong, it said on Monday.They will be banned from entering China, foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular news briefing. This month, the United States said it was imposing sanctions on four more Chinese individuals related to actions over the former British colony, which returned to Chinese rule in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-impose-sanctions-on-four-over-egregious-behaviour-on-hong-kong/story-a52aFjziF9u4UudLQyOeeO.html
30-11-2020||World||Italy’s antitrust fines Apple 10 million euros for misleading commercial practices||Italy’s antitrust authority said on Monday it had fined Apple 10 million euros ($12 million) for “aggressive and misleading” commercial practices regarding its iPhones. The regulator said in a statement the company advertised that several iPhone models were water-resistant without clarifying they were only so under certain circumstances.It added that the company’s disclaimer, saying that its phones were not covered by warranty in case of damage from liquids, tricked clients, who were also not provided support when their phones were damaged by water or other liquids. Apple declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-s-antitrust-fines-apple-10-million-euros-for-misleading-commercial-practices/story-Op3LohJxiJZKwy1DP3GR0H.html
30-11-2020||World||Janet Yellen to forge US economic comeback as Biden’s treasury pick||President-elect Joe Biden will take a significant step this week toward addressing the damage to the US economy inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic, as he names an economic team led by his choice for Treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.In Yellen, Biden will have a battle-tested policy maker who can draw on her nearly two decades at the Fed to help rebuild an economy in dire need of government cash and confidence. Biden has called for trillions of dollars in new stimulus to aid the small and mid-size businesses that are the nation’s jobs engine.Yellen’s expected to champion what she’s called “extraordinary fiscal support” to support the pandemic-ridden economy -- deficit spending that she says is affordable given extraordinarily low interest rates.Others in Biden’s economic policy team are also expected to be unveiled this week. People familiar with the process said longtime Democratic policy staffer Neera Tanden had been picked to lead the Office of Management and Budget. Cecilia Rouse, formerly of the Obama administration and currently dean of Princeton University’s School of Public and International Affairs, would head the Council of Economic Advisers. Both roles require Senate confirmation.At the top of their to-do list will be to break a deadlock in Congress over additional relief spending, an effort that would be far easier if Democrats win two Georgia Senate seats in runoff elections next month to wrest control of the chamber from Mitch McConnell’s Republicans.Yellen is seen winning easy confirmation in the Senate. While she occasionally sparred with Republican lawmakers as Fed chair, she’s widely respected, and some GOP senators publicly complimented her selection, which Biden has yet to make official.At 74, she will be the oldest Treasury secretary in recent memory, and the first woman to lead the agency.She would be the second person in the modern era to serve as both Fed chair and Treasury chief, after Jimmy Carter appointee William Miller, and the only one to also have led the White House Council of Economic Advisers, which she did in the Clinton administration.“Biden made a clever pick with Yellen,” said economist Marc Sumerlin of Evenflow Macro in Washington. “She’s non-partisan, has earned everybody’s respect, and can give intellectual heft to the stimulus argument more than anyone else could have.”Here’s a look at her challenges ahead.StimulusThe US economy is showing signs of further erosion as coronavirus cases spiral and some states begin to shutter businesses again in a bid to slow the spread. The US outbreak threatens to be a drag on the nascent labor market recovery, with jobless claims ticking up and payroll gains forecast to slow further.Nine months into the pandemic, more than six million people still claim extended unemployment assistance.Key for the Biden administration is passing a fiscal stimulus package that bolsters consumer finances and supports additional spending. The Fed is set to maintain an accommodative monetary policy to help drive growth.History suggests Yellen will be sworn in by early February. Among her first tasks will be to decide what to do about the Fed’s pandemic lending programs. Outgoing Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has said some will sunset on Dec. 31. She may find a way to extend them, which is the Fed’s preference, or perhaps redesign them since many remained largely untapped.Market StabilityInvestors predict that with a less volatile boss than her predecessor, Yellen can be a stabilizing force on Wall Street.President Donald Trump’s practice of policy making by tweet sowed unpredictability for businesses and investors. Yellen’s tenure at the Fed -- as chairman, vice-chairman, governor, and San Francisco Fed president -- means that she’s keenly aware of the market impact of her words, a stark contrast with senior Trump administration officials.“The markets love this appointment because being the former Federal Reserve chair, there’s no surprises about her thinking,” said Peter Mallouk, chief executive officer of Creative Planning.Yellen comes as something of a relief to Wall Street after talk of Biden choosing Senator Elizabeth Warren, a nemesis of big banks with a preference for stronger financial regulation, as his Treasury chief.But it’s the influence of progressive Democrats like Warren that steered Biden away from current Fed Governor Lael Brainard. Before Election Day, Brainard was a favorite for Treasury secretary among Biden’s advisers. Biden’s allies have since asked that Brainard remain at the Fed, where she’s the lone Democrat on the board.Financial RegulationThe party’s liberal wing appreciates Yellen for her support of tighter financial regulation, for which she’ll be the point person in the Biden administration. That will thrust her into anticipated policy battles between progressives and moderates over the policing of Wall Street.The most liberal lawmakers want to restore and even toughen post-financial crisis rules weakened during the Trump administration. But centrists may push for a more cautious approach, arguing that it would be a mistake to clamp down on banks at a time when the economy is imperiled.As Treasury chief, Yellen will lead the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the powerful group of regulators that tries to identify and rein in emerging threats posed by the industry. Since it was created through the Dodd-Frank Act, FSOC has become a forum for agencies like Treasury, the Fed and the US Securities and Exchange Commission to collaborate on oversight.Yellen’s record indicates she may use the position to push for new rules on so-called shadow lenders, such as money-market mutual funds and investment banks that are outside the Fed’s reach.In recent years she’s sounded alarms in particular about leveraged lending -- loans extended to businesses that are already highly indebted -- due to concerns that the economy could suffer significant job losses if the corporate borrowers start defaulting. Shadow banks are very active in leveraged lending.Foreign RelationsWhat’s less clear about Yellen is whether she’ll embrace the Treasury secretary’s role as an occasional economic aggressor. While international economic diplomacy will be part of her purview, taking her to Group of 20 meetings that she participated in as Fed chair, she’ll now play a much larger role in US foreign policy.Part of her new remit will be to work with the State Department and other national security agencies to manage the vast US sanctions portfolio. But as Biden indicated during his presidential campaign, his early agenda will include repairing ties with allies damaged by Trump’s “America First” position.Mnuchin and predecessors including Hank Paulson played central roles in managing trade policy and relations with China. It remains to be seen if Biden will hand Yellen the same power.The new administration will also need to decide whether to scrap, keep, or escalate the billions of dollars in tariffs levied against Chinese imports, and whether to stick to the partial trade deal Trump signed with Beijing in January or seek to renegotiate it.Yellen also will be involved in determining whether to continue sanctions imposed on Chinese officials for their crackdown on human rights, and she’ll inherit Trump administration restrictions aimed at cutting off Chinese technology companies’ access to American intellectual property.Yellen has spoken in favour of liberalizing trade and has publicly disagreed with Trump’s position that China’s management of its economy swelled the US trade deficit. She said in February that “we haven’t seen” any evidence that duties on Chinese goods made US manufacturers more competitive or more likely to hire.At Treasury, Yellen would also decide whether to continue branding China as a currency manipulator in biannual reports. The US label has no practical effect, but adds to tensions between the world’s two largest economies.While not singling out Beijing, Yellen said in 2019 that it was “really difficult and treacherous” to determine when a country is massaging its currency to gain a trade advantage. A weaker exchange rate, she said, may just be a byproduct of looser economic policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/janet-yellen-to-forge-us-economic-comeback-as-biden-s-treasury-pick/story-k0VktDvxidKnVvCwv5Y8yM.html
30-11-2020||World||Christmas, coronavirus and fear of no-deal Brexit push Europe’s warehouses to the limit||Retailers worldwide have never had more reason to pack warehouses to the brim and keep stock closer to shoppers who continue to buy a record number of items online.As well as stocking up for Christmas and any potential coronavirus-related lockdowns, Europe and the UK will soon have Brexit to deal with.British companies are bringing as much as possible into the country before potential disruptions in January, while their European counterparts are piling up goods in pan-European distribution hubs close to ports like Hamburg or Rotterdam.E-commerce management platforms including ZigZag and Global-e-- which serve Forever 21, Boohoo, Gap, Selfridges and Hugo Boss --- said around 30-35% of UK retailers’ sales are to customers in continental Europe. Brands popular in the UK like Chinese e-commerce retailer Shein or American sportswear brand Under Armour are currently stocked exclusively in the EU, ZigZag CEO Al Gerrie said. The rise in e-commerce throughout the year as a consequence of the pandemic had already pushed warehouse space to the limit.“Most carriers already operated at Christmas volumes during the first wave. If you now add the Christmas effect on top, it’s just getting even more challenging,” CFO of European e-commerce retailer Zalando, David Schroeder, said in November.Demand for storage space after Brexit could shoot up even further as retailers seek to avoid customs checks and, if no deal is struck, tariffs.“Retailers won’t want to be caught out again,” said Nick Cook, head of Europe for warehouse owner GLP, referring to the potential supply shocks Brexit could bring. Their warehouses, covering 3.3 million square metres in continental Europe and 700,000 in the UK leased to companies including H&M, Amazon and DHL are currently 97% occupied.Stocking up In the UK, leasing volumes for commercial warehouse space are at record levels of 32.5 million square feet and projected to grow to 40 million by the end of the year, according to real estate advisory firm CBRE.Logistics operator Europa Worldwide Group, which delivers goods for retailers and third parties like DHL and Amazon, is holding 60% more e-commerce products than this time last year, the company said.Shoe producer Vivo Barefoot said it was shipping as many shoes as possible from its Portugal manufacturing site to its UK warehouse ahead of December.M&S, Next, and Primark said earlier this year their warehouses were still holding unsold summer clothing. Even after the pandemic, demand for warehouse space is expected to remain high as customers now used to ordering online continue to do so. E-commerce generally requires around three times as much warehouse capacity as physical retail, according to figures from Prologis.Spreading outWarehouse developer Panattoni Chief Executive Robert Dobrzycki said pandemic border closures spurred retailers to separate stock by country instead of stocking for several countries in one shared warehouse space.“We’re seeing a move away from just-in-time logistics strategies and increasingly towards just-in-case,” said Andrew Jones of property firm Londonmetric in a November earnings call. “Not only in the period we’re all living through at the moment, but also the period we’re going to live through post-Brexit.” Retailers could also seek to split logistics operations across the UK and EU to avoid charges.Even with a deal, cross-border traders will have to pay charges on goods travelling between the UK and EU and track every order with commercial paperwork. Britain’s logistics industry estimates that 250 million customs declarations a year will be needed for EU trade.Holding stock in both markets would eliminate that problem and is a solution the biggest players have opted for. Amazon said in July that from December 28 onwards it would no longer distribute goods for merchants between the UK and the EU – instead, they would have to send their stock separately to fulfilment centres in both regions.Meanwhile other industry players are beginning to discuss options like converting agricultural buildings, empty space on run-down high streets or vacant basements into warehouse space, according to research by firms including Savills and JLL.But the construction and conversion process is slow and has been hit by delays during the pandemic and many plans are still a pipe dream.“At this point, you may just need to choose your market,” Tim Crighton, head of EMEA at real estate advisory Cushman & Wakefield, said. Parker Lane Group, a UK-based returns facility with offices in Barcelona and Warsaw, said some clients were positioning goods to mitigate tariffs but others said very few of their customers had made any arrangements yet.“Retailers haven’t pulled the trigger just yet, because of the uncertainty around Brexit,” Al Gerrie of ZigZag said.By the time they do, there may not be much space left to lease.“If people want warehousing today, you’re looking at older, second-hand, more functionally awkward space, without the same height or loading doors of newbuilds,” Paul Weston, head of Prologis for the UK, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/christmas-coronavirus-and-fear-of-no-deal-brexit-push-europe-s-warehouses-to-the-limit/story-unanfJgG7QLTZxTs7ArJ2K.html
30-11-2020||World||‘Time is running out’: UK minister says on Brexit trade deal||Britain and the European Union are running out of time to clinch a Brexit trade deal, Environment Secretary George Eustice said on Monday.“We really are now running out of time, this is the crucial week, we need to get a breakthrough,” Eustice told Sky. “I really do think we are now in to the final week or 10 days, of course if great progress were made this week and you’re nearly there it’s always possible to extend those negotiations,” he said. “David Frost had made clear that we’re continuing the negotiations because we still think there is a prospect that we can get an agreement and while there is we should persevere with those,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-is-running-out-uk-minister-says-on-brexit-trade-deal/story-2bexD2O49SKj6Iwd1stZLO.html
30-11-2020||World||Twitter suspends Thai royalist account linked to influence campaign||Twitter has suspended a Thai pro-royalist account linked to the palace that a Reuters analysis found was connected to thousands of others created in recent weeks spreading posts in favour of King Maha Vajiralongkorn and the monarchy.The Reuters review found tens of thousands of tweets that an expert said appeared to be from accounts amplifying royalist messaging in a push to counter a months-long protest movement that has swelled from opposing the government to breaking a longstanding taboo by challenging the monarchy.Internal army training documents reviewed by Reuters showed evidence of a coordinated information campaign designed to spread favourable information and discredit opponents.The pro-monarchy @jitarsa_school account was suspended after Reuters sought comment on Wednesday from Twitter on the recent royalist campaign on the social media platform, where protesters have long had a strong presence.Protesters and royalists have cited the importance of social media in propelling the protest movement, which has become the biggest challenge in decades to the monarchy as well as the government of former junta leader Prayuth Chan-ocha.Created in September, the @jitarsa_school account had more than 48,000 followers before its suspension.“The account in question was suspended for violating our rules on spam and platform manipulation,” a Twitter representative said on Sunday. She said the suspension was in line with the company’s policies and not a result of the Reuters request for comment.The account’s profile had said that it trained people for the Royal Volunteers programme, which is run by the Royal Office. A Facebook page for the Royal Volunteers School, which posts pro-monarchy videos and news of the programme, also identifies the Twitter account as its own.Neither the school nor the Royal Volunteers headquarters responded to requests for comment on the suspension. The “Volunteer Spirit 904” programme was established during the current king’s reign, which began in 2016, to build loyalty to the monarchy.The palace did not respond to a request for comment. It has a policy of not speaking to media and has not commented since the start of protests in July that initially targeted the government before breaking taboos by calling for curbs to the king’s powers.Royalist Fightback In recent weeks, royalist hashtags have begun trending on Twitter, an important platform for opponents of the government even before protests began in July.The Reuters analysis found that more than 80% of the accounts following @jitarsa_school had also been created since the start of September. A sample of 4,600 of the recently created accounts showed that all they did was promote the royalist hashtags - an indication of the kind of activity that would not be associated with regular Twitter users.A sample of 559 retweets of the account’s tweets were virtually all from accounts with bot-like characteristics, according to research by social media consultancy Drone Emprit for Reuters.“Government forces have been trying to counter the protesters,” said Saijai Liangpunsakul of the independent Social Media Monitoring for Peace group. “Twitter has taken down some accounts, but there are many more.”Hashtags promoted by the suspended account, usually alongside pictures of the king and other royals, included those that translate as: #StopViolatingTheMonarchy, #ProtectTheMonarchy, #WeLoveTheMotherOfTheLand, #WeLoveTheMonarchy and #MinionsLoveTheMonarchy.Royalist group leader Warong Dechgitvigrom declined to comment on the account’s suspension, saying he was unaware of it.He told Reuters there were more pro-monarchy messages on Twitter because royalists increasingly recognised the need to counter protesters’ messages and had encouraged each another to join the platform. “Pro-monarchy hashtags are authentic, born out of true feelings,” he said.Protesters accused by Royalists Royalists have accused protesters of inauthentic activity on Twitter, with coordinated campaigns around hashtags.But Parit “Penguin” Chiwarak, one of the protest leaders, said protesters using the platform were genuine and he welcomed the suspension of the pro-royalist account.“They’re not recruited to trend hashtags like the army and they don’t use taxpayers’ money,” he said.Although not directly linked to the @jitarsa_school account, a 28-page army document reviewed by Reuters showed an organised information operation to target “opponents” and spread pro-monarchy messages on Twitter. The document says 17,562 Twitter accounts run by 9,743 army officers are split into a “White Team” and a “Grey/Black Team” that were instructed to tweet with coordinated hashtags, as well as to like, retweet and follow one another.The document suggests measures to appear more like authentic accounts.The army on Saturday acknowledged the document is genuine, saying in a Facebook post it was used in a training session to strengthen the army’s public relations efforts. In early October, Twitter announced it had taken down 926 accounts linked to the Thai army for violating its platform-manipulation policies by amplifying pro-government content and targeting political opposition figures. The army at the time denied that the accounts belonged to army officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-suspends-thai-royalist-account-linked-to-influence-campaign/story-MgTzOmu5Vss505ISu7SYJK.html
30-11-2020||World||Covid-19 crisis widens gap between Russia’s richest and poorest regions||The coronavirus pandemic is set to widen the gulf between the richest and poorest parts of Russia as the government pushes the country’s far-flung regions to fend more for themselves.The federal authorities are pushing regional governments to borrow more to help pay for rising health care and other social costs during the pandemic. Regions will increase their net borrowing by 400 billion rubles ($5.3 billion) next year, compared with almost zero in 2020, according to estimates from NKR, Russia’s national credit ratings agency. Moscow will borrow a similar amount on its own.“The strongest regions will win out, the weakest will get even weaker,” said Stanislav Ponomarev, who invests in regional debt as a money manager at Transfingroup in Moscow. “Credit quality will decline.”Wealth inequality is already so high between different parts of Russia that a worker in Moscow can expect to earn four times more than someone in one of the four poorest regions. The gap has been exacerbated by the pandemic, which had a devastating impact on areas with underfunded health care.Russia’s 85 regions get a share of the money collected through taxes and other levies based on their spending requirements, and many face strict limits on how much they can borrow after taking on too much debt. Those rules will be reviewed in 2021, most likely to allow more borrowing.“Until recently the regions could rely on transfers from the center,” said Elina Ribakova, deputy chief economist at the Institute of International Finance in Washington. “Regional governors are suddenly finding themselves in a position where they need to support local economies and become business friendly if they want to get any revenue to spend.”Russia’s Recovery Has Lost Momentum, Further Decline Is LikelyBudgets across the country have been hurt by a drop in tax revenue after incomes sank 4.3% this year. Regions that rely on tax revenues from the energy sector have also lost out. S&P Global Ratings estimates that regional budgets will run the widest deficits in two decades this year.St. Petersburg raised its borrowing limit several times in 2020 to 127 billion rubles to cover budget losses, according to the city’s government. The ceiling will increase to 225 billion rubles next year. The city was hurt by a tourism slump during the pandemic.Public debt has ballooned this year in the mountainous republic of Ingushetia, one of Russia’s poorest regions. The republic, rocked by years of violence following the wars in neighbouring Chechnya, is dependent on transfers from the federal budget, which this year failed to cover excess spending fast enough to help fight the pandemic.“Regions have more responsibilities than opportunities in terms of their own policies,” said Sofya Donets, chief economist at Renaissance Capital in Moscow. “Those with a larger service sector will be hit harder by the pandemic and the disparity of regional revenue will grow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-crisis-widens-gap-between-russia-s-richest-and-poorest-regions/story-uzgpCWIrOb9MNiyKmWifVO.html
30-11-2020||World||QAnon’s ‘independent and self-sustaining’ rise in Japan shows the conspiracy theory’s global spread||QAnon’s days as a solely US phenomenon are over.The conspiracy theory’s foothold in Japan -- home to one of its most active networks outside the US-- demonstrates how the movement can be made palatable in a range of countries as it gains popularity from Europe to Brazil.Research by social media analytics firm Graphika Inc. shows the Japan-based QAnon community is among the most developed international chapters, with distinct terminology, influencers, and behaviours -- such as idolizing Michael Flynn, a former US national security adviser in the Trump administration.“What we’re seeing now is an adaptation of US QAnon taking root in European countries, whereas in Japan and Brazil, it does seem to be slightly more independent and self-sustaining as an ideology,” said Melanie Smith, head of analysis at Graphika. She attributes the increasing prominence of QAnon to the US election and the pandemic.This internationalization presents an uphill battle for social media companies already facing increased pressure from governments to combat disinformation on their platforms in English, let alone myriad other languages. President Donald Trump’s refusal to concede the election to Joe Biden has prompted many of his supporters to say without proof that the election was stolen. Lawsuits filed by the Trump campaign and its GOP allies have failed in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia, Nevada and Arizona as the legal team has failed to produce any evidence of widespread fraud that would change the results. However Trump supporters’ accusations continue, potentially giving fresh life to conspiracy theories such as QAnon after the president leaves office.Like its US counterpart, Japan’s QAnon community centers on an unsubstantiated belief that Trump is battling to save the world from a cabal of pedophiles, including Democrats and “deep state” agents. While it’s hard to estimate the size of QAnon’s following in any country given its lack of official membership and overlap with other conspiracy communities, data from Google Trends show a sharp rise in Japanese interest in QAnon from late March to early April before tailing off somewhat.Japan’s community is perhaps most notable for its reverence of Flynn. He only served in the Trump administration for 24 days and resigned after acknowledging he had misled Vice President Mike Pence over communications with the Russian ambassador; he later pleaded guilty to lying to federal agents about their conversation and was pardoned by Trump last week. The Japanese group even styles itself QArmyJapanFlynn after the former general who popularized “digital soldiers,” a term many Q supporters use to describe themselves.Flynn follows several Japanese QAnon accounts, including @okabaeri9111 -- the Twitter linchpin of the community. The handle run by Eri Okabayashi has more than 80,000 followers, and says it is both the founder of QArmyJapanFlynn and sole official translator of Q content into Japanese. The most popular video translation of Q content on an associated Youtube account had more than 200,000 views before it was removed for violating the site’s content policy. By comparison, two Brazilian accounts Graphika described as “highly followed” in its August report had 54,400 followers and 16,800 followers at that time. The UK Facebook groups highlighted in the report had 10,000 to 11,000 members.In an email interview, Okabayashi described herself as a university graduate from “a medium-sized city in Japan” who has never lived abroad but taught herself English by watching US television shows. A few months after starting a Twitter account in January 2019, she was invited to join “a group of well-known QAnons” and became a follower.“Flynn was in the group” but stopped participating in about June last year, she said, without providing evidence. Robert Kelner, a lawyer for Flynn, didn’t respond to a request for comment.Okabayashi said her interest in QAnon stemmed in part from deep-seated doubts about Japan’s approach to women and motherhood. Economists have long warned that Japan’s low birth rate and shrinking population could spur a demographic crisis, as the labour force diminishes in a country with one of the world’s longest life expectancies.“I was convinced that a country that does not allow women in their twenties of childbearing age to focus on childbirth and child rearing will eventually die,” she said. Japanese female workforce participation has historically lagged other developed nations, but that is changing: a record 71% were employed in 2019, in part as a result of one of the world’s most generous parental leave laws.Okabayashi also expressed belief in domestic conspiracy theories, such as the baseless claim that Japan’s political and business elite -- including the Prime Minister -- are foreigners intent on exploiting and ultimately exterminating the Japanese race. She also said in a Twitter post that she is friends with QAppAnon, the pseudonym of former Citigroup Inc. employee Jason Gelinas, and has created a Japanese version of the popular QAnon website QMap.pub that he ran before it was shut down in September. Gelinas declined to comment.Other Japanese QAnon followers have also incorporated domestic issues. Some accounts have suggested without evidence that Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s early high approval ratings were fabricated by the media. The list of influential figures accused of belonging to the cabal includes Emperor Emeritus Akihito, and conspiracies have also circulated about the atomic bombings during World War II and the 2011 nuclear disaster that followed a devastating earthquake and tsunami.Adherents have even suggested, without evidence, that Japanese hit movie “Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba,” which involves demons eating people, is meant to acclimate people to QAnon conspiracies about pedophilia and cannibalism. Graphika also saw hashtags opposing a Japanese artificial-intelligence bill trend among the country’s QAnon accounts, a stance often linked to unfounded concerns about 5G mobile networks.While some Japanese QAnon accounts and posts are no longer available, major influencers like @okabaeri9111 continue to share prolifically. A spokesman for Japan’s Public Security Intelligence Agency declined to comment.No Japanese politician is seen by QAnon adherents as a hero -- none is aligned closely enough with the US president’s ideology. “Trump is pretty much the only political figure,” said Smith from Graphika, who noted that Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro was an exception. “The major challenge particularly for social media platforms is going to be being able to distinguish what is a QAnon account from what is a generally Trump account, from an anti-establishment account.”Both Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. are rolling out responses designed to limit the amplification of problematic posts, ranging from content warnings to removing certain posts. Facebook highlighted a public statement on its QAnon policy that outlines a full list of measures, saying “QAnon messaging changes very quickly and we see networks of supporters build an audience with one message and then quickly pivot to another.”A spokesperson for Twitter -- the more dominant platform in Japan, where it has more users than any other country outside the US -- said: “We have strong and dedicated teams of specialists who provide 24/7 global coverage in multiple different languages, and we are building more capacity to address increasingly complex issues.”Besides Japan, QAnon in Brazil has also developed a highly independent ecosystem, according to Graphika. European communities, by contrast, tend to more closely mirror US QAnon: German followers, for instance, often use English hashtags while applying the movement’s ideas to their own governments.The spread of QAnon globally could have real-world consequences such as decreased uptake of Covid-19 vaccines as more and more people see public health advice as part of “some kind of larger sinister plot,” said Chloe Colliver, head of digital policy and strategy at the London-based Institute for Strategic Dialogue.“Broadly, the spread of QAnon and conspiracies run the risk of diminishing trust in national and international institutions in any context in which it activates,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qanon-s-independent-and-self-sustaining-rise-in-japan-shows-the-conspiracy-theory-s-global-spread/story-CVb5fhGmshio6oirI4qwfP.html
30-11-2020||World||China stirs trouble with plan to hike retirement age from 60||China is making a new push to raise one of the world’s lowest retirement ages as it tries to cope with a rapidly aging population, a move that’s already fueling public discontent and will test the Communist Party’s ability to implement reforms.The ruling party alluded to the change earlier this month when it released an outline of its five-year economic plan, which included a recommendation to “implement postponing the retirement age.” China’s retirement age has remained unchanged for more than four decades at 60 for men and 55 for female white-collar workers, even as life-expectancy has risen. In places like Japan and Taiwan, most men and women can retire and start drawing a pension at 65. The global average was 62.7 years for men and 61.3 years for women, according to an analysis of 70 countries by insurer Allianz SE.The Communist Party’s statement produced a fierce backlash domestically, with tens of thousands of angry comments posted on Weibo, China’s equivalent of Twitter. Top among the complaints were from those closest to retiring, expressing anger over the prospect of delayed access to their pensions. Younger people argued that an increase in older workers would reduce their employment opportunities.Even so, China is pushing ahead with the plans. “Delayed retirement is approaching,” the state-run China Business News said on its front page on Monday. It cited unnamed officials as saying that a “gradual and flexible approach,” had emerged as a consensus among policy makers.Shrinking PopulationExperts say raising the age at which workers are eligible for state-supported pensions is crucial for ensuring the sustainability of the retirement system. The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government think-tank, estimated in a report last year that the main pension fund for urban workers will peak at 7 trillion yuan ($1 trillion) in 2027, before declining to zero by 2035. The balance in 2019 was 4.3 trillion yuan.Raising the retirement age would also help China maintain economic growth, by slowing the rate at which the working-age population shrinks as a result of falling birth rates. Beijing estimates the number of people aged 60 or more will approach 487 million by 2050, compared with 254 million last year.China experienced a baby boom in the early 1960s, resulting in more than 200 million people who will reach 60 in the next decade. As a result, China’s leaders will have no option but to increase the pension age during the next five-year plan that begins in 2021, said Wang Feng, a demographer at the University of California, Irvine.“A massive number of people will reach this age during the next five years,” he said. “If they don’t act now that would impose a tremendous fiscal burden.”Read more | China’s factory activity expands at fastest pace in over three yearsEarlier ProposalsChina’s elderly dependence ratio, which compares the number of retired people to those in the workforce, will rise to nearly 33% by 2035, from about 17% this year, economist Cai Fang told reporters at a government briefing on Friday.A public backlash derailed a previous proposal to increase the pension eligibility age in 2012. China’s Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, which oversees pensions, included a recommendation for raising the retirement age during the current five-year plan period through 2020, but it wasn’t implemented.While the ministry will be charged with developing detailed proposals for implementation, the Communist Party’s most senior leaders would need to sign off on retirement reform, Wang said. Officials are likely to implement reforms gradually in an attempt to reduce public discontent, such as by applying the changes to some professions or regions before others, he said.Wang Xinmei, a pension economist at Zhejiang University, cited several other options that could be adopted as well.“We can start from some easy steps, for example, allowing competent people who want to work more to work more years voluntarily,” she said. One proposal is to increase the age by a year each year, though that is “much too fast,” she said. “We could increase faster in the early stage then slowly in the later stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-stirs-trouble-with-plan-to-hike-retirement-age-from-60/story-wQcGLplXJ8jjFVOct4Q3tO.html
30-11-2020||World||Iran begins funeral for slain military nuclear scientist||Iran has begun a funeral for a recently killed scientist who founded the Islamic Republic’s military nuclear program in the early 2000s.State TV broadcast the ceremony Monday showing the casket of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. An honour guard carried it to a podium where reciters read the Quran and other religious verses in an outdoor area of the Defense Ministry in Iran’s capital, Tehran.Officials, including Defense Minister Gen Amir Hatami, attended the ceremony, sitting apart from each other and wearing masks due to the coronavirus pandemic.Read more | Who is the Iranian scientist killed in TehranFakhrizadeh was killed in a military-style ambush Friday on the outskirts of Tehran, which reportedly saw a truck bomb explode and gunmen open fire on the scientist.Iran has blamed Israel for the attack. Israel, long suspected of killing Iranian nuclear scientists over the last decade, has declined to comment on the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-begins-funeral-for-slain-military-nuclear-scientist/story-eJrVxE5XPTam9Hh3RjbERN.html
30-11-2020||World||Nepal ties with India are warming up. China could complicate the situation | Analysis||Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s government is keen to move forward on its relationship with India and could take a positive view on a travel air bubble with India and the Pancheshwar multi-modal project after foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s two-day visit, people familiar with the matter said. Shringla had a 50-minute one-on-one conversation with PM Oli on November 26 that saw the two countries focusing on steps to normalise relations hit hard due to the Lipu Lekh boundary row.“They are keen to move forward on the relationship and will send some positive signals in this regard. But they also want the boundary issue to be discussed,” a senior official said. As the first step to deepen bilateral cooperation, the two countries could set up the travel air bubble and revive negotiations over the Pancheshwar multi-modal project. Foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali is expected to be India in December for which the dates are being worked out.Relations between the two neighbours had nosedived this year after Nepal opposed an 80 km-border road to Lipulekh region that is claimed by Nepal. Kathmandu responded by issuing a new map that showed Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.Also Read: In Nepal, how domestic politics is colliding with geopoliticsFor the last few months, the two countries have been taking quiet steps to restore the ties. India does not want to vacate the space in Nepal and allow China to create additional leverages in the Himalayan Republic.But diplomats in New Delhi and Kathmandu suggest there is some concern that China, which does appear to wield influence over Nepal’s politics and economy, could hold back Kathmandu.The continuing political flux in Nepal and the battle between the two co-chairs of Nepal Communist Party (NCP) - KP Sharma Oli and PK Dahal aka Prachanda - has added to the uncertainties around the ruling party, and created an opportunity for China to intervene.President Xi Jinping’s Communist Party of China has been keen that the Nepal Communist Party formed in 2018 after the merger to Nepal’s two communist parties - Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist Leninist) (CPN-UML) and Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) - does not split. Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi has been reported to have stepped in to bridge the divide between the two factions led by PM Oli and Prachanda in the past.Diplomats say the timing of Chinese Defence Minister General Wei Fenghe on Sunday was indicative of Beijing’s focus on Kathmandu and reinforcement of its multiple messages to PM Oli’s government and the opposition. During his day-long visit, General Wei held meetings with PM Oli, President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Nepal Army Chief Purna Chandra Thapa before leaving for Pakistan in the evening.PM Oli is believed to have suggested to ambassador Hou Yanqi at their meeting earlier this month that he is capable of handling challenges within his party without any assistance from other countries. But it is unclear if he can stand his ground.Beijing wants the Nepalese Communist movement to remain united so that the country remains antagonistic towards India. The other option in play is to squeeze PM Oli, who wants a rapprochement with India, out of the party and the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-signals-ties-with-india-are-warming-up-but-china-keeps-them-on-the-edge/story-aHG7Qabnim5cqjW6cUTU4K.html
30-11-2020||World||8 inmates killed, 37 others injured in Sri Lankan prison riot: Report||At least eight prisoners were killed and 37 others injured when a riot broke out on Sunday at a prison on the outskirts of Sri Lanka’s capital when some inmates tried to force open a door and escape, prompting the authorities to use force, police said on Monday. Police spokesman Ajith Rohana said inmates created “unrest” at the Mahara prison located about 15 kilometers north of Colombo and prison officials took steps to control the situation.The incident comes as pandemic-related unrest has been growing in Sri Lanka’s overcrowded prisons. Inmates have staged protests in recent weeks in several prisons as the number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases spiked in the country’s overcrowded jails. “The incident was started by a set of remand prisoners when they tried to force open a door and escape following which the authorities had to use force,” Rohana said.He said during the entire incident at least 37 more, including two jailors, were injured and all of them were transferred to the nearby Ragama hospital.The residents near the prison said smoke was coming out of the premises due to fire.Prisons authorities said the rioters had set fire to the kitchen and a record room of the prison.An attempt by the rioting inmates to take the jailors hostage was thwarted, officials said.Rohana said the detainees wanted them to be transferred elsewhere as the Mahara prison has detected over 175 Covid-19 infections among the inmates.From the mid of this month, prisons across the island went into a lockdown as infections were reported both among inmates and guards.Over 1,000 cases have been reported among those connected to prisons.In a similar unrest last week, an inmate was killed. Another prisoner died in March.Sri Lankan prisons are highly congested with more than 26,000 inmates crowded in facilities with the capacity of 10,000.Sri Lanka, which has been taking tough measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus, has reported 22,988 cases and 109 deaths due to the contagious virus, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/8-inmates-killed-37-others-injured-in-sri-lankan-prison-riot-report/story-GnGwdwP0psXdONQDqPoRGL.html
30-11-2020||World||China urges US to drop probe that claims Yuan undervalued||China said a preliminary US ruling that it allegedly provided a trade subsidy to some exporters by undervaluing the yuan violated international rules.The case relates to a US investigation into Chinese exports of cable or twist ties, with the US Department of Commerce imposing tariffs on the products after determining that producers are getting an unfair advantage because of the currency. China’s Commerce Ministry called on US authorities to stop its investigation, while also disputing the preliminary finding.“The move seriously violated relevant international rules,” China’s ministry said in a statement on its website Saturday, citing an unidentified official. “We hope the US Department of Commerce will fully consider the evidence and counter opinions submitted by the Chinese side and correct the relevant wrong practices and conclusions.”Read more | China’s factory activity expands at fastest pace in over three yearsThe claim by the US that the yuan’s exchange rate to the dollar was undervalued by 5% in 2019 is “completely wrong” and isn’t supported by any analysis, the ministry said. It cited a US Treasury report on the yuan for that figure, which wasn’t in the Commerce Department statement.The US ruled that cable-tie exporters from China received “countervailable subsidies” from the country’s undervalued currency and instructed American customs agents to collect cash deposits from importers of twist ties from China.Last month, the US imposed similar sanctions on Vietnamese exports of car and truck tires, citing the nation’s “undervalued currency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-urges-us-to-drop-probe-that-claims-yuan-undervalued/story-8gXF3g27ZkBzLMbzoocr1O.html
30-11-2020||World||Pakistan passes grim milestone of 8,000 Covid-19 deaths||With 40 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours Pakistan tally of the pandemic fatalities jumped to 8,025 on Monday. The total number of positive cases has surged to 398,024.Citing data by National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), Dunya News reported that 2,839 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.Sindh remains the worst-hit province by the pandemic in terms of cases followed by Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan. Punjab has overtaken Sindh in the most number of casualties, Dunya News reported.There are 173,014 coronavirus cases in Sindh; 119,035 in Punjab; 47,190 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa; 17,158 in Balochistan; 30,123 in Islamabad; 6,855 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and 4,649 in the occupied Gilgit-Baltistan.Furthermore, 2,991 individuals have lost their lives to the epidemic in Punjab 2,924 in Sindh, 1,368 in KP, 166 in Balochistan, 314 in Islamabad, 165 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and 97 in occupied Gilgit-Baltistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-passes-grim-milestone-of-8-000-covid-19-deaths/story-MScZX1rqpCG1dKP6iu7TDP.html
30-11-2020||World||Left bankless by sanctions, Hong Kong leader has ‘piles of cash’||Hong Kong’s chief executive Carrie Lam says that she has “piles of cash” at home because she is denied basic banking services due to US sanctions.In a television interview, Lam said the Hong Kong government has to pay her in cash because she does not have a bank account following sanctions imposed by the US on her and other officials for what it called their role in undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy from mainland China, including imposing a national security law on the city at the end of June.“Sitting in front of you is a chief executive of the Hong Kong SAR (special administrative region) who has no banking services made available to her,” Lam told Hong Kong International Business Channel. “I’m using cash every day, for all the things. I have piles of cash at home because the government is paying me cash for my salary because I don’t have a bank account.”US President Donald Trump imposed the sanctions in August on Chinese and Hong Kong officials including Lam; Xia Baolong, director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of China’s State Council; and Chris Tang, commissioner of the city’s police. Among other things, the sanctions mean any banks that do business with them risk penalties that would threaten their access to the US financial system.In October, the State Department sent a similar list to Congress naming 10 officials including Lam. US. since then has started a 60-day countdown to identify banks that have business with those people, putting lenders at risk of being sanctioned.Even China’s largest state-run banks operating in Hong Kong have had to comply to preserve their access to crucial dollar funding. Major lenders with operations in the US including Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp., and China Merchants Bank Co. have turned cautious on opening new accounts for the sanctioned officials, including Lam, Bloomberg News reported in August.Lam, who earns about HK$5.2 million ($672,000) in the year of 2020, said she only withdraws part of her salary, with the remaining kept in the treasury and she will take back her unpaid salary “at a point in time,” in comments to the South China Morning Post.“It’s very honorable in this set of circumstances to be so unjustifiably sanctioned by the U.S. government. It’s an honor,” Lam said. She has repeatedly blasted the US sanctions as unjustified interference in Hong Kong’s internal affairs.The new national security law, which criminalized subversion, secession, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces, has enabled authorities to clamp down on Hong Kong’s political opposition, arresting pro-democracy activists and banning lawmakers from running in legislative elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/left-bankless-by-sanctions-hong-kong-leader-has-piles-of-cash/story-idbpaLGyhtT0o56zX74ouK.html
30-11-2020||World||US Congress returns with virus aid, federal funding unresolved||After months of shadowboxing amid a tense and toxic campaign, Capitol Hill’s main players are returning for one final, perhaps futile, attempt at deal-making on a challenging menu of year-end business.Covid-19 relief, a $1.4 trillion catchall spending package, and defense policy — and a final burst of judicial nominees — dominate a truncated two- or three-week session occurring as the coronavirus pandemic rockets out of control in President Donald Trump’s final weeks in office.The only absolute must-do business is preventing a government shutdown when a temporary spending bill expires on December 11. The route preferred by top lawmakers like House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., is to agree upon and pass an omnibus spending bill for the government. But it may be difficult to overcome bitter divisions regarding a long-delayed Covid relief package that’s a top priority of business, state and local governments, educators and others.Time is working against lawmakers as well, as is the Capitol’s emerging status as a Covid hotspot. The House has truncated its schedule and Senate Republicans are joining Democrats in forgoing the in-person lunch meetings that usually anchor their workweeks. It’ll take serious, good-faith conversations among top players to determine what’s possible, but those haven’t transpired yet.At a bare minimum, lawmakers need to keep the government running by passing a stopgap spending bill known as a continuing resolution, which would punt $1.4 trillion worth of unfinished agency spending into next year.That’s a typical way to deal with a handoff to a new administration, but McConnell and Pelosi are two veterans of the Capitol’s appropriations culture and are pressing hard for a catchall spending package. A battle over using budget sleight of hand to add a 2 percentage point, $12 billion increase to domestic programs to accommodate rapidly growing veterans health care spending is an issue, as are Trump’s demands for US-Mexico border wall funding.Read more | Donald Trump says 2020 election was probably least secure everGetting Trump to sign the measure is another challenge. Two years ago he sparked a lengthy partial government shutdown over the border wall, but both sides would like to clear away the pile of unfinished legislation to give the Biden administration a fresh start. The changeover in administrations probably wouldn’t affect an omnibus deal very much.At issue are the 12 annual spending bills comprising the portion of the government’s budget that passes through Congress each year on a bipartisan basis. Whatever approach passes, it’s likely to contain a batch of unfinished leftovers such as extending expiring health care policies and tax provisions and continuing the authorization for the government’s flood insurance program.Democrats have battled with Republicans and the White House for months over a fresh installment of Covid relief that all sides say they want. But a lack of good faith and an unwillingness to embark on compromises that might lead either side out of their political comfort zones have helped keep another rescue package on ice.The aid remains out of reach despite a fragile economy and out-of-control increases in coronavirus cases, especially in Midwest GOP strongholds. McConnell is a potent force for a smaller — but still sizable — package and has supplanted Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin as the most important Republican force in the negotiations.Pelosi seems to have overplayed her hand as she held out for $2 trillion-plus right up until the election. The results of the election, which saw Democrats lose seats in the House, appear to have significantly undercut her position, but she is holding firm on another round of aid to state and local governments.Before the election, Trump seemed to be focused on a provision that would send another round of $1,200 payments to most Americans. He hasn’t shown a lot of interest in the topic since, apart from stray tweets. But the chief obstacles now appear to be Pelosi’s demand for state and local government aid and McConnell’s demand for a liability shield for businesses reopening during the pandemic.At stake is funding for vaccines and testing, reopening schools, various economic “stimulus” ideas like another round of “paycheck protection” subsidies for businesses especially hard hit by the pandemic. Failure to pass a measure now would vault the topic to the top of Biden’s legislative agenda next year.A spat over military bases named for Confederate officers is threatening the annual passage of a defense policy measure that has passed for 59 years in a row on a bipartisan basis. The measure is critical in the defense policy world, guiding Pentagon policy and cementing decisions about troop levels, new weapons systems and military readiness, military personnel policy and other military goals.Both the House and Senate measures would require the Pentagon to rename bases such as Fort Benning and Fort Hood, but Trump opposes the idea and has threatened a veto over it. The battle erupted this summer amid widespread racial protests, and Trump used the debate to appeal to white Southern voters nostalgic about the Confederacy. It’s a live issue in two Senate runoff elections in Georgia that will determine control of the chamber during the first two years of Biden’s tenure.Democrats are insisting on changing the names and it’s not obvious how it’ll all end up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-returns-with-virus-aid-federal-funding-unresolved/story-G11wHoG1l5gMuBpWZFC5qJ.html
30-11-2020||World||Brazil’s Bolsonaro suffers wave of defeats in mayoral races||President Jair Bolsonaro suffered big losses in Brazil’s just-completed municipal elections, with only five mayoral candidates he supported winning their races and none of them in the most important cities.The president’s worst rebuff came in his hometown of Rio de Janeiro, where Mayor Marcelo Crivella was battered in a runoff election Sunday, losing to his center-right predecessor, Eduardo Paes, by 64% to 36%. Crivella, an evangelical pastor, repeatedly used the president in his campaign to try to turn his fortunes.Another big defeat for Bolsonaro came in Fortaleza, Brazil’s fifth most populous city, where little known center-left candidate Sarto Nogueira topped Wagner Gomes, the president’s favorite, 51.5% to 48.5%. Gomes had led opinion polls before the campaign began and often displayed Bolsonaro’s support, but he sought to distance himself in the campaign’s waning days.A Bolsonaro candidate also lost in Belem, one of the capitals of the Amazon, though it was a close vote. Leftist Edmilson Rodrigues edged Everaldo Iguchi and will be the city’s mayor for a third time.The poor showing by Bolsonaro’s candidates began shaping up in the first round of municipal elections two weeks ago.Sao Paulo, a metropolis of more than 12 million people that is Brazil’s biggest city, gave just 10% of its vote to Bolsonaro’s candidate, Celso Russomanno, who finished fourth. Sunday’s runoff was between two critics of the president, and resulted in center-right Mayor Bruno Covas easily winning reelection over socialist Guilherme Boulos by 60% to 40%.Other candidates supported by Bolsonaro also failed to make it into Sunday’s runoffs in losing by wide margins in populated state capitals like Belo Horizonte, Recife and Manaus. His candidate also lost in Santos, one of the most important cities of Sao Paulo state.Of the 78 candidates who even ran by adding Bolsonaro’s name to their own on the ballot, only one won and that was one of the president’s sons, according to Brazil’s top electoral court. Carlos Bolsonaro, a key member of his father’s social media team, kept his seat on the Rio council with more than 71,000 votes — though that was fewer than the 106,000 he got four years ago.“Bolsonaro is clearly the biggest loser of the mayoral races,” said Carlos Melo, a political science professor at Insper University. “He failed to start a party, he failed to make his candidates stronger. It was almost as if he ignored these elections, but they gave a lot of leverage to parties he will have to talk to in congress. He is a weaker president because of these defeats.”The five Bolsonaro mayoral candidates who won did so in mid-size cities.In the first round two weeks ago, two candidates endorsed by the president won outright. Francisco de Assis de Moraes Souza, better known as Mao Santa (Holy Hand), won in Parnaiba, a city of 150,000 people in the impoverished state of Piaui. Gustavo Nunes was elected in Ipatinga, a prosperous city with an iron-ore based economy and 263,000 residents.The three who won their runoffs Sunday received the president’s endorsement only after the first vote. Tiao Bocalom won in Rio Branco, a state capital of 400,000 people near the border with Bolivia. Roberto Naves was elected in Anapolis, a city of 360,000 in central Brazil. Nelson Ruas dos Santos won in Sao Goncalo, a city of 337,000 outside Rio.Some of the winners Sunday who weren’t backed by Bolsonaro sent messages that their allies took to be aimed at the president.“It is possible to be in politics without hatred,” Sao Paulo’s incumbent mayor said after his victory. “There are only a few days left for denialists and obscurantism.” Sao Paulo Gov. Joao Doria, the main sponsor of Covas’ candidacy, is a potential bidder for the presidency in 2022.Eduardo Paes, the winner in Rio, said his triumph was “a victory of politics over radicalism.”After voting in Rio, Bolsonaro did not reply about the poor showing of his candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-bolsonaro-suffers-wave-of-defeats-in-mayoral-races/story-6rVBxhlfB5KIADjS1ViikK.html
30-11-2020||World||Pandemic: Merriam-Webster’s word of the year not a shocker||If you were to choose a word that rose above most in 2020, which word would it be? Ding, ding, ding: Merriam-Webster on Monday announced “pandemic” as its 2020 word of the year.“That probably isn’t a big shock,” Peter Sokolowski, editor at large for Merriam-Webster, told The Associated Press.“Often the big news story has a technical word that’s associated with it and in this case, the word pandemic is not just technical but has become general. It’s probably the word by which we’ll refer to this period in the future,” he said.The word took on urgent specificity in March, when the coronavirus crisis was designated a pandemic, but it started to trend up on Merriam-Webster.com as early January and again in February when the first US deaths and outbreaks on cruise ships occurred.On March 11, when the World Health Organisation declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a global pandemic, lookups on the site for pandemic spiked hugely. Site interest for the word has remained significantly high through the year, Sokolowski said.By huge, Sokolowski means searches for pandemic on March 11 were 115,806 per cent higher than lookups experienced on the same date last year.Pandemic, with roots in Latin and Greek, is a combination of “pan,” for all, and “demos,” for people or population. The latter is the same root of “democracy,” Sokolowski noted. The word pandemic dates to the mid-1600s, used broadly for “universal” and more specifically to disease in a medical text in the 1660s, he said.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 tally drops to 38,772; total recoveries nearing 8.9 millionThat was after the plagues of the Middle Ages, Sokolowski said.He attributes the lookup traffic for pandemic not entirely to searchers who didn’t know what it meant but also to those on the hunt for more detail, or for inspiration or comfort.“We see that the word love is looked up around Valentine’s Day and the word cornucopia is looked up at Thanksgiving,” Sokolowski said. “We see a word like surreal spiking when a moment of national tragedy or shock occurs. It’s the idea of dictionaries being the beginning of putting your thoughts in order.” Merriam-Webster acted quickly in March to add and update entries on its site for words related to the pandemic. While “coronavirus” had been in the dictionary for decades, “Covid-19” was coined in February. Thirty-four days later, Merriam-Webster had it up online, along with a couple dozen other entries that were revised to reflect the health emergency.“That’s the shortest period of time we’ve ever seen a word go from coinage to entry,” Sokolowski said. “The word had this urgency.” Coronavirus was among runners up for word of the year as it jumped into the mainstream. Quarantine, asymptomatic, mamba, kraken, defund, antebellum, irregardless, icon, schadenfreude and malarkey were also runners up based on lookup spikes around specific events.Particularly interesting to word nerds like Sokolowski, a lexicographer, is quarantine. With Italian roots, it was used during the Black Death of the 1300s for the period of time a new ship coming into port would have to wait outside a city to prevent disease. The “quar” in quarantine derives from 40, for the 40 days required.Spikes for mamba occurred after the January death of Kobe Bryant, whose nickname was the Black Mamba. A mass of lookups occurred for kraken in July after Seattle’s new National Hockey League franchise chose the mythical sea monster as its name, urged along by fans.Country group Lady Antebellum’s name change to Lady A drove dictionary interest in June, while malarkey got a boost from President-elect Joe Biden, who’s fond of using the word. Icon was front and center in headlines after the deaths of US Rep. John Lewis and US Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg.The Merriam-Webster site has about 40 million unique monthly users and about 100 million monthly page views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-merriam-webster-s-word-of-the-year-not-a-shocker/story-4cG9jITBdIxwTCVVK3kBGJ.html
30-11-2020||World||Joe Biden suffers ‘hairline fractures’ in foot, will need walking boot: Doctor||US President-elect Joe Biden suffered “hairline fractures” in his right foot and will likely require a walking boot for several weeks, his physician has said, after the Democratic leader slipped and twisted his ankle while playing with his dog.“Initial X-rays did not show any obvious fracture, but his clinical exam warranted more detailed imaging,” Dr Kevin O’Connor said in a statement on Sunday.“Follow-up CT scan confirmed hairline (small) fractures of President-elect Biden’s lateral and intermediate cuneiform bones, which are in the midfoot. It is anticipated that he will likely require a walking boot for several weeks,” said O’Connor, Director (Executive Medicine) in GW Medical Faculty Associates, on Biden’s imaging results.Biden, 78, twisted his ankle on Saturday when he slipped while playing with Major, one of his two German shepherd. He was examined by an orthopedist “out of an abundance of caution”.In order to avoid disrupting regularly scheduled appointments on Monday, arrangements were made for President-elect Biden to receive an x-ray and then an additional CT Sunday afternoon, with the expected delays involved when opening closed offices and giving personnel time to set up, a Biden spokesperson said. On Sunday evening, President Donald Trump tweeted, “Get well soon!” Biden would be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States on January 20 next. He would be the oldest person to be sworn in as the US president. Biden’s last health record was released in December 2019 by Dr O’Connor, an associate professor of Medicine at George Washington University.The physician said Biden is “healthy, vigorous” and “fit” to be the president. Biden does not use tobacco or drink alcohol and exercises five days a week. He is taking blood thinners and medication for acid reflux, cholesterol and seasonal allergies, said the health report.“Biden did spend a good deal of time in the sun in his youth. He has had several localized, non-melanoma skin cancers removed with Mohs surgery. These lesions were completely excised, with clear margins. He continues to receive close dermatologic surveillance,” it said. The Bidens adopted Major in 2018, and acquired their first dog, Champ, after the 2008 election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-suffers-hairline-fractures-in-foot-will-need-walking-boot-doctor/story-O5A8DRY4wnWuH1XfzLVA1I.html
30-11-2020||World||Support for Suga in Japan slides as Covid-19 wave worsens||Support for Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s government slid for the second straight month, as the premier struggled to balance controlling the country’s worst-yet coronavirus outbreak with shoring up the economy.The premier’s support fell five percentage points to 58% -- a new low -- in a survey carried out by the Nikkei newspaper and TV Tokyo between Nov. 27-29. About 48% of respondents said they disapproved of his government’s handling of the virus, up from 35% a month earlier, the survey released Monday showed.Public approval could play into when he’ll call the next election, which must be held in less than a year, and dictate whether he can parlay his stop-gap position into a longer term in Japan’s top job.Also Read | Japanese travel campaign sparks debate on links to coronavirus spreadSuga is unlikely to opt for a January election so that he can focus on virus control, the Nikkei newspaper reported Saturday, after a week in which he was forced to suspend part of a travel incentive program aimed at bolstering regional economies because of spreading infections. While Japan’s total death toll, at just over 2,000, is by far the lowest among Group of Seven major economies, the country’s 7-day average of new cases is at its highest since the pandemic began.Summer is now the earliest likely option for the election, according to the Nikkei. Given Suga’s determination to stage the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics between July and September 2021, he could be forced to hold the vote in a narrow window before the end of the lower house term in October, a scenario that has played out badly for other Japanese leaders.His Liberal Democratic Party’s ruling coalition is set to retain power with the opposition mired in single-digit support rates. But Suga’s LDP could lose seats, raising questions about his longevity as leader and weakening his government’s hand as it pushes for priorities such as administrative reform and maintaining his predecessor Shinzo Abe’s ultra-easy monetary policy.Previously Abe’s right-hand man during his record run as premier, Suga scored the third-highest support rate for a prime minister on record when he was installed in September after his boss’s sudden resignation due to illness.Suga, the taciturn son of a strawberry farmer, was buoyed by his reputation for hard work and focus on pocket-book issues like reducing mobile phone charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/support-for-suga-in-japan-slides-as-covid-19-wave-worsens/story-C7DhNsMcXOpGYOXc7K7g2K.html
30-11-2020||World||Volcano in eastern Indonesia erupts, thousands evacuated||A volcano in eastern Indonesia erupted Sunday, sending a column of ash as high as 4,000 meters (13,120 feet) into the sky and prompting the evacuation of thousands of people.Nearly 2,800 people from at least 28 villages were evacuated from the slopes of Mount Ili Lewotolok, which is located on Lembata island of East Nusa Tenggara province, as the volcano began erupting, said Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Raditya Jati. There were no reports of deaths or injuries from the eruption.The Transportation Ministry said a flight warning had been issued after the eruption and a local airport had been closed as ash rained down on many areas of the island.Mount Ili Lewotolok has been erupting off and on since October 2017. The Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Center raised the volcano’s alert level to the second-highest level on Sunday after sensors picked up increasing activity.The 5,423-meter (17,790-foot) mountain is one of three currently erupting in Indonesia along with Merapi on Java island and Sinabung on Sumatra island.They are among more than 120 active volcanoes in Indonesia, which is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the Pacific “Ring of Fire,” an arc of volcanoes and fault lines around the Pacific Ocean.After the eruption, the Disaster Mitigation Agency advised villagers and climbers to stay 4 kilometers (2.4 miles) from the crater and be aware of the peril of lava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/volcano-in-eastern-indonesia-erupts-thousands-evacuated/story-0aZl547EFYBddlyEhAFbpM.html
30-11-2020||World||Australia demands China apology for ‘repugnant’ Afghan tweet||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he was seeking an apology from China after a diplomat in Beijing tweeted an image purporting to show an Australian soldier holding a knife to the throat of an Afghan child.The tweet, posted by Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, was “repugnant,” Morrison told reporters in Canberra on Monday. The Australian premier said the image was doctored and called for Twitter to remove it.“The Chinese government should be totally ashamed of this post,” Morrison said. The tweet will diminish China’s global reputation, he said.Morrison’s calls for an apology further ramps up tensions between the nations, following China’s decision to impose crippling anti-dumping duties on its wine over the weekend. Diplomatic ties have plummeted this year after Australia called for independent investigators to be allowed into Wuhan to probe the origin of the pandemic, leading to a series of trade reprisals.Zhao’s boss later dismissed Morrison’s demand for apology, asking at a briefing in Beijing whether the Australian leader “lacks a sense of right and wrong.” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters that it was the Australian side that should apologize to Afghanistan and denied any link between the tweet to the broader dispute between the two sides.“That is totally unrelated with other issues between China and Australia -- it’s a matter of principle,” Hua said. “There are other issues between China and Australia, but the root cause for that is that Australia goes against basic norms of international relations and took wrong measures on issues bearing on China’s core interests.”Australian special forces soldiers serving in Afghanistan were allegedly involved in 39 unlawful killings of prisoners, farmers and other civilians, a government-commissioned report found earlier this month. Following a four-year inquiry, the report found there was credible information that 25 personnel may have been complicit and 36 matters should be referred to police for criminal investigation.General Angus Campbell, the head of the Australian Defense Force, said he “sincerely and unreservedly” apologized to the Afghan people when he announced the results of the probe.Zhao, who has more than 175,000 followers on the social network banned in China, has a reputation for stirring diplomatic disputes with Twitter posts. In March, he floated a conspiracy theory that the U.S. Army may have had a role in spreading the coronavirus in China, escalating a blame game in which President Donald Trump started referring to the disease as the “Chinese virus.”In his latest tweet, Zhao said he was “shocked by murder of Afghan civilians & prisoners” by Australian soldiers. “We strongly condemn such acts, & call for holding them accountable,” he said.The tweet includes an image that purports to show a soldier standing on the Australian flag and holding a bloody knife to the throat of a child clutching a lamb. The child’s face is covered with a blue cloth. The text beneath the photo reads: “Don’t be afraid, we are coming to bring you peace!” Shocked by murder of Afghan civilians & prisoners by Australian soldiers. We strongly condemn such acts, &call for holding them accountable. pic.twitter.com/GYOaucoL5DZhao is closely associated with “Wolf Warrior” diplomacy, a more confrontational approach named after a nationalistic Chinese action film series of the same name. The Wolf Warriors have come to the fore amid debates about China’s early efforts to contain the coronavirus and policies to suppress human rights in places like Hong Kong and the predominately Muslim region of Xinjiang.Australia is the world’s most China-dependent developed economy and finalized a free-trade agreement with Beijing in 2015. Relations have been fraught since 2018, when Canberra barred Huawei Technologies Co. from building its 5G network.Ties went into free-fall earlier this year after Canberra’s call for the virus probe, a move that bruised China’s pride and unleashed a torrent of criticism that Australia is a puppet of the U.S. China has accused Australia of souring bilateral ties by interfering in its internal affairs, including criticism of Hong Kong’s national security legislation and the internment of Uighurs, a Muslim ethnic group living in Xinjiang.“There are undoubtedly tensions that exist between China and Australia, but this is not how you deal with them,” Morrison said of the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-official-tweets-doctored-image-of-alleged-australian-war-crime-in-afghanistan-morrison-demands-apology/story-cuO9NCkncepfCycmww7KNL.html
30-11-2020||World||Biden to name Indian-American Neera Tanden to Cabinet in a historic first for Democrats||US President-elect Joe Biden is expected to name Neera Tanden director of the Office of Management and Budget, which oversees the administration’s budget and federal agencies, making her the first Indian-descent American to be appointed to a cabinet position in a Democratic administration.Tanden, who currently heads Centre for American Progress, a think tank, is expected to be named by Biden along with former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen as treasury secretary and Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton University economist, to chair the Council of Economic Advisers, according to The Wall Street Journal.Although Tanden will be the first Indian-American in the cabinet of a Democrat president, if confirmed by the Senate, she will be second overall for the community. Nikki Haley was the first as President Donald Trump’s US ambassador to the UN, a cabinet-rank position that was downgraded for her successors.“Big job and a real important first in the Cabinet. She has a great story (single mother, knows what it is to be poor) but went to Harvard and is the most well-versed person in progressive economics I have ever met,” said Shekar Narasimhan, a top fundraiser for Biden, and a close adviser to the campaign and the transition team who has known Tanden for a long time. He added, “I am (a) huge Neera fan!”Tanden, who went to Yale, was born in Massachusetts in 1970 to parents from India, who divorced when she was five. Tanden and her brother were brought up by their mother, as Narasimhan said. Tanden has spoken of her family relying on food coupons to get by. “On the heels of Kamala Harris set to become the next vice-president, it is great to see another well qualified Indian-American woman be nominated for a Cabinet level position,” said MR Rangaswami, founder of Indiaspora, an advocacy group for the community. “It is gratifying to see someone who has dedicated herself to public service be recognised for this important role to manage the budget of the country.”Biden, who injured an ankle while playing with one of his dogs on Sunday, also announced a path-breaking all-women press team for his White House with Jen Psaki as the most visible face of the team as press secretary. She is a veteran from the Obama administration and is well known and regarded among reporters covering the White House.Two more Indian-Americans are in the mix for other cabinet positions. Vivek Murthy, a physician and former surgeon general, is a leading contender for secretary of health and human services, a possibility that has been boosted by his appointment by Biden as co-chair of his advisory board on combating Covid-19, which, the president-elect has said will be his first task after assuming office in January. Others in the race are Michelle Lujan Grisham, the Hispanic governor of New Mexico, and Jeffery D Zients, director of former president Barack Obama’s National Economic Council.The second Indian-American among Cabinet potentials is Arun Majumdar. He is reported to be in the running for secretary of energy, to head a department whose key mandate includes the upkeep - not deployment or use - of America’s nuclear arsenal. The department traces its origin to the Manhattan Project.Majumdar, an alumnus of IIT Bombay, heads Stanford University’s Precourt Institute for Energy and is up against Ernest Moniz, Obama’s energy secretary who had played a key role in shaping the Iran nuclear deal, a signature foreign policy achievement of the Obama-Biden administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-name-indian-american-neera-tanden-to-cabinet-in-a-historic-first-for-democrats/story-4yg1EH6A4pJ8tax6VsMOLN.html
30-11-2020||World||New York City to reopen schools, even as Covid spread intensifies||New York City will reopen its school system to in-person learning, and increase the number of days a week many children attend class, even as the coronavirus pandemic intensifies in the city, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Sunday.The announcement marks a major policy reversal for the nation’s largest school system, less than two weeks after de Blasio announced that schools were shutting down because of a rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city.Some elementary schools and pre-kindergarten programs will resume classes Dec. 7, a week from Monday, the mayor said. Others will take longer to reopen their doors.School programs serving special-needs students at all grade levels will open to in-person learning starting Dec. 10, de Blasio said.The plan for reopening middle and high schools is still being developed, de Blasio said.“We feel confident that we can keep schools safe,” he said.Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a fellow Democrat, said he supports de Blasio’s school reopening plan.“I think that’s the right direction,” the governor said in a conference call with reporters. “We do have new facts and information on schools.”New York City’s public schools opened to in-person learning starting in September for students whose parents had chosen bricks-and-mortar schooling. School buildings closed again Nov. 19 amid rising Covid-19 infections in the city.Also Read: US colleges mull new virus protocols for students’ returnMasks and social distancing were mandatory during the weeks that schools were open, and class sizes were a fraction of the pre-pandemic average of up to 25 to 30 students.About 190,000 students will be eligible to return to classrooms in the first round of reopening, just a fraction of the more than 1 million total pupils in the system. The great majority of parents have opted to have their kids learn remotely by computer.De Blasio said that many of those returning in person will be able to attend five days of class a week, up from one to three days previously.Students attending in person will be required to undergo frequent testing for the virus. Previously, the city had set a target of testing 20% of teachers and students in each school building once a month. Now, the testing will be weekly.The mayor said the city was doing away with its previous trigger for closing schools, which was when 3% or more of the virus tests conducted in the city over a seven-day period came back positive.“The idea of the hard number made a lot of sense back in the summer when we had not yet experienced all this,” de Blasio said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSince then, de Blasio suggested, relatively low numbers of positive coronavirus tests at schools show that it’s possible to keep schools open even with a citywide test positivity rate over 3%.Schools that are in Covid-19 orange zones designated by Cuomo because of rising infection rates will reopen according to rules set by the governor, de Blasio said.De Blasio said at a news briefing that he had discussed his reopening plan with Cuomo. “We all agree that we have a different reality than what we had in the summer and that this is now the way forward and the best way to protect everyone,” he said.Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said the union supports the reopening plan as long as stringent testing is in place.“This strategy — properly implemented — will allow us to offer safe in-person instruction to the maximum number of students until we beat the pandemic,” Mulgrew said in a statement.Mark Cannizzaro, the president of the Council of School Supervisors and Administrators, which represents principals, said school leaders “deeply understand the need for children to learn in person as regularly as possible, so long as all safety protocols are based on the guidance of medical professionals.”A parents group called #KeepNYCSchoolsOpen praised the mayor’s reopening plan but said it doesn’t go far enough. “Our schools never should have closed, and we are thrilled that 190,000 kids will be back in school next week,” the group said in a statement. “But the mayor has left behind 145,000 kids in grades 6-12, without any explanation or timeline for reopening. We will not rest until they are back in school, where they need to be.”New York City exceeded the 3% threshold early in November, and things have slightly worsened since then. More than 9,300 New York City residents have tested positive for the virus over the past seven days.Rates of positive coronavirus tests at school sites have remained low, however. A spokesperson for de Blasio said that more than 160,000 students and school staff members have been tested and that only about 0.25% of the results were positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-to-reopen-schools-even-as-covid-spread-intensifies/story-6TJ7Ox53EYf302NggFyrbM.html
30-11-2020||World||Baby born with antibodies in Singapore||A Singaporean woman, who was infected coronavirus in March when she was pregnant, has given birth to a baby with antibodies against the virus, offering a new clue as to whether the infection can be transferred from mother to child.The baby was born this month without Covid-19 but with the virus antibodies, the Straits Times newspaper reported on Sunday, citing the mother. “My doctor suspects I have transferred my Covid-19 antibodies to him during my pregnancy,” Celine Ng-Chan told the paper. Ng-Chan had been mildly ill from the disease and was discharged from hospital after two-and-a-half weeks, the Straits Times said.The World Health Organization says it is not yet known whether a pregnant woman with Covid-19 can pass the virus to her foetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery. To date, the active virus has not been found in samples of fluid around the baby in the womb or in breast milk. Doctors in China have reported the detection and decline over time of Covid-19 antibodies in babies born to women with the coronavirus disease, according to an article published in October in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.China, meanwhile, said import applications from Chilean seafood producer Pesquera Isla Del Rey SA will be suspended for one week after a test on the packaging of a batch of frozen crab showed positive results for the pathogen.South Korean authorities announced a ban on year-end parties and some music lessons on Sunday and said public saunas and some cafes must also close after coronavirus infections surged.Hong Kong has reported 115 new infections, the first time it has seen cases in the triple digits since August 2. The government on Sunday announced that classes at kindergarten, primary and secondary schools will be shut for the rest of the year in light of the situation.In the US, San Francisco followed Los Angeles in imposing tighter restrictions as the country added 153,035 new cases on Saturday. New York City authorities shut down an illegal nightclub where almost 400 people broke social distancing rules to party. A mink farm in Oregon reported Covid cases in some staff and at least 10 mink.Police in London said on Saturday that they had made 155 arrests as they tried to break up anti-lockdown and anti-vaccine protests. The police said the arrests had been made for different offences including assaulting a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/baby-born-with-antibodies-in-singapore/story-zuHIvjie5skEQnZbZWnimI.html
30-11-2020||World||At least 64 dead as Afghanistan violence spirals||Afghanistan witnessed its worst violence in recent months, with two suicide bombings killing at least 34 people, mostly soldiers in a military base. At least 30 members of Taliban were killed in separate clashes with troops.The suicide bombings targeted a military base and a provincial chief, officials said.There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the attacks, which took place as Afghan government representatives and the Taliban hold face-to-face talks in Qatar for the first time to end the country’s decades-long war.In eastern Ghazni province, 31 soldiers were killed and 24 others wounded when the attacker drove a military humvee full of explosives onto an army commando base before detonating the car bomb, according to an official in Afghanistan’s National Security Council. Ghazni’s provincial health department chief, Zahir Shah Nikmal, also confirmed the death toll and casualty figures from the attack.“Such terrorist attacks will create an atmosphere of fear, terror and pessimism among the Afghan people and will harm the peace process,” said Abdullah Abdullah, who is leading the overall peace process in Afghanistan. “The increase in violence is not acceptable to people... and runs against the peace process, negotiations and reconciliation.”In southern Afghanistan, another suicide car bomber targeted the convoy of a provincial council chief in Zabul province, killing at least three people and wounding 21 others, including children. Interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said a suicide bombing took place, without giving further details.At least 30 members of the Taliban, including six commanders, have been killed and 17 others injured in clashes in eastern province of Laghman, the Afghan government army’s eastern division, known as the 201 Selab Corps, said on Sunday.According to the army, insurgents attacked the Afghan security forces in the province’s Dawlat Shah district on Saturday. The security forces repulsed the attack, which also resulted in the arrests of six other local commanders and the Taliban’s intelligence chief for the district.The Ghazni attack comes just days after two bombs killed 14 people in the historic city of Bamiyan, ending years of calm in the isolated town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-64-dead-as-afghanistan-violence-spirals/story-jKHReQPZc0K7XfyVjsf9LN.html
30-11-2020||World||US court tosses suit on mail-in votes||The US state of Pennsylvania’s supreme court dismissed another legal challenge to the election by supporters of President Donald Trump on Saturday, further reducing his already near-impossible odds of overturning the results.A Republican lawsuit had sought to invalidate mail-in ballots in the battleground state that President-elect Joe Biden won by about 81,000 votes - or to throw out all votes and allow the state’s legislature to decide the winner. The court dismissed both claims in a unanimous decision, calling the second one an “extraordinary proposition that the court disenfranchise all 6.9 million Pennsylvanians who voted in the general election.”The lawsuit argued that a Pennsylvania law from 2019 allowing universal mail-in voting was unconstitutional.The judges said that their November 21 challenge to the law was filed too late, coming more than a year after it was enacted and with the election results “becoming seemingly apparent.”Pennsylvania officially certified Biden’s victory there on November 24. The lawsuit had also sought to stop certification.Saturday’s decision follows a long line of similar ones, including a ruling the day before in which a federal appeals court flatly dismissed Trump’s claim that the election was unfair and refused to freeze Biden’s win in Pennsylvania.Trump has refused to give up on his claims of fraud in the November 3 election despite his repeated court defeats, tweeting bizarre conspiracy theories .He isn’t abandoning his drive to overturn the election results in Wisconsin, despite state officials announcing a recount in Milwaukee county had only added to Democrat Joe Biden’s lead. “The Wisconsin recount is not about finding mistakes in the count, it is about finding people who have voted illegally, and that case will be brought after the recount is over, on Monday or Tuesday,” tweeted Trump on Saturday.Speaking to reporters at a holiday market in Washington, Kamala Harris made a scoffing sound when asked whether she and President-elect Joe Biden would be prepared to run against Trump again.“Please,” said the vice president-elect, and laughed before thanking reporters and walking off. Trump had hinted he may try his luck again in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-court-tosses-suit-on-mail-in-votes/story-vEzmIA6r8uqbrIgFfzauWJ.html
30-11-2020||World||Rockets hit Eritrea as Ethiopia says its forces defeated Tigray rebels||Rockets launched from Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region targeted the capital of Eritrea several hours after Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed declared military operations in the region were over.The Ethiopian government launched a manhunt on Sunday for Tigray rebel leaders after announcing federal troops had taken over the regional capital and military operations were complete. Ahmed’s government has been trying to quell a rebellion by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), a powerful ethnically-based party that dominated the central government from 1991 until Abiy came to power in 2018. He said on Saturday evening federal troops had taken control of the Tigrayan capital Mekelle within hours of launching an offensive there, laying to rest fears of protracted fighting in the city of 500,000 people.The prime minister, who refers to the three-week-old conflict as an internal law and order matter and has rebuffed international offers of mediation, said federal police will try to arrest TPLF “criminals” and bring them to court.However, TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael told Reuters in a text message on Saturday evening that TPLF forces would fight on, raising the prospect that the conflict could drag on. Thousands of people are believed to have been killed and nearly 44,000 have fled to Sudan since the fighting began on November 4. The conflict has been another test for Abiy, who took office two years ago and is trying to hold together a patchwork of ethnic groups that make up Ethiopia’s 115 million people. The flow of refugees and attacks into neighbouring Eritrea have threatened to destabilise the Horn of Africa region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rockets-hit-eritrea-as-ethiopia-says-its-forces-defeated-tigray-rebels/story-DSb1GqIecuVXgByw6OoycL.html
30-11-2020||World||UK detects bird flu in turkey farm, to cull 10,500 birds||More than 10,000 turkeys will be culled at a British farm after a bird flu outbreak was confirmed by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra).The disease was the H5N8 strain.The flu was identified among 10,500 rearing turkeys at a farm in northern England, Defra said late Saturday, with all foul to be culled to prevent a spread. Public Health England (PHE) said the risk to public health from the virus was very low.“Avian flu has been confirmed at a commercial turkey fattening farm near Northallerton, North Yorkshire,” said Chief Veterinary Officer Christine Middlemiss.“PHE has confirmed that the risk to public health is very low and the Food Standards Agency advises that bird flu poses a very low food safety risk for UK consumers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-detects-bird-flu-in-turkey-farm-to-cull-10-500-birds/story-HAfuR3qF9CqviAMTAS2w1H.html
30-11-2020||World||Nigeria: At least 110 farmers killed by Boko Haram, some beheaded||A weekend attack on farm workers in northeast Nigeria blamed on the Boko Haram jihadist group left at least 110 dead, the UN humanitarian coordinator in the country said on Sunday.Roughly 30 of the men killed were also beheaded in the attack, which began on Saturday morning in Zabarmari village in northeast Borno state. “At least 110 civilians were ruthlessly killed and many others were wounded in this attack,” Edward Kallon said in a statement.“The incident is the most violent direct attack against innocent civilians this year,” Kallon said, blaming “non-state armed groups” without naming Boko Haram. “I call for the perpetrators of this heinous and senseless act to be brought to justice,” he added.The bloodletting took place near the Borno state capital Maiduguri, with assailants targeting farm workers on rice fields, with a pro-government anti-jihadist militia saying the assailants tied up the labourers and slit their throats.The victims included dozens of labourers from Sokoto state in northwestern Nigeria, roughly 1,000 kilometres away, who had travelled to the northeast to find work. Six were wounded in the attack and eight remained missing as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nigeria-at-least-110-farmers-killed-by-boko-haram-some-beheaded/story-NX9cnNvMwjUctF7cmA0KcJ.html
30-11-2020||World||Fire ban in Australia after hottest Nov night||Parts of Australia, including Sydney, sweltered through the hottest November night on record with temperatures likely to stay high on Sunday, prompting authorities to issue a total fire ban.Sydney CBD surpassed 40 degrees Celsius on Saturday while swathes of western New South Wales, South Australia and northern Victoria baked through even higher temperatures nearing 45 degrees.Temperatures are expected to cross 40 degrees for a second straight day on Sunday while the Bureau of Meteorology has predicted a five or six-day heatwave for parts of northern New South Wales and southeast Queensland.The predictions for soaring temperatures prompted the Australian Energy Market Operator to say demand may exceed supply in New South Wales on Sunday afternoon.Australia has been experiencing hotter and longer summers with last season dubbed “Black Summer” by Prime Minister Scott Morrison due to unusually prolonged and intense bushfires that burned nearly 12 million hectares, killed 33 people and an estimated 1 billion animals.The Rural Fire Service issued a total fire ban for most of eastern and northeastern NSW for Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-ban-in-australia-after-hottest-nov-night/story-fUDWdFj02YlorDRmiE1MdI.html
30-11-2020||World||Sikh separatists, politicians in Canada, UK wade into farmers’ protest row||Jagmeet Singh, the leader of Canadian Federal Opposition New Democratic Party (NDP) has waded into the controversy surrounding the ongoing farmer protests in India.In a tweet, Singh described the “violence perpetrated” by the government against “peacefully protesting” farmers as “appalling”. Stating he stood in “solidarity” with the farmers, he called upon the Indian government to “engage in peaceful dialogue” with them.His brother Gurratan Singh, an MLA in the Ontario assembly also joined in, tweeting he felt the “pain and struggle of farmers protesting laws that threaten their livelihoods.”Pro-Khalistan separatist groups in Canada have also joined the chorus of opposition to the farm laws against which the protests are being held. Sukhminder Singh Hansra, the senior member of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) Canada branch, wrote to Canada’s foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne, seeking intervention to protect the “fundamental rights” of the protesting farmers, adding that the Canadian Sikh community was “monitoring the situation very closely.” Hansra, one of the leading proponents of Khalistan in Canada, framed the matter in terms of self-determination.The separatist Sikhs for Justice has announced plans to open call centres in US, Canada, UK, France and Germany to take online applications to “reimburse” farmers for their losses, while also trying to leverage that promise into registering them for the Khalistan Referendum. The SFJ has been forced into postponing the so-called Referendum 2020 to next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the farmers’ protests resonated in the UK too. Labour MPs of Indian origin criticised the alleged police measures against the farmers, while many Sikhs held a car rally in Southall recently in support of the farmers.Preet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, reacted to images of protests from Delhi: “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India”.“Shocking scenes from Delhi. Farmers are peacefully protesting over controversial bills that will impact their livelihoods. Water cannons, and tear gas, are being used to silence them,” she added.Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Labour MP from Slough, posted images from the protests on social media and said: “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of the #Punjab and other parts of #India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatization of #FarmersBill2020”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sikh-politicians-separatists-in-canada-wade-into-farmers-protest-row/story-Ls6no8yBl3HDqREIEydbhL.html
30-11-2020||World||Hundreds of Honduran migrants set out for US amid pandemic||About 2,000 Honduran migrants hoping to reach the United States entered Guatemala on foot Thursday morning, testing the newly reopened frontier that had been shut by the coronavirus pandemic.Guatemala’s president quickly vowed to detain them and return them to Honduras, saying the migrants represented a threat to the health of Guatemalans amid efforts to contain the pandemic.“The order has been given to detain all those who entered illegally, and return them to the border of their country,” President Alejandro Giammattei said in a broadcast address to the nation. “We will not allow any foreigner who has used illegal means to enter the country, to think that they have the right to come and infect us and put us at serious risk.”Giammattei issued an order that would suspend some constitutional rights in the provinces they were expected to pass through, apparently in order to facilitate detaining them.”Authorities had planned to register the migrants as they crossed earlier Thursday and offer assistance to those willing to turn back, but the group crossed the official border at Corinto without registering, pushing past outnumbered Guatemalan police and soldiers who made little attempt to stop them.In one group were four teenagers, all friends and neighbours from San Pedro Sula, from which hundreds of migrants had set out the previous night. The teens decided to leave after seeing others organize on Facebook.The youngest, 15-year-old Josty Morales, said he wanted to live the “American dream” and was looking for a way to support his 6-month-old son at home.“There’s no work. The necessity strangles you,” he said.Within hours of the border crossing, Guatemalan authorities reported the first migrant death. A person tried to climb aboard a moving flatbed trailer, but fell under its wheels. Authorities did not immediately provide any additional details.Central American migrants began travelling in large groups in recent years, seeking safety in numbers and in some cases avoiding the cost of smugglers. Calls for a new migrant caravan to leave Oct. 1 had circulated for weeks on social media.The odds of a large migrant caravan reaching the U.S. border, already low, have grown increasingly slim over the past year. Under pressure from the United States, Mexico deployed its National Guard and more immigration agents to break up attempted caravans last year. They dispersed large groups of migrants attempting to travel together in southern Mexico. Actually crossing into the U.S. legally is virtually impossible now with pandemic, and entering illegally is as difficult as ever.The departure of the new group was reminiscent of a migrant caravan that formed two years ago shortly before U.S. midterm elections. It became a hot issue in the campaign, fuelling anti-immigrant rhetoric. While the caravans draw attention, they really only account for a small fraction of the daily migration flow by small groups that pass unnoticed through Central America and Mexico.By mid-afternoon the migrants who crossed into Guatemala on Thursday had strung out in small groups for miles (kilometers) along the highway, as some caught rides and others walked under the hot sun.Christian Martínez, 19, saw leaving as a way out when few other options were apparent in Honduras. “If we stay what is left for us is to become criminals because there’s no way to survive,” he said.Already halfway to Guatemala City, Martínez and his companions had advanced on foot and with the occasional ride. They said they all carried masks but weren’t worried about the pandemic.The larger group that set out Wednesday night appeared to be mostly young men, though there were the occasional small children being pushed in strollers.At the border, Guatemalan officials were asking the migrants to provide documents showing a negative Covid-19 test — even though last week they said they wouldn’t require a test for those spending less than 72 hours in the country.But about 2,000 migrants hustled through without registering. In addition, AP journalists saw others crossing the border illegally near the formal crossing. There were no reports of violence.Guatemala’s military said it was establishing interior checkpoints to review migrants’ documents. In the past, authorities have set up roadblocks deeper in the country to winnow down larger groups. A regional agreement allows citizens of Honduras to transit through Guatemala.Governments throughout the region made it known they were watching Wednesday.Mexico’s immigration agency said in a statement that it would enforce “safe, orderly and legal” migration and not do anything to promote the formation of a caravan. The U.S. Embassy in Honduras said on Twitter Wednesday that migration to the U.S. was more difficult than ever right now — and more dangerous because of the coronavirus.But the factors driving migrants to leave Central America certainly haven’t eased during the pandemic. As economies have suffered, there are ever fewer jobs to be had, and the struggle for families to put food on the table has only worsened. Some migrants also cited the ever-present high rate of crime.The U.N.’s International Labor Organization said Wednesday that at least 34 million jobs have been lost in Latin America due to the pandemic. The ILO lists Latin America and the Caribbean as the worst-hit region in the world in terms of lost working hours, with a drop of 20.9% in the first three quarters of the year.The flow of migrants north from Central America had slowed dramatically during the pandemic as countries throughout the region closed their borders. Most migrant shelters along the principal routes closed their doors to new arrivals as they tried to keep the virus from spreading to vulnerable populations. Mexico and the United States deported hundreds of migrants back to their home countries to try to empty detention centres.Guatemala has now opened all of its borders, including the one with Mexico. But the U.S.-Mexico border remains closed for non-essential travel, and the U.S. government effectively shut down the asylum system at its southern border during the pandemic.Mexico tried to bus asylum seekers stuck at its northern border to other parts of the country and back to their home countries. Mexico has typically offered migrants the opportunity to seek asylum there, but many have their minds set on the United States. Migrants are also likely to find it more difficult to find work in Mexico now as the economy is expected to contract 10% this year due to the impact of the pandemic. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/travel/hundreds-of-honduran-migrants-set-out-for-us-amid-pandemic/story-IzcbMmGDvFpTQUMJsBaWLM.html
