02-01-2021||Business||GST collections crosses all-time high in December 2020||With the lifting of lockdown restrictions and pick-up in economic activity, the goods and services tax collections surged to an all time high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, adding solace to the Narendra Modi-government’s desire for revenue in the coronavirus-hit economy. At Rs 1.15 lakh crore, the collections were 10 per cent more than the mop-up in the previous month — the biggest growth in monthly revenues in the last 21 months. The increase in tax collections was because of the “combined effect of the rapid economic recovery post-pandemic and the nationwide drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently, which have led to improved compliance”, the finance ministry said in a statement. The mop-up from the GST, which is levied when a consumable item is sold or a service such as travel booking rendered, in December was 12 per cent higher than such receipts in the same month of 2019. The finance ministry said the December collections were the highest ever since the implementation of the nationwide tax in July 2017. The previous best was in April 2019 when Rs 1.13 lakh crore was collected. This is the third straight month of over Rs 1 lakh crore tax collections and the fourth consecutive month this fiscal when collections have outperformed comparable months of 2019. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said the GST collections touching a record high despite the fact that we are not completely out of the pandemic indicates a remarkable recovery in the economy. “Some of it could also be due to the plugging of revenue leakage by the government on account of fake credits through fraudulent invoicing and introduction of e-invoicing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Reliance Infra announces Delhi-Agra (DA) toll road sale completion||Reliance Infra on Friday announced the completion of the sale of its Delhi-Agra (DA) toll road to Cube Highways and Infrastructure for Rs 3,600 crore. In a regulatory filing, Reliance Infrastructure Ltd said it has completed the sale of its 100 per cent stake in DA Toll Road to  Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte Ltd for an enterprise value of over Rs 3,600 crore. The deal was announced in March 2019 with the signing of a definitive binding agreement between Reliance Infra and Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte Ltd. Reliance Infra said the entire sale proceeds are being utilised to reduce debt. Reliance Infra has reduced its total debt liabilities by 20 per cent from the deal proceeds from Rs 17,500 crore to Rs 14,000 crore. Shares of Reliance Infrastructure Ltd closed at Rs 27.65 on the BSE, up 2.98 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Soma Mondal takes charge as Steel Authority of India Ltd chairman||State-owned Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) on Friday said Soma Mondal has taken charge as its chairman. Prior to this, she was the director (commercial) of SAIL, the country’s largest steel-making company said. A 1984-graduate in electrical engineering from the National Institute of Technology-Rourkela, Mondal started her career as a graduate engineer trainee at Nalco and rose to become director (commercial) at Nalco. She joined SAIL in 2017 as the director (commercial), it said. She succeeds Anil Kumar Chaudhary, who superannuated on Thursday after serving the company for 36 years in various roles, including junior manager and director (finance). Mondal said, “Our immediate focus is to improve the topline (revenue) and bottomline (profit) of the company. We are charting out all strategies to improve value for all our stakeholders and make it structurally stronger.” She added that SAIL has a rich legacy with enormous contributions from its employees and leadership over the decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Jet fuel or ATF price hiked by 3.7 per cent||Jet fuel or ATF price on Friday was hiked by 3.7 per cent, the third increase in rates in one month on firming up of international oil prices. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price was raised by Rs 1,817.62 per kilolitre, or 3.69 per cent, to Rs 50,978.78 per kl in the national capital, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This is the third increase in price since December 1, 2020. Rates had gone up 7.6 per cent (Rs 3,288.38 per kl) on December 1 and 6.3 per cent (Rs 2,941.5 per kl) on December 16. ATF prices are revised on the first and sixteenth of every month based on the average price of benchmark international rate and foreign exchange rate in the preceding fortnight. In Mumbai, ATF price on Friday went up to Rs 49,083.65 from Rs 47,266.02 per kl. Prices vary from state to state depending on local taxes. The increase in the price of ATF, which makes for close to 40 per cent of the running cost of an airline, will put additional burden on airlines that have been struggling to return to normal business after Covid-19 lockdown had halted their operations. After rising by Rs 100 per cylinder last month, cooking gas LPG rates were unchanged on Friday. Non-subsidised LPG will continue to be priced at Rs 694 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Before the price increase in December, rates had remained unchanged at Rs 594 a cylinder since July. This was the same rate at which subsidised LPG refills are also sold. Since May, most cooking gas customers have not received subsidies as the combination of international oil price collapse and domestic refill rate increases brought parity between subsidised and market rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||New York Stock Exchange to delist three big state-run Chinese telecom companies||The New York Stock Exchange said it would delist China’s three big state-run telecommunications companies following an executive order from the Trump administration, in a symbolic severing of longstanding ties between the Chinese business world and Wall Street. The exchange said in a statement late on Thursday that it would halt trading in shares of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom by January 11. It cited an executive order issued in November by the Trump administration that barred Americans from investing in companies with ties to the Chinese military.   The United States Department of Defence had previously listed the three companies as having significant connections to Chinese military and security forces. The firms’ Hong Kong offices did not respond to requests for comment on Friday, the New Year’s Day holiday. The delistings were widely expected after the executive order was issued in November. The order was part of a broader effort by American officials to weaken the extensive economic links between the United States and China, including Chinese access to Wall Street money. The move is likely to have little impact on China’s military or security ambitions, which are funded by Beijing, or on the companies themselves, which can raise money from international investors by selling shares in Hong Kong. Still, the delisting of the three telecom giants reflects China’s rise in power and wealth, as well as the growing estrangement between the world’s two biggest economies. It also highlights the faltering of business ties between the US and China, which were set up over decades as China sought to internationalise and reform its state-run corporate behemoths. All three companies operate under Beijing’s firm control. They are ultimately owned by a government agency, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, and are often ordered to pursue Beijing’s goals. China’s ruling Communist Party sometimes shuffles executives among the three companies. They are the only three companies in China that are allowed to provide broad telecommunications network services, which Beijing regards as a strategic industry that must remain under state control. New York Times News service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||No cap on import of Covid shots||The government has allowed the import and export of Covid-19 vaccines without any value limitation to ensure speedy clearance and distribution. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the regulations to facilitate the import/export of Covid-19 vaccines through courier at locations where the Express Cargo Clearance System (ECCS) is operational. The CBIC said that Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to Customs and other administrations the world over and efficient clearance and distribution of vaccines would be a critical requirement in the collective fight against the pandemic. “The challenges in doing so is heightened by the fact that the vaccines need to be stored and transported under controlled temperatures and there are multiple stakeholders involved in this process. This necessitates putting in place efficient cross-border procedures for speedy evacuation of the vaccines,” the CBIC said. The regulation further states that as the vaccines will be imported in durable containers equipped with the requisite temperature monitoring and tracking devices, the export of the durable container, including accessories thereof, imported in relation to Covid-19 vaccines has also been permitted. “Importers may be advised to indicate the unique identifier of the container and the accessories during import in the Courier Bill of Entry (CBE-V) and also at the time of re-export in the Courier Shipping Bill (CSB IV) for facilitating clearance,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Indices hit new highs on first day of 2021||Stocks kicked off the new year on a record note with both the key indices closing at lifetime highs following strong buying in IT, auto and FMCG counters. While the broader Nifty closed above the 14000-mark for the first time, the 30-share Sensex is inching towards 48000 as it finished with gains of 117.65 points, or 0.25 per cent, at a new peak of 47868.98. The good start to the year came on encouraging news of GST collections touching a record high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, reflecting festive demand and an expanding economy. Expectations are also building up on the upcoming budget with the ruling BJP reportedly asking the government to give more relief to the middle class, even as investors remain optimistic that the interest shown by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) in 2020 will continue this year as well. FPIs bought equities worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore last calendar year of which Rs 62,000 crore came in December. Moreover, expectations are also positive ahead of the results season that will start next week. While TCS will declare its third-quarter results on January 8, the country’s second-largest IT services firm  Infosys will report its numbers on January 13. In Friday’s trade, TCS rose 2.02 per cent after the firm said its board will also consider a proposal for declaring the third interim dividend to shareholders at its meeting next Friday. The prevailing mood is that despite the third-quarter being a seasonally weak period for IT companies, they will report better-than-expected numbers. “In spite of lesser participation from FIIs, the Nifty 50 gave a strong closing on the monthly expiry day. The robust FII flows of $7.3 billion in December and strong closing on expiry indicates bullish rollovers for January expiry,” Rusmik Oza, executive vice-president, head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities, said. Antony Waste listing Shares of Antony Waste Handling Cell on Friday made a remarkable market debut, and closed with a premium of nearly 30 per cent against its issue price of Rs 315. The stock listed at Rs 430, a gain of 36.50 per cent from the issue price on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Sebi fines Ambani in Reliance Petroleum case||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday imposed penalties on Mukesh D Ambani, Reliance Industries Ltd and two other entities for alleged manipulative trading in the shares of erstwhile Reliance Petroleum Ltd (RPL) back in November 2007. Fines of Rs 25 crore and Rs 15 crore have been imposed on Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and its chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani, respectively. Apart from them, Navi Mumbai SEZ Pvt Ltd has been asked to pay a penalty of Rs 20 crore and Mumbai SEZ Ltd pay Rs 10 crore. The case pertains to sale and purchase of RPL shares in the cash and the futures segments in November 2007. It came after RIL’s decision in March 2007 to sell a 4.1 per cent stake in RPL, a listed subsidiary that was subsequently merged with RIL in 2009. The charges are that the equity was apparently sold first in the futures market and later in the spot market. In a 95-page order, Sebi’s adjudicating officer B.J. Dilip said any manipulation in the volume or price of securities always erodes investor confidence in the market when investors find themselves at the receiving end of market manipulators. “In the instant case, the general investors were not aware that the entity behind the above F&O segment transactions was RIL. The execution of the... fraudulent trades affected the price of the RPL securities in both cash and F&O segments and harmed the interests of other investors,” he said in the order. While noting that execution of manipulative trades affects the price discovery system itself, the adjudicating officer said, “I am of the view that such acts of manipulation have to be dealt sternly so as to dissuade manipulative activities in the capital markets”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Car sales jump in December||The year-end discounts and an impending price hike from January fired up car sales in December with market leader Maruti Suzuki India registering a 19.5 per cent growth in its domestic sales to 1,50,288 units in December 2020 against 1,25,735 units in December last year. Hyundai Motor India saw a 24.89 per cent increase in car sales to 47,400 units in December 2020 compared with 37,953 units a year ago. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, Honda Cars India Ltd, said, “Quicker market recovery aided by increased demand for personal mobility and our steady positive sales momentum is very encouraging.” Honda reported monthly domestic sales of 8,638 units in December 2020 against 8,412 units in the corresponding month in 2019. SAIC-owned MG Motor India said it saw retail sales of 4,010 units, (including 3,430 units of Hector) during December 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Mahindra and Ford cancel automotive joint venture||Ford Motor Company and Mahindra & Mahindra have pulled the plug on their previously announced automotive joint venture citing changes in the global economic and business conditions partly because of  the Covid-19 pandemic. Separately, M&M said it was in discussions with a potential investor to sell its majority stake in bankrupt SsangYong Motor Company. In October 2019, Mahindra and Ford had announced a definitive agreement to set up a joint venture to develop, market and distribute Ford brand vehicles in India; and Ford brand and Mahindra brand vehicles in the  emerging markets. Under the terms of the joint venture, in which Mahindra would hold a 51 per cent controlling stake, Ford would have transferred its Indian operations, including personnel and assembly plants in Chennai and Sanand. Ford would only retain the engine plant in Sanand and the global business services unit, Ford Credit and Ford Smart Mobility. Both the companies on Friday said they were scrapping the venture. M&M said the partners had mutually and amicably decided they would not complete the previously announced automotive joint venture.  It said that the action followed the passing of the “longstop”, or expiration date on December 31 of their definitive agreement . According to the companies, the outcome was driven by fundamental changes in global economic and business conditions — caused, in part, by the global pandemic — since the agreement was first announced. SsangYong At a video conference, M&M managing director and CEO Pawan Goenka said they expect to know within three months the outcome of their negotiations to sell their stake in SsangYong to an investor. “It will be known on March 1 and we do hope that during this two-month period we will complete the deal with the investor,” Goenka said. “If the deal goes through, the majority ownership will be with the new investor. Mahindra will be in minority with around 30 per cent or less and the company will also do 25 per cent capital reduction,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Bengal oil superior to Brent and at par with West Texas Intermediate||The quality of oil that ONGC has discovered in the Bengal basin is superior to Brent and on a par with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) — the world’s best-known benchmark crude oils. The small quantity of oil, being lifted from Ashoknagar -1 block in South 24-Praganas, has an API gravity of 40-41, which is considered to be a light variety and sought after because of the lower load it exerts on refineries. Brent crude, a benchmark for oil produced in the North Sea, has a density of around 835 kg/m3, being equivalent to a specific gravity of 0.835 or an API gravity of 38.06. WTI (West Texas Intermediate) crude, denoted to oil lifted in the North America, has an API gravity of 39.6 degrees. API stands for the American Petroleum Institute which developed a specific gravity scale to measure the relative density of various petroleum liquids which is expressed in degrees on a hydrometer instrument. Values are graded from as low as 10 degrees  to 70 degrees. A higher API gravity indicates a lighter and lower density crude. Light crude falls under the 35-45 API gravity range. Brent costs around $51.80 per barrel (bbl) while WTI trades at $48.52 per bbl. While the extent of commercially recoverable reserve is still being assessed, the quality of crude will give comfort to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, which has already declared Ashoknagar a producing block and Bengal basin a producing basin. Crude oil is usually judged on two parameters, sulphur content and weight. High sulphur (sour) and heavy oils are of lowest quality and are least expensive in the global market while low sulphur (sweet) and lighter oils fetch the highest price. While the amount of elemental sulphur from Ashoknagar samples are still being examined, indications are that it may be of sweet variety. In India, the Ashoknagar crude quality is equivalent to what is produced at Bombay High, Panna Mukta (offshore) and Cauvery (onshore), where API grade is about 41.  India procures a bulk of its crude requirement from West Asia, which is heavier grade (Iran and Saudi Arabia) and the Indian refineries are geared to process this kind of crude. However, India’s crude oil import basket also includes Nigeria, Venezuela and the United States where the lighter variety is found. The country produces only 15 per cent of the domestic requirement, making India the third largest importer of crude oil globally. The Narendra Modi-government has set a target to bring down import dependence to two-thirds by 2022 and to half by 2030. One of the tools it plans to deploy to encourage domestic and international oil explorers is the early monetisation scheme. Under this plan, an explorer can also sell/monetise oil and natural gas recovered during the exploration/development phase, before reaching the commercial production stage. Ashoknagar-1 is part of that early monetisation plan. While the first well drilled is producing small quantities of oil, the Ashoknagar block is believed to have a larger reservoir of natural gas. ONGC has geared up to drill the next well by the end of this month. “This will be a horizontal well to explore a deeper layer of around 3,700 metres. The centre of the new well will be 300 metres surface distance away from the presently producing well,” a source in the company said. This will be part of three more wells the PSU plans to drill by January 2022 to ascertain recoverable reserves from the field and if it could be brought to a sustained commercial production thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
