04-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 308 points to end at fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 308 points to end at a fresh record on Monday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, Infosys and HUL as investors cheered COVID-19 vaccine approvals. Extending its rally to the ninth straight session, the 30-share BSE index ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48,176.80. It touched a record intra-day peak of 48,220.47. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to a lifetime high of 14,132.90. It scaled an all-time intra-day high of 14,147.95. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, M&M, HUL and L&T. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, Titan and PowerGrid were among the laggards. Experts said final approval for two COVID-19 vaccine and likely commencement of inoculation process soon are positives for the markets and economy. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine Covishield and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Indian markets opened on a positive note following upbeat Asian market peers... During the afternoon session markets slipped as some selling was witnessed in key frontline banking stocks, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. However, markets regained and further strengthened as the Nikkei India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), released during the day, rose to 56.4 in December as against 56.3 in November. Also, cues from western markets helped in boosting the sentiments near closing session, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while and Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe opened with significant gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1.31 per cent to USD 52.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Reliance denies having anything to do with Farm laws||Facing the brunt of farmer's ire over the perception of it being a beneficiary of new farm laws, Reliance Industries on Monday said it neither buys food grains directly from farmers nor is in the business of contract farming. In a statement, billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm said its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking "the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants." Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them." "As such, the sole nefarious purpose of linking the name of Reliance to these laws is to harm our businesses and damage our reputation," it said. The company said it does not do "corporate or contract farming" and has not bought "any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of corporate or contract farming." Its retail unit which sells food grains and staples, fruits and vegetables and items of daily use through its stores, "does not purchase any food grains directly from farmers," the statement said. "It has never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain an unfair advantage over farmers or sought that its suppliers buy from farmers at less than remunerative prices, nor will it ever do so," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps nearly 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ITC, Infosys and ICICI Bank as investors cheered domestic COVID-19 vaccine approvals. The 30-share BSE index touched its lifetime intra-day high of 48,168.22 in early trade. It was trading 272.73 points or 0.57 per cent higher at 48,141.71, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 90.90 points or 0.65 per cent to a record high of 14,109.40. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, SBI, L&T, Infosys, HCL Tech, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HDFC, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex rose by 117.65 points or 0.25 per cent to close at a fresh lifetime high of 47,868.98, while Nifty closed at an all-time high of 14,018.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 506.21 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look firm. Strong economic key data in terms of GST collections, power demand and railway freight for December 2020 will continue to offer strength to the market, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Additionally, final approval for two COVID-19 vaccines and likely commencement of the inoculation process soon are positive for the markets and economy. "Positive FPI flows are expected to sustain in subsequent weeks. Further, DIIs turning net buyers on Friday was also a positive indication for the market. 3QFY21 earnings and Union Budget will be crucial events for the market in the near term, which will offer clarity about the sustainability of demand momentum," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, were trading 0.98 per cent higher at USD 52.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||HDFC, Ambuja in 72-acre realty deal||Ambuja Neotia Group has struck a deal with a HDFC Group-backed entity to build one of the largest townships in Calcutta, signalling a steady revival in the real estate sector which was bruised by the pandemic. The 72-acre development will come up in Rajarhat in close proximity to the IT and office hub in that part of the city. The township will sport plotted development and villas among others and take about five years to complete, the developers said. In plotted development, parcels of land are sold to the buyer who can build his own home. Ambuja has come on board as the development management partner, while the land that is worth north of Rs 800 crore remained with Satyaa Homes, an entity owned by HDFC and Sumit Dabriwala of Highland Group. As a development management partner, Ambuja will get a share of the revenue generated from the project while the initial investment to build the common infrastructure will be borne by the land owners. The deal was brokered by Anarock Property Consultants. The development will be modelled after the new township policy which was announced during the Bengal Global Business Summit in 2015. The Mamata Banerjee government had then allowed private landholders to build theme-based townships with certain riders. Ambuja and Satyaa plan to build the township based on the theme of skill development. A quarter of the net land area will be earmarked to create infrastructure for schools, vocational training and other facilities. Around 25 per cent of the residential units will have to be kept for the economically weaker section too,  in line with the township policy. The common infrastructure will include road, water, electricity, sewerage connection, club house and school among others. The first phase of the township will be spread over 26 acres. Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia Group, said there would be demand for plotted development in a post-pandemic world. “In a city like Calcutta, there will be a section of buyers who want to have their own home/villas with a little green patch. And during the pandemic, everyone, including the younger generation who were earlier wary of buying real estate, have understood the value of owning a home,” Neotia said this evening. Option before buyers A buyer will have the option to buy plotted land, which is likely to be priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 80 lakh, depending on the size and build a villa with the design specification of the developer. “In this process, the buyer can make investment in a staggered manner over years according to his/her convenience, in contrast to buying an apartment where the entire value is paid at one shot,” Neotia explained. There has been a spate bungalow developments on the southern fringes of Calcutta in recent times. Mayank Saksena, MD and CEO of Anarock Land Services, said the project could be what Adarsh Palm Meadows had been to Whitefield, the IT hub of Bangalore. “The Adarsh project, which came up 15 years ago, is now sought after by top tier IT professionals and expats working there. This township has all the trappings to go that way,” Saksena explained. The transaction also signals consolidation within the real estate sector and a clear shift towards reputable developers who have the right pedigree to deliver quality projects within the promised time, he added. “When the world went to a tailspin and sales and launches collapsed, it was pleasing to close a deal like this which clearly indicates a steady revival,” Saksena noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||India’s largest infertility treatment space Indira IVF targets east||Indira IVF, the largest player in the country’s infertility treatment space, is set to expand its presence in eastern India as it looks at an holistic growth in a market that continues to be under-penetrated. Founded in 2011 in Udaipur, Rajasthan, by Dr Ajay Murdia, it has grown from two speciality fertility clinics set up in 2015 to more than 93 clinics across 21 states. Of these centres, 50 per cent are located in north India, 30 per cent in the western part, 6 per cent in the east and 14 per cent in south. “We are optimistic about our holistic growth. We are putting more time and energy now on east and south because we are predominantly present in the north and the west. In the east and south, we will continue to expand and might look at some mergers or acquisitions. We are also trying to expand internationally given the infrastructure, technology and expertise we have developed in India,” Kshitiz Murdia,  co-founder and CEO, Indira IVF, told The Telegraph. “We do get patients from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and some parts of Africa where the quality of treatment and facilities are not good or the expenses are too high. We want to reach to more and more population. So, east and south of India and international expansion are in our plans,” Murdia added. Though there was a temporary halt in expansion plans as the Covid-19 struck in March, the company was able to start five new centres in the post-lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Vivad se Vishwas Scheme settles 20% cases||In a massive clean up of legacy issues, nearly one-fifth of about 5 lakh entities locked in tax litigation with the government have opted for a dispute redressal scheme, helping settle around Rs 83,000 crore of contested amount, a top finance ministry official said on Sunday. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in her budget for fiscal starting April 2020 announced a Vivad se Vishwas (VsV) Scheme to settle pending disputes relating to direct taxes. It was an attempt to release Rs 9.32 lakh crore blocked in around 4.8 lakh appeals pending at various appellate forums. “Of the pending cases, 96,000 have opted for the scheme to settle about Rs 83,000 crore (of disputed tax),” finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. Considering the surge in VsV application that got filed in December 2020 and demands of taxpayers, he said the government has extended the scheme by a month till January 31. Entities opting for the scheme have to pay requisite tax and litigations are closed and penal proceedings dropped. “Under this exercise, more than Rs 1 lakh crore tax demands, which arose because of incorrect entries, have been cleaned up,” he said. The litigation and appeal cases are before the Commissioner (Appeals) and tax tribunals to higher courts and in arbitration. Once an entity opts for the VsV scheme and pays the due tax, the cases are deemed to have been withdrawn from the forums, interest, penalty and prosecution are also withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Bids invited for 26% stake sale in BEML||The government on Sunday invited preliminary bids for the strategic sale of a 26 per cent stake along with transfer of management control in defence PSU BEML. “The government has issued the PIM/EoI for the disinvestment of 26 per cent equity share capital of BEML Ltd along with transfer of management control. Disinvestment will be through a two-stage competitive bidding process,” Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. Bidders can submit their expression of interest (EoI) to buy the stake in BEML by March 1, according to the preliminary information memorandum (PIM) issued by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). At the current market price, a 26 per cent sale could fetch about Rs 1,000 crore to the exchequer. Shares of BEML closed at Rs 974.25 on Friday. BEML is involved in sectors such as defence, rail, power, mining and infrastructure. 
The company’s total revenue from operations was Rs 3,028.82 crore in 2019-20. SBI Capital Markets has been appointed as the adviser by the Government of India (GoI) to advise and manage the proposed strategic disinvestment of BEML. BEML has an order book of Rs 9,795 crore as on March 31, 2020. The government has “in-principle” decided to divest 26 per cent stake of BEML through a strategic sale with transfer of management control. The government holds a 54.03 per cent stake in the company. Rashtriya Chemical The government is planning to sell a 10 per cent stake in Rashtriya Chemical and Fertilizers Ltd (RCFL) and invited bids from merchant banker and legal firms for managing the share sale process. Interested merchant bankers and legal advisers will have to be submit their bids by January 28 and January 29, respectively, Dipam  said in a notice. The government holds a 75 per cent stake in RCFL and intends to divest 10 per cent of the paid-up equity capital through an offer for sale (OFS). The merchant banker will be required to advise the government on the timing and the modalities of the OFS, ensure best return from the government and assist in securing approval and exemptions, wherever necessary, from regulatory agencies. Shares of RCF closed at Rs 54 apiece on Friday. At the current market price, the 10 per cent stake sale would fetch about Rs 300 crore to the exchequer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||The Large Cap Bet||Markets are increasingly becoming more dynamic and efficient. In such markets, unless a fund has significant flexibility with regard to its investment universe, it is difficult for a fund to outperform its benchmark. This is particularly true for the large cap category. We discuss below the importance of flexibility for a large cap fund and how the focused large cap fund category has a distinct advantage in this regard. In line with the worldwide trend, the proliferation of ETFs (exchange traded funds) has been increasing in India. This has heightened investor scrutiny of value added by active funds, measured in the form of “Alpha” (returns earned over and above market after deducting costs). Unless a fund has investments which are different from the benchmark, it is difficult for a fund to outperform its benchmark. The ability of a fund to be distinct from its benchmark is highly dependent on the flexibility it enjoys with regard to its investment universe. Hence, funds with high investment flexibility have an advantage. Typically, even within active funds, there can be two broad categories based on their active ratio. There are funds which have low active ratio (fund weight away from benchmark) and are benchmark hugging, while the other category funds are those with active ratio on the higher side. Funds in the first bucket is often referred to as closet index funds. A fund with closet index strategy logically will find it difficult to have returns different from its benchmark index. In our view, for a large cap fund to meaningfully outperform its benchmark index, it needs to have a high active ratio and also be benchmark agnostic. However, this can only be possible if the fund has a flexible investment universe. Both large cap and mid-cap stocks have their own distinct advantages and disadvantages. While the large cap stocks typically provide higher stability and lower volatility, mid-cap stocks include a higher proportion of young high-growth companies and emergence stories. Historically, the variance range between the large and midcaps have varied significantly across market cycles. Hence, having an ideal mix of large cap and mid-cap stocks can optimise the long-term returns of a fund. Further, our study based on the index performance of Large cap Nifty 50 index and Midcap 100 index suggest that the ideal mix of large and mid-cap stocks for an investor to optimise his or her risk reward ratio (attain higher shape ratio) is ~74 per cent large cap and 26 per cent midcaps. A focused large cap fund is in a position to achieve this ideal ratio. In the past, a traditional large cap fund used to have very low flexibility as its investment universe was restricted to the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation. The Sebi reclassification of investment universe in 2018 changed this and provided large cap funds with some much needed flexibility. As such, post reclassification, a large cap fund has the flexibility to invest up to 20 per cent of its corpus across market cap, while 80 per cent of its corpus still needs to be invested in the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation. Compared to this, a focused large cap fund has a lot more flexibility with regard to its investment universe. A focused large cap fund needs to invest a minimum of 65 per cent in the top 100 stocks and have the flexibility to invest across market capitalisation for the other 35 per cent of the fund. This flexibility to have a wider investment universe is an advantage that the focused large cap funds can leverage on over the long term. For instance, in our large cap fund — Motilal Oswal Focused 25 Fund— we have ensured a few things. First, it is a pure active (active ratio of ~58 per cent) and benchmark agnostic fund (no sector limits), Second, it has focused and concentrated holdings (<25 stocks, with top 5 and top 10 stocks accounting for ~42 per cent and 70 per cent weight). Third, it has higher flexibility with regard to the investment universe (minimum investment in the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation limited to 65 per cent, with a high flexibility to invest across market capitalisation up to 35 per cent). Consequently, we feel, investors should incorporate the aspect of evaluating how flexible their large cap fund is, along with the other key parameters, while shortlisting their funds or assessing the ability of a fund to significantly outperform its benchmark. The writer is fund manager, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||India's exporters set $350bn goal||The country’s exports could rebound next fiscal to touch $350 billion with a pickup in global trade and economic activity, according to the Federation of Indian Exports Organisations (FIEO). “This looks ambitious but definitely achievable, if we address our supply-side challenges,” Fieo president Sharad Kumar Saraf said. He said exports may reach $290 billion by the end of the current fiscal as the outbound shipments were hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic during the first half of the year. However, the year 2021 would bring a ray of hope and optimism for the exporting community. “We are confident that a V-shaped recovery will be witnessed in world trade and we will recover much more from what we lost in 2020. Since the first and second quarters have been pretty bad, we may end the financial year 2020-21 with exports of around $290 billion,” he said . The WTO in its recent forecast has projected a 9.2 per cent decline in the volume of world merchandise trade for 2020 followed by a 7.2 per cent rise in 2021. The Fieo chief said exports growth was vital to clock 8 per cent plus GDP growth and to reach the milestone of $5 trillion economy. “Our exports strategy should be two pronged: one focussing on sectors where major imports are happening and other to boost traditional sectors, which are important for exports as well as employment,” he said. Saraf said the major contributor to global trade consists of electronics & electricals, machinery, automobile, pharma and medical equipment, accounting for about 40 per cent of global imports, in which the country’s current share is less than 0.9 per cent. “The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme is rightly focusing on these sectors. Once we create production capabilities in these products, pushing exports at a brisk pace should not be a challenge,” he said. The Fieo president said robust FTAs (free trade agreements) with the country’s major partners such as the US, the EU and UK are required on a priority basis. During April-November 2020-21, exports dipped 17.8 per cent to $173.66 billion. India’s exports had fallen 4.78 per cent to $314.31 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Coal India reports big rise in despatches to its non-power consumers||Coal India has reported a big rise in despatches to its non-power consumers in the third quarter even as it reported a meagre increase in its despatches to the power sector. During the quarter ended December, CIL supplied a total of 154.6 million tonnes (mt) to its consumers posting a 9.2 per cent growth over the corresponding year-ago period. In the third quarter of the previous year, coal supply was 141.6mt. Coal supply to non-power consumers was 36.62mt compared with 25.53mt during the year ago period. Offtake from the power sector during the quarter was 117.8mt against 116.07mt previous year. “With the non-power sector consumers lifting increased quantities of coal during this year’s Q3 (third quarter), CIL could record a robust 43.4 per cent growth in supplies to this sector. The incremental supply to this sector was a little over 11mt. “The demand for coal from the power sector is yet to crystallize fully,” a senior official of the company said. There was only a nominal growth of 1.5 per cent in supplies to the power plants during the third quarter, the official added. Total coal stock at the 136 power stations tracked by the Central Electricity Authority stood at a level covering requirement for 21 days as of December 31, 2020. Coal India also said that overburden removal, a key efficiency parameter in mining, grew by 17.6 per cent during the third quarter compared with the  previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Economic recovery crucial to car sales||Car makers are banking on  recovery in the economy to post higher sales this as they focus on localisation and digitisation in the wake of the pandemic. “We adopted an ecosystem centric, agile approach to improve our market (during the pandemic), operational and financial performance by reducing costs, generating free cash flows, ” Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD, Tata Motors said: “We expect both sales and production to improve in 2021 on the back of overall economic recovery.” Toyota Kirloskar Motor, which has been witnessing a gradual improvement in sales, stressed on localization and digitisation. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM, said: “There have been significant learnings including greater focus on localisation and digitalization. The current economic revival is likely to help sustain the sales momentum in 2021 and we hope to see a V shaped recovery of the economy thereby helping the industry to bounce back." Toyota will focus on electrified vehicles as a mid- to long-term strategy. At the same time, it will continue to expand its subscription and leasing service . Hyundai Motors India Ltd, which had a dream run with its SUVs in 2020, has seen new growth areas such as the used car market. “The biggest challenge is to sustain business operations and ensure financial health of organisation,” said Tarun Garg, director, sales and marketing, HMIL. He said the company has seen the “green shoots” of recovery and is cautiously optimistic for the year. Mahindra and Mahindra, which has faced supply chain issues leading to the shortage of stocks, is hopeful of a good economic recovery. Veejay Nakra, CEO, automotive division, said: “Due to the constantly changing environment in different parts of the world, some of the supply chain challenges continue in the automotive sector, including shortage of steel and micro-processors.” In the luxury segment, Mercedes Benz India Ltd (MBIL)  is satisfied with the sales recovery during the last quarter. MBIL CEO Martin Schwenk said: “I see 2020 as a year of unprecedented disruption in which we have displayed unparalleled resilience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd to compensate for undelivered natural gas||Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc of UK have committed to pay in cash for any natural gas volumes they are unable to deliver to customers from the next wave of discoveries in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block. According to the draft gas sales and purchase agreement (GSPA), Reliance and BP have shared along with price discovery bids for incremental gas from the R-Cluster fields in KG-D6 block, the sellers will reimburse buyer money equivalent to gas sourced from alternate source to make up for any volumes they are unable to deliver. The buyer on his part will be obliged to offtake the committed gas volumes or pay for it (take or pay). The volumes not taken but paid for can be taken in subsequent quarters, the GSPA said. These ship or pay and take or pay obligations will be waived in the event of force majeure events such as any act of God like earthquake and floods, fire, epidemic, acts of war, strike and lockouts, delays due to government/ regulatory actions and court orders. Also, “loss, failure, impediment, restriction in output or deliverability of reservoirs in the gas fields” will be a force majeure event, it said. Reliance had a decade back signed up to sell 60 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of gas from the first set of gas fields in the KG-D6 block, but the output rapidly declined because of reservoir issues, leaving users such as power plants stranded. The company had not reimbursed buyers for the shortfall, calling it an act beyond its control. The government had, however, levied penalties on it for failure to produce the committed volumes - an act that the company has challenged through an arbitration. The outcome of the arbitration is pending. While those initial fields have ceased to produce, Reliance-BP last month started output from the R-Cluster fields. In November 2019, they sold the first 5 mscmd from the R-Cluster field at a rate benchmarked against Brent crude oil. The duo has now invited bids for selling 7.5 mmscmd of incremental output that is likely to be available from February benchmarked to a gas index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Bitcoin soars to $30,000||Digital currency Bitcoin extended its record-smashing rally on Saturday, beginning the year with a surge over $30,000 for the first time, with ever more traders and investors betting that it is on its way to becoming a mainstream payment method. The price of the world’s most popular cryptocurrency traded as high as $33,099 on Saturday, with almost all other markets closed over the first weekend in 2021. It was last up about 12 per cent at $32,883. Bitcoin advanced more than 300 per cent in 2020, and with the latest leg higher has added more than 50 per cent since crossing $20,000 just two weeks ago. The blockchain currency has only been around for a decade or so, and in 2020 it has seen demand grow from larger US investors, attracted by its perceived inflation-hedging qualities and potential for quick gains, as well as expectations it would become a mainstream payments method. Investors said limited supply of bitcoin — produced by so-called “mining” computers that validate blocks of transactions by competing to solve mathematical puzzles — has helped power upward moves over recent days. Some also saw it as a safe-haven play during the Covid-19 pandemic, akin to gold. “It’s very likely that the asset will eventually pass $100,000 per coin,” Sergey Nazarov, co-founder of Chainlink, a global blockchain project, wrote in an email on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
