05-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh peaks to end day record high||Rallying for the 10th straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 261 points to end at a fresh record on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Axis Bank and TCS. Despite opening on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index pared all losses and staged a smart recovery to end 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48,437.78. It touched an all-time high of 48,486.24 during the day. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14,199.50. It scaled a record intra-day high of 14,215.60. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, TCS, Asian Paints, Titan, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, M&M and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. "Domestic equities saw a brisk recovery from today's low mainly led by a sharp rebound in banking and IT stocks," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates along with likely commencement of vaccination drive shortly and sustained improvement in key economic data defied weak global markets, he said, adding that IT stocks witnessed strong buying ahead of TCS' Q3 FY21 numbers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.69 per cent to USD 51.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Jio plea: HC serves notice to Centre, Punjab on tower damage||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd, seeking action against "miscreants" damaging its telecom infrastructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state. During the ongoing agitation by farmers against three new farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged. Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Monday, submitted in its plea that "vested" interests are engaged in spreading "false rumours" against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued a notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio. The company has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Telecommunications and the Punjab Director General of Police as respondents in the matter. In the civil writ petition, Reliance Jio has also sought appropriate directions to respondents for an investigation into the well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests and miscreants against it. In the petition, the company has stated that in the past few weeks, its over 1,500 telecom towers were damaged or rendered inoperative by miscreants crippling its mobile network in Punjab. A number of its centres and stores were also forcibly closed by miscreants by using illegal force and intimidation, it submitted. The petitioner submitted that its subscribers were being forced to port to other networks, while its employees were being subjected to a grave threat to life and forcibly prevented from serving subscribers in the state. According to the petition, vested interests inimical to the petitioner and its parent company Reliance Industries, are engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner and its affiliates were somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament governing the marketing of agricultural produce. In a statement, Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them. The company also sought the constitution of a competent authority under the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act for the assessment of losses caused to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid a weak trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 112.74 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 48,064.06, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 38.25 points or 0.27 per cent to 14,094.65. ONGC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Axis Bank, HDFC, TCS and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48,176.80, and Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to its fresh lifetime high of 14,132.90. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,843.22 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities are not looking inspiring at the moment with Asian bourses trading lower taking cues from US markets. "US equities fell sharply mainly led by mounting concerns over a potential rise in borrowing costs after the 10-Year Treasury break-even rate rose over 2 per cent yesterday and rise in COVID-19 cases along with resultant lockdowns. "Fresh lockdown announced in Britain until at least mid-February weighed on investors' sentiment. All eyes would be on Georgia's run-off elections, in which two Senate seats have the potential to create fresh volatility in the markets," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.14 per cent lower at USD 51.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Nissan Motor to ramp up production at India plant||Japanese car maker Nissan Motor India will ramp up production at its plant in India to meet the demand for its Magnite sports utility vehicle (SUV), which it also plans to export. The company will introduce a third shift in the plant and plans to hire 1,000 workers. Rakesh Srivastava, managing director of Nissan Motor India, said: “We are ramping up production to decrease the waiting period for Magnite. We have received 32,800 bookings in one month. There were 1,80,000 enquiries for the car. The conversion ratio has been 17.7 per cent, something unheard of.” At present, the plant is producing more than 2,700 units. With the third shift, it will produce 4,000 units. At dealerships, the company will infuse 500 workers to meet the rush though there are no plans for network expansion. Nissan also plans to export the Magnite to Indonesia and South Africa but the domestic market remains top priority. The company has faced no challenge in its supply chain. Srivastava also said the company will continue with the introductory prices. The Magnite was launched in December 2 with a price range of Rs 4.99 lakh to Rs 5.99 lakh. While the price of the base model Magnite MT XE will be increased by Rs 50,000 to Rs 5.49 lakh, the prices of the rest of the variants will remain unchanged. Hyundai to export i20 Hyundai Motor India Ltd on Monday announced that it will  start exporting its recently launched i20. The company is the largest car exporter and has surpassed the milestone of 3 million despatches last year with exports to 88 countries. S.S. Kim, MD and CEO, Hyundai Motor India, said, “The new i20 is one of the highest selling models in its segment. We will commence the export of the all-new i20 in the global markets. With 5.16 lakh exports since its first launch, the i20 is already a brand to reckon with even in the global markets.” Hyundai Motor India at present exports 10 models, including the Atos (Santro), Grand i10, Xcent, Grand i10 (Nios, Aura) and i20. Globally, Hyundai exports ‘Made-In-India’ cars to 88 countries across five continents including South America (32 countries), North America (Mexico), Africa (28 countries), Asia Pacific (26 countries), Europe (1 country). When asked if the company was taking a hit at profitability while keeping prices down despite rise in input costs, Srivastava said: “We are offering a value proposition with the Magnite. We are making a B segment car within the reach of everyone who wants to own a four-wheeler.” Asked about future products, Srivasata said: “We will focus on our core DNA, SUV is our strength an SUVs are also the order of the day be it globally or in the domestic market. We have a fairly strong global portfolio including he Patrol, the Qashqai, Juke, the X-trail. We will bring whatever will be suitable for the Indian market.” At present, Nissan offers the Kicks SUV and the Magnite while under the Datsun brand it offers Redi-Go and Redi-Go Plus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Bengal govt to provide 40 acres of land free of cost to ONGC||The Bengal government will provide 40 acres of land free of cost to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to develop the Ashoknagar block where the central PSU has discovered hydrocarbon reserves, hoping that the find will catalyse industrial resurgence in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written a letter to Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan informing him of the state’s decision to provide land in Ashoknagar and a few sites in Barrackpore and assured him of her full fledged support in the future. “The state government is very happy to provide the land free of cost. They (ONGC) wanted to pay but we said you don’t have to pay. (You) set up industries here, we will provide all the land and other assistance,” Banerjee said on Monday. The state had received a letter from ONGC for the settlement of around 40 acres of state-owned land for the installation of a quick production system with a green belt area and allied infrastructure. The state has also received another land application for temporary occupation of three years at an upcoming exploratory location in Barrackpore, the chief minister said. She suggested that an integrated development can take place involving big, medium, small and micro industries around the discovery of oil and gas in Ashoknagar and the Indian Oil Corporation’s refinery at Haldia. “The state has extended all help; we are happy that the state and the Centre have worked together. We are providing full fledged co-operation,” Banerjee said. While the state agreed to let go of the land cost, it requested the Centre to take care of the 300 people who are on the land. “We requested (ONGC) to provide special rehabilitation and also a job,” she said. So far the company has provided l4-15 jobs to local people. ONGC has been lifting crude from a well drilled at the site, 55 km north-east of Calcutta, in small quantities and  selling it commercially by taking advantage of a new central scheme that allows commercial exploitation during exploration and development. Potential recoverable reserve of oil and gas and their long term commercial viability is still to be ascertained but ONGC said the quality of the crude to be better than Brent and on a par with WTI. It is planning to drill three more wells by January 2022 and one of them would start by the end of this month. Early signs buoyed ONGC to acquire three more blocks adjacent to Asokenagar, which will be explored simultaneously over next three years and 13 more wells will be drilled. The total capital expenditure will be around Rs 425 crore. “According to our information, the discovery of oil reserves at Ashoknagar-1 is only the beginning, more such success in the near future will help reduce import of oil and make Bengal a future energy destination,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Metal producers expected to report rebound in earnings in 2021-22||Producers of metals are expected to report a rebound in earnings in 2021-22 in sync with the surge in global steel capacity utilisation which is projected to hit a decade high of 81-82 per cent with iron ore supplies likely to remain in deficit in 2021-22. Jindal Steel and Power was among the first to report a sharp rise in steel demand in its monthly business update. The company said it had achieved its highest ever production and sales in the month of December. JSPL said it had a record 30 per cent jump in its standalone production and 25 per cent growth in sales during December 2020. The company’s total production from its plants in India was at 7.27 lakh tonnes (LT) in December, up from 5.59 LT during the same month in 2019, JSPL said in a statement. JSPL has raised prices by Rs 5,200 per tonne in the third quarter. “We are proud of our dedicated workforce who achieved such an extraordinary increase in the production with existing capacity by way of optimising various operating parameters without any capex. We will achieve even greater heights in times to come,” JSPL managing director V.R. Sharma said. During the month under review, standalone sales were at 7.11 LT against 5.67 LT in December 2019. On a month-on-month basis, the production at 7.27 LT was over 18 per cent higher from 6.14 LT in November 2020. At 7.11 LT the sales in December 2020 were 26 per cent up compared with 5.65 LT in November 2020. For October-December 2020, the company has posted 19.26 LT standalone production, up 20 per cent from 16.10 LT in the same period in 2019. During the period under review, the sales were at 18.76 LT, registering a rise of 12 compared to 16.71 LT in October-December 2019. In the statement, JSPL said the company recorded its highest ever production and sales numbers in December 2020, as well as in the October-December period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Reliance Jio writ in the Punjab & Haryana High Court alleges foul play||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio Infocomm in its writ petition in the Punjab & Haryana High Court has said the alleged campaign against the telco began in October and one of the pockets where its telecom infrastructure was targeted was Sangrur, the district that shot to fame in 1987 when a PepsiCo group firm set up its first potato chips plant and pioneered contract farming in the country. Jio has in the petition alleged the sustained disinformation campaign run by “vested interests”, including through social media channels, has made its business and assets a target of attack and destruction by miscreants at the instigation of the vested interests, purporting to be engaged in public demonstrations and protests against the farm laws. It further reiterated neither parent Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) or any of the affiliates of RIL have plans to enter into contract or corporate farming. The petitioner also claimed that none of the Reliance group firms have purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly anywhere in India for corporate farming and it has no such plans either. It has said in the petition that over the past few weeks, apart from more than 1,500 of its towers being damaged or rendered inoperative by the miscreants, a number of its stores in Punjab have been “forcibly closed by these miscreants using illegal force and intimidation”. Jio said in its petition that its tower assets had been sabotaged or destroyed in the districts of Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Chandigarh, Faridkot, Fategarh Sahib, Fazilka, Firozpur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Moga, Mansa, Mohali, Muktsar, Nawanshahr, Pathankot, Patiala, Ropar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. The petition also carried photographs and media reports documenting the vandalism in Punjab. Jio alleged that at Sangrur miscreants disrupted its 4G services. Its affidavit also carried tweets by individuals who had discontinued their Jio connections. The petition said the consequences have not only been borne by Jio but also its 1.4 crore subscribers across Punjab. Jio has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, the Union home affairs ministry and the department of telecommunications as the respondents in the matter. In the civil writ petition, Jio sought appropriate directions to respondents for investigation into the “well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign” being carried out by the vested interests and miscreants against it. The petition filed through counsel Aashish Chopra alleged that vested interests "inimical" to the company and RIL are actively engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that it is a beneficiary of the recent farm legislation passed by Parliament. Last month, Jio had blamed its telecom rivals and written to Trai where it accused them of running "vicious and divisive campaign’’ and making preposterous claims that migrating Jio mobile numbers to their networks would be an act of support to farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Power ministry proposes deadline pushing back for new emission norms||India’s power ministry has proposed pushing back the deadlines for adoption of new emission norms by coal-fired power plants, saying “an unworkable time schedule” would burden utilities and lead to an increase in power tariffs. India initially had set a 2017 deadline for thermal power plants to comply with emissions standards for installing Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) units that cut emissions of toxic sulphur dioxide. That was later changed to varying deadlines for different regions, ending in 2022. Under the latest proposal, no new dates have been set. However, a final decision will have to be approved by the Supreme Court, which is hearing the issue. “The target should be to maintain uniform ambient air quality across the country and not uniform emission norms for thermal power plants,” Nishat Kumar, an official at India’s ministry of power said in a January 2 note to the country’s environment ministry, seen by Reuters. “This could avoid immediate increase in power price in various relatively clean areas of the country (and) avoid unnecessary burden on power utilities/consumers,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Centre's core infrastructure push for Bengal||Bengal and the eastern states of India could see more central support towards infrastructure development, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said on Monday. Thakur was in the state ahead of the Union budget to meet tax professionals and GST officials. He addressed a programme organised by CCI Professionals Forum and Direct Tax Professionals’ Association. “You will see in the coming months and coming years, there will be a lot of money spent in the east and northeastern part of India and infrastructure development is a priority for the government of India,” Thakur said. “If India has to achieve a double-digit growth rate, then the growth has to come from the east and Northeast. We see a lot of potential and that is why we are here before the budget session to take feedback from professionals like you,” said Thakur at a gathering of tax advocates, chartered accountants and company secretaries. The minister said with the upcoming elections in Bengal, citizens have to ask why businessmen tend to hesitate before making any investment in the state and whether there is an adequate ecosystem to foster the development of unicorns (startups with valuations of over $1 billion). The minister was presented with several suggestions both on the direct and indirect tax side for consideration in the Union budget. On GST, a key suggestion was on the cash flow and input tax credit fronts. “The recently introduced rule 86B placing a restriction on using ITC to the extent of 99 per cent of liability may be proposed for curbing fake invoices, but many genuine taxpayers are facing blockage of credit and cash flow issues due to this,” said N.K. Goyal, president of DTPA. On the direct tax side, Narayan Jain, president CCI Professionals Forum, said there is a need to simplify and shorten income tax returns and revise the monetary limits on presumptive taxation and tax audits. Jain also urged the minister to consider modification to the definition of relatives under section 56(2) of the Income Tax Act. “Under the present definition, if an uncle gives a gift to his nephew, it is exempt as they are treated as relatives. But in case of a gift given by nephew to his uncle it is not exempt. There are unnecessary litigations on the point,” Jain said in a statement. A book titled Income Tax Pleading and Practice written by Narayan Jain and Dilip Loyalka was also released by Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Manufacturing activity continued to grow in December||Manufacturing activity continued to grow in December to meet increasing demand, a private survey showed on Monday, although the employment situation worsened as firms continued to reduce headcounts. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) was at 56.4 in December, a tick higher than November’s reading of 56.3 and above the critical 50 threshold for the fifth straight month. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The latest PMI results for the Indian manufacturing sector continued to point to an economy on the mend as a supportive demand environment and firms’ efforts to rebuild safety stocks underpinned another sharp rise in production,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. International demand for Indian goods rose in December, but the growth was hampered by the pandemic. As a result, new export orders increased at the slowest pace in the current four-month sequence of expansion. Output growth also eased to a four-month low, but remained strong, the survey said. Employment, however, decreased again in December, thereby stretching the current sequence of job shedding to nine months. “India’s manufacturing PMI reading for December points to a continued rebound in the sector at the end of last year. And the recovery could gain further momentum if Covid-19 vaccines are successfully distributed in India and restrictions are subsequently scaled back even further,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, CapitalEconomics, said. “Companies stated that government guidelines to have employees working only on shifts and difficulties in finding suitable staff were the key factors causing the latest fall in payroll numbers. However, the pace of contraction was moderate and the weakest in the current downturn period," the survey noted. On the prices front, the survey noted that input cost inflation accelerated to a 26-month high in December, with panellists noting increased prices for chemicals, metals, plastics and textiles. Output charges were lifted in response to rising cost burdens, but here the rate of inflation was only marginal. Lima further noted that “when we combine the latest three months we see that the performance of the manufacturing industry for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020-21 was notably better than in the second quarter". The three-month PMI average rose from 51.6 to 57.2, the survey said. Going ahead, Indian manufacturers maintained an upbeat view that output will increase in the coming year. However, the degree of optimism weakened to a four-month low as some firms were concerned about the lasting effect of the pandemic on the global economy. Nomura The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) picked up to 94.5 for the week ending 3 January from an average of 91.7 December. Since its trough in April, economic normalisation has continued nearly uninterrupted, with NIBRI ending 2020 just 5.5 below pre-pandemic activity levels. The continued rise in NIBRI through December and into early January was led by an improvement in mobility indices, in sync with the holiday season. Power demand has also been strong, although the latest week corrected by 2.7 per cent week-on-week after rising by 2.7 per cent and 3.1 per cent over the preceding two weeks. The labour participation rate eased to 40.3 per cent in early January from 40.9 per cent in December. NIBRI averaged higher in December (91.7) than in November (86.3) and is starting January at another high (94.5). This faster normalisation reflects a further moderation in new cases, despite the festive and winter season. In tandem, activity data like auto sales, import growth, GST proceeds, manufacturing PMI and diesel sales improved. While weak global growth and a sudden volte-face on domestic pandemic control are key short term risks, over the medium term, easier financial conditions, stronger global demand and accelerated vaccinations could lead to an economic upcycle in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Crude oil above $50 signals turbulence ||After remaining soft for the better part of 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, crude oil prices have began to inch up and are hovering around $50 per barrel mark. However, experts are of the view that the commodity will be volatile this year and its movement will be determined by the vaccine rollout and whether the new strain of coronavirus will spread further. Opec is meeting to decide (on the production levels for February) whether it can lift output as rising infections affect recovery in global energy demand. Reports say while countries such as Saudi Arabia have been cautious on raising output, others like Russia have said the producers could add another 500,000 barrels a day next month. According to the ‘Crude Oil Insight Report’ from Motilal Oswal, prices of the commodity advanced higher in the past one month and prices finally hit $50 per barrel as traders expect demand to pick up next year. “A falling dollar on the back of a global economic recovery and continued stimulus spending in the US as well as other major economies, is creating a positive feedback loop for oil prices, akin to what occurred in the 1970s and 2000s when oil reached historical highs. All these events suggest a turbulent and disorderly global oil markets over the last 12 months with long-lasting implications as markets begin to digest a new form of normality towards a post-virus equilibrium,’’ the report added. The West Texas Intermediate crude oil was trading 2.02 per cent higher at $49.50 per barrel, while Brent crude also gained 2.26 per cent at $52.97 per barrel in New York on Monday. Crude oil prices have been rallying from November on positive news from the Pfizer vaccine and this had led to Brent crude rising from $42 per barrel to $52 per barrel. The Motilal Oswal report said crude demand stood close to 100m barrels per day in 2019, but the pandemic wiped out 10 per cent of the market as transport and industry took a hit from lockdown measures implemented globally to contain the spread of the pandemic. Demand for crude is likely to have closed 2020 at 89 million barrels per day, a historic fall of 9 million barrels per day compared to 2019. However, while oil demand from Asian countries particularly India and China remain strong, that from Europe and the US  disappoint. ``Fundamentals do not suggest seeing a second significant jump in oil prices until vaccination rate begins to rise. Brent and WTI crude are expected to climb `marginally’ in the first half of 2021, and then move up more quickly in the second half of the year. The understandable euphoria around the start of the vaccination programme partially explains higher oil prices, but it will be several months before the advent of mass inoculation to economically active people and relevant impact on oil demand’’, the report observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
05-01-2021||Business||BSE Sensex closed above the 48000-mark for the first time||The BSE Sensex closed above the 48000-mark for the first time on Monday as investor sentiment got a boost after India approved two coronavirus vaccines over the weekend. A strengthening rupee, positive global cues and encouraging macroeconomic data gave further impetus to risk appetite, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48176.80. It touched a record intra-day peak of 48220.47. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to its fresh lifetime high of 14132.90. It scaled an all-time high of 14147.95 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 4.02 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, M&M, HUL, Sun Pharma and L&T. Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, HDFC Bank, PowerGrid and Titan were among the laggards, shedding up to 1.43 per cent. India’s drug regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Experts said the approvals and the likely commencement of inoculation process soon bode well for the markets and economy. “Emboldened by the likely rollout of the vaccines this month, bulls went berserk, bolstered by IT and metal stocks with able support from pharma stocks. PMI data and renewed buying in select financials provided buoyancy across the broader markets,” said S. Ranganathan, head of Research at LKP Securities. Sector-wise, BSE metal, IT, technology, oil and gas, auto, industrials and telecom indices rallied up to 5.34 per cent, while bankex and consumer durables slipped. Global equities surged as vaccine rollout in multiple countries enthused investors. Bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe opened with significant gains. Fitch Solutions on Monday said it has revised its forecast for the rupee to average stronger at Rs 75.50 to the dollar in 2021, from Rs 77. For 2022, it revised the forecast to Rs 77 to a dollar from Rs 79 previously to account for a stronger 2021 forecast. “We expect the rupee to trade only slightly weaker over the near term from current levels,” it said in a note. It saw depreciatory pressure on the rupee due to worsening terms of trade from rising oil prices, further monetary easing, and bouts of risk-off sentiment being partially offset by the US dollar weakness and central bank foreign exchange intervention to combat imported inflation. The rupee on Monday appreciated by 9 paise to close at 73.02 against the dollar, supported by sustained foreign fund inflows. Sector-wise, BSE metal, IT, teck, oil and gas, auto, industrials and telecom indices rallied up to 5.34 per cent, while bankex and consumer durables slipped. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.42 per cent. Foreign institutional investors purchased shares worth Rs 506.21 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Over the longer term, the overvaluation of the rupee in real terms and higher inflation in India vis-à-vis the US should exert weakening pressure for the rupee," it said.    The Indian rupee averaged Rs 74.10 to a US dollar in 2020||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
