06-01-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 10-session winning run, drops 264 pts||Snapping its 10-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 264 points on Wednesday, dragged by losses in Reliance Industries, ITC and Infosys. After touching its record intra-day high of 48,616.66 in early trade, the 30-share BSE index pared all gains to end 263.72 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 48,174.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 53.25 points or 0.38 per cent to 14,146.25. It touched a record peak of 14,244.15 during the day. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, HUL and HCL Tech. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel, ONGC and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed high volatility and corrected mainly on turning the outcome of Georgia's run-off elections for two Senate seats in the favour of Democrats, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Control of Senate by Democrats is likely to result in a reversal of lower tax rates in the US, which may create certain volatility in the market," he said, adding that volatility index shot up sharply over 5 per cent at one point of time. Further, profit-booking at record levels also dragged benchmarks lower, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading firm in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.99 per cent higher at USD 54.13 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
06-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note on weak global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex turned choppy after opening at a record intra-day high of 48,616.66 in opening trade on Wednesday amid a weak trend in global equities. After rising 179 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 38.03 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 48,399.75, and the broader NSE Nifty slipped 8.10 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,191.40. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, HUL, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, ONGC, Titan, SBI, ICICI Bank and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48,437.78, while Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14,199.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 986.30 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be flat at the moment amid mixed cues from Asian markets. "Announcement of date to begin vaccination drive and India continues to remain the most resilient in the world in terms of COVID-19 recovery rates should continue to augur well for equities. Additionally, key economic indicators for December 2020 show sustained recovery in the economic activities. "Considering ongoing economic recovery and persistent weakness in the dollar with soft monetary policies across the world, FPIs flow should continue to remain supportive for Indian equities. 3QFY21 earnings and Union Budget will be crucial for markets in the near term, he said. US equities ended higher as investors focused on higher fiscal stimulus as Democrats' control in the Senate (as indicated by polls) will open the door for large fiscal stimulus and expansive fiscal policies irrespective of near-term volatility due to higher taxes, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.56 per cent higher at USD 53.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
06-01-2021||Business||New York Stock Exchange shelves delist plan ||The New York Stock Exchange said late on Monday that it had reversed a decision to delist China’s three major state-run telecommunications companies. The Big Board said it took the step after consulting with the US Treasury Department. Last week, the exchange said it would stop the trading of shares in China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile by January 11 in response to a Trump administration executive order that blocked Americans from investing in companies tied to the Chinese military. The statement did not give a reason for the decision, though it appeared that the executive order may not require the exchange to delist the companies. The exchange said that its regulatory department would continue to evaluate the applicability of the order to the telecommunications companies. The delisting would have had little practical impact on the companies, which also have shares listed in Hong Kong and are state-owned. Still, the disappearance from the American exchange had hefty symbolic value for worsening economic ties between China and the United States. Hong Kong-traded shares in the three phone carriers surged on Tuesday. China Telecom rose 3.4 per cent, China Mobile jumped 5.7 per cent and China Unicom surged 8.5 per cent. Shares in all three have fallen recently. The Chinese government has accused Washington of misusing national security as an excuse to hamper competition and has warned that Trumps order would hurt US and other investors worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Rating boost for Eveready||Eveready Industries India Ltd (EIIL) has received an upgrade from India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra), reflecting an improvement of the company’s financial profile and liquidity position in the first half of the year. The rating for EIIL’s term loan now stands at ‘BBB-’ with a positive bias, upgraded from ‘BB+’ issued in August. The issuer said the improvement in the financial profile is continuing in the second half as well, backed by substantial improvement in profitability. The positive outlook reflects Ind-Ra’s expectations of a further improvement in the business profile and the liquidity position over FY2021-22, aided by the sustained performance of the batteries and flashlight segments and the likely improvement in the lighting and appliances. Moreover, it factors in the possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and board representation by the Burman family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Uttam Galva Metallics buyout done||Distressed asset managers Nithia Capital and CarVal Investors on Tuesday announced the completion of their Rs 2,000-crore acquisition of Uttam Galva Metallics and Uttam Value Steel. The acquisition was done by the two entities’ Singapore-based joint venture Wardha Steel Holdings, as per a statement. Johannes Sittard, chairman and founding member of Nithia, has been appointed as chairman of Wardha Steel, while Jai Saraf, founder and chief executive of Nithia, has been appointed chairman of Uttam. Saraf said Nithia aspires to create a consolidated operating platform of up to 2 million tonnes of steel production per year in India through acquisition and organic growth. “We have been looking at multiple steel acquisition opportunities in India over the last few years and we are confident that we will continue to grow and build further on the success of Uttam. “We consider India to be the engine of growth for world steel for the next 20-25 years, and it is our intention to actively participate in this process,” he added. The acquisition of the Uttam group companies happened through an insolvency process steered by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Both the companies together had reportedly over Rs 7,000 crore of claims which were admitted by the resolution professional. State Bank of India and Union Bank of India were the lead bankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Audi plans to locally assemble 80% models to avoid high import duties ||Audi India plans to locally assemble 80 per cent of its models to avoid the high import duties on cars. At present, it manufactures the A6 and the latest A4 variant at its Aurangabad plant. “We will be locally assembling 80 per cent of our portfolio,” Audi India head Balbir Singh Dhillon said at the launch of the entry level sedan A4 in India on Tuesday. Dhillon said the luxury segment was taxed heavily at 50 per cent, which includes the 28 per cent GST and the 20-22 per cent cess. The high taxation “keeps the penetration of luxury cars in India low at 1 per cent while it is significantly higher in other neighbouring south east Asian countries”. The company, which had to delay the launch of its entry level sedan because of  the pandemic, has given a bigger engine to the fifth generation A4, which it hopes will lure customers away from cars with a diesel engine. Earlier, the A4 used to sport a 1.4 litre engine. Audi has discontinued its diesel programme in India following the BS-VI regulations. “We are not feeling the heat of not having diesel among our models. Even for our SUVs such as  the Q8 and Q2, the petrol variants are selling rather well,” said Dhillon. Audi, which launched five products in the pandemic year, will continue with its launches this year too, starting with the A4 that will retail at Rs 42.34 lakh, ex-showroom. “We will launch a number of models which will be a combination of sedans, SUVs, sports cars with ICE and electric engines. We will launch our first EV, the e-tron soon,” said Dhillon. The company is expected to add A3, Q3, Q5, Q7 to its lineup this year. The A3 when launched will become the new entry-level car for Audi and  is expected to be a volume driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||HC notice to Punjab on Jio plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd seeking action against “miscreants” damaging its telecom infrastructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state. During the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1,500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged. Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries, on Monday, submitted in its plea that “vested” interests are engaged in spreading “false rumours” against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Stocks soar on Q3 hopes||Benchmark indices on Tuesday settled at lifetime highs on hopes of encouraging performance from corporate India with the results season kicking off this Friday. The gains in stock prices overcame the lacklustre global cues as Britain announced a fresh lockdown. The 30-share Sensex saw some volatility as it oscillated to news about rising coronavirus infections overseas and positive sentiment back home with companies set to announce their third quarter results. After opening lower at 48037.63, the gauge hit an intra-day low of 47903.38. However, it staged a smart recovery to touch an all-time high of 48486.24 during the day. The index later ended at 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48437.78, a new closing high. This is for the tenth straight session that the Sensex has ended in the green of which it has closed at record highs in seven sessions. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14199.50. It scaled a record intra-day high of 14215.60. The gains came as investors remained confident that the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 will reflect the improved performance of India Inc. They are also optimistic that the commentary on the road ahead will be positive. Tata Consultancy Services will declare its numbers on January 8. “We argue Indian IT companies are poised to turn in the best third quarter in a decade given the highest-ever order books, marked revenue acceleration, margin expansion and ongoing outlook upgrades...We expect robust commentaries, record deal-wins and guidance upgrades by all. And we argue that upward guidance revisions by Indian IT companies, which set in two quarters ago, will be followed by upgrades in consensus forecasts for quarters to come,’’ analysts at Edelweiss said in a note. Apart from IT services, the earnings from other sectors such as automobiles, metals, consumer durables, telecom are expected to reflect the recovery in the domestic economy from the lows in the first quarter where it contracted a record 23.9 per cent. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 6.31 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, TCS, Asian Paints, HCL Tech, Titan and ICICI Bank. However, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, M&M and Reliance Industries were among the laggards, tumbling up to 2.06 per cent. “Based on the historical standards of valuation today, equities are at a rich level. But these levels are easily extended or cannot be comparable due to one-time economic euphoria from early vaccination, high double digit earnings growth and high liquidity in the market. The ongoing Indian rally is supported by the anticipation of Q3 result,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial services, said. Global markets were mixed after Britain announced a fresh nationwide coronavirus lockdown, while Wall Street was under selling pressure in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in early deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||World Bank alert on informal sector||India’s economy is estimated to contract 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year 2020-21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment, and the growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021, the World Bank said on Tuesday. In its Global Economic Prospects report, the World Bank said that the informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has been subject to severe income losses during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In India, the pandemic hit the economy at a time when growth was already decelerating. The output is estimated to contract by 9.6 per cent in Fiscal Year 2020/21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment,” it said. “In India, growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021, as the rebound from a low base is offset by muted private investment growth given financial sector weaknesses,” the bank said. The informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has also been subject to severe income losses during the pandemic. Recent high-frequency data indicate that the services and manufacturing recovery are gaining momentum, the report said. The sustained improvement in high-frequency economic indicators along with the impending vaccination programme has raised optimism of an improved performance in the second half of the current fiscal year, the finance ministry said in its report on the economy for December. However, it warns that the spread of the mutant variant of the coronavirus andsocial distancing fatigue could be a downside risk to recovery. “The downside risk, however, remains due to the spread of the UK variant and fatigue from social distancing guidelines,” it said. “The emphasis on continued observation of  ‘Covid appropriate’ behaviour with the due exercise of caution and surveillance needs to be sustained.” “The effective management of Covid-19 spread despite the festive season and onset of winter season combined with sustained improvement in high frequency indicators along with the easing of lockdown restrictions distinguish Indian economy as one riding against the Covid wave,” the report said. The World Bank said it expects the global economy to expand 4 per cent in 2021, assuming an initial Covid-19 vaccine rollout becomes widespread throughout the year. A recovery, however, will likely be subdued, unless policy makers move decisively to tame the pandemic and implement investment-enhancing reforms. India’s growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021 as the rebound from a low base is offset by muted private investment growth given financial sector weaknesses. In the financial sector, non-performing loans were already high before the pandemic, the World Bank, in its January 2021 Global Economic Prospects, said. The pandemic hit the economy at a time growth was already decelerating. Output is estimated to contract 9.6 per cent in fiscal year 2020-21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment. The informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has also been subject to severe income losses during the pandemic. Recent high frequency data indicate that the services and manufacturing recovery is gaining momentum, it added. The Indian economy reported its sharpest economic contraction of 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter before improving marginally to report a contraction of 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed optimism that the economy may record positive growth in the October-December quarter. Full-year GDP growth is estimated at -7.5 per cent by the RBI. Sharing improvement in some of the high-frequency data, the report said the sustained spurt in commercial and industrial activity was further corroborated by continued growth in PMI (purchasing manager’s index) manufacturing, power demand, persistent improvement in e-way bills generated and highway toll collection rising above pre-Covid levels Monthly GST collections attained their record levels in December. The gross GST revenue collected in December 2020 was Rs 115,174 crore, the highest since the introduction of goods and services tax from July 1, 2017. The liquidity situation remains comfortable as the accumulation of dollars along with the growth of currency in circulation are enhancing liquidity in the banking system despite the average daily net absorptions by the RBI rose in December compared to the preceding month, the report said. The credit growth improved sharply as reflected in strong non-food credit rise and overall credit growth, thanks to the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), which continues to support robust credit disbursements to MSMEs, with Rs 2.05 lakh crore sanctioned to 80.93 lakh borrowers under ECLGS 1.0. Extension of ECLGS to 26 stressed sectors is a further boost to MSME credit growth. Credit growth is further corroborated by a sharp rise in the incremental credit deposit ratio of banks, as per the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||World Bank loan to Bengal ||The World Bank will offer $105 million (Rs 770 crore) as a soft loan to improve inland water transport infrastructure in and around Calcutta as part of a $150 million (Rs 1,100 crore) project that will address both passenger traffic as well as freight movement. A tripartite agreement was signed on Tuesday among the international agency, the Union government and the Bengal government to facilitate the loan which will have a tenure of 17 years, with a grace period of seven years. The five-year project, where the recipient of the loan will also arrange $45 million (Rs 330 crore), will be carried out in two phases and cover the five most populous districts of south Bengal, including the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA), home to three crore people or a third of Bengal’s population. “This operation will allow the state to invest in Calcutta’s economic productivity by making its waterways and ferry services part of an efficient and safe urban mobility strategy,” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India. “Given Calcutta’s strategic location, the project is also ensuring that the metropolitan area emerges as a transport and logistics hub for the sub-region, leveraging the EDFC (eastern dedicated freight corridor) and connecting to the Northeast and the land-locked countries of Nepal and Bhutan,” he added. The inland water transport project will add to the two ongoing ones supported by the World Bank in Bengal, having a combined portfolio of $460 million (Rs 3,375 crore). The other two programmes involve strengthening gram panchayats and irrigation and flood management. In the first phase, the project will enhance the capacity and improve the safety of the inland water transport system, including rehabilitating existing jetties, buying new ferries and installing electronic gates in 40 locations. In the second phase, it will support long-term investments for passenger movements, including in terminals and jetties; improve the design of the inland water transport vessels; ensure night navigation on the most hazardous and trafficked routes and crossing points; and encourage the private sector to invest in Ro-Ro vessels that will allow easier movement of trucks across the Hooghly river. Climate-smart engineering solutions will be applied, including modular floating designs for ferry access points at the passenger terminals. In addition, the project will facilitate disable-friendly amenities, ensure women’s safety and encourage women’s employment in the IWT department and with the ferry operators. There is an existing ferry system connecting Calcutta, north and south 24 Parganas situated on the east bank of Hooghly to various parts of Howrah and Hooghly which are on the west bank of the river. Operational for decades, this rudimentary service caters to less than 2 per cent of the traffic movement and a small portion of the freight movement. Developing the river transport infrastructure will enable a large population of the state to utilise its waterways, have alternative, multi-modal options for transportation for both freight and passengers, connect the hinterland with Calcutta Metropolitan Area’s markets and job centres and emerge as a logistics hub. Moreover, the river separates Calcutta Port (east bank) with large consumption centres, including neighbouring countries such as Nepal and Bhutan. More than 80 per cent of freight and passenger traffic now cross the river via Calcutta’s three bridges. To curtail congestion, the city has restricted the movement of trucks to the port to certain bridges and only during limited hours, reducing access to the port and increasing the cost of logistics. A roll on-roll off (Ro-Ro) service for trucks from the port to the other side of the river can bypass movement within the city as well as the bridges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea dials investors for $2 billion||Vodafone Idea (Vi) is close to raising at least $2 billion from a clutch of investors to be deployed to expand its 4G operations and clear part of the dues of  the government. The telco had announced in September it planned to raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital. The loss-making carrier had been ordered by the Supreme Court to pay roughly Rs 58,000 crore in adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to the government over a 10-year period of which it has so far paid over Rs 7,900 crore. Vodafone had said it would raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through debentures and an equal amount in shares and warrants, but together they will not exceed Rs 25,000 crore. It is now learnt the telco could announce the much awaited transaction over the next few days from a consortium that includes Oak Hill Advisors, PIMCO and Golden Tree Asset Management. The buzz is that Vi may raise up to $3 billion in a mix of equity and debt at a time subscribers have been migrating to rival networks. In October 2020, it lost 2.7 million users and  its subscriber base stands at around 293 million. Shares of Vodafone Idea on Tuesday ended marginally lower at Rs 11.91. Over the past one month, the counter has gained almost 24 per cent. The company was in the news last month when it announced a tariff hike on two of its postpaid plans. It had posted a consolidated loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2020 against Rs 50,879.9 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Brokerages feel the operators will report sequentially better numbers for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. Analysts at Axis Securities estimated revenues for Vodafone Idea are likely to decline by 0.5 per cent sequentially during the period, as subscriber losses continued. However, it added that the company’s average revenue per user (ARPU) will improve 0.4 per cent over the preceding quarter to Rs 120 helped by more recharges, exit of low ARPU subscribers and conversion of more users to 4G. Exim raises $1bn Exim Bank has raised $1 billion through an overseas bond sale offering just 2.25 per cent for the 10-year money, setting a new low in pricing. The issue was oversubscribed over 3.5 times, managing director David Rasquinha said. In Asia when the issue was launched the bonds were oversold within two hours. “The coupon of 2.25 per cent is a record low for any 10-year bond issuance out of the country till date,’’ he disclosed. Exim Bank, with a substantially dollarised balance sheet, is one of the largest domestic issuers of long-term debt in the global markets . The funds thus raised will be used to support project exports and overseas investment by way of long-term credit of Indian companies and its export lines of credit portfolio, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Centre sets 32,000km gas grid goal ||The government plans to cut energy imports and reduce carbon emissions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while inaugurating a 450km natural gas pipeline between Kochi in Kerala to Mangalore in Karnataka, which has been built at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore. Modi said the country’s natural gas pipeline network will be doubled to about 32,000km in 5-6 years.  “The first interstate natural gas pipeline of the country was commissioned in 1987 and by 2014, India had 15,000 kilometres of natural gas pipeline built. Today there are over 16,000 kilometres of new gas pipelines being worked upon. This work is going to be complete in the next 5 to 6 years,” he said. The Kochi-Mangalore pipeline built by GAIL (India) will enable industries, households and automobiles to migrate to the cleaner fuel. It will help set up 700 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations and 2.1 million people avail piped natural gas (PNG). Under the one nation-one gas grid plan, nearly 1,500km of pipeline has been laid last year. The target is to invest $60 billion in four years in pipelines, liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals and city gas distribution networks. India’s push for a gas-based economy assumes significance as the country is the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after the US and China and is among the most vulnerable to climate change. India plans to reduce its carbon footprint by 33-35 per cent from its 2005 levels by 2030 as part of its commitments to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted by 195 countries in Paris in 2015. Gas comprises about 6.2 per cent of India’s primary energy mix, far behind the global average of 24 per cent. The government plans to increase this share to 15 per cent by 2030. The demand is expected to be driven by fertiliser, power, city gas distribution, and steel sectors. The Centre also plans to boost domestic gas production by 40 million standard cubic meters a day (mscmd) from 80 mscmd at present. Modi said work had also begun on the world's biggest hybrid renewable plant combining wind and solar power in Gujarat. Emphasis will be laid on manufacturing biofuels as well as electric mobility. In 10 years' time, petrol will be mixed with as much as 20 per cent of ethanol extracted from sugarcane and other agro products, he said. The number of CNG stations in the country will be raised to 10,000 from 1,500 at present. India is the fourth-largest importer of LNG. Some of the strategies adopted to meet the objective of energy security and energy transition include a faster clean energy trajectory by leveraging natural gas and green hydrogen. The country is projected to see over $300 billion investment by 2030 in the oil and gas sector to meet rising demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
