07-01-2021||Business||Sensex slips 81 points to end at at 48,093.32||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped 81 points on Thursday, weighed by selling in IT, banks and consumption stocks despite a firm trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 80.74 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 48,093.32. The broader NSE Nifty fell 8.90 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,137.35. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Nestle India, HUL, HCL Tech, Infosys, ITC and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and L&T were among the gainers. "After the US Democrats won the Georgia Senate, global cues were positive in morning trade. Afternoon trade, however, saw profit-taking in FMCG stocks despite which we saw a close above 48K led by financials and metals," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.02 per cent lower at USD 54.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 270.69 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 48,444.75, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 80.95 points or 0.57 per cent to 14,227.20. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, IndusInd Bank, L&T, Axis Bank, ONGC and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Titan, TCS, HUL and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 263.72 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 48,174.06, and Nifty fell 53.25 points or 0.38 per cent to 14,146.25. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 483.64 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be firm at the moment. Notably, FPIs turned net sellers after a considerable gap, which suggests profit-booking or sector rotation given sharp returns generated by select sectors like IT, pharma and metals. US equities witnessed sharp recovery mainly on increased prospects of higher fiscal stimulus and capital expenditures towards infrastructure developments as Democrats' control in both houses of Congress will help Biden to push his agendas, said Modi. "Notably, yesterday's rebound clearly overlooked the concerns of reversal of lower tax rates and disruption created by Trump's supporters in the US Capitol where a joint session of Congress was convened to certify Biden's victory over Trump," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.79 per cent higher at USD 54.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||SBI asked to maintain status quo on Anil firm accounts||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked SBI to maintain status quo with regard to the accounts of Anil Ambani’s firms — R-Com, Reliance Telecom and Reliance Infratel — which have been declared by the bank as fraud accounts. Justice Prateek Jalan passed the order on a plea by erstwhile directors of the three companies, challenging a 2016 circular of the RBI regarding declaration of accounts as fraud by banks. According to the plea, the circular allows banks to declare an account as fraud without giving any prior notice or communication to the account holder against the principles of natural justice. Their lawyers told the court that several similar petitions against the circular have been filed since 2019 and the petitioners in those matters have been protected by the high court. In view of the orders passed earlier by the high court in similar matters, Justice Jalan directed State Bank of India to “maintain status quo till next date of hearing”with regard to the accounts of the three companies. The court said the respondents were at liberty to file their replies to the petition by January 11 and listed the matter for hearing on January 13. The court said the SBI and the RBI were at liberty to take any steps in the nature of an investigation or filing of complaint proceedings against the erstwhile directors and the three companies independent of the  impugned action of declaring the accounts as fraud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||Bengal election shadow on realty||The pick-up in home sales after the lockdown restrictions were eased has tripped in Calcutta as builders and buyers have again slipped into a wait-and-watch mode ahead of the Assembly elections in Bengal later this year. Sales of apartments by the top builders were down 48 per cent during October-December compared with the preceding three months as Calcutta turned out to be the only city other than Chennai which failed to maintain the post-lockdown sales momentum, data captured by Knight Frank showed. While buyers stayed away from the market, builders also put the brakes on launches in the fourth quarter (October-December). Launches were down 30 per cent compared with the July-September period. “Launches by reputed developers create a buzz in the marketplace, often leading to a jump up in sales. However, there have not been too many big banner launches recently. This may explain why sales were down in the last three months,” Swapan Dutta, branch director of Knight Frank, Calcutta, said. Fresh investment often takes a backseat ahead of an important election especially when the outcome is unknown and the launch of large real estate projects are counted among them. Dutta predicted that the second half of 2021 would be a good period for the city. However, Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, the builder lobby in the state, claimed his company Merlin had done better in the fourth quarter than the third. “We have surpassed pre-Covid levels,” Mohta said. He pointed out that developers known to deliver quality projects in stipulated time were gaining customers’ preference over others. The Knight Frank study also reported that micro markets such as south and north Calcutta fared better than Rajarhat, which used to be the mainstay of the city. A large volume of residential units under construction coupled with buyers resistance to buy unfinished units are the prime reasons behind low sales growth in Rajarhat. Office market Gross annual transaction of office space took a beating in 2020 as many corporate houses deferred decisions to take up new leases during the pandemic. The city also witnessed net vacancy inching up to 41.7 per cent, the second highest in the country, compared with the single digits recorded in Bangalore, Pune and Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Services sector drops to 3-month low in December||The country’s services sector activity dropped to a three-month low of 52.3 in December but remained in the expansion zone . However, hiring came to a halt as the resurgence in coronavirus infections weighed on new business and employment, a private survey has showed. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index fell from 53.7 in November to 52.3 in December. The index was above the critical-50 mark that separates growth from contraction for the third month in a row during December but pointed to the slowest pace of expansion in the three months till December. “The news that the services sector remained in expansion mode during December is welcome but the fact that growth lost momentum yet again should not be disregarded,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Companies indicated that growth was supported by new work, though curbed by competitive pressures and the Covid-19 pandemic, the survey noted. Global Covid-19 restrictions, particularly travel bans, restricted international demand for Indian services at the end of 2020. “A spike in Covid-19 cases was reported as a key factor restricting growth of new work among service providers, which in turn curbed the rise in output and led to increased business uncertainty about the outlook,” Lima noted. On the employment front, staff hiring came to a halt because of liquidity concerns, labour shortages and subdued demand, while business optimism faded. “Given the damaging impact of the pandemic on the service economy, some companies are facing financial difficulties, which is preventing staff hiring. December saw the ninth round of job shedding in 10 months,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Maruti widens subscription scheme offerings||Maruti Suzuki is offering its vehicles — the S-Cross, Ignis and Wagon-R — for subscription, wherein a customer can enjoy and drive a brand new vehicle for a fixed tenure on the payment of a monthly subscription charge. The largest car maker had launched its subscription model — Maruti Suzuki Subscribe — in major cities such as Delhi-NCR, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad last year in July. On Wednesday, the company added the additional models under the existing Maruti Suzuki Subscribe offering. The company has logged 5,000 enquiries for its subscription scheme till now. “Subscription has become more affordable with the inclusion of the Wagon-R in the Maruti Suzuki Arena and the Ignis in the Nexa sales channels,” said a Maruti Suzuki spokesperson. “Customers will pay an all-inclusive monthly subscription charge, starting Rs 12,722 for WagonR Lxi and Rs 13,772 for Ignis Sigma in Delhi (including taxes) for a tenure of 48 months,” he added. Other models offered under the plan include the Swift, Dzire, Vitara Brezza and Ertiga, Baleno, Ciaz and XL6. “The unique initiative allows a customer to use a brand new car without owning it. The customer needs to pay an all-inclusive monthly fee that covers maintenance, 24x7 roadside assistance and insurance for the complete tenure,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Just 19, Titagarh scion joins board as a non executive director||Prithish Chowdhary, the 19-year-old son of Titagarh Wagons vice-chairman and managing director Umesh Chowdhary, has been inducted on to the company’s board as a non executive director. The youngest member on the company’s board follows in the footsteps of his father who had become a director at a very young age, company officials told The Telegraph. The diversified engineering and fabrication firm said Chowdhary’s induction was made with the hope that he would assume a bigger role within the group in the coming years. In the past couple of years, Chowdhary — a qualified international baccalaureate from Le Rosey Institut, Geneva (Switzerland) — has gained insight into the areas that Titagarh is present in. The company said on Wednesday he is looking to incorporate new ideas in the future. His appointment is effective from January 1, 2021. “Prithish has been a quick learner, an extremely keen observer and his joining the board will provide a young and welcome modern perspective. It will also prepare Prithish to take up larger responsibilities in the group in the coming years,” said Manoj Mohanka, chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee. Former Sail chairman Sushil Kumar Roongta has been appointed as an additional director (independent) on the board. Roongta (70), an electrical engineer from BITS, Pilani and PG Diploma in Business Management (International Trade), is chairman of Balco and also serves as director on the boards of several reputed companies. Roongta has also served as the chairman, board of governors, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bhubaneswar, and as chairman of the panel of experts on reforms in the central PSEs constituted by the erstwhile Planning Commission. “I am very happy that Roongta is joining our board and am sure that TWL will immensely benefit from his rich experience and expertise in the coming years,” said J.P. Chowdhary, executive chairman of TWL. Global changes Enrico Grigliatti has been appointed as the as MD & CEO of Titagarh Firema SpA (TFA), Italy with effect from December 29, 2020, in place of Luigi Corradi who has moved onto another challenging role as CEO of a government owned enterprise in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Nirav Modi’s sister turns approver in PNB case||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi’s sister and brother-in-law have been allowed to turn approver or a prosecution witness by a special court in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The special judge for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), V. C. Barde, accepted the pleas of Purvi Modi and Mayank Mehta to turn an approver on Monday. The “position of the accused (Purvi Modi) in this case after tender of pardon is that she shall be marked as approver”, the court said. Purvi, a Belgian national, is an accused in the case registered by the Enforcement Directorate. “The accused staying abroad at present shall be directed to present herself before the court, for which purpose the prosecution shall take necessary steps,” the court order said. A PTI report said that in her application for pardon, Purvi Modi said she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency. She has so far fully co-operated with the ED by providing all the requisite information and documents, she added. On account of being Nirav Modi’s sister, she was in a unique position to provide “substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings”, the plea said. Nirav Modi has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since March 2019 following India’s extradition request.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Coal India sets sights on big auction||Coal India has set its sights to auction 120 million tonnes (mt) of coal by March 2021, the most in a year with the previous high being 114mt recorded in 2016-17. Coal India officials on Wednesday said the miner has auctioned 81.4mt under five windows till December 2020, higher by 35.2mt compared with 46.2mt sold in the same period a year ago. Beginning October 2020, Coal India  introduced a special spot auction for importers, under which it had already booked 7.3mt in three months. Premium price Apart from increased volume bookings, the sales have fetched a premium of 15 per cent in prices during April-December 2020. Among the subsidiaries, Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) clocked a 40 per cent increase over the notified prices with Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) registering 23 per cent and 22 per cent rise, respectively. “Auction sales have surpassed our previous estimates and we feel sure of allocating 120mt of coal by the end of the current financial year,” a senior official of the company said. “We have identified specific mines in ECL, BCCL, CCL and SECL from where the response has been positive in the e-auction and there is potential for further increase,” the official added. The demand through e-auction is primarily from the non-power sector consumers, who under the exclusive auction window booked 19.8mt during the first nine months of the ongoing fiscal. This is more than a three-fold increase against 6.8 million tonnes bought by the sector on a year-on-year basis. However, demand is gradually picking up from the power sector as well. In December, there was a significant increase in bookings under the special forward auction at 5.1mt compared with 0.5mt in the same month year ago, fetching a premium of 12 per cent. Meanwhile, the coal ministry has said the government is taking several initiatives to augment the evacuation infrastructure, including laying new railway lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Airtel seeks review of AGR arrears||Telecom major Airtel on Wednesday filed an application seeking the recalculation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues as it has already shelled out Rs 18,000 crore towards the arrears and now wants a fresh appraisal of the dues. In its application, which is yet to be formally listed for hearing, Airtel has pleaded that while passing the judgment in October last year and the subsequent direction in September this year, the apex court bench led by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired) had failed to consider several crucial contentions raised by the telecom companies. “Payments made weren’t factored in by the DoT while raising demands for the circle/year. Duplication in revenue by adding it twice from different audit reports led to a rise in AGR dues,” the application had said. Airtel has claimed errors of omission/commission and incorrect interest rate to raise demands for spectrum usage charge (SUC) led to a rise in AGR dues. According to Bharti Airtel, it had already paid Rs 18,000 crore out of its Rs 44,000-crore AGR dues calculated by the DoT but wanted a recalculations in view of certain wrong assessments made by the DoT. In October 2019, the apex court had rejected a batch of petitions filed by various telecom companies and insisted that they must together pay Rs 1.47 lakh crore in arrears to the government as AGR dues. However, subsequently in September last year the apex court, following a batch of fresh applications, allowed the telecom operators to pay the annual gross revenue (AGR) dues over a 10-year period. It had directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide within two months whether the telcos can resort to insolvency proceedings to avoid payment of AGR dues and whether financial creditors can lay a claim over the spectrum dues to government. The modified order was passed in September last year as the telcos had sought a recall of the October 2019 order on the ground that payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR dues in one go would lead to their bankruptcy and had instead sought a 20-30-year staggered payment schedule. The Centre and the DoT, while citing possible massive disruption in telecom services, had urged the apex court to grant a 20-year period for the payment of dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Spectrum sale faces price test||The sixth round of spectrum auctions will start from March 1 with the government performing a balancing act on the reserve prices across various spectrum bands, drastically slashing the price for the bands that were a washout in the previous auction in October 2016 while raising it for those that fetched bids. Telecom operators may not bid aggressively as the reserve prices for the metro circles in several bands such as 1800, 2100 and 2300 MHz have been increased from the last auction held four year ago. However, the reserve price of 700 MHz, which did not get any bids in 2016, has been reduced to attract operators. Analysts said Reliance Jio may bid for spectrum in the 700MHz band, which is most suited for 5G. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, has said Jio plans to roll out 5G in the second half of 2021. The 3300-3600 MHz bands most suited to 5G has been kept out of the auction. However, analysts fear the auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold due to high minimum prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through the auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 lakh crore worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands were completely unsold in 2016. Pricing of spectrum has been an issue, with top executives at Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea repeatedly demanding that the government lower prices. Market analysts have indicated the upcoming auction will get bids in the range of Rs 30,000 crore-Rs 50,000 crore. The Union cabinet on Wednesday had approved the proposal to auction 2,251.25 megahertz (MHz) of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore in seven frequency bands — 1700 Mhz, 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 2100 Mhz, 2300 Mhz and 2500 Mhz - at the base price recommended by the telecom regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
