08-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 689 points to end at fresh high||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 689 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Friday, led by Infosys, TCS and Reliance amid strong buying sentiment in global equities. The 30-share BSE index closed 689.19 points or 1.43 per cent higher at 48,782.51. It touched an intra-day record of 48,854.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 209.90 points or 1.48 per cent to close at its record high of 14,347.25. During the day, the index scaled a life-time peak of 14,367.30. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 6 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, UltraTech Cement, PowerGrid and NTPC. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, SBI, ITC and HDFC were the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, growing expectations of stronger fiscal stimulus in the US after Congress confirmed President-elect Joe Biden's victory have fuelled equities rally globally. "Markets completely downplayed earlier concerns of reversal of lower tax rates in the scenario of Democrats taking control of both the houses of Congress," he added. A sustained rebound in key economic data for December 2020 and likely commencement of vaccination drive shortly in India augur well for domestic equities, he said, adding that the underlying strength of domestic equities is intact, which essentially can propel benchmark indices to witness fresh highs in coming weeks. "FPIs are unlikely to turn net sellers barring select weeks of days considering the status of the global economy, stance of global central bankers and a weak dollar," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent higher at USD 54.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Friday, helped by gains mainly in index majors Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 328.75 points or 0.68 per cent higher at 48,422.07. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 101.15 points or 0.72 per cent to 14,238.50 in opening deals. On the Sensex chart, Sun Pharma was the top gainer, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, PowerGrid, TCS, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Dr Reddys and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, HDFC, Titan, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had ended 80.74 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 48,093.32, and the Nifty had slipped 8.90 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,137.35. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 382.30 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look steady and firm at the moment. A sign of fatigue is visible in the benchmark indices for the last couple of trading days despite key economic data indicated a continued rebound in December 2020, he added. Similarly, a sharp dip in FPIs net flows in recent days indicate a kind of profit booking and sector rotation given a sharp return generated by select sectors, Modi said. Domestic markets are, however, following the global investor euphoria around American politics. US markets recorded fresh highs as investors continue to focus of stronger fiscal stimulus after Congress confirmed president elect Joe Biden's victory. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.26 per cent higher at USD 54.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||TCG to acquire Garden Silk Mills ||Garden Silk Mills Ltd, the maker of the once-famous Garden Vareli printed silk sarees, is being acquired by Bengali entrepreneur Purnendu Chatterjee for Rs 747 crore through an insolvency resolution process. A bench of the National Company Law Tribunal approved the resolution plan submitted by MCPI Pvt Ltd, a company under The Chatterjee Group (TCG), paving the way for the acquisition of the Surat-based textile maker promoted by Praful Shah and his family. Garden Silk Mills is a publicly listed company whose shares are traded on the stock exchanges. Following the completion of the transaction, it will be delisted from the bourses, merged with MCPI and also become a private company, court records showed. The process to complete the transaction will take about 90 days. The company’s products encompass the entire value chain in textiles, specialising in the manufacture of polyester filament-based yarns, textile-grade polyester polymer and fashion fabrics for women’s wear in polyester and pure cotton. The company is one of the largest sellers of branded sarees and dress materials in India. It posted a turnover of Rs 2,877.09 crore in 2019-20 and a loss before tax of Rs 207.6 crore. The company has two plants, both located in Surat, Gujarat. It is also a large exporter of polyester chips. Garden went into bankruptcy court under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code after it failed to pay creditors. The corporate resolution insolvency process was initiated by Invent Asset Securitisation & Reconstruction Pvt Ltd, who took over the debts from a clutch of banks and financial institutions in February 2020. The financial creditors will receive Rs 717 crore compared with their admitted claim of Rs 2,090 crore. The court approval marks the third publicly known big ticket acquisition made by TCG in the recent past. In the midst of a raging global pandemic, it acquired Lummus Technology, a US-based top notch material technology firm, in partnership with Rhone Capital  for $2.725 billion in July 2020. In 2016, Chatterjee founded TCG had acquired the chronically loss making Mitsubishi Chemical’s PTA plant at Haldia for around Rs 300 crore and within a short span of time, turned around the fortunes of the company. The business he acquired from the Japanese was later renamed as MCPI Pvt Ltd, that produces purified terephthalic acid (PTA), one of the main raw materials for the makers of polyester products such as Garden Silk Mills. MCPI was one of the suppliers of Garden Silk Mills too. “This is a very good acquisition. The company had some issues which can be sorted out. After all, Purnendu is a man with the Midas touch,” a source aware of the development said on Thursday. Before MCPI, Chatterjee in 2015 brought back Bengal’s showcase industrial project Haldia Petrochemicals from the brink of bankruptcy, took majority control of the company by buying out the Bengal government’s stake, and made it so profitable that it powered the big ticket acquisition of Lummus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||SAP to invest Rs 500cr in India operations||SAP SE, the market leader in enterprise application software, on Thursday announced it will invest Rs 500 crore in India to localise and offer customers a multi-cloud choice. SAP India began its operations in 1996 with headquarters in Bangalore and offices in Mumbai, New Delhi, Calcutta and a presence in nine other cities in the country. Underscoring its commitment to India, SAP said in a statement it will make available its multiple cloud solutions to the data centres in the country. SAP India is a leading cloud company that is working toward addressing local customer demands, the statement said. “SAP’s commitment to support India’s growth vision remains a top priority and we are determined to achieve this with deeper collaboration with our customers, ecosystem and the government,’’ said Scott Russell, president, SAP Asia Pacific Japan. Kulmeet Bawa, SAP Indian subcontinent president and managing director, said at present, customers are seeking scalability, faster deployment, data compliancy and cost-effective solutions to enable innovation and achieve prompt business outcomes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||SBI raises $600m selling dollar-denominated bonds at 1.8% rate||State Bank of India (SBI) on Thursday raised $600 million from selling dollar-denominated bonds to international investors at a coupon rate of 1.80 per cent. The issue, subscribed 2.1 times, is part of the lender’s $10-billion medium-term note programme (MTN). On Wednesday, rating agency Moody’s Investors Services had withdrawn the short-term foreign currency programme under MTN, citing business reasons. In a statement, the bank said that its 5.5-year bond denominated in dollars was priced at 140 basis points over the US treasury. It added that this is the lowest pricing for any “Reg S/144a” issue from the country with such a maturity. Regulation S bonds are sold by foreign issuers in the US and other overseas markets but cannot be subscribed by resident American investors. The bonds issued through SBI’s London branch will be listed on Singapore Exchange and India INX, the country’s international exchange located at the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in Gujarat. India INX is a subsidiary of the BSE. SBI disclosed that strong demand helped it tighten the pricing by 35 basis points from the initial guidance of 175-140 basis over the US treasury, arriving at a coupon of 1.80 per cent per annum, which is the lowest coupon achieved by a domestic issuer for a 5.5-year issuance to date. This is the first public US dollar bond sale by a domestic bank since the onset of the pandemic last year. The lender said the transaction was well received and saw strong interest from investors across geographies with a final order book of more than $1.9 billion. Earlier this week, Exim Bank had raised $1 billion at a coupon of 2.25 per cent. SBI shares closed with gains of 1 per cent at Rs 287.75 on the BSE on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||BMW to open bookings for Gran Limo from January 11||BMW India will open bookings for the new BMW 3 Series Gran Limousine from January 11 online on payment of Rs 50,000. The vehicle will be officially launched in India on January 21. With a longer wheelbase and enhanced space, the new BMW 3 Series Gran Limousine will be the longest sedan in its segment. BMW-owned Mini India has introduced a special edition of the Mini three-door hatch, the Mini Paddy Hopkirk Edition in India. Offered as a completely built-up unit (CBU), only 15 units are available and can be booked exclusively online. The limited edition car is a tribute to Northern Irish rally driver Patrick Paddy Hopkirk who drove the iconic No 37 Mini Cooper S to win the Monte Carlo rally. It is priced at Rs 41,70,000. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The car is a reflection of Mini’s racing genes.” 2021 Jeep Compass Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) India on Thursday unveiled the 2021 Jeep Compass. The new Jeep Compass will continue to be locally manufactured in India at FCA’s joint venture manufacturing facility at Ranjangaon, near Pune. Production of the new Jeep Compass has begun. MG Motor MG Motor India has launched the Hector 2021 range starting at Rs 12.89 lakh. MG Motor India president and MD Rajeev Chaba said, “For the Hector 2021, we have made changes taking into consideration the feedback of customers and automotive experts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Centre mulls excise duty cut to ease oil ache||The oil ministry on Thursday indicated that the government could consider a cut in duties to provide some relief to motorists if global crude prices continue to spike. Petrol prices in Delhi scaled an all time high of Rs 84.20 per litre on Thursday while diesel in Mumbai touched a record high of Rs 81.07. Data showed that a motorist in Calcutta would have to pay Rs 85.68 for a litre of petrol and Rs 77.97 for a litre of diesel. The price of petrol rose 24 paise per litre and diesel by 27 paise a litre in Calcutta in a day, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. Oil ministry sources said they have suggested that an excise duty cut can be considered. However, the finance ministry would have to take a call given its fiscal and inflationary impact. Petrol had last touched Rs 84 in Delhi on October 4, 2018. On that day, diesel too had scaled an all-time high of Rs 75.45 a litre. The government had then responded by cutting excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre in a bid to ease inflationary pressure and boost consumer confidence. Alongside, state-owned fuel retailers had cut prices by another Re 1 a litre, which they recouped later. As excise duty is one of the two major components of the prices of fuel, a cut in the duty will provide relief to people who are facing the heat of economic slowdown and income disruption because of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform. After the festive season, retail fuel prices saw an upward trend at the end of November 2020 and starting December 6, 2020, there was a month-long pause on prices. Even though retail rates are connected to international product prices and are calculated on a 15-day lag, starting January 6 the retail prices began to increase across India. The Centre had raised excise duty on petrol by Rs 13 per litre and diesel by Rs 16 per litre in two tranches in March and May of 2020, when the global crude prices plunged because of the Covid-19 lockdown, impacting demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||India’s digital services tax faces discrimination charge against US companies ||India’s 2 per cent digital services tax (DST) on e-commerce supply discriminates against US companies and is inconsistent with international tax principles, a US Trade Representative (USTR) investigation has said. The finding paves the way for potential retaliatory tariffs but the USTR did not immediately specify actions to counter these taxes. In its report on India’s digital services tax, the USTR said its investigation showed the levy discriminates against American companies, unreasonably contravenes international tax principles and burdens or restricts US commerce. The report says its investigation also indicates that India’s DST discriminates against US digital services companies. However, India has defended the DST or Google Tax as it seeks to ensure a level playing field between local and foreign e-commerce companies. The tax does not discriminate against any US company and has no retrospective element as the levy was enacted before April 1, 2020 which is the effective date of the levy. It does not have extra territorial application as it applies only on the revenue generated from India. Commerce ministry sources said the purpose of the ‘Equalisation Levy’ is to ensure greater competitiveness, fairness, reasonableness and exercise the ability of the governments to tax businesses that have a close nexus with the Indian market through their digital operations. It is a recognition of the fact that in a digital world, a seller can engage in business transactions without any physical presence and governments have a legitimate right to tax such transactions. The USTR report says there are three aspects of India’s digital service tax that are inconsistent with international tax practices. The text of the tax is “unclear and ambiguous” and there is no official guidance to resolve these ambiguities. It provides no tax certainty to investing companies The DST taxes companies with no permanent establishment in India, contravening international tax principle that companies should not be subject to a country’s corporate tax regime if they have no territorial connection to it. The DST taxes companies’ revenues rather than income (profits), again flouting international tax practices. The tax covers players such as Google, Uber, Udemy, Zoom, Expedia, Spotify, and eBay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Indian economy double trouble forecast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on course to achieving the unenviable feat of shrinking the economy this year in both real and nominal terms. None of his predecessors had achieved that distinction in over 70 years. The National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday came out with its first advance estimates of the national income for 2020-21, projecting that the real GDP would contract by 7.7 per cent this fiscal — a lot worse than the Reserve Bank of India’s early December forecast of a 7.5 per cent contraction. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent last year. What is particularly worrying is that the nominal GDP — which is calculated at current prices — will contract by 4.2 per cent. The nominal GDP in 2019-20 came in at Rs 203.40 lakh crore, according to the provisional estimate put out in May last year. In the current fiscal, the overall size of the economy is projected to shrink to Rs 194.82 lakh crore. This number is important and will feed into the calculations for the revised estimates for 2020-21, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the budget on February 1. In the budget last year, the nominal GDP — which anchors budget calculations — had been estimated to grow about 10 per cent in 2020-21 to Rs 224.89 lakh crore. “This estimate, however, has a shelf life of only two months and is only used as an input for budget arithmetic,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, at the State Bank of India. “The NSO will release the first revised estimate of FY18, FY19 and FY20 on January 31 and we believe that GDP and gross value added (GVA, which strips out the impact of taxes and subsidies) for FY21 would be revised further downwards in estimates for FY21 in February and May. This could impart an upward bias to the FY21 real GDP estimate of 7.7 per cent.” D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “A sharp contraction in nominal GDP growth has significantly adverse implications for central and state tax revenues, which may both contract. Do not expect the final numbers to be significantly different as the inflation is not that high to significantly impact it.” However, N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University, presented a radically different view. “The first half of the year was impacted by the Covid-19-led lockdown and its impact on economic activity. Moreover, these estimates are based on the wholesale price index number. The provisional GDP numbers for the fiscal, when released in May, will be based on the consumer price index (CPI) numbers,” he said. “Given the huge difference between the two inflation indices and the spike in economic activity seen from high frequency indicators, the expectations are that nominal GDP for the current fiscal would be zero or in the positive zone.” The lower nominal GDP figure will mean that the fiscal deficit in 2020-21 -- which was projected at 3.5 per cent in last year’s budget -- will shoot to well over 7 per cent, according to some estimates. The widening fiscal deficit will need to be covered through larger gross borrowings. The government has already revised its borrowing forecast to Rs 12 crore against the projection of Rs 7.8 lakh crore in last year’s budget. This may rise as tax collections have stumbled in a pandemic-battered year. “We assess that the government may revise upwards its borrowing target so as to exceed 7 per cent of 2020-21 nominal GDP and signal a move towards restoring fiscal consolidation in a limited way in the budget estimates for 2021-22,” Srivastava said. The Centre will seek refuge in the fact that the global recession induced by Covid-19 is to blame for the present situation. But it cannot escape criticism that its poorly cash-funded stimulus package failed to reignite the economy at a time other nations were pouring big bucks to jump-start growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Brokerages bet big on tech show||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will kick-start the third-quarter earnings season on Friday amid robust estimates forecast by brokerages on the sector’s revenue and profit growth. Analysts also expect these companies to give a positive commentary on the road ahead, citing the continuation of strong deal wins and clients adopting cloud and other digital services. The quarter is likely to see not only improved performance in various geographies but also growth across verticals with even beaten-down sectors showing a pick-up. While IT stocks have rallied, it is felt that there is still some steam left with companies forecasting even better growth for the next fiscal. Despite being a seasonally weak period, it is estimated that the five frontline firms — TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra — will see a cumulative revenue growth of 2.46 per cent on a trailing quarter basis, while the cumulative net profit is expected to rise around 6 per cent sequentially. Analysts at Edelweiss said in a report that the October-December 2020 period will be the best third quarter in a decade for the sector because of the large order books, marked revenue acceleration and margin expansion. “Our multiple analyses suggest a structural demand uptick driving industry-wide acceleration in revenue growth from 9-10 per cent pre-pandemic to 12-13 per cent in 2021-22 and 14-16 per cent thereafter through 2026-27,” it  added. The brokerage estimated that for the third quarter, Infosys and TCS will lead the pack with 5-6 per cent sequential growth, followed by HCL Tech and Wipro (3-4 per cent), and Tech Mahindra (1.8 per cent) in dollar terms. It also expects Infosys to again revise the revenue guidance. The Bangalore-based company had forecast that its revenues will grow 2-3 per cent this fiscal compared with its earlier estimate of 0-2 per cent growth. While Infosys is expected to post a net profit of Rs 5,178 crore, the bottomline of its larger peer TCS is expected to be at around Rs 8,784 crore. However, the quarter could be marked by a sequential drop in margins because of wage hikes. A Motilal Oswal report forecast that operating margins of TCS could slip by 60 basis points over the preceding three months to 25.6 per cent. Infosys, however, is likely to see its margins rising by 40 basis points to 25.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Economy forecast to shrink 7.7%||The economy is officially expected to contract 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal — the worst performance since Independence — paving the way for a range of measures to boost growth in the forthcoming budget. The estimate released on Thursday by the Central Statistics Office shows contraction to be more than the RBI’s projection of 7.5 per cent but much less than the World Bank’s forecast of 9.6 per cent contraction for the fiscal and the IMF’s forecast of 10.3 per cent contraction. The IMF will review its forecast on January 26. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 but entered a recessionary phase with two successive quarters of sharp contraction — 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter — triggered by the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown from March. The statistics ministry said GVA or “gross value added”, which strips out indirect taxes and subsidies, is expected to contract 7.2 per cent. “Real GVA at basic prices is estimated at Rs 123.39 lakh crore in 2020-21 against Rs 133.01 lakh crore in 2019-20, showing a contraction of 7.2 per cent,” the CSO press release said. “The growth in nominal GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at -4.2 per cent,” it added. The release said the numbers must be read with caution as the data has been extrapolated for various sectors over different time periods of seven to eight months, and they could be revised later. The finance ministry said the GDP estimates suggested a continued resurgence in economic activity in the second half of the current fiscal and pointed at a post lockdown sustained V-shaped recovery. Arun Kumar, Malcolm S Adiseshiah Chair Professor at the Institute of Social Sciences, said: “The numbers do not reflect the reality as slowing economic growth was further pulled down by the Covid-19 pandemic. The high frequency numbers do not give the complete picture of the economic scenario and the estimates do not take the effect on the unorganised sector.” “Our expectation is that the Indian economy will contract 7.8 per cent in 2020-21 in real terms, with the recession ending in the current quarter with a mild YoY (year-on-year) growth. We expect the nominal GDP to contract by 4.5 per cent in 2020-21,” Aditi Nayar, the principal economist of Icra, said. Sector wise, manufacturing is expected to see a contraction 9.4 per cent against a growth of 0.03 per cent in the year-ago period, while the agriculture sector is estimated to grow at 3.4 per cent in 2020-21 versus 4 per cent in 2019-20. Mining and quarrying and trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting sectors are expected to see a massive contraction of 12.4 per cent and 21.4 per cent, respectively, versus a growth of 3.1 per cent and 3.6 per cent in the year ago period. Among the other sectors, electricity is likely to grow at 2.7 per cent versus 4.1 per cent in the last fiscal, while financial services and public services are estimated to contract 0.8 per cent and 3.7 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
