09-01-2021||Business||TCS posts best Q3 in 9 years as clients embrace digital transformation||The third-quarter earnings season started with a bang on Friday with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) — which beat Street estimates on strong deal wins as clients across geographies and verticals embraced the digital transformation after Covid. The October-December 2020 period was the best third quarter for TCS in nine years. The country’s largest IT services provider saw net profit for the quarter rise 7.18 per cent to Rs 8,701 crore from Rs 8,118 crore a year ago. At a virtual press conference after the results, Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director, sounded optimistic about the company’s prospects both for the current calendar year and the next fiscal. He said the company was confident about achieving a double digit revenue growth for the next fiscal. “The momentum (seen so far) we believe is strong and sustainable, and it should lead to a strong calendar year 2021 and financial year 2021-22,’’ Gopinathan said. “Growing demand for core transformation services and strong revenue conversion from earlier deals have driven a powerful momentum that helped us overcome seasonal headwinds and post one of our best performances in a December quarter,” Gopinath said. Analysts were expecting TCS to come out with a strong scorecard: they had pencilled in net profits of around Rs 8,500 crore, while revenues were expected at around Rs 41,000 crore. TCS posted revenues of Rs 42,015 crore, a growth of 5.4 per cent over Rs 39,854 crore a year ago. In dollar terms, the revenues came in at $5.7 billion which were above the forecast of $5.6 billion. Revenues in constant currency terms showed a rise of 4.1 per cent on a sequential basis. The total contract value (TCV) or deal wins at a robust $6.8 billion was the highlight of the quarter. There was a positive surprise on the operating margins as well: at 26.6 per cent and a 40 basis points growth over the preceding quarter. The Street was expecting the margins to soften because of the wage hikes that were given during the period. TCS has declared an interim dividend of Rs 6 per share. At the media meet, Gopinathan said the company had reached the target made at the beginning of this fiscal to achieve a positive year-on-year growth in revenues and margins on a constant currency basis in the third quarter. He added the strong growth seen across geographies and verticals was the most encouraging aspect of its performance during the third quarter. For instance in North America, which is the company’s  largest market, the  momentum picked up with a sequential growth of 3.3 per cent. Similarly, a volatile market such as the UK saw a constant currency growth of 4.5 per cent. In terms of verticals, the largest — BFSI (banking, financial services & insurance)  — showed a 2 per cent growth in an otherwise seasonally weak period. Other sectors such as retail, life sciences and healthcare, too, posted stellar growth.The company added over 15,700 people on a net basis to take the overall headcount to 4.69 lakh. The attrition stood at lowest ever rate of 7.6 per cent. Chief of human resources, Milind Lakkad, said only 3.4 per cent of the overall staff has been working from offices, but the company is not looking at returning office real estate. He said it will be taking a call on the number of employees working from offices in the next two months after clarity emerges on the vaccine and the general trajectory of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||RBI to restore normal liquidity management operations||The RBI on Friday said it would restore normal liquidity management operations and would follow the guidelines on these matters announced almost a year ago but which had to be junked on account of the pandemic. As part of this process, the central bank will hold a variable reverse repo auction on January 15 of Rs 2 lakh crore. It said ample liquidity will, however, continue to be available to the system. The move comes with the economy showing signs of revival and financial markets stabilising, though sticky inflation remains a big concern. The central bank in February last year had announced a “revised liquidity framework” and the instruments to be used to manage both transient and durable liquidity and their timing. These instruments were a mix of variable rate — having overnight tenor and up to 13 days — repo and reverse repo auctions; fixed rate reverse repo auctions; long-term variable repo and reverse repo auctions of beyond 14 days and open market operations. The pandemic forced the RBI to drop the guidelines. Because of the disruptions created by the lockdown, the window for fixed rate reverse repo — where banks park excess funds with the RBI — and marginal standing facility — a window where banks can borrow emergency funds from the RBI at a rate higher than the repo rate — operations were available throughout the day. This was done to provide the market participants greater flexibility in their liquidity management. Simultaneously, the Reserve Bank had also truncated trading hours for various market segments from April 7, 2020. With the phased roll-back of the lockdown and easing of restrictions on movement of people, the trading hours were restored in a phased manner from November 9, 2020. “On a review of evolving liquidity and financial conditions, it has been decided to restore normal liquidity management operations in a phased manner,’’ the RBI said on Friday. This will initially see the central bank conducting the Rs 2-lakh-crore variable rate reverse repo auction. Market circles feel the short-term rates would rise now. The excess liquidity in the banking system seen post lockdown may get affected. At present, market players are parking close to Rs 7 lakh crore in the RBI’s reverse repo window. Moreover, short-term rates also fell below the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||SBI announces concession on home loan rates, waives processing fees||State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday announced a concession on home loan  rates and waived processing fees as it sought to cash in on the revival in the real estate sector. The country’s largest lender announced an interest concession of up to 30 basis points on home loans and a 100 per cent waiver on processing fees. The rate relief will be given to a certain category of borrowers — those with high credit scores and borrowing large sums along with the location of construction of the property. Individuals with a high Cibil score can look forward to such a relief. These relaxations will be available till March this year. At present, the bank’s  external benchmark rate (EBR) against which retail loans are priced  stands at 6.65 per cent. SBI offers 7 per cent rate on loans up to Rs 30 lakh; 7.25 per cent for loans above Rs 30 lakh to Rs 75 lakh; and 7.35 per cent for loans above Rs 35 lakh. SBI on Friday said it would now offer an interest rate of 6.80 per cent for loans up to Rs 30 lakh and 6.95 per cent for loans above Rs 30 lakh. However, the rates are not much less than offered by its competitors, particularly for loans up to Rs 30 lakh. HDFC offers 6.90 per cent to women borrowers and 6.95 per cent to other borrowers. In ICICI Bank, interest rates up to Rs 35 lakh for salaried borrowers vary from 6.95 per cent to 7.95 per cent. The Union Bank of India, offers an interest rate of 6.80 per cent to women borrowers and 6.85 per cent to others. For loans above Rs 30 lakh, its interest rates start from 6.90 per cent which are lower than that given by SBI. The move comes at a time the real estate segment is expecting a revival and state governments have taken steps to boost demand. For instance, Maharashtra has cut the stamp duty on property registration. Following this, the registration of residential properties in Mumbai rose more than two-fold in December, according to Knight Frank India. “SBI believes it is important to offer better rates to customers displaying good repayment history as SBI home loan rates are linked to Cibil score. Interest concessions up to 30 basis points is also available in eight metro cities for loans up to Rs 5 crore,” the bank disclosed in a statement. SBI customers can also apply through its YONO app and get additional interest concession of five basis points. Women borrowers will also get a concession of five basis points. “We are pleased to improve our concessions to prospective home loan customers upto March’21. With SBI’s lowest interest on home loans, we believe this move will facilitate and encourage home buyers to take the home buying decision with confidence. With the nation all geared up to move ahead post pandemic, SBI would continue to support the home buyers and the real estate sector. Further, our eligible existing home loan borrowers can also avail a paperless pre-approved top-up home loan through the YONO app in just a few clicks. We wish the New Year brings in happiness to our customers with new offerings’’, CS Setty, MD (Retail & Digital Banking), SBI said. RBI’s latest data has shown that personal loans registered a growth of 10 per cent in November 2020. This was higher than the non-food credit growth at 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||Aditya Puri to advise Strides Group||Former HDFC Bank managing director Aditya Puri has joined global pharma major Strides Group as an adviser and will also serve as a director of its associate company Stelis Biopharma. “Eminent corporate doyen Aditya Puri joins the Strides Group as an adviser and also will be a director of its associate company, Stelis Biopharma,” Strides Pharma Science Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Strides Pharma  said Puri's appointment to the Stelis board comes at an exciting juncture for the company as it transitions from its incubation phase to a consolidation and growth phase. The company looks to partner global players with the aim of bringing world-class treatments at affordable costs to patients in both emerging and developed markets. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception over 25 years ago, retired in October 2020. While it is not uncommon for well-known bankers to take up advisory roles in a different field, observers said Puri will bring his years of experience of funding various industries in HDFC Bank to the table. “It will certainly be a great addition for the Strides group and Puri can give his valuable inputs,” an analyst who did not wish to be identified said. Arundhati Bhattacharya the former chairperson of SBI, is an independent director in Reliance Industries. In 2020, she was appointed as the India head of cloud-based software provider Salesforce. On his appointment, Puri said the Stride Group’s established parentage, global success and headstart in terms of basic infrastructure gives him the opportunity to be involved in and guide Stelis and other group endeavours in their exciting growth story. Arun Kumar, founder and chairman of Strides’ board, said: “I am delighted to welcome Aditya as our adviser and to the Stelis board. This a huge vote of confidence in the potential of Stelis. His deep experience will be extremely valuable for the Strides group and Stelis in particular.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Govt fears poor spectrum bids||The auction of telecom spectrum in March may fetch the government just Rs 50,000 crore against a minimum value of Rs 3.92 lakh crore of the airwaves. Revenues from the sixth round of auction — the first  since 2016 —  could go down further if the telecom operators opt to pay in instalments, analysts said. In the budget for the current financial year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had estimated a revenue of Rs 1.3 lakh crore from other communication services. The spectrum auction of radiowaves worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore is set to begin from March 1. “Spectrum purchase is expected to be more by the telco that has gained the highest market share as the company will need spectrum to cater to the need of its complete 4G subscriber base that has gained momentum over the last four years. Considering these factors, the spectrum auction is expected to be in the range of Rs 50,000 crore,” Care Rating said in a research note. “The upfront payment for the spectrum auction may be in the range of Rs 12,500-25,000 crore,” the rating agency said. Analysts fear that the spectrum auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold because of high base prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through the auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 lakh crore worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands went completely unsold in 2016. The DoT notification said that successful bidders can pay the entire bid amount in one go (upfront) or may exercise an option to pay a certain amount (25 per cent for spectrum won in 700MHz, 800MHz, 900MHz bands or 50 per cent for spectrum won in 1800MHz, 2100MHz, 2300MHz, 2500MHz bands) upfront and remaining amount in a maximum up to 16 equated annual instalments, after a moratorium of two years. “For FY21, the government has estimated a revenue budget of Rs.1.3 lakh crore from other communication services that includes receipts from telcos. Thus, spectrum auctions will play a pivotal role to decide on the receipt budget from other communication services for FY21. the budget estimate for FY21 is 126% higher compared to the revised budget estimate of Rs.59000 crore for FY20,” it added. Analysts fear that the spectrum auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold due to high minimum prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through spectrum auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 trillion worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands were completely unsold in 2016. Pricing of spectrum has been an issue, with top executives at Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea repeatedly demanding that the government lower spectrum prices. A substantial portion of Jio’s own airwaves and those it shares with Reliance Communications in the 800 MHz band expires in 12 and 14 circles, respectively, starting July 2021. Without these airwaves, Jio’s services in these circles will be impacted, making it imperative that the telco bid for them, analysts said. Airtel and Vi have less expensive airwaves, mostly in the 1800 MHz band, set to expire across eight circles each from July. Both have backup airwaves in most service areas. Telecom operators can get spectrum in the 900 megahertz band, used for 4G services, in the upcoming auction for less than half the price paid for several circles in previous auctions, as per the base prices declared by the Department of Telecom. While most of the base prices are based on the recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), the Department of Telecom (DoT) has made some changes in the 700 megahertz and 1800 Mhz bands in select circles for the auctions scheduled to start from March 1. Analysts said Reliance Jio may bid for spectrum in the 700MHz band, which is most suited for 5G among the bands on sale. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd, has said Jio plans to roll out 5G services in the second half of 2021. Meanwhile, Vodafone Idea has moved the Supreme Court to seek modification of its order that upheld Rs 58400 crore as adjusted gross revenue dues as claimed by the DoT. The telecom firm moved the court claiming errors in the government calculations. The DoT has estimated that the AGR dues of Vodafone Idea is Rs 58,254 crore while the company’s own assessment so far is of Rs 21,533 crore. In the case of Bharti Airtel, which has also moved the court, has claimed that while the DoT’s estimate is of Rs 43,980 crore, Bharti’s own estimate is of Rs 13,004 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Mahindra cars cost will increase by 1.9% from January 8||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd on Friday announced that the prices of its passenger and commercial vehicles will increase by around 1.9 per cent from January 8, resulting in an increase of Rs 4,500-Rs 40,000, depending on the model and the variant. In the case of the All New Thar, the current price increase will be effective for all bookings between December 1, 2020 and January 7, 2021. According to Veejay Nakra, CEO (automotive division), M&M Ltd, “The price increase was necessitated because of the unprecedented rise in commodity prices and various other input costs over the past many months.” Mercedes-Benz India on Friday also announced an upward revision of prices from January 15, 2021. The price correction would be in the range of 5 per cent. The company cited the weakening of the rupee against the euro and the increase in input costs as the reasons for the price hike. Martin Schwenk, Managing Director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India said, “At Mercedes-Benz we offer an enriched product portfolio with latest technology and keep introducing new product enhancements in specific models. We have been operating a sustainable and future ready business; however, a necessary price correction is required to offset the continuous rise in input and operational costs. The new price range of our select vehicles will ensure the brand’s premium price positioning, assuring a sustainable growth both for the brand and our dealer partners, enabling continuation of the best-in-segment customer ownership experiences, equated with Mercedes-Benz.” The ex-showroom price of a Mercedes C Class, its entry level car will increase by Rs 2 lakh approxiamately while for an AMG GT 63 s four-door coupe the hike will be about Rs 15 lakh .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Sebi seeks clarity on Oaktree bid from DHFL||Market regulator Sebi has asked the administrator of DHFL to explain the claim by a suitor about the credit rating of a proposed debt instrument, sources said. The US-based Oaktree Capital in its bid claimed that post resolution, DHFL’s non-convertible debentures (NCDs) would be assigned an AAA rating if their resolution plan is accepted, they said. According to norms, credit rating agencies cannot indicate a rating of an instrument unless such a rating is given. Such action is barred as it could potentially mislead investors. In a letter dated January 5, Sebi said it has received a complaint against unnamed credit rating agencies (CRAs) that have allegedly offered their views to a potential issuer or bidder, Oaktree Capital, on a future rating of the DHFL resolution plan and instruments which is in violation of regulation. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) asked DHFL’s administrator to furnish the details of CRAs and the ratings. Since the conclusion of the fifth round of the bidding last month, Oaktree and Piramal Enterprises are claiming that their bids are the highest and implementable. According to the sources, suitors have submitted bids in the range of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore. Oaktree had said its revised bid for debt-ridden DHFL is unconditional and comes with a commitment of fresh capital infusion of Rs 1,000 crore for the revival of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||World Bank sees city as logistics hub||The World Bank feels Calcutta has potential to become a major transport and logistic hub linked to the north eastern region and neighbouring countries if it can develop an integrated system with corporations running the show. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), the exclusive rail network to move freight, will end in Dankuni near Calcutta and an intermodal system that connects the corridor with rail, road and waterways can transform the city, it added. Earlier this week, the bank signed a tripartite agreement to extend $105 million of soft loan to develop inland waterways in and around greater Calcutta on the river Hooghly. However, this is just a beginning, says Junaid Ahmed, country-director of the World Bank in India. Speaking at an e-seminar organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Ahmed said: “We are beginning a programme and hopefully there will be several stages to it in the future. We will partner with the state government to convert Calcutta into a transport and logistic hub of the sub-region linking the Northeast.” The city’s potential has so far remained on paper because of a lack of co-ordinated effort with services delivered efficiently in a financially viable manner. “We need to have an intermodal system where bus, rail and water interface in a very agile way — that requires a fundamentally different spatial perspective on the management of transport and logistic in greater Calcutta and Bengal — you need corporations to run the waterways and railways in order to connect the EDFC in a way that you don’t create congestion in Calcutta but it becomes a vibrant city,” Ahmed said. The latest World Bank project will enhance the capacity and safety of the inland water transport system by rehabilitating jetties, buying new ferries with enhanced design; and installing electronic gates in 40 locations. In the second phase, it will support long-term investments for passenger movement, including in terminals and jetties; improve the design of the inland water transport vessels and encourage the private sector to invest in Ro-Ro vessels that will allow easier movement of trucks across the Hooghly river. Ahmed batted for a new approach to build infrastructure and deliver services in India. Giving examples of EDFC and Shimla Water Company, he argued that companies — which are well governed and accountable — should deliver the services and they need not be in the private sector. Instead of running as a municipal department, a corporation has been created in Shimla to manage all water delivery infrastructure and render services to the citizens. A city, which had often faced scarcity of water, is now contemplating 24x7 water delivery. He also argued that public finance, which comes from taxpayers’ money, cannot alone meet the nation’s requirement. To spend 7 per cent of the gross domestic product  to build infrastructure, India needs to leverage the public finance to bring more institutional finance. “Move Indian agencies or departments to corporate structure and move public finance as leveraging finance into those companies that deliver services,” the country director prescribed. However, no company can remain creditworthy unless it raises user charges. Ahmed suggested that instruments like direct benefit transfer may be deployed to ensure that economically weaker sections do not get impacted but those who can afford, pay the user charge to ensure infrastructure delivery can take place in an efficient manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Raids at Flipkart, Swiggy for alleged tax evasion by third-party vendors||The income tax department this week conducted searches at offices of a group firm of Walmart’s Flipkart and local food delivery startup Swiggy for alleged tax evasion by their third-party vendors, two sources told Reuters. The searches began on Wednesday at Swiggy and Instakart’s offices in the southern city of Bangalore, the sources said. The search at the office of Instakart, e-commerce giant Flipkart’s logistics arm, concluded late on Thursday, one of the sources said. At least 20 income tax officials visited the Instakart office to inspect invoices issued to its vendors, the source added. In a statement, Flipkart said it was providing the officials with “all the required information and are extending our full co-operation”, adding it was in full compliance with all tax and legal requirements. Swiggy, backed by South African internet giant Naspers, too said it was in full compliance with tax and legal mandates. “The survey by the IT officials is underway and our team is extending full cooperation in the matter.” The tax department did not immediately respond to Reuters’ request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
