10-01-2021||Business||Chhattisgarh boosts business climate||Chhattisgarh has signed 104 agreements in the last two years to set up industries at a capital investment of more than Rs 42,000 crore. These industries will generate more than 64,000 new jobs in the state. The steel sector has attracted a capital investment of Rs 37,306.39 crore from 78 MoUs. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed in the cement sector for Rs 2,000 crore. Seven MoUs were signed in the ethanol sector for an investment of Rs 1,082.82 crore. The new industrial policy of Chhattisgarh and the steps taken by the state during the Covid-19 lockdown period have created a healthy industrial climate in the state. During the lockdown, Chhattisgarh’s industries started output in the month of April. Industries in the core sector were given subsidies in electricity bills and all necessary arrangements were made to ensure movement of raw materials and finished goods. Guidelines were also issued to allow easy supply of raw materials from other states to Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Medical payout benefits sought||General insurers want the medical reimbursement benefit to be brought back in the upcoming budget with a higher limit. A higher tax relief on mediclaim premium is also on the industry wishlist. Employees earlier had the option of getting reimbursement from their employers against medical expenses of up to Rs 15,000 in a year, subject to the submission of proper bills and documents. Finance Act 2018 scrapped the benefit which was subsumed under standard deduction. “It is crucial to reintroduce medical reimbursement with a higher limit of Rs 50,000,” said Mayank Bathwal, CEO, Aditya Birla Health Insurance. With the pandemic making it indispensable for individuals to have their healthcare costs well covered, Bathwal said there was also a need to tweak the provisions of section 80D of the Income Tax Act to raise the available deductions. “It is important to increase the limits for tax deduction on mediclaim premium under Section 80D to Rs 1,00,000 (Rs 50,000 for self and spouse and Rs 50,000 for parents). Allowed dependent relationships should be reviewed,” he said. At present, non-senior individuals can avail benefits up to Rs 75,000 under Section 80D on mediclaim premium. This includes Rs 25,000 for self and spouse and Rs 50,000 for senior citizen parents. “For the upcoming budget, the healthcare sector shall play a vital role and we could see announcements that would make healthcare affordable. An increase in the 80D limit as well as increasing the threshold for senior citizens will encourage more people to buy comprehensive health insurance,” said Rakesh Jain, ED and CEO, Reliance General Insurance. Life insurers want parity in tax exemption on their pension plans and investment under NPS. Moreover, increased supply of long-term government bonds could generate better yields on annuities. “While investment in NPS offers additional tax deductions of Rs 50,000 under Section 80CCD, life insurers’ pension plans do not enjoy this benefit. The budget should  bring parity between pension products offered by life insurers and NPS,” said Kamlesh Rao, MD and CEO, Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance. “The government should develop the corporate bond market where insurers can source long-term, credit worthy corporate bonds and generate better long term yields for annuity plans,” Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Shipping Corporation of India to start waterways services||Government-owned Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) plans to collaborate with Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) soon to begin inland waterways and coastal shipping services. The services that will start on National Waterway-1 will be undertaken by the wholly owned subsidiary of SCI — Calcutta-registered Inland & Coastal Shipping Ltd. “We are getting into a collaboration with IWAI and we are going to start our services through our 100 per cent subsidiary Inland & Coastal Shipping. We are going to start regular service on NW1,” SCI chairman and managing director H. K. Joshi said at a virtual event organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. She said that while cargo movement through waterways is economically cheaper, there remains a few hurdles. “Multimodal transportation today is not really working out to be the cheapest and the most  convenient because end-to-end linkage is still not properly established,” she said. Navigation and silting are the other challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Open offer for Vedanta Ltd||After a failed delisting attempt last year, Vedanta Resources, the parent of Vedanta Ltd, is coming out with an open offer to acquire 10 per cent of its equity. If the open offer is successful, the holding of the promoter group will rise to 65.11 per cent. The voluntary open offer comes more than a fortnight after Vedanta Resources (VRL) used the creeping acquisition route to buy 18.5 crore shares worth Rs 2,959 crore. The purchase saw its stake rising to 55.11 per cent from 50.13 per cent. Promoters can acquire up to 5 per cent in a year without triggering an open offer. However, on Saturday, Vedanta said in a regulatory filing that VRL, together with persons acting in concert (PACs), plans to acquire up to 371,750,500 shares representing 10 per cent of the fully diluted voting share capital of Vedanta Ltd from public shareholders. The other firms involved in the plan are Twin Star Holdings, Vedanta Holdings Mauritius and Vedanta Holdings Mauritius II. These shares will be acquired at a price of Rs 160 per share, which is at a discount of 12 per cent to the closing price of the Vedanta scrip at Rs 182.05 on Friday. The acquisition of all these shares will cost Rs 5,948 crore. If all the equity shares are tendered in the open offer, the holding of the acquirer, PACs and other members of the promoter group will rise to 2,420,208,632 equity shares. However, as the open offer is made at a 12 per cent discount to the market price, it remains to be seen if it elicits a good response from public shareholders who now hold 44.89 per cent. Market circles feel the Vedanta Ltd scrip could open on a negative note on Monday because of the disappointing open offer price. Incidentally, the open offer comes at a time non-ferrous metal prices are on an upswing. In October last year, Anil Agarwal’s attempt to delist Vedanta Ltd failed. While the promoter group needed 134.1 crore shares to delist, they could only garner 125.47 crore bids, which the promoters had to return as the delisting bid fell through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
