11-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 487 points to close above 49,000 for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 487 points on Monday to close at a fresh lifetime peak, tracking gains in Infosys, HDFC twins and HCL Tech amid massive foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 49,303.79, the 30-share BSE index ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at 49,269.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at 14,484.75. It hit a fresh intra-day high of 14,498.20. On the Sensex chart, HCL Tech was the top gainer, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Tech Mahindra and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, L&T, Kotak Bank and SBI were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained in the grip of bulls with benchmark indices registering fresh highs as robust earnings performance by TCS and D-Mart bolstered investors' confidence. "Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates and the announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 offered comfort to markets. Further, expectations of a sharp recovery in corporate earnings led by a sustained rebound in key economic data may propel the market to witness fresh highs in the near term," he stated. FPI flow may continue to remain favourable given status of global economy, stance of global central bankers and weak dollar, he said, adding that domestic equities can also witness pre-Budget rally in the coming weeks considering broad expectations of pro-growth measures. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,029.83 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.52 per cent lower at USD 55.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points to fresh intra-day record||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 400 points in early trade on Monday to top the 49,000 mark for the first time, tracking gains in IT stocks amid a largely positive trend in global equities and massive FPI inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 49,260.21, the 30-share BSE index was trading 405.45 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 49,187.96. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 112.45 points or 0.78 per cent to 14,459.70 in opening deals. It hit a fresh intra-day high of 14,474.05. On the Sensex chart, Infosys was the top gainer, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, ITC, HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, HUL and TCS. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Maruti, ONGC, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had closed 689.19 points or 1.43 per cent higher at 48,782.51, while Nifty rallied 209.90 points or 1.48 per cent to close at its record high of 14,347.25. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,029.83 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look firm. Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates and the announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 would offer comfort to markets. "Additionally, robust earnings performance delivered by TCS and expectations of strong 3QFY21 earnings by companies led by a sustained rebound in key economic data may propel the market to witness fresh highs in the near term. "FPIs flow may continue to remain favourable given the status of the global economy, the stance of global central bankers and the weak dollar," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.29 per cent lower at USD 55.27 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22:  Modi govt likely to set ambitious disinvestment target||The Modi government is likely to set an ambitious disinvestment target in Budget 2021-22 even as it looks set to miss the target for the current fiscal by a huge margin. The disinvestment plans of the current fiscal were hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, but that would not deter the government on its reform agenda, finance ministry officials said. They said the finer details of the exercise were being discussed and the target would be a realistic one given the state of the economy. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May had said the Centre would come up with a new public sector policy and open up all the sectors to private companies. In the new policy, the government will have a list of strategic sector companies, where at least one and a maximum of four central public sector enterprises will be allowed to operate, meaning the others will be privatised. In the other sectors, all PSUs will be privatised. Analysts said at present about 57 PSU listed companies excluding those in the banking and financial sector have an average equity holding by the government of about 71 per cent. Their average market capitalisation is more than Rs 10 lakh crores. “The government could target about 30 per cent of these holdings to raise resources of around Rs 2 lakh crores spread over the next two years, which could be channelised for funding public infrastructure,” they said. Fitch Ratings said the government planned to privatise some state-owned enterprises, of which more than 200 are owned by the central government and 800 by state governments. “A wide-ranging privatisation push involving large state owned enterprises could be transformative. However, it remains unclear whether the government plans to surrender its majority control. The strength of market demand for state assets is also yet to be tested,” it said. Industry chamber CII said the government should not only exit loss making enterprises such as Scooters India, Air India, HMT, Cement Corporation of India and British India Corporation but also the profitable ones and implement the disinvestment of LIC. “As a first step, there is a need to bring the government stake to below 49 per cent in these companies, which will improve valuations. Subsequent disinvestment could be made in tranches as valuation improves. The list of PSUs where the government intends to bring its share below 51 per cent should be announced in advance, to improve valuations prior to disinvestment.” The mega initial public offer (IPO) for LIC as well as follow-on offerings for New India Assurance and GIC could be moved to the next fiscal because of legislative changes and expected demand. Though the process to privatise BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation and BEML have started, it is unclear whether they would be completed in the current fiscal itself or would drag on beyond March. The government has budgeted Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sales this fiscal, including Rs 1.20 lakh crore from disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stakes in financial institutions. The ambitious target was meant to beef up non-tax revenue and make up for a lower than expected rise in tax collection, even before the pandemic spread its tentacles. The receipts so far have been Rs 28,298 crore, which includes stake sales from Bond ETF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||DVC warns Jharkhand on arrears||Damodar Valley Corporation on Sunday warned Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) that it would consider further action if it continued to fall back in its payment of dues to the generator. JBVNL had signed an agreement with DVC in March 2020 to pay regularly from March 2020 and seek the approval of the Jharkhand government to clear its arrears. According to DVC, as of April 1, 2020, the total outstanding dues against the supply of power to JBVNL was Rs 5,209.31 crore. DVC officials said that after the agreement they expected JBVNL to be prompt in their payment. However, that was not so: in the first eight months, the payment from the state utility was only Rs 441.72 crore, against a total bill of Rs 1,323.90 crore. “DVC has to pay for coal in advance and it has to pay monthly salary to its workers. Electricity cannot be supplied if it is not paid for as this hampers generation,” said a senior official of DVC. Realising the prospect of a rising cash crunch, the power generator has decided to regulate power supply to the utility from December 2020 and more steps are being explored to recover dues, said the official. Among the steps taken are the invocation of a letter of credit which is offered by the state discom against electricity supply. DVC officials said the letter of credit offered by JBVNL has been invoked and for future supply, the discom has to give a new letter of credit. “If they are not in a position to give a letter of credit, they can deposit money a day in advance for power supply for the next day and DVC will supply power against money so deposited on a daily basis,” said the official. Moreover, a tripartite agreement among the state government, central government and RBI was invoked last year whereby Rs 1,417.50 crore was recovered in lieu of outstanding dues. Jharkhand, however, will exit from the agreement to prevent the automatic deduction of dues. DVC officials said the additional regulations on power supply on a weekly basis could be considered in the future if the payment was not made. DVC currently supplies 660 MW of power to JBVNL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Gold ETFs pocket  Rs 6,700cr||Economic downturn because of the coronavirus pandemic and weakness in the dollar encouraged investors to infuse a massive Rs 6,657 crore into gold exchange-traded funds in 2020. In comparison, a net inflow of just Rs 16 crore was seen in entire 2019. The inflow came after witnessing a net pullout from safe-haven assets for six consecutive years, mainly on fears of a global slowdown and volatility in equity and debt markets. Assets under management of gold funds surged over two-fold to Rs 14,174 crore at the end of December 2020 from Rs 5,768 crore a year ago, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. Gold with its safe-haven appeal emerged as one of the best performing asset classes and a preferred investment destination among investors in 2020 as investors put in a net sum of Rs 6,657 crore in 14 gold-linked ETFs. Barring March and November, such instruments had seen a net inflow in 2020. Himanshu Srivastava, associate director-manager research, Morningstar India, said investors were attracted towards the instrument because of multiple factors such as economic downturn caused due to the pandemic, weakness in the dollar and tension between the US and China. According to Nishant Kohli, founder and business head-wealth at Mudra Portfolio Managers, uncertainties in the market led to too much increase in gold’s return which led to attracting investments even from retail participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Centre to set up foreign asset probe cell||A special unit has been created by the government in the countrywide investigation wings of the income tax department for a focussed probe in the cases of undisclosed assets held by Indians abroad and possession of black money in foreign shores, officials said. The Foreign Asset Investigation Units (FAIUs) have been recently created in all the 14 investigation directorates of the tax department located in the various parts of the country that are primarily tasked to undertake raids and seizures and develop intelligence to check tax evasion done by various methods. A total of 69 existing posts in the tax department were “diverted” by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in November last for the creation of this unit after approval from Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a senior officer said. The CBDT frames policy for the income tax department. “The FAIUs have been created as new wings within the various investigation directorates of the tax department to bring focus on cases of undisclosed assets held abroad by Indians and black money stashed abroad. “India is now getting voluminous data in this context by way of various fresh treaties signed and some of those which have been re-negotiated in the recent past,” another officer said. “We are now in a global regime where automatic exchange of tax information is the norm. More and more countries and jurisdictions are following the international protocols set by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) for tax transparency and combating instances of global money laundering, terror financing and tax evasion,” he said. The taxman now has huge data coming in from various international and domestic sources to check possible illegal foreign assets holding of an individual and, hence, a dedicated wing was required to analyse this information and sift through this mountain of data, the official said. The new units will also probe cases of Indian entities named in global tax document leaks such as the Panama Papers. The major treaties or automatic tax information exchange protocols through which Indian tax authorities get information include the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs) and the most recent Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) between India and the US. FATCA covers automatic sharing of information on bank accounts as well as financial products like equities, mutual funds and insurance, and is aimed at fighting the menace of black money stashed abroad. Banks, mutual funds, insurance, pension and stock-broking firms will report their Indian client details to the US which will be shared with New Delhi. Similarly, Indian entities will do a reciprocal information sharing about Americans. The FAIUs will be under the authority of the jurisdictional director general of income tax (investigation) rank officer and its work will be directly monitored by the CBDT, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Start-up to roll out UPI-based offline payments solution ||Noida-based start-up Eroute Technologies plans to roll out a UPI-based offline payments solution that will facilitate digital payments without internet connectivity. Last month, the company got the RBI’s approval to test the solution as part of the first cohort of regulatory sandbox on retail payments. Abhishek Saxena, an alumnus of IIT, BHU and co-founder and COO of Eroute, said the company is eyeing commercial availability by the middle of the year. The technology, which is being used in China and Kenya and also being tried out in Japan, involves a smart card which acts as a SIM overlay. Once installed, a feature phone user will have a SIM toolkit-based user interface available on their feature phone through which they can do fund transfer, merchant payments and bill payments. “In India, there are around 500 million feature phone users who can be brought into the digital payments fold using their phones. Connectivity is still a challenge in parts of  the country and even smartphone users often do not get good internet. So, RBI came out with a sandbox and invited companies who have solutions for feature phone users,” said Saxena. “We are doing a pilot with a limited audience as of today as per the requirement of sandbox. Once we get the results, we will then introduce the concept for commercial use. We have worked with NPCI so that users can use UPI on feature phones. The solution is telecom agnostic,” said Saxena, adding that the company is in discussion with financial institutions for deployment. Founded in October 2018, Eroute Technologies is promoted by Saxena, Sanjeev Pandey, former group president of Yes Bank and Jason Ho, chairman of Taisys Technologies, a Taiwan based company that has developed technical expertise on sim overlay. Phone users today already have a non internet based alternative to digital payments. A user can dial *99# on their phones to access their UPI linked accounts through unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), a GSM protocol. But stability and user experience has been a key challenge. Moreover, the option is not available for Jio subscribers on account of LTE technology. “USSD has not been successful and right now it is almost at a dead end. There were so many session breaks. User experience was also a big use,” said Saxena adding that these challenges will be addressed through sim overlay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Toyota and Suzuki to share and cross-badge products in the Indian market||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) India sold 46,222 cars that were launched under a tie-up with Suzuki. Toyota Motor Corporation and Suzuki Motor Corporation had entered into a global alliance whereby they agreed to share and cross-badge products in the Indian market. Toyota has been selling the Glanza, which is a Suzuki Baleno cross-badge, and the Urban Cruiser which is a SuzukiVitara Brezza cross-badge. Glanza, which was launched in June 2019, sold 17,946 units that year and 20,676 units in 2020. The Urban Cruiser launched in October 2020 has sold 7,600 units till December. Speaking about the alliance products on the sidelines of the launch of the revamped Fortuner, Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and marketing, said,  “Alliance products allow the customer to experience the Toyota experience at a much lower price point. Then he or she upgrades to buy another Toyota product in the future.” When asked if alliance products outsold Toyota’s own products, Soni said: “At present, the ratio of sales of alliance products and our own products is 50:50.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Labour code done, NEP to focus on job plan||The ministry of labour and employment is likely to give a shape to the National Employment Policy (NEP) by December this year following the implementation of four labour codes and completion of four major surveys, including one on migrant workers. The NEP will draw a broad road map to improve job opportunities in the country, mainly by various initiatives such as skill development, bringing investment in employment intensive segments and other policy interventions. Last year, Parliament passed three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational health safety and working conditions (OSH). The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year and its rules have been firmed up. But the implementation of the rules for Code on Wages was held back because the government wanted to implement all the four labour codes in one go. These four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1 this year. The implementation of these four labour codes would provide a conducive legal framework for the universalisation of social security and other safeguards for the entire workforce of over 50 crore in the country. But for job creation, a broad NEP would be required to exploit the potential of each segment of different sectors of the economy. This would require up-to-date data on employment across the sectors in the country. This gap would be bridged by the four employment surveys to be conducted by the Labour Bureau, a wing of the ministry. Labour Bureau director general D. S. Negi said the bureau has begun spadework on the four surveys and field work would begin by March and the results would be out by October-end this year only. He said the NEP would take shape based on the data inputs of these four surveys by December. Thereafter, the NEP would be sent for the approval of the Union cabinet. The document is expected to aid employment generation in the country to a great extent, especially when the government is grappling with the issue of job loss especially due to the pandemic. Earlier last month, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had also said that the four surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers, employment generated by professionals and transport sector will be launched by early March 2020 and the results of these will be available by October 2021. The minister had opined that for any evidence-based policy making for these workers, “authentic data” on employment in the organised and unorganised sector enterprises is highly called for. The minister had also informed that the bureau will soon launch an “All India Quarterly Survey” on Employment of Enterprises that will provide comprehensive data on the employment numbers in both the organised and unorganised sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
11-01-2021||Business||RBI expresses concerns over zero-coupon bonds for recapitalisation of PSBs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed some concerns over zero-coupon bonds for the recapitalisation of public sector banks (PSBs) and discussion is on between the central bank and the finance ministry to find a solution, according to sources. The government resorted to recapitalisation bonds with a coupon rate for capital infusion into PSBs during 2017-18 and interest payment to banks for holding such bonds started from the next financial year. To save interest burden and ease fiscal pressure, the government has decided to issue zero-coupon bonds to meet the capital needs of the banks. The first test case of the new mechanism was a capital infusion of Rs 5,500 crore into Punjab & Sind Bank by issuing zero-coupon bonds of six different maturities last year. These special securities with tenure of 10-15 years are non-interest bearing and valued at par. However, the RBI has raised some issues with regard to the calculation of an effective capital infusion made in any bank through this instrument issued at par, the sources said. As such bonds usually are non-interest bearing but issued at a deep discount to the face value, it is difficult to ascertain the net present value, they added. The discount calculation may vary, which could lead to accounting adjustment, the sources said, adding both the finance ministry and the RBI are in discussions to resolve the issue. As these special bonds are non-interest bearing and issued at par to a bank, it would be an investment, which would not earn any return but rather depreciate with each passing year. Parliament had in September 2020 approved Rs 20,000 crore to be made available for the recapitalisation of PSBs. Of this, Rs 5,500 crore was issued to Punjab & Sind Bank and the finance ministry will take a call on the remaining Rs 14,500 crore during this quarter. This innovative mechanism will help ease the financial burden as the government has already spent Rs 22,086.54 crore as interest payment towards the recapitalisation bonds for PSBs in the last two financial years. During 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,800.55 crore as interest on such bonds issued to public sector banks for pumping in the capital so that they could meet the regulatory norms under the Basel-III guidelines. In the subsequent year, according to the official document, the interest payment by the government surged three times to Rs 16,285.99 crore to PSBs as they have been holding these papers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
11-01-2021||Business||Money goals: save, invest, insure, or borrow||Anew year offers a fresh start. It’s also a good time to evaluate your personal finances, taking stock of where you are and where you want to go from here. When it comes to money management, every person has his or her own unique needs. They must save, invest, insure, or borrow according to their life’s situation. Whatever be the situation, it’s advisable to benchmark one’s progress. This will ascertain if the bare minimum is being achieved at the very least. In this regard, it’s often useful to have a rule of thumb guiding you in the general direction of your goal. By definition, thumb rules can be inexact. They are broad principles with arbitrary standards. One must understand the importance of the principle and tune the standards to your life’s situation. Here are some thumb rules you can apply to your financial life.  This rule is a ratio indicating how much of your disposable income you should allocate towards needs, wants, and savings. According to the rule, 50 per cent of your income should go towards basic needs such as rent, EMIs, insurance, food, utilities, transportation etc. Another 30 per cent should go towards discretionary spends: eating out, shopping, travel, and so on. And, at least 20 per cent should go towards savings and investments necessary for emergencies and wealth creation. My suggestion is to swap the allocations for 30 per cent and 20 per cent —  that is, make fewer discretionary spends, and save and invest at least 30 per cent. The more you save, the more headway you’ll make towards achieving your financial goals. These are broad budgeting strokes and you must find the ratio perfect for your life. This is quite simple and a useful rule for conservative investors. The Public Provident Fund is a government-backed small savings scheme that allows you to invest up to Rs 1.5 lakh a year and earn 7.1 per cent per annum, tax-free and risk-free. Therefore, it serves as a useful benchmark for long-term debt investments, especially at a time interest rates are falling and we’ve gone through a period of great volatility in the investment markets. If you’re going to be a long-term debt investor, it’s worthwhile asking if your preferred option is going to deliver post-tax returns at least equal to PPF. If it doesn’t, why are you buying it?  Everyone needs an emergency fund — the rainy-day purse to dip into during events such as job loss, health problems, urgent travel or immediate repairs. It’s your savings you do not touch under any other circumstance. Every person has their own unique needs and responsibilities. For starters, it would be good to create a fund that is at least three times your disposable monthly income, and then gradually work towards six. As savings through bank accounts or fixed deposits provide low returns, it wouldn’t be sensible to lock away a lot of money in them as it would slow down wealth creation. But it’s not uncommon to see people save 12-24x, too.  Credit utilisation ratio (CUR) is the percentage of your available credit you’re using at any point. For example, if your credit card limit is Rs 1 lakh, and you’ve spent Rs 50,000 in a month, your CUR is going to be 50 per cent. It’s widely advised to remain under 30 per cent. This is because a high CUR reflects credit-hungriness, which leads to a fall in your credit score, which in turn would lead to difficulties getting fresh credit either through rejection of your application or having to pay higher interest rates. Pay off your dues in the interest-free period every month. The higher your CUR, the more your credit score could fall. Also, do a monthly check of your credit report to understand how your credit card use shapes your credit score. If your score has fallen below 750, you could take corrective steps. If you have financial dependants such as spouse, children or parents, you must own adequate life coverage. In the unfortunate event of your untimely demise, the coverage will replace your income and help your dependents continue with their lives without financial stress. No two people have the same life risks, liabilities and responsibilities. But a simple thumb rule is having a life cover equal to 10-20 times your annual income, net of liabilities such as home loans. For example, if your annual income is Rs 10 lakh and you had a home loan balance of Rs 30 lakh, your coverage could be Rs 1.30 crore to Rs 2.30 crore. This coverage would make it possible for your dependants to meet their income needs for the foreseeable future. Thumb rules are just the starting point of money management plans. They force you to devise solutions to your unique financial challenges. The key is not doing too little or too much but finding the perfect balance in things. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
