12-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 248 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 248 points to end at a fresh life-time high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Bharti Airtel amid positive global cues and persistent FPI inflows. After touching an all-time high of 49,569.14 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 49,517.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.70 points or 0.54 per cent to a fresh closing peak of 14,563.45. It scaled a record 14,590.65 during the session. On the Sensex chart, SBI was the top gainer, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank, ITC, Axis Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, Asian Paints, HUL, Nestle India, Titan and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained resilient as they recovered sharply from the day's low and recorded fresh highs. Banking stocks once again defied red flags raised by RBI's Financial Stability Report by recovering sharply from early losses, he said, adding that auto stocks continued to see healthy traction as well with expectations of good Q3 earnings and strong outlook. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,138.90 crore on Monday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.60 per cent higher at USD 56.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Sensex slips over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank despite the largely positive trend in global equities and sustained FPI inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 117.77 points or 0.24 per cent lower at 49,151.55. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 20.95 points or 0.14 per cent to 14,463.80 in opening deals. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top loser, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Titan, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra and HDFC. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, L&T, Bharti Airtel, ITC, Bajaj Finserv and TCS were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at record 49,269.32, and Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 14,484.75. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,138.90 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be encouraging at the moment. Red flags highlighted in the Reserve Bank of India's Financial Stability Report about the banking sector do not augur well for the banking index, which may weigh on markets in the near term. "However, we still believe fundamentals of the market are still intact considering sustained rebound in economic activities and government's continuous endeavour to bolster economic activities," he said. US equities recorded modest correction as profit-booking was visible especially in technology companies. However, he added that investors appeared to remain focused on the possibility of large fiscal stimulus and prospects of economic recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent lower at USD 55.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||January commercial mine auction date||The next tranche of commercial mine auction will be launched this month, Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi said on Monday though no details were provided. Speaking at an event to launch a single-window clearance system in coal, Joshi said commercial mining has been made a part of the system now. “The next tranche of commercial mining auction would be launched in January 2021, and further tranches will continue thereafter,” he said. The previous two-part auction concluded in November where companies submitted bids for 19 of the 38 coal blocks on offer. Adani Enterprises, Hindalco, Vedanta Ltd, Essel Mining of the Aditya Birla Group and Jindal Steel & Power were among the winners, besides several new and non-mining companies. On the single-window clearance system, Joshi said, “Earlier, companies were required to approach different departments, leading to a delay in the operationalisation of coal mines. Now, the complete process shall be facilitated through a single-window clearance portal in a phased way.” Union home minister Amit Shah, who was also present at the event, said the coal sector will play a significant role in the country’s goal to become a $5-trillion economy. Shah said the successful bidders have been allotted mines under the country’s first commercial coal mining auction. This will give the states an estimated revenue of about Rs 6,500 crore per year and will create more than 70,000 jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Union Budget set to go paperless||The Centre has dispensed with printing the budget papers this time as the annual tome on the health of the economy and the government’s finances goes fully digital and paperless because of the pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who had wrapped the budget documents into the dainty bahi khata — a red bag reminiscenct of the traditional account books — will now have to breathe life into the maze of numbers that make up for the government’s receipts and expenditures as they pop up on her laptop screen. With the bahi khata, Sitharaman discarded the colonial legacy of carrying the budget documents in a briefcase. The word “budget” has its origin in the French word Bougette, which means leather briefcase. The paperless budget would mean that for the first time since Independence the documents would not be printed. The printing of documents requires staff to be locked up in the basement press of the finance ministry a couple of weeks ahead of the presentation of the budget . The printing all these years began with a halwa ceremony, around January 20, that marked the staff going into the basement press only to emerge after the budget was presented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Sensex hits lifetime high, breaches 49000||The Sensex on Monday hit a lifetime high and crossed the threshold of 49000, tracking gains in IT stocks amid a largely positive trend in global equities and strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). The gains in stock prices came on hopes of improved performance of India Inc in the third quarter with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) setting the stage for the optimistic tone last Friday. TCS reported better than expected results and its top management saw revenue rising double digits in the next fiscal on increased spending on technology. Both Infosys and Wipro will announce their third quarter results on Wednesday with market sentiment buoyed by the strong performance of TCS. Other sectors such as automobiles are also expected to fare better as they declare their numbers in the days ahead. Moreover, announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 also lifted sentiments. Provisional data showed that FPIs bought stocks worth Rs 3,139 crore during Monday’s trading. So far in January they were net buyers to the tune of over Rs 10,800 crore. While there is a disconnect between the state of the economy, which is forecast to contract by 7.7 per cent this fiscal, and stock prices, market circles are of the view that the stock momentum will continue on FPI inflows and optimism over corporate earnings as the vaccine is rolled out and economic activity comes back to the pre-Covid levels. During Monday’s trading, the 30-share Sensex opened above the 49000 mark at 49252.31 and hit an intra-day low of 48956.31 early . However, it soon gathered speed on a rally in IT and auto stocks and touched a record intra-day high of 49303.79. It later ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at 49269.32, closing above the 49000-level for the first time. The broader NSE Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 14484.75. It hit a record 14498.20 during the session. IT stocks led the rally after TCS on Friday reported a 7.2 per cent jump in December quarter net profits. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex group, rising 6.09 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto and M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Stress tests predict bad loan surge||The Reserve Bank of India has warned that the gross non-performing asset ratio of banks could rise to 13.5 per cent under a baseline scenario and almost double to 14.8 per cent in the worst case by September this year. In September last year, the gross non-performing asset ratio was 7.5 per cent. The latest financial stability report reflects the collective assessment of the sub-committee of the Financial Stability and Development Council. The bi-annual publication was re-scheduled to incorporate the first advance estimates of national income for 2020-21 that were released by the National Statistical Office on January 7. The NSO has forecast the economy will contract 7.7 per cent during this fiscal. In its previous report, the RBI had projected the gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of banks may rise to 14.7 per cent by March 2021. Its latest estimate indicates the bad loan problem is likely to continue despite the economy recovering during the second quarter of the current fiscal. The central bank said in the latest report that because of Covid the data on fresh loan impairments of banks may not reflect the true underlying state of their portfolio because of regulatory forbearances such as the moratorium, standstill on asset classification and one-time restructuring. Its stress tests indicated the GNPA ratio of all commercial banks may increase from 7.5 per cent in September 2020 to 13.5 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario. If the macroeconomic environment worsens into a severe stress scenario, the ratio may further escalate to 14.8 per cent. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das who has been asking banks to shore up their capital also cautioned them about the inherent NPA problem. He said that though India’s banking system had relatively sound capital and liquidity buffers built following the global financial crisis, the pandemic threatened to result in balance sheet impairments and capital shortfalls as the regulatory reliefs are rolled back. Moreover, banks will be called to meet the funding requirements of the economy as it traces a revival from the pandemic. “Consequently, maintaining the health of the banking sector remains a policy priority and preservation of the stability of the financial system is an overarching goal,’’ he observed. The RBI added that among the bank groups, the PSU banks’ GNPA ratio of 9.7 per cent in September 2020 may increase to 16.2 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario while the GNPA ratio of private sector banks may increase from 4.6 per cent to 7.9 per cent and foreign banks from 2.5 per cent to 5.4 per cent over the same period. In the severe stress scenario, the GNPA ratios of PSU lenders may rise to 17.6 per cent, their private peers 8.8 per cent and foreign banks, 6.5 per cent by September 2021. “These GNPA projections are indicative of the possible economic impairment latent in banks’ portfolios, with implications for capital planning, ’’ the RBI noted. It, however, issued a caveat: considering the uncertainty regarding the unfolding economic outlook and the extent to which regulatory dispensation under restructuring is utilised, the projected ratios are susceptible to change in a “non-linear fashion”. The RBI also cautioned that though banks’ capital position had improved in September 2020 over March 2020, the actual cushion available with them could be “overstated” due to the forbearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Adani commissions 25MW solar power plant in Uttar Pradesh||Adani Solar Energy Chitrakoot One Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL), has commissioned a 25MW solar power plant at Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh. The Adani group on Monday said in a statement that this plant has a power purchase agreement (PPA) with Noida Power Company Ltd (NPCL) at Rs 3.08 per kilowatt-hour. It added that with this commissioning, AGEL’s total operational renewable capacity has grown to 2,975MW. The plant will be connected to its Energy Network Operation Centre (ENOC) that continuously monitors and analyses performance of more than 80 solar and wind plants across diverse locations in India. Recently, AGEL also commissioned and announced 100MW solar power plant. Meanwhile, the Competition Commission of India on Monday said it has approved the acquisition of share capital in Adani Green Energy by a subsidiary of Total SE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Passenger vehicle sales rise 23.99 per cent in December||Passenger vehicle (PV) sales in December rose 23.99 per cent year-on-year to 2,71,249 units because of spill-over demand from the festive season and pre-buying ahead of the price hike announcements, automobile dealers’ body Fada said on Monday. The growth comes on a low base as most automakers had slashed production because of tepid demand amid transition to Bharat Stage-VI emission norms. However, after the price hike announcements, Fada expects a temporary blip in demand. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (Fada), which collected vehicle registration data from 1,270 of the 1,477 regional transport offices (RTOs), said PV sales stood at 2,18,775 units in December 2019. Two-wheeler sales increased 11.88 per cent to 14,24,620 units last month compared with 12,73,318 units in December 2019. Commercial vehicle sales, however, slipped 13.52 per cent to 51,454 units in December 2020 against 59,497 units a year ago. Three-wheeler sales fell 52.75 per cent to 27,715 units last month from 58,651 units in December 2019. Tractor sales, however, grew 35.49 per cent to 69,105 units last month  against 51,004 units in the same month of 2019. Total sales across categories increased 11.01 per cent to 18,44,143 units last month compared with 16,61,245 units in December 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors shares zoom to 52-week high||Shares of Tata Motors zoomed to a 52-week high on Monday on the buzz that it was set to enter into a partnership with Tesla and that the electric vehicle giant may even take a stake in its passenger vehicle (PV) business. However, a Tata Motors spokesperson denied any such development. “Tata Motors has not taken any decision regarding a strategic partner for its PV business and categorically denies any and all rumours suggesting the same,” the company said in a statement. Last year, the homegrown auto firm had said it was looking for a partner in its PV business after its board approved the setting up of a new subsidiary in the segment. On Monday, the buzz that Tesla may choose Tata Motors for its much awaited India foray set the latter’s stock soaring on the exchanges. On the BSE, the stock rose almost 14 per cent to hit an intra-day high of Rs 225, a new 52-week high. However, it gave up some of the gains to close at Rs 220.10, a gain of 11.11 per cent over the previous close. Close to 80 lakh shares were transacted on the exchange which was higher than the two-week average quantity of 32.53 lakhs. Road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had last month told PTI in an interview that Tesla is set to start its operations in India by setting up a distribution facility (sale centres) in India this year and based on demand, it could look to set up a manufacturing facility as well. This came after Tesla Inc co-founder and chief executive Elon Musk in October said the company would enter the Indian market in this year. “Next year for sure,” he had said while replying to a query on Tesla’s India plans on Twitter. Following this announcement, the Maharashtra government had invited Tesla for investing in the state even as it also held preliminary discussions with the company. State tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had said he and industries minister Subhash Desai held a video call with Tesla executives to invite them to the state. In fact, the Pune facility of Tata Motors is its “most versatile”. Apart from being a full range supplier of both commercial and passenger vehicles, the facility boasts of delivering more value per vehicle as it is a highly integrated plant with regard to core processes such as engines, gear box and paint shop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Frontline steel companies continue to clock higher production and sales||Frontline steel companies continued to clock higher production and sales despite the shortage of iron ore, reaping the benefit of record prices of the alloy. Tata Steel and SAIL, which source ore from their own mines, ramped up production, while JSW Steel, AM/NS India and JSPL, which largely depend on market purchases, scored better in the third quarter, buoyed by a strong uptick in demand. The numbers show how the large players are gaining market share from smaller units which are unable to ramp up despite the lucrative market for want of raw materials. While top producers continued their upward march in production compared with the same period last year and the preceding quarter of this fiscal, low inventory cramped the sales of Tata Steel and JSPL, which reported a sequential decline in sales. Experts say that integrated players benefited from tight domestic supply of iron ore, which restricted smaller players from taking advantage of the healthy demand. A report by rating agency Icra noted that the share of the top six steel producers in total crude steel production, which remained at about 55 per cent historically, has risen to about 65 per cent in the recent months. Record utilisation Also, against the average industry capacity utilisation of 78 per cent for the period FY2016-FY2020, the top six steel producers have now touched a high of 85 per cent in October 2020, while the other producers are still operating at capacity utilisation rates of about 65 per cent. “These trends indicate the rising dominance of large steel players in the domestic industry and an adverse impact of the pandemic on the business performance of some of the smaller steel producers, which would find it difficult to operate at pre-Covid levels in the near term,” the Icra report pointed out. Price dynamics Benchmark hot rolled coil prices rallied Rs 13,800 per tonne during October-December to reach an unprecedented level of Rs 51,000 per tonne. However, the large players already made it clear that more rounds of hikes are on the cards given that domestic prices are still 6-8 per cent cheaper than the landed price of import. “We expect steel prices to remain high in the January-March 2021 quarter with a sequential price hike of Rs 7,000-8,500 per tonne,” a study by rating agency Crisil noted. While user industries — be it construction or engineering — have been asking the government to rein in the prices and found support from Union roadways minister Nitin Gadkari there has so far been no intervention. However, the vertically integrated players such as Tata Steel and SAIL would reap the benefit as the remaining players procure iron ore at the market price. NMDC’s iron ore prices more than doubled from May onwards and so have the prices of pellets (an iron ore intermediate) and scrap. From a low of Rs 1,960 a tonne in May, the prices of ore (64 per cent iron content) will go to Rs 4,360 a tonne. Apart from the tailwind of global prices, domestic shortage especially from Odisha, is supporting high ore prices and hurting capacity utilisation of smaller players. ICICI Securities pegged Tata Steel’s EBIDTA (standalone) at Rs 19,000 per tonne. However, the benign coking coal price will offer a cushion to large players that use the blast furnace route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
12-01-2021||Business||Amazon asks Sebi to suspend Future-RIL deal review||E-commerce major Amazon has written to Sebi yet again, apprising the market regulator of the formation of the arbitration tribunal at SIAC while urging it to suspend the review of the Rs 24,713-crore Future-RIL deal. It has also filed an appeal with the division bench of the Delhi high court against the December 21 order of the single-member bench, according to sources. On December 21, a single-member bench of the Delhi HC had rejected Future Group’s plea to restrain Amazon from writing to regulatory authorities about the SIAC (Singapore International Arbitration Centre) arbitral order but gave a go-ahead to the regulators to decide over the deal. The court had also made several observations indicating that Amazon’s attempt to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements Amazon has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be violative of the Fema FDI rules. Emails sent to Amazon and Future Group seeking response on these matters did not elicit a response. In its letter dated January 5, Amazon informed Sebi that the “Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has constituted the arbitral tribunal in the arbitration proceedings initiated by Amazon against inter alia FRL, Kishore Biyani and Rakesh Biyani”. Amazon also requested Sebi to suspend a “review of the impugned transaction as well as the scheme involving the impugned transaction, and not granting any no-objection” for the Future-RIL deal. The letter also urged the market regulator to direct the Indian stock exchanges not to issue any no-objection/approval letter to Future Retail Ltd (FRL). A three-member tribunal consisting Singaporean barrister Michael Hwang has been formed at SIAC. The other two members of the tribunal are Albert van den Berg and Jan Paulsson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
