13-01-2021||Business||Sensex ends marginally lower after choppy trade||Retreating from its record peak, equity benchmark Sensex ended 25 points lower after a volatile session on Wednesday as investors booked profits amid mixed cues from global markets. After gyrating over 721 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 24.79 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 49,492.32. It scaled a record intra-day peak of 49,795.19. The broader NSE Nifty inched up 1.40 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,564.85. The index touched a lifetime high of 14,653.35 during the day. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, ITC, NTPC, Bharti Airtel and ONGC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv, Titan, Sun Pharma and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities were volatile and gave-up early gains as profit booking was visible in a large number of stocks. "While contraction in November 2020 IIP data indicates more measures by FM in the budget to stimulate economic activities, better than anticipated softening in CPI data for December 2020 negates the looming concerns over low-interest rate scenarios. "We continue to believe that that a sharp rebound in high-frequency key economic data for December 2020 indicates demand revival, which bodes well for the markets. Further, 3Q FY21 corporate earnings are progressing well and are expected to sustain growth, which along with the weak dollar and soft monetary policy of global bankers should continue to attract FPIs into domestic equities," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.28 per cent higher at USD 56.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to new high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh intra-day peak in early trade on Wednesday, led by gains in ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Industries amid sustained foreign fund inflow. After touching a life-time high of 49,776.29 in early session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 201.65 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 49,718.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 70.55 points or 0.48 per cent to 14,634 in opening deals. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, SBI, ICICI Bank, M&M, NTPC, L&T and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Titan, Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's, TCS and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 49,517.11, and Nifty advanced 78.70 points or 0.54 per cent to a fresh closing peak of 14,563.45. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 571.47 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look firm and resilient. The contraction in IIP data indicates more measures by the Finance Minister in the Budget to stimulate economic activities. Similarly, better than anticipated softening in CPI data for December 2020 negates the looming concerns over low interest rate scenarios, he stated. "We still believe that a sharp rebound in high-frequency key economic data for December 2020 indicates demand revival, which bodes well for the markets. Further, 3QFY21 corporate earnings are progressing well and are expected to sustain growth, which along with the weak dollar and soft monetary policy of global bankers should continue to attract FPIs into domestic equities," he added. US equities ended slightly higher as investors remained hopeful about a large fiscal stimulus to be announced from the Biden administration. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.41 per cent higher at USD 57.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor ends lockout ||Toyota Kirloskar Motor has withdrawn the lockout at its plants at Bidadi after the law and order situation improved at the plants. The management had been forced to announce a second lock-out on November 23, 2020  as TKM Workers’ Union members continued with their strike. However, the company had resumed production with about 1,200 team members who had expressed their intention to work. After a recent meeting held between Ashwathnarayan, the deputy chief minister of the Karnataka, and the TKM management, the company decided to withdraw the lock-out. Both the plants have commenced production in two shifts from Tuesday. Employees returning to work are being made to sign an undertaking of good conduct. The suspension pending enquiry of 66 unionised employees for serious misconduct will continue and enquiries will be conducted, said a TKM spokesperson. The company had first declared a lockout on November 10 after workers protested the suspension of an office bearer of the union. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) is understood to have received a report from its investigation wing on complaints  made against Maruti Suzuki. The report said that Maruti Suzuki discouraged competition between dealers and it also sent decoy customers to see whether a dealer gave extra discount to customers. Tesla has registered its Indian arm amid indications that the company is set to enter the country's automobile market. The firm has registered Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd with RoC Bangalore. The company has been registered as an unlisted private entity with a paid up capital of Rs 1 lakh. Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein have been appointed as directors of Tesla India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Short-term bond yields jump||The sudden announcement by the Reserve Bank of India of a variable rate, term reverse repo auction to restore normal liquidity management operations has taken markets by surprise even as it has led to the shorter-tenor yields rising since Monday. Last Friday, the central bank had announced the normality of operations: as part of the process, it will hold a variable reverse repo auction on January 15 for Rs 2 lakh crore. Analysts and market participants were taken by surprise on the RBI’s move, especially as the apex bank did not express any concern about liquidity in the last monetary policy meet on December 4. On Monday, shorter term bond yields — they are inversely related to prices —  rose 10-15 basis points and their gains continued on Tuesday. There was also some impact on longer tenor security with yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rising around three basis points to 5.91 per cent. According to Anurag Mittal, senior fund manager, fixed income, IDFC AMC, in recent months, as system liquidity — banking system liquidity plus government cash balance — increased to over Rs 8 lakh because of RBI’s sterilisation of foreign exchange inflows, it led to considerable collapse in overnight rates. This caused concern amongst market participants and economic commentators including MPC members regarding policy efficacy and many market participants expected RBI to act in its December policy to correct this polarity. However, the central bank said that the fall in overnight rates was primarily due to “asymmetrical distribution” of liquidity. However, Madhavi Arora of Emkay feels the RBI action of gradually reverting to pre-Covid tools of liquidity management is unlikely to immediately alter the quantum of excess system liquidity. “The markets have been taken by surprise by the RBI’s statement on restoring normalcy on liquidity management.. Even as the shorter-tenor yields have shot up by around 10-15 basis points, we believe some of the knee-jerk reaction will reverse in the coming days,” Arora said. This is because the current policy aim is to only smoothen the distribution of liquidity (and not change its quantum) across the skewed yield curve. The liquidity stance is unlikely to diverge from the accommodative policy stance in the near term, especially as current liquidity deluge is not necessarily feeding into present inflation dynamics’’, Arora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp clears air on privacy||WhatsApp on Tuesday said its latest policy update does not affect the privacy of messages as the Facebook-owned company sought to address concerns around the security of user data on the platform. In a blogpost, WhatsApp emphasised that it does not share users’ contact lists or data of groups with Facebook for advertising purposes, and that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can read messages or hear calls between users on WhatsApp. “We want to be clear that the policy update does not affect the privacy of your messages with friends or family in any way. Instead, this update includes changes related to messaging a business on WhatsApp, which is optional, and provides further transparency about how we collect and use data,” WhatsApp said. Last week, WhatsApp had informed users of an update in its terms of service and privacy policy. It also stated that users will have to agree to the new terms and policy by February 8, 2021 to continue using WhatsApp's service. This kickstarted a spate of conversations and memes on the internet over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook, and many users have started shifting to rival platforms like Telegram and Signal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Index of industrial production contracts 1.9%||India’s industrial production entered the negative zone after two months with a year-on-year contraction of 1.9 per cent in November because of poor showing by the manufacturing and mining sectors, official data showed on Tuesday. Manufacturing — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — recorded a contraction of 1.7 per cent in November 2020, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output too witnessed a decline, shrinking 7.3 per cent. However, power generation grew 3.5 per cent in the month under review. The country’s industrial output had grown  2.1 per cent in November 2019 and 4.2 per cent (revised) in October 2020, the government data showed. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the Covid-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Among use-based industries, capital goods, which is an indicator for investment demand in the economy, slipped back into contraction of 7.1 per cent in November after registering a growth in October for the first time in 22 months. Both consumer durables and consumer non-durables also contracted 0.7 per cent each in November, signalling weakening demand. IIP for the April-November period has contracted 15.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal. Consumer durables output fell by 0.7 per cent compared with 1.4 per cent contraction in November 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 0.7 per cent, compared with a growth of 1.1 per cent a year ago. “The YoY (year-on-year) decline in industrial output seen in November 2020 is expected to be fleeting, with many lead indicators such as electricity demand, exports, ports cargo traffic and GST e-way bill generation portending a solid rebound in activity in December 2020,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. “The November data once again shows that the uptick witnessed in the month of September and October was due to a combination of festive and pent demand and the recovery is still shallow and fragile,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings & Research said. Among use-based industries, capital goods, which is an indicator for investment demand in the economy, slipped back into contraction of 7.1 per cent in November after registering growth in October for the first time in 22 months. Both consumer durables and consumer non-durables also contracted 0.7 each in November, signalling weakening demand. IIP for the April-November period has contracted 15.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Standard deduction hike on agenda||The government is considering a number of relief options to the salaried class in the budget, including raising the standard deduction by Rs 10,000-20,000 from the current level of Rs 50,000 and offering tax sops on the medical reimbursement provided by companies during Covid-19. The stimulus packages since the pandemic have little for the salaried despite them suffering from salary cuts, job losses and excess medical expenses while making adjustments for work from home. Several suggestions have been made to ease the burden of taxpayers and a few of these could find their way into finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget on February 1. The tax payers expected some relief, but what they got was an offer to spend their leave travel allowance (LTA) on the purchase of white goods, home appliances and other consumer products that attract a goods and services tax (GST) rate of 12 per cent and higher, which will be eligible for tax breaks. Analysts said the standard deduction limit for the salaried may be raised from the current Rs 50,000 to about Rs 60,000-70,000 per year because of the hardships faced during Covid-19. A standard deduction is given in lieu of deductions for expenses. This deduction was done away in 2004-2005 as part of a process to weed out various exemptions and make the taxation process simpler. However, the Finance Act, 2018 has introduced a standard deduction from salary income up to Rs 40,000 in lieu of the reimbursement of medical expenses and transport allowance; in 2019 it was raised to Rs 50,000 per annum. Industry chamber CII said there had been a significant rise of 70 per cent in the cost inflation index in general over the last five years, particularly medical inflation. “In light of the rising inflation, the limit for standard deduction for salaried employees should be substantially increased.” Ficci said the standard deduction should be increased to Rs 1 lakh, which will take into consideration the higher expenditure on account of work from home. Assocham said the current Rs 50,000 exemption does not provide substantial relief to the salaried individuals. “Standard deduction is not meaningful to a large number of salaried tax payers as a substantial portion of the deduction is offset by the levy of additional cess of 1 per cent which was levied vide Finance Act, 2018.” It said there is a strong case for Budget 2021 to increase the quantum of standard deduction. According to Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia and Co LLP, some companies did reimburse their employees for additional medical expenditure during Covid-19. However, the employees were required to pay tax. “The government should on exceptional basis allow deduction for such expenditure incurred by the individuals  on setting up of home office or for testing/ treatment of Covid-19,” he said. Such deduction can be in form on actual amount of reimbursement subject to some maximum cap, or it can be in form of an additional standard deduction as well,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia and Co LLP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Sensex eyes 50000 as tech sector booms||The mood in the market remained bullish on Tuesday as the Sensex closed just 483 points short of 50000. The early morning wobble sparked by the RBI’s warning of a dramatic surge in bad loans on the books of banks in its latest Financial Stability Report dissipated very quickly by mid-morning. Bank stocks were subdued in the morning but then rose sharply as the market shook off these concerns as it eagerly turned to a steady stream of terrific numbers expected from IT giants Infosys and Wipro and talk that the government may create a bad bank to house stressed debt. Observers do not rule out the possibility of the buying momentum picking up on Wednesday as retail inflation in December 2020 came within the RBI’s band. CPI inflation stood at 4.59 per cent in December, which is the lowest reading since March last year. The pleasant surprise could give the RBI the much needed room to cut interest rates further. The 30-share Sensex opened marginally lower at 49228.26 and hit a intra-day low of 49079.57 as banking counters saw some selling. However, the mood changed post noon and the gauge surged to its all-time peak of 49569.14 because of the robust buying in index heavyweights Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. The index finally finished at its new closing record of 49517.11, up 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.70 points, or 0.54 per cent, to close above the 14500 mark at a new peak of 14563.45. It scaled a record level of 14590.65 during the session. “Today, after a long underperformance, the RIL stock led from the front along with few banking heavyweights. Every day some new theme comes up to keep up the momentum, but since the last couple of sessions, it is observed that individual stocks are witnessing some profit booking as well. Hence, one needs to be very selective and look for trading opportunities on the both sides of trend,’’ said Sameet Chavan, chief analyst-technical and derivatives at Angel Broking. Sector-wise, BSE telecom, realty, energy, oil and gas, utilities, auto and finance indices rose as much as 2.85 per cent, while consumer durables, healthcare, capital goods and FMCG saw losses. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices climbed up to 0.44 per cent. Global markets were mixed following negative cues from Wall Street and rising Covid-19 cases in many countries. In Asia, key indices in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. ``The pace of the market rally continued despite RBI’s caution over elevated NPA levels in 2021, supported by PSU Banks and Auto stocks.  Majority of the sectors traded in the green in anticipation of good quarterly result while pharma and FMCG experienced some selling. US bond yield has changed its trajectory to a rising trend, which could impact EMs in the future. But FII inflows are strong and the dollar continues to be weak’’, Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial services added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Income tax return last date stays||The Union finance ministry has rejected a demand raised by tax practitioners to extend the last date of the filing of income tax returns. However, assessees who skip the due date may have to pay a late fee, tax experts feel. Last month, the government had extended the income tax return filing deadline. For individual taxpayers who are required to get their accounts audited and companies the due date for filing returns was pushed to February 15, 2021. For all other individual taxpayers, the due date was extended to January 10, 2021. “CBDT passes order u/s 119 of Income-tax Act, 1961 in F No. 370153/39/2020-TPL dated January 11, 2021, disposing of the representations for extension of due date for filing of Audit Report u/s 44AB, in compliance with the order of hon’ble Gujarat High Court dated January 8, 2021,” the income tax department said in a tweet. This was in response to the Gujarat High Court order dated January 8, 2021 in the case of The All India Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants versus Union of India, which had directed the finance ministry to look into the issue of extension of due dates for filing of audit reports under Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act. The finance ministry identified three reasons for not extending the dates. First, the due dates of filing return and tax audit has already been extended on three occasions. Second, citing examples of the US, the UK, Australia, South Africa, the Netherlands, Ireland, Singapore, Canada and Brazil, the government said that the extension in India has been more generous. Finally, the government also gave the return filing statistics of the current year indicating that returns filed in this financial year already exceeds the numbers expected on the last date of filing of returns. “It should also be appreciated that filing of tax returns/audit reports are essential part of the obligations of the assessee and cannot be delayed indefinitely. Many functions of the Income Tax department start only after filing of the returns by the assessee,” said a statement from the finance ministry. “Sufficient time has already been given to taxpayers to file their tax returns and a large number of taxpayers have already filed their returns of income,” the statement said. Section 234F of the Income Tax Act provides for levy of late fee in case of an assessee whose gross income is above Rs 2,50,000 and is mandatorily required to file the tax return and he has not filed his return within due date or filed a delayed return. Late fee of Rs 10,000 will apply in case total income exceeds Rs 5 lakh and Rs 1,000 in case total income is within Rs 5 lakh. Narayan Jain, chairman, Income Tax Co-ordination Committee of All India Federation of Tax Practitioners, urged the finance minister to waive the late fee in case ITR for assessment year 2020-21 is filed by  March 31, 2021 so that the undue burden is mitigated. According to an estimate by a professional body, possible short filing or delayed filing returns are likely to be 3 crore and the department may collect late fee of Rs 30,000 crore under section 234F of Income Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Retail inflation dips to 14-month low||Retail inflation tumbled to a 14 month low of 4.59 per cent amid a dramatic fall in vegetable prices and contraction in overall food prices. Analysts in a Reuters poll had predicted inflation of 5.28 per cent. The inflation, based on Consumer Price Index and closely monitored by the RBI for its monetary policy action, has come within the central bank’s tolerance limit of 2-6 per cent for the first time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, economists said this might not prompt the RBI to cut its policy rates immediately. Retail inflation was the lowest since September 2019, data released by the ministry of statistics on Tuesday showed. It stood at 6.93 per cent in November. Food prices, which make up nearly half of the inflation basket, increased 3.41 per cent in December from a year earlier, against 9.43 per cent in November. Vegetable prices fell 10.41 per cent, while cereals rose just 0.98 per cent. However, protein inflation (meat and fish) remains high  at 15.21 per cent and eggs at 16.08 per cent. Other items in the food basket showing high trends include oil and fats (20.05 per cent) and pulses (15.98 per cent). Economists said the RBI would keep a close watch on core inflation — which excludes food and energy — as the economy recovered in the months ahead. “The core-CPI inflation eased modestly to 5.5 per cent in December 2020, broadly in line with our expectations, driven by miscellaneous items. With global and domestic demand expected to strengthen with the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, the core-CPI inflation may remain relatively sticky, and display a limited correction going forward,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. “We continue to expect the stance of the RBI Monetary Policy Committee to be changed to neutral from accommodative only after there is greater certainty on the durability of the awaited economic revival.” Health inflation shot up to a 15-month high of 6 per cent because of Covid-19. While fuel and light inflation increased to 3.2 per cent, transport and communication inflation declined to 9.3 per cent. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research, said the higher core inflation was not driven by demand factors despite the economy recovering from the lows of the first quarter. Major contributors to higher core inflation are health and recreation and amusement, he said. “However, the good part is that it has declined marginally in November 2020. On a quarterly basis 3QFY21 core inflation peaked to a eight quarter high of 5.75 per cent.” Major contributors to higher core inflation are health, and recreation and amusement. “in view of growth concerns, the RBI is expected to continue its accommodative policy stance and maintain status quo on policy rate in the forthcoming monetary policy review while keeping a close eye on the Union budget to ascertain the government’s fiscal stance,” he said. “The statistical advantage of a markedly favourable base, that has now kicked in, will also help the headline CPI prints over the current quarter. Today’s CPI print largely reflects normalization of the inflation picture as the bulk of the inflation spike earlier during H2 2020 came in from surging food inflation, even though prices of industrial commodities and energy were largely anchored reflecting weak demand," Siddhartha Sanyal, Chief Economist and Head of Research, Bandhan Bank said. RBI has slashed its main repo rate by 115 basis points since March 2020 to cushion the shock from the coronavirus crisis, but left rates unchanged last month. “The focus is now being oriented towards supporting the recovery and preserving the solvency of businesses and households,” RBI said in a report released on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
