14-01-2021||Business||Ready to answer all queries of govt, says WhatsApp ||Under fire over its recent privacy policy update, WhatsApp on Thursday said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and is aware that the company will have to "compete" for users' trust with rivals such as Signal. In an interview to PTI, WhatsApp Head Will Cathcart said the Facebook-owned company remains committed to privacy and security of users across India and will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted. Rival messaging platforms such as Signal and Telegram had seen a phenomenal rise in downloads soon after WhatsApp sought user consent to its updated privacy policy that seeks to share some data with Facebook. "We know we have to compete for users' trust when it comes to privacy and that's very good for the world. People should have choices in how they communicate and feel confident that no one else can see their chats," Cathcart said. Asked if WhatsApp had seen an exodus of users to rival apps like Signal and Telegram, Cathcart answered in negative. "No. We're grateful that people continue to use and trust WhatsApp to communicate...We think competition on privacy is good because it will help make apps even more private and secure in the future," he added. The comments come in the backdrop of a raging debate over WhatsApp's controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. Asked if the government has sought clarification on the matter, Cathcart said: "We remain available to answer any questions and to explain our continued commitment to the privacy and security of users across India." According to sources, the government is examining and evaluating the recent privacy policy update announced by WhatsApp and discussions are on within the IT Ministry over the implications of the recent move by the messaging platform. In past years, WhatsApp has drawn flak from the government over misuse of the platform for the spread of misinformation. Since then, the Facebook-owned company has taken a number of steps to curb the spread of hate messages. Cathcart also noted that WhatsApp will also continue to explain to people and its partners how the platform protects the privacy and security of people's personal messages. He asserted that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can read users' messages or hear their calls with others on the messaging platform. He also clarified that the changes will not impact WhatsApp Payments as that has a separate privacy policy governing it. WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy, through an in-app notification last week. Users have till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. This led to a user backlash and triggered memes on the internet over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook. Many users have also started shifting to rival platforms, and apps like Telegram and Signal have seen millions of downloads globally in the immediate aftermath of the event. Cathcart argued that some apps claim to have end-to-end encryption for group chats, and do no such thing. He emphasised that WhatsApp's policy update does not affect the privacy of messages with friends or family in any way. We're not keeping logs of who everyone in India is texting or calling. We do not share your contacts with Facebook or the other apps Facebook offers...You can download your account information right from WhatsApp to see for yourself the limited data we collect, he added. Instead, this update includes changes related to messaging a business on WhatsApp, which is optional, and provides further transparency about how data is collected and used, he said. "This has become all the more important over the last year with people needing to conduct commerce remotely," Cathcart said adding that WhatsApp works with Facebook to support millions of micro-businesses around India. Cathcart further stated that the company is building new ways in the near term for people to shop on WhatsApp for businesses to manage and respond to messages. When launched, this will be available to all, but it will be people's choice whether or not to choose to do so, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh record highs||Resuming its record-setting streak, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 92 points on Thursday, led by gains in index majors TCS, Reliance Industries and L&T amid a positive trend in global markets. Recovering from a shaky start, the 30-share BSE index ended 91.84 points or 0.19 per cent higher at its new lifetime closing high of 49,584.16. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 30.75 points or 0.21 per cent to finish at a record 14,595.60. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, L&T, ITC, HUL, Reliance Industries and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Axis Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and Infosys were among the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed a brisk recovery from the day's low mainly led by a rebound in FMCG and pharma stocks, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT index has been most surprising as profit-booking was visible in many IT stocks despite strong Q3 numbers and upbeat guidance shared by the management. "We believe the underlying strength of the market remains intact and any correction in the market is likely to be bought out. A sustained recovery in key economic data for Dec'20, better-than-expected 3Q FY21 corporate earnings so far and upbeat managements' commentaries continue to augur well for the market," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the positive territory, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.12 per cent lower at USD 55.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday led by heavy selling in index-heavyweights Infosys, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. The 30-share BSE index was trading 154.21 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,338.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 47.45 points or 0.33 per cent to 14,517.40 in opening deals. According to traders, profit-booking at higher levels is keeping benchmark indices volatile. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ITC, L&T, Bajaj Auto and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 24.79 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 49,492.32, while Nifty inched up 1.40 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,564.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,879.06 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. On the earnings front, Infosys on Wednesday posted a 16.6 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 5,197 crore for the December 2020 quarter, and increased its revenue growth guidance for FY21 to 4.5-5 per cent on the back of large project wins and strong deal pipeline. "We believe underlying strength of the market remains intact and any correction in the market will be bought out. Sustained recovery in key economic data for Dec'20, better-than-expected 3QFY21 corporate earnings so far and upbeat management commentaries continue to augur well for the market," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US stocks mostly finished marginally higher as investors remained focused on higher fiscal stimulus from US president-elect Joe Biden's administration. "However, development around the possible impeachment of president Donald Trump is unlikely to have any meaningful impact on markets. Further, remarks by Fed's Brainard about continuity of broad-based bond buying program for quite sometimes offered comfort to equities," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent lower at USD 55.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Wipro net profit jumps 21%||Wipro on Wednesday joined its peers in reporting a healthy set of numbers for the third quarter of the fiscal ended December 31, 2020. The Bangalore-based firm reported a 21 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 2,968 crore against Rs 2,455.9 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Increased  technology spending by clients during the pandemic has benefited companies such as Wipro. The momentum is only expected to accelerate with enterprises demanding more services such as cloud and going digital to connect better with customers. During the quarter, Wipro saw its revenues from operations rise 1.28 per cent to Rs 15,670 crore from Rs 15,470.5 crore in the year-ago period. On a sequential basis, revenues grew almost 4 per cent. The revenues were ahead of analysts’ estimates of a little over Rs 15, 300 crore. Revenues from IT services rose 3.9 per cent over the preceding three months to a 36-quarter high of $2,071 million from $1,992.4 million. Wipro expects revenues from the IT segment to rise to $2,102-2,143 million in the March quarter, which translates to a sequential growth of 1.5- 3.5 per cent. Another positive element was the better show on the margin front. Margins in its IT services business expanded 234 basis points over the preceding quarter to 21.7 per cent. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors of the company declared an interim dividend of Re 1 per share. This was higher than estimates made by analysts at ICICI securities who expected it to come at 19.5 per cent. ``Wipro has delivered asecond consecutivequarter of strong performance on order booking, revenue and margins. Five of oursectors grew over 4% sequentially. We closed our largest ever deal win in Continental Europe. The demand environment is steadily improving, especially for digital transformation, digital operations, and cloud services’’, Thierry Delaporte, CEO and Managing Director, Wipro said while commenting on the performance of Wipro during the quarter. In terms of performance by verticals, key segments like banking, financial services & insurance saw revenues in constant currency terms rising by 1.2 per cent on a sequential basis. Other client segments like energy & natural resources, health business unit, and manufacturing also witnessed better growth ranging from 4-5.2 per cent. In terms of geographies, Europe led the performance charts as it showed a sequential rise of 8.6 per cent and it was followed by the Americas at 2.3 per cent. Shares of Wipro today settled with gains of 0.23 per cent at Rs 458.75 in the BSE before the results announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Indian Railway Finance Corporation sets price band at Rs 25-26||Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), a public sector undertaking under the railways ministry, on Wednesday fixed the price band at Rs 25-26 per equity share for its Rs 4,600-crore initial public offering (IPO). The offer will comprise up to 178.2 crore shares of face value of Rs 10 each. The IPO includes a fresh issue of up to 118.8 crore shares (fresh issue) and an offer for sale of up to 59.4 crore equity shares by the President of India, acting through the ministry of railways. Thus, the government is expected to mobilise Rs 1,544 crore at the upper price band. The government has set a target of raising Rs 2.1 lakh crore through divestment in the current financial year. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||RBI lens on online loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday formed a working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities to help it implement an appropriate regulatory framework. The move comes amid rising incidents of harassments related to online lending which lead to some persons committing suicide after they were unable to repay the online money lender. The total number of suicides triggered by harassment by instant app-based lenders rose to six in Telangana. Last month, the regulator had cautioned people not to fall prey to the unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps. The lenders charged excessive rates of interest along with additional hidden charges and adopted unacceptable and high-handed recovery methods, reports said. They also misused agreements to access data on the mobile phones of the borrowers. “Against this backdrop, a working group is being set up to study all aspects of digital lending activities in the regulated financial sector as well as by unregulated players so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place,” the RBI said in a statement. The working group will be chaired by RBI executive director Jayant Kumar Dash. The other internal members are Ajay Kumar Choudhary (CGM-in-charge, department of supervision, RBI), P Vasudevan (CGM, department of payment and settlement systems) and Manoranjan Mishra (CGM, department of regulation). The external members are Vikram Mehta (co-founder, Monexo Fintech) and Rahul Sasi (cyber security expert and founder of CloudSEK). The working group will submit its report within three months. ``While penetration of digital methods in the financial sector is a welcome development, the benefits and certain downside risks are often interwoven in such endeavours," the RBI noted. As per the Terms of Reference (ToR) for the WG, it has been asked evaluate digital lending activities and assess the penetration and standards of outsourced digital lending activities in RBI regulated entities, and identify risks posed by unregulated digital lending to financial stability, regulated entities and consumers. The panel has also been asked to suggest regulatory changes, if any, to promote orderly growth of digital lending. The panel would also be recommending a robust fair practices code for digital lending players and suggesting measures for enhanced consumer protection. ``This is an excellent starting point, and forms a very promising premise for the times to come. Considering the importance of digital lending towards the financial inclusion in the Indian economy on one hand, and the regulations and best practices required to ensure a transparent & favourable ecosystem for all stakeholders on the other, a move like this from RBI is much appreciated’’, Madhusudan Ekambaram, Co-Founder & CEO, KreditBee and Co-Founder, FACE (Fintech Association for Consumer Empowerment) said while commenting on the move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Infosys profit up 16%, raises guidance||Infosys on Wednesday beat Street estimates, raised revenue guidance for the current fiscal and expressed confidence of a double digit growth in 2021-22. Buoyed by large deal wins and clients opting for digital transformation in a pandemic-stricken world, the country’s second largest IT services firm has posted a 16.6 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 5,197 crore for the December quarter of 2020 compared with Rs 4,457 crore in the corresponding previous period. Analysts had expected the company to post net profits of around Rs 5,000 crore. Revenues also came ahead of forecasts as it gained 12.2 per cent over the year ago period to Rs 25,927 crore from Rs 23,092 crore. In dollar terms, the topline showed a rise of 6.2 per cent at $3.5 billion. Brokerages such as Emkay had expected the dollar revenues to come in at $3.4 billion. In constant currency terms, the revenues showed a rise of 6.6 per cent. An optimistic Infosys raised the revenue and margin forecast for this fiscal. It now expects revenue to grow 4.5-5 per cent in constant currency terms compared with its previous estimate of 2-3 per cent growth. The operating margin guidance was raised to 24-24.5 per cent against the earlier 23-24 per cent. At a virtual press conference after the results were announced, Infosys CEO and MD Salil Parekh said the company was confident about achieving a double digit growth in the next fiscal. He pointed out that the strong performance during the third quarter, which is seasonally a weak period for the sector, came as its extreme focus on offerings like digital and cloud yielded good dividends. He added that a key highlight of the quarter was a record $7.13 billion that came in from large deal signings. This included the massive deal with Daimler for a technology-driven IT infrastructure transformation. During the quarter, Infosys had also entered into a strategic partnership with Rolls-Royce to source engineering and R&D services for the latter’s civil aerospace business. Parekh pointed out that enterprises are now spending on activities like cloud and that Infosys is well prepared to tap this trend even as pricing remains stable. During the third quarter, digital offerings accounted for little over 50 per cent of Infosys revenues, up from 40.6 per cent in the year ago period. In terms of verticals, financial services which accounts for 33 per cent of Infosys’ topline reported a 12 per cent rise in constant currency revenues  over the same period of last year. Hi-tech led the growth charts as it reported an increase of 17.4 per cent while life sciences saw 11 per cent growth. Ahead of the numbers, Infosys hit a fresh 52-week high of Rs 1392.70, but ended off these peaks at 1387.70-a gain of 1.16 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Government to divest 10% in SAIL||The Centre has decided to offload up to a 10 per cent share of public sector steel maker Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) through the  offer-for-sale route, raising at least Rs 2,643 crore. The OFS, which will hit the market on Thursday, will have a floor price of Rs 64 a share. The offer price comes at a 14 per cent discount to the closing rate on Wednesday. The government holds a 75 per cent stake in the PSU. The offer is being broken down into two parts. Non retail shareholders will be able to subscribe to the issue on Thursday, while retail shareholders will be able to participate only on Friday. The Centre appears to be taking the benefit of the rally in the market, especially in the steel stocks. On the back of a record price of the alloy in the market and gross margin, the scrips have rallied. Over the last three months, the SAIL stock has more than doubled. From a low of Rs 32.8 on October 15, it touched a high of Rs 80.35 on January 5. It closed at Rs 74.70, down Rs 1.20, or 1.75 per cent, on Wednesday. SAIL, along with Tata Steel, are likely to be the biggest beneficiaries of the steel boom as they are the only two companies who do not have to buy iron ore at the market price, having their own captive mines. Moreover, they also have coking coal mines, which partly meet their requirement. During the third quarter, the company posted growth both in terms of production and sales over the preceding quarter and the same period last quarter. Total sales stood at 4.32 million tonnes compared with 4.21 million tonnes in the second quarter and 4.09 million tonnes a year ago. The record margin also helped the company to strengthen the balance sheet of the company. SAIL has significantly reduced the net debt from a peak of Rs 52,290 crore  on April 30, 2020 to Rs 44,308 crore on December 31, 2020, down Rs 7,982 crore. The company, under the new chairperson Soma Mondal, says the efforts to deleverage further would continue. The company may be aided by a further uptick in prices. While benchmark hot-rolled coil prices rallied by Rs 13,800 per tonne during October-December to reach an unprecedented level of Rs 51,000 per tonne, there may still be 6-8 per cent upside left. The bigger players have made it clear that more rounds of hikes are on the cards given that domestic prices are still 6-8 per cent cheaper than the landed price of imports. “We expect steel prices to remain high in the January-March 2021 quarter with a sequential price hike of Rs 7,000-8,500 per tonne,” a study by rating agency Crisil noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Union cabinet clears mine reforms||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved reforms in mining that will double mineral production in the next 4-5 years. The amendments do away with the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and  allowing transfer of mining leases. A comprehensive licence for exploration and production, clarity in illegal mining, national mineral index and joint auctions of bauxite and coal mines for the aluminium sector are some of the other proposals that have been approved by the cabinet. These reforms will be implemented through an amendment to the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 for which a bill will be placed in Parliament, sources said. With the approval of the proposal for reforms, legacy issues related to the mines will be resolved, making a large number of mines available for auctions. It will help strengthen the auction-only regime and boost transparency in the system. “It will require an amendment in section 10A (2)(b) and 10A (2)(c) of the MMDR Act,” a source said. The reforms include removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and introduction of an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for various statutory payments, among others. In order to boost exploration, there will be a review of the functioning of the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET). NMET will be made an autonomous body. Private entities will also be engaged in exploration works now. Simplification of exploration regime will also be done to facilitate seamless transition from exploration to production. Approval has also been given for amendments to be made in the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) guidelines. The amendments are aimed at spending DMF funds on people living in directly affected areas. "These funds are intended to be utilised better with more visible outcomes," the source said. Local Member of Parliament (MP) will be a member of the DMF Governing Council. "Captive mines will be allowed to sell up to 50 per cent of the minerals excavated during the current year. Based on the experience in the coal sector, it has been proposed to provide 50 per cent rebate in the quoted revenue share for the quantity of mineral produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production," the source said. Based on wide consultation with various stakeholders comprising states, ministries, industry associations, public consultation and NITI Aayog, it was felt that only major structural reforms can help India become ''Aatmanirbhar'' in the mineral sector, sources said. The major objective of the reforms is to generate huge employment opportunities, reduce imports and increase production by bringing large mineral blocks into auction. The government had last month said the country's mining sector will see "hectic activity" in the new year. "The year 2021 will see hectic activity on the mining side because the reforms which have been in waiting for some time, they (reforms) are likely to be approved in the month of January which will involve some changes in the MMDR Act and some changes in the rules, all meant to liberate the sector," Mines Secretary Anil Kumar Jain had said. "It is going to bring into play a large number of mining blocks so the production in most of the minerals resources will see quantum jump because of these mines which will become available for interested parties in the calendar year 2021," he had added Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme, the Centre had in May last year announced enhancing private investments in the mineral sector and bringing in other reforms. The mines ministry had proposed legislative amendments to the MMDR Act, 1957 for undertaking structural reforms with the objective of accelerating growth and employment generation. They are also aimed at resolving legacy issues to move towards an auction-only regime for allocation of mineral resources, removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines, developing a transparent National Mineral Index and clarifying the definition of illegal mining, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Essar Group hydrogen fuel plan in UK||Essar Group in partnership with clean energy specialist Progressive Energy will invest £750 million to build the UK’s biggest low carbon hydrogen production hub at Stanlow refinery in Ellesmere Port, Cheshire. The investment in the two plants will be part of the HyNet scheme, a project to supply low carbon hydrogen to industrial sites and homes in north-west England. “The joint venture will manufacture hydrogen at the refinery for use across the HyNet region,” the firms said in a statement. The plants would be built next to Essar’s Stanlow refinery in north-west England. Natural and fuel gas from the refinery will be converted into low carbon hydrogen, with carbon dioxide captured and stored in depleted undersea gas fields 60 km offshore in Liverpool Bay. The refinery will be converted to burn hydrogen instead of natural gas. “It (the project) will provide Essar Oil UK with low carbon hydrogen to decarbonise its own energy demand in addition to creating a hydrogen economy across North West England and North East Wales,” the statement said. The first plant should open in 2025 while the second is expected in 2027. The hydrogen production hub will deliver clean energy to the industry in the HyNet “low carbon cluster”, as well as to fuel buses, trains, heavy goods vehicles and to heat homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Amazon Prime for mobiles at Rs 89||Amazon on Wednesday announced its first mobile-only Prime Video plan at a starting price of Rs 89 per month as it looks to woo entertainment-hungry smartphone users in the country. The single-user plan will initially be available for Bharti Airtel’s prepaid users, the company said. After a 30-day free trial, the Rs 89 for 28-day plan will come with 6 gigabytes of data. The introduction of the mobile-only plans in India is a global first for the company that competes against players such as Netflix, Disney+Hotstar and Zee5. “India is one of our fastest growing markets globally with very high engagement rates. We want to double-down on our efforts and reach out to an even larger audience. Powered by affordable data, smartphones have become the preferred screen for entertainment in India,” Amazon Prime Video India director and country general manager Gaurav Gandhi said. He, however, declined to comment on the number of subscribers of Amazon Prime Video in India. Amazon Prime Video rival Netflix introduced a similar mobile-only subscription plan in India for Rs 199 last year. As part of the Prime Video Mobile Edition launch in India, all Airtel customers on bundled prepaid packs can avail a 30-day free trial by signing up to Amazon from the Airtel Thanks app using their mobile number. After the 30 day-free trial, Airtel customers can access Prime Video Mobile Edition through prepaid recharges starting at Rs 89 for 28-day access to the service along with 6GB data. The recharges will be available on the Airtel Thanks app. Bringing in mobile-only plans helps content streaming platforms tap larger audiences, especially in smaller towns and those consuming content on the go. Prime Video Mobile Edition is a single-user mobile-only plan, providing SD (standard definition) quality streaming to customers which is created especially for a mobile-first country such as India, Gandhi said. Customers who want features such as multi-user access, streaming across devices, including smart TVs and HD/UHD content along with access to Prime benefits such as Prime Music and free fast delivery on Amazon.in can recharge with a 30-day Amazon Prime membership at Rs 131 or recharge with a Rs 349 pack of 28-day validity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Delhi HC seeks Future Retail reply on Amazon’s plea||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd (FRL) on Amazon’s plea challenging the prima facie observations by a single judge that the US e-commerce giant’s attempt to control the Indian entity was violative of Fema and FDI rules. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to FRL, Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), Reliance Retail and the Biyanis seeking their stand on the plea by Amazon against the observations made by the single judge in a December 21, 2020 interim order. Amazon has sought setting aside of the observations as they have a bearing on its case in arbitration proceedings that were initiated before the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The US firm, represented by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, has contended that the observations are inconsistent with the findings in the SIAC emergency arbitral order of October 25, 2020 against FRL’s asset sale with Reliance Retail. “The respondent 1 (FRL) has been relying on these prima facie observations to misconstrue the true import of the impugned order in an effort to mislead regulators to grant approval to the potential transaction, which has constrained the appellant to file the present appeal to quash the prime facie observations as set out in detail in the appeal,” Amazon has said. It has also contended in its appeal that the observations in the December 21, 2020 order “effectively resulted in allowing FRL to collaterally bypass the EA order”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Sops likely for electric cars||Electric vehicle makers can expect a bouquet of sops in the budget to realise the government’s ambition to have 30 per cent of such cars on the roads in another 10 years. The government plans to incentivise their manufacture along with import duty reliefs that include bringing semi-finished form of batteries at concessional rates. The car industry also expects finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to put more money into the hands of consumers which would result in higher sales. With the leading electric car maker Tesla registering its Indian subsidiary with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) in Bangalore, the prospects of Elon Musk bringing the first Tesla Model-3 to India 14 years after its first launch in the US appears to become a reality. This is likely to intensify competition as car makers such as Mahindra and Mahindra, Tata Motors and Maruti as well as startups such as  Pravaig Dynamics and Tork Motors are set to roll out their models. Finance ministry officials said there could be a marginal duty hike to incentivise domestic manufacturing. In the last budget, the government had increased the basic customs duty on electric vehicles by 5 per cent to 15 per cent. As the localisation is low in the EV segment compared with internal combustion engines, analysts said “the government could announce some direct financial support under the proposed  production-linked incentives scheme or by increasing duties on the imported EV (electric vehicle) components”. Sources said the government can follow a two-pronged strategy:raise the import duty on parts that can be manufactured locally; and in turn offer zero customs duty on the parts that will be used for the local parts. The government may also allow the import of EV parts at concessional duty for after-market service obligations and allow the import of battery charger at a concessional duty by expanding the condition of import to “for use in manufacture or providing charging facility of a hybrid/electric vehicle”. The government has announced the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for 10 sectors, including automobiles, to boost in-house manufacturing. The scheme has allocated nearly Rs 57,000 crore to the auto industry and another Rs 18,100 crore to boost the production of advanced chemistry cell batteries (lithium-ion batteries). However, the eligibility details are still to be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||CESC plans to rejig business||CESC Ltd is taking another shot at consolidating its power distribution business under one umbrella — but with a twist — after aborting such a plan more than two years back. The board of the company, the flagship of the RP-SG Group, met on Wednesday to approve a plan to ‘reorient and reorganise’ the power distribution business under a wholly owned step down subsidiary, Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd, sans the Calcutta licence area. Under the present plan, three distribution franchisees in Rajasthan — Kota, Bharatpur and Bikaner — and one each in Maharashtra (Malengaon) and Uttar Pradesh (Noida) will be put under Eminent, apart from any other distribution business that may come up in the future. Noida, as part of the national capital region, is the most profitable among the businesses the company has ventured into over the years. It managed to turn around two of the Rajasthan distribution franchisees as well. Put together, Eminent will have a top-line upward of Rs 3,500 crore. In 2018, CESC had hatched a grand plan to split the company into four separate entities — power generation, power distribution, retail and new business, and had received an approval from the National Company Law Tribunal. However, the West Bengal State Electricity Regulatory Commission threw a spanner into the plan, vetoing the separation of the Calcutta distribution business, the oldest and most profitable part of the company, from CESC. After waiting for months to get an approval, CESC decided to go ahead with a three-way separation, keeping the entire power business under one roof. In the previous avatar, the distribution businesses were to be put under a company and be listed. However, there is no indication if Eminent will be listed. CESC on Wednesday announced an interim dividend of Rs 45 a share. ICICI Securities said the dividend yield works out to 6.7 per cent of the current market price. The payout is highest in CESC’s history. The December quarter consolidated  profit rose 25 per cent Rs 328 crore from Rs 263 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations rose to Rs 2,539 crore from Rs 2,344 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
