15-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 549 points to end at 49,034.67||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 549 points on Friday, dragged by losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a largely negative trend in global markets. Profit-booking at higher levels kept benchmark indices volatile, traders said. The 30-share BSE index ended 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent lower at 49,034.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,433.70. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, ONGC, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and HDFC. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finance were the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed sharp pullback with increased volatility. "However, we are not surprised with the day's fall as this was broadly expected as benchmark indices had been marking fresh highs for last couple of days, which made valuations quite stretched," he said. He also noted that any meaningful correction is likely to be bought out in the subsequent period as underlying strength of the market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the negative territory in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.77 per cent lower at USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and TCS amid weak cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 246.16 points or 0.50 per cent lower at 49,338. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 67.65 points or 0.46 per cent to 14,527.95 in opening deals. Profit-booking at higher levels is keeping benchmark indices volatile, traders said. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, NTPC, Titan, Nestle India and ONGC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended at its new lifetime high of 49,584.16, up 91.84 points or 0.19 per cent, and Nifty rose 30.75 points or 0.21 per cent to finish at a record 14,595.60. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,076.62 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be encouraging at the moment. "While the underlying strength of the market remains intact, it appears to be a bit tiring from the last couple of days and may see some amount of pullback in the coming days. "However, the announcement of higher fiscal stimulus in the US and soft stance of global central bankers about their monetary policies along with a weak dollar will continue to attract FPIs to Indian equities," he said. US markets ended with modest correction in the final hour of trade ahead of the announcement of the coronavirus relief plan by President-elect Joe Biden. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong was trading in the positive zone. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent lower at USD 56.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Passenger vehicle wholesales increase 13.59 per cent||Passenger vehicle wholesales increased 13.59 per cent to 252,998 units in December, auto industry body SIAM said on Thursday. SIAM director-general Rajesh Menon said the rise in sales come over a very low base of December 2019. Passenger vehicle sales in December 2019 stood at 222,728 units. Two-wheeler sales also rose 7.42 per cent to 11,27,917 units compared with 10,50,038 in December 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors unveils the new Tata Safari||Tata Motors on Thursday unveiled the new Tata Safari, which is based on the Gravitas — an SUV showcased at an auto expo last year. The company has revived the name Tata Safari for its flagship sports utility vehicle, which is now ready for production. The seven-seater SUV sports minor changes over the Gravitas in the grille and the headlights. The new Safari builds on its legacy and combines it with Tata Motors’ Impact 2.0 design and the the capability of OMEGARC, an architecture derived from the D8 platform of the Land Rover. This adaptive architecture allows for further enhancements in future, including all-wheel drive and an electric version. Tata Motors will open the bookings of the Safari soon. On Thursday, it rolled out the first new Safari from its Pune plant. Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD of Tata Motors, said, “The Safari is our flagship offering to connect the aspirations of the discerning and evolved Indian customer. It had introduced India to the SUV lifestyle and in its new avatar, will carry forward this rich idea to build further its legacy. We look forward to making the Safari rule the Indian roads once again.” Tata Motors has also launched the Tata Safari Imaginator suite, which uses augmented reality to give customers a tour of the Safari. The new Tata Safari will borrow the 170hp, 2.0-litre Kryotec turbo-diesel engine from the Harrier. It also shares Harrier’s alloy wheels but the Safari is about 63mm longer and 80mm taller than the Harrier. It is expected to be priced higher than the Harrier, which retails at Rs 13.84-20.30 lakh (ex-showroom). The new Tata Safari will face competition from other seven-seater models such as the MG Hector Plus, the current generation Mahindra XUV 500 and Hyundai’s new seven seater SUV based on the Creta. Mahindra XUV is due for a new version later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Govt sale of 5 per cent shareholding in SAIL subscribed 3.6 times on opening||The government’s sale of its 5 per cent shareholding in SAIL was subscribed 3.6 times on its opening day on Thursday. Enthused by the response, the government decided to exercise the greenshoe option of another 20.65 crore shares, or 5 per cent of the total equity. Over 74.74 crore shares were sought by non-retail investors at the close of trading hours, stock exchange data showed. The shares sought were 362 per cent of the overall issue size and nearly 413 per cent of the shares reserved for non-retail investors who were supposed to make bids on the opening day of the offer. Of the bids, 37.46 crore put in 100 per cent margin money. Tech stocks down Shares of IT majors got a beating on the bourses on Thursday despite strong third-quarter numbers and upbeat guidance shared by the managements of Infosys and Wipro on Thursday. Shares of Infosys closed at Rs 1,370.60, a decline of 1.23 per cent, on the BSE. The Wipro stock tumbled 6 per cent to Rs 431 during the day. Later, it settled at Rs 454.45, lower by 0.94 per cent, on the BSE. Shares of HCL Tech fell 2.63 per cent to Rs 1,027.75 on the bourses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp open to answering govt questions on privacy policy||Under fire over its recent privacy policy update, WhatsApp on Thursday said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and is aware that the company will have to “compete” for users’ trust with rivals such as Signal. WhatsApp head Will Cathcart told PTI the Facebook-owned company remains committed to privacy and security of users across India and will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted. Rival platforms such as Signal and Telegram had seen a phenomenal rise in downloads soon after WhatsApp sought user consent to its updated privacy policy that seeks to share some data with Facebook. “We know we have to compete for users’ trust when it comes to privacy and that's very good for the world. People should have choices in how they communicate and feel confident that no one else can see their chats,” Cathcart said. Asked if WhatsApp had seen an exodus of users to rival apps such as Signal and Telegram, Cathcart answered in the negative. “No. We’re grateful that people continue to use and trust WhatsApp to communicate... We think competition on privacy is good because it will help make apps even more private and secure in the future,” he added. The comments come in the backdrop of a raging debate over WhatsApp’s controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. Asked if the government has sought clarification on the matter, Cathcart said: “We remain available to answer any questions and to explain our continued commitment to the privacy of users across India.” According to sources, the government is examining and evaluating the recent privacy policy update announced by WhatsApp and discussions are on within the IT ministry over the implications of the recent move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Inflation based on wholesale price index slowed to 1.22 per cent in December||Inflation based on the wholesale price index slowed to 1.22 per cent in December on lower food prices, especially kitchen staples such as onion and potato. WPI was 1.55 per cent in November 2020 and 2.76 per cent in December 2019. The rate of inflation based on WPI Food Index decreased from 4.27 per cent in November 2020 to 0.92 per cent in December 2020, government data showed on Thursday.  However, manufacturing inflation rose to a two year high of 4.24 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Currency in circulation rises 22.7 per cent as of January 2021||Currency in circulation (CiC) rose 22.7 per cent as of January this year as people continued to hold on to cash amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The 22.7 per cent increase is one of the sharpest after the peaks that were seen post-demonetisation. It is double the growth that was seen in January 2020 — and also exceeds the 19.5 per cent increase that was witnessed in January 2019. The RBI data also showed M3, or the broad money supply growth, was 12.5 per cent or Rs 20.34 lakh crore. Data released by the Reserve Bank of India has shown that on a year-on-year basis, CiC grew Rs 4,95,473 crore from January last year. In the previous year, this growth was 11.8 per cent or Rs 2,40,091 crore. It now stands at Rs 26,74,707 crore, up from Rs 23,49,748 crore as of March 31, 2020. So far in this financial year, currency in circulation has gone up by Rs 3,24,958 crore or 13.8 per cent. The trend is not surprising and this has largely been the norm since the beginning of this financial year as the Covid-19 pandemic led to households keeping cash as a precautionary measure. However, this is expected to moderate as economic activity picks up momentum with the rollout of the vaccine. According to the RBI’s annual report for 2019-20, many countries, especially in the emerging world, have seen cash in circulation rising during the pandemic. The cross-country monetary statistics (IMF, 2020) indicated that the increase in currency in circulation was particularly sharp in Brazil, Chile, India, Russia and Turkey, and also in advanced economies such as the US, Spain, Italy, Germany and France, where the use of cash is less. The RBI further pointed out that the rise in currency in circulation in these countries occurred simultaneously with liquidity injecting measures undertaken by their central banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22 expected to provide road map to tackling rising bad loans||Union Budget 2021-22 is expected to provide a road map to the banking sector to help it tackle rising bad loans, characterised in banking parlance as non-performing assets (NPAs). The measures being considered by the finance ministry include setting up of bad banks, strengthening Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARC), recapitalising public sector banks and reducing government  stakes in some of the banks. As the pandemic wrecked havoc on the economy leading to job losses, borrowers delayed repayments or failed to repay altogether. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would have to come up with solutions to deal with the issues affecting the banking sector. Officials in North Block are looking at different options to address the issue. “There have been several suggestions relating to the banking sector…. don’t think it would be a one-stop solution, but would be a mix of many things or combination of two or three of them. Each has its own advantages and shortfalls,” sources said. Several economists have argued the government  would simply transfer the bad loan problem to another entity, leaving banks to continue making poor loan decisions in the future, sometimes under pressure from the political leadership. Industry association CII has suggested that the government create multiple bad banks by allowing alternate investment funds (AIFs) to buy bad loans. The finance ministry has been toying with the idea of a bad bank since it was first tossed up by the then chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian in the Economic Survey 2017. The ministry is also looking at the suggestion of bringing down government stake in public sector banks to below 50 per cent through the market route over the next 12 months, except for three to four large lenders such as the State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and Union Bank. Rajan views Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan says the government should take advantage of the peaks in the Indian equity markets right now and sell stakes in public sector units while prioritising spending to get the economy back on track. The upcoming budget for the fiscal beginning April 1 should look to provide “relief to the poorer households and small and medium enterprises”, he said. It could then move on to getting the economy back on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Unilever says employees will never go back to a five-day working week ||Unilever has said its employees will never go back to a five-day working week even after the Covid-19 pandemic abates. “We anticipate never going back to five days a week in the office; that seems very old-fashioned now,” Unilever chief executive Alan Jope has said at the Reuters Next conference. The Euro 22 billion London-headquartered consumer goods multinational — maker of Dove soap, Lipton tea and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream — is looking to embrace a hybrid work model that several global technology giants have been advocating as the new normal. Jope said he did not expect office workers in Western Europe and North America to return to work at least till April. He added that Unilever would use a “hybrid model” of working between homes and offices after that and indicated that “permanent changes” were expected for many of its 150,000 global employees. The Unilever chief said the multinational is already testing a four-day work week this year in New Zealand and will assess the results before deciding whether to extend the practice globally. It could not be immediately ascertained whether Unilever’s subsidiary in India would also permanently switch to the hybrid work environment. At present, a very large part of the local workforce has been working out of home. Vaccine stand The Unilever boss said the multinational would strongly encourage its employees to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as soon as possible but “in a very principled way”. “I don’t want any of my employees to be jumping the queue on frontline medical workers or vulnerable people,” he said. “We will not be mandating vaccines for anyone. We don’t believe that is right,” he said. Jope also floated the idea of buying vaccine shots to share with people in poorer countries. “There are one or two countries in the developing world, where the public purse is not so strong and they have approached us on a ‘buy two, keep one’ basis,” the Unilever chief executive said. “So imagine in a country where we purchase 200,000 vaccine doses, we donate 100,000 to public efforts and we use the rest for our employees and their families,” Jope said. Emerging markets contribute about 60 per cent to Unilever’s revenue. Several companies have broached the Modi government with a request to be allowed to use their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for the vaccination programme.  The Centre has refused to allow the CSR money for vaccinating employees but remains open to using it for others though no firm decision has been taken as yet. On Wednesday, the ministry of corporate affairs permitted the use of CSR funds for public outreach programmes related to Covid-19 vaccination but stopped short of using the money to fund the vaccination drive. Since the pandemic struck in March, a significant chunk of India Inc's employees has been working from home. But with the rollout of the vaccine, the big question hanging in the air is whether companies will ever return to the pre-Covid work environment. The work from home (WFH) model has been working well with many companies suggesting that it has had no adverse impact on productivity with the added benefit of big cost savings. So far, only firms in India’s IT services sector have confirmed that they will follow this hybrid model even in a post-vaccine world. For instance, in the case of Infosys 97 per cent of its 2,49,312 employees in the globe are now working from home. The percentage of its employees in India who are working from home is 98.3 per cent. At its conference call after the third quarter results on Wednesday, Infosys CEO Salil Parekh indicated that work from home in some form is here to stay. Last month, the company had said it will prefer a flexible "hybrid" work model going ahead in view of uncertainty around the pandemic situation and allow employees work from home or office depending on the condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
