16-01-2021||Business||Newsprint publishers seek waiver in customs duty||Newsprint cost has jumped 20 per cent in the last three months due to demand-supply imbalance post-pandemic, prompting news publishers to petition the government for waiver of 5 per cent import duty to help cut cost. The industry has been hit hard due to COVID-19 led disruptions and the most newspapers have stopped sending newspapers to rural areas where there is less than 50 copies to reduce the distribution cost, said the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) President L Adimoolam. In a representation to the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday ahead of the forthcoming union budget, INS has suggested to take steps as to reduce the customs duty on import of newsprints, a stimulus package for the industry or at least to help the publications by releasing advertisement with an increased tariff of 50 per cent. "If working out a stimulus package for print media is difficult at this juncture, DAVP (Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity) may please consider releasing advertisement for all its departments to all publications with an increased tariff of 50 per cent, which would be highly helpful for the industry as a whole," the INS representation said. It has also asked to extend the validity of RNI (Registrar of Newspapers for India) Circulation Certificates up to March 31, 2022 which will enable DAVP rates to remain the same till next year. It is estimated that the print media would take two or three years to recover from the current situation, the INS added. When asked about the situation, Adimoolam told PTI: "We have been asking for the stimulus package. The government is helping a few industries with stimulus packages. We are (also) expecting some stimulus." Several newspapers have taken cost-cutting efforts and many editions are closed, the number of pages have been reduced and people have lost jobs. Several small papers have also closed down, Adimoolam added. According to him, the newspaper distribution has become very costly. "Sending newspaper to remote and small villages is being slowly reduced. The newspaper reaches only to a nearby town. Villages would be deprived of the news," he said. After the pandemic, reportedly 3 million tonnes of newsprint capacities have been closed or converted to brown paper grades worldwide, resulting in a demand-supply imbalance. The Indian publishers continue to be dependent on imported newsprint, due to insufficient domestic capacity/output and poor quality. "Prices of newsprint have shot up by 20 per cent in the last 3 months. Another increase of 10-15 per cent is in the anvil next month which will severely impact the Publishers," said the INS in the memorandum adding that domestic producers are severely under-stocked on their raw materials to supply adequate quantities. Moreover, leading domestic producers such as Emami Paper Mill, Khanna Paper and Shree Rama Newsprint have already increased their prices by Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per metric tonnes. Requesting to remove 5 per cent customs duty from import, the INS said it will utmost yield Rs 200 crore to the government exchequer in the next fiscal year. "But in view of the grim situation, it would be a great relief for the print industry, if the government can consider abolishing the Customs Duty on import of newsprint, it said. However, the Indian Newsprint Manufacturers Association (INMA), which represents newsprint industry such as Emami Paper Mill, Khanna Paper and Shree Rama Newsprint, has said that enough capacity is available and the domestic industry is having full potential to provide unstinted support to print media. "Domestic industry has full potential to meet the demand in terms of quantity and quality. During COVID-19 lockdown, it is the only domestic industry which came forward to support consumers," said INMA Secretary-General Vijay Kumar. The domestic new print industry is facing the issue of under-utilisation of the installed capacity as more than 75 per cent market share of the newsprint has been captured by cheap imports and dumping in India by the foreign companies. When asked about the reason for such situation, Kumar said import duty exemption was availed by spreading a false narrative about domestic produce. "Encouraging unethical import trade including stock and trade business dissuading domestic produce for want of cheap imports a demand-supply gap was created. Such exemption and unethical imports denied a level playing field to the domestic industry," he added. The INMA has also filed anti-dumping plea and an investigation was initiated by Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) on January 20, 2020, and final measures are awaited. "We understand that DGTR has sought an extension of 5 months for completing their study on the anti-dumping case on newsprint. We request this extension of time be allowed to DGTR for them to comprehensively study the case and submit their final report," said INS adding that it is hopeful that the report will establish that newsprint of 42 gsm (grams per sq metre) and below to be exempted from anti-dumping as the same is not made in India. Even the quality of other grades of newsprint is very poor as compared to the imported newsprint, it added. As per the information available on the website of the INMA, the present domestic capacity of newsprint industry is 2.2 MTPA (million tonnes per annum) and over 1.5 MTPA is underutilisation due to continuous offloading of cheap imports. However, Adimoolam said "it's not true. Almost 100 per cent newsprints produced by the Indian manufactures are being consumed. Only the balance is imported." The Indian newsprint industry produces newsprints below 45 gsm and the most of the newspapers in India now use 40 gsm and 42.5 gsm, Adimoolam said. "Instead of 40 gsm, you would have to use 45 gsm (Indian newsprints) and it creates a 12 per cent difference in the cost. Moreover, quality of the Indian newsprints can not be compared with the international quality," he said adding that now the newspaper industry uses the high-speed machine for printing and the domestic newsprint has issues with that. Moreover, the Indian newsprint manufacturers still follow the BIS standards of 1990, which is almost three decades old, he added. The Indian newspaper industry required 2.5 MTPA and the domestic production is around 1 MTPA and the balance 1.5 MTPA is being imported by the publications, Adimoolam added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Insurance – Emerging as a true savior to restart responsibly||​At least once in our lives, we all have been advised to buy insurance, be it for life, health, and even before purchasing a new vehicle. Having an insurance cover, especially during trying times like today is a necessity. The world today is fighting a battle against the worst pandemic in human history. Protecting your family in times of the COVID-19 pandemic is not only essential but crucial for all. Buying the right insurance policy helps protect your family. For instance, health insurance can be used to meet the treatment expenditure in case you or your family member is contracted with the disease. Today, most of the insurance policies are offering COVID-19 cover, which ensures the buyer peace of mind by providing a financial cushion. But the majority of people shy away from buying insurance owing to questions like ‘Why, What, How Much and Do I really need insurance’. PNB MetLife understands the costumers’ dilemmas and believes in putting the customers’ needs first. Hence the insurer is constantly launching various digital initiatives, which help in simplifying the customer’s journey through the process of purchasing a policy. The insurer is a firm believer of the philosophy of circle of life which comes from the concept of need-based selling. This is essentially about developing products and solutions, which cater to the financial needs of customers at every stage of life. To help the consumers understand insurance better and to answer all these questions, PNB MetLife, in association with Anandabazar.com, is conducting a webinar on 27th Jan'21 at 3PM. Through this webinar, PNB MetLife wishes to open a dialogue with the masses of the region to enhance their awareness of insurance and their changing protection needs in a post-pandemic world. The webinar will be paneled by big stalwarts of the Insurance industry like Mr. Ashish Kumar Srivastava (MD & CEO, PNB MetLife), Mr. Anurag Somani (MD, Eureka Securities), etc. PNB MetLife has a strong Distribution Model. The company’s PAN-India presence along with multi-distribution channels allows customers to avail PNB MetLife’s services as per their convenience. The webinar talks exclusively about PNB MetLife’s expanding presence in West Bengal, through Punjab National Bank’s merger with United Bank of India, and how the same will enhance the customers’ association with the insurer suggesting the right life insurance plan. Its distribution channels include productive bancassurance relationships with their partners, and strong direct sales and agency channels
that are actively managed through a consolidated operating model. What benefits can you draw from this Webinar? ● Decode the myths associated with insurance ● Types of insurance ● Why it is so important ● Contemporary health issues and how insurance can be a savior ● Insurance and tax benefit ● How PNB MetLife plans to expand its roots in West B​​engal with Punjab National Bank’s merger ● Guaranteed returns plan - Bengal’s favorite flavor of insurance To register for free, click here||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Indian economy continues to be ‘weak’: American brokerage||American brokerage BofA Securities on Friday said the Indian economy continues to be “weak”, pointing to activity indicators tracked by it. On the positive side, the brokerage said credit demand is bottoming out and the real lending rates adjusted for wholesale inflation are falling. “The bad news is that the continued drop in our BofA India Activity Indicator reinforces our view that the economy still remains weak,” the brokerage said in a note. The indicator fell (-) 0.6 per cent in November on top of the (-) 0.8 per cent decline in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Google sews up Fitbit deal||Google has completed its $2.1-billion acquisition of fitness-gadget maker Fitbit, a deal that could help the internet company grow even stronger while the US government regulators pursue an antitrust case aimed at undermining its power. Thursday’s completion of the acquisition comes 14 months after Google announced a deal that immediately raised alarms. Google makes most of its money by selling ads based on information it collects about its billions of users’ interests and whereabouts. Privacy watchdogs feared it might exploit Fitbit to peer even deeper into people’s lives. But Google wound up entering a series of commitments in Europe and other parts of the world pledging it won’t use the health and fitness data from Fitbit’s 29 million users to sell more ads. It insists it is more interested in adding Fitbit to its expanding arsenal of internet-connected products, which include smartphones, laptops, speakers, cameras and thermostats. “This deal has always been about devices, not data,” Rick Osterloh, Google’s senior vice-president of devices and services, wrote in a Thursday blog post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Tata arm show hints at sunny days in steel||A near six-fold increase in the net profit of Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, the first steel company to announce its quarterly results, may signal how the company’s parent Tata Steel and the other integrated players may fare in this results season. TSLPL, formerly Tata Sponge, posted a profit of Rs 304.39 crore in the third quarter compared with Rs 59.05 crore in the preceding quarter and Rs 112.90-crore loss in the same period last fiscal. The stock closed at a fresh 52-week high of Rs 859.85, up 20 per cent, or Rs 143.30. Shares of  Tata Metaliks, which will be merged with TSLPL, also rose 20 per cent to close at Rs 866.15. Odisha-based TSLPL is a subsidiary of Tata Steel Ltd, which holds a 74.91 per cent stake in the company. Experts say steel companies are expected to post better results in the third quarter than the second, backed by record prices of the alloy. “Integrated players such as Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India will benefit the most from the record prices as they procure iron ore at production cost. Those who buy iron ore from the market will also benefit as the extent of the rise in steel prices has been higher than that of iron ore cost per tonne of steel, adding to the spread in the EBIDTA margin,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head of corporate sector ratings at Icra. Benchmark hot-rolled coil (HRC) steel prices have rallied from the low of Rs 35,000 tonnes in July to Rs 50,000 tonnes by the end of December, an increase of Rs 15,000 per tonne. During the same period, NMDC raised iron ore (65.5 per cent ferrous content) prices from Rs 2,450 per tonne to Rs 5,200 per tonne by the middle of December, a hike by Rs 2,750 per tonne. Given that 1.7 tonnes of iron ore is required to produce a tonne of steel, the spread between the two has only gone up in the last six months. Moreover, prices of coking coal — the other crucial raw material — has remained benign during this period. Icra says the next fiscal would also be good for the ferrous players. The previous upcycle in the domestic steel industry lasted for only three quarters, beginning in Q4 of FY2018 and fizzling out during Q3 FY2019. “This time around, we believe that the upcycle could be more durable than the previous one, with the recovery being more broad-based across primary and secondary steelmakers and being led by a combination of both domestic and international factors,” Roy added. Benchmark steel prices have now reached Rs 58,000 a tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Digital loans at Maruti Arena||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) has extended its online financing platform — Smart Finance — to its Arena customers across 30 cities. Earlier, the company had launched the digital financing platform for its Nexa customers only. With the Smart Finance programme, 24  of the 26 steps in buying a vehicle have been digitised, the company said. Smart Finance offers customers a one-stop shop for financing. The services include option to choose among a range of finance products based on customer needs, selecting the best-suited loan product, completion of all finance related formalities and the disbursal of loan online. The Maruti Suzuki website will act as a facilitator between the customer and the financier. Smart Finance also offers transparency in loan tracking as consumers will be able to check the status of the loan online at each stage of the process in real time. MSIL has partnered 12 financiers, including State Bank of India, HDFC Bank, Mahindra Finance, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Yes Bank. Subsequently, the company will bring on board other financiers. Shashank Srivastava, executive director (marketing and sales), Maruti Suzuki India, said, “We are overwhelmed with the response to our Smart Finance platform from our Nexa customers. Now, we want to extend the ease of a car buying journey for our Arena customers as well. With Smart Finance, we aim to reach out to a larger audience, assist them and make every stage of the loan process transparent.” Kia has unveiled its new brand and strategy which will see the company go beyond vehicle manufacturing to creating sustainable mobility solutions for customers. Removing “Motors” from its name (previously “Kia Motors Corporation”), Kia will expand in new and emerging business areas. Ho Sung Song, president and CEO of Kia Corporation, said: “At Kia, our vision is to create sustainable mobility solutions.” Skoda Auto India on Friday launched its refurbished sedan, the Superb. There are two variants of the Superb — the new SportLine as well as the Laurin & Klement — priced at Rs 31.99 lakh and Rs 34.99 lakh, ex-showroom, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||International Monetary Fund to up forecasts||The global growth forecasts for 2021 paint a less dire picture than the previous estimates of October, the head of the IMF said on Thursday, asserting that this year promises to be a “consequential year” as the world faces an unprecedented race between coronavirus, vaccines and a risk of diverging recoveries. Cautioning that a “difficult period” lies ahead, International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Kristalina Georgieva said there are also “incredible opportunities” for structural transformation. “We are in the process of updating our 2020 growth estimates for 2021. They paint a less dire picture than our October forecasts, specially with data from the third quarter surprising on the upside,” she said during a global media roundtable. Georgieva praised India for taking “very decisive” steps to deal with the pandemic and its economic consequences and asked the country to do more this year to support an accelerated transformation of the economy. The IMF chief predicted a less bad outlook for India in the upcoming World Economic Update .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||Court call on online loans||The Delhi high court on Friday sought a response of the central government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a PIL seeking the regulation of online lending platforms offering short-term personal loans at exorbitant interest rates through mobile apps. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice to the finance ministry and the banking regulator seeking their stand on the plea, which has claimed that such lending platforms charge very high interest rates on the loans given by them. A PTI report said the petition has been moved by a Telengana-based Dharanidhar Karimojji, who works as a freelancer in the digital marketing space, claiming there are more than 300 mobile applications that provide instant loans ranging from Rs 1,500 to Rs 30,000 for 7-to15 day periods. However, these money lending platforms deduct almost 35 per cent to 45 per cent of the loan as platform fees, service charges or processing fees and only transfer the remaining money to the borrower’s bank accounts, the petition has said. The petition comes two days after the banking regulator, which wants to implement an appropriate regulatory framework for such platforms, announced the formation of a working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities. The panel, chaired by RBI executive director Jayant Kumar Dash, will suggest regulatory measures to promote orderly growth of digital lending. According to the terms of reference for the working group, it has been asked to evaluate digital lending activities and assess the penetration and standards of outsourced digital lending activities in RBI regulated entities, and identify risks posed by unregulated digital lending to financial stability, regulated entities and consumers. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Karimojji, told the court that these entities pose a menace as they charge exorbitant interests rates of 1 per cent or more per day and in the event of non-payment of delay in repayment of the loaned amount, they call up everyone on the borrower’s contact list to humiliate and harass them into making payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||DHFL lenders favour Piramal proposal||Piramal Enterprises has won the race to acquire the troubled mortgage lender Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) with its offer getting more than 90 per cent of creditors’ support as voting for the resolution process ended on Friday. Piramal’s plan received support from 94 per cent of the lenders by value compared with around 45 per cent secured by Oaktree Capital. The lenders had three choices while voting on the resolution plans: Piramals, Oaktree or both. And that is why the sum of the votes exceeds 100 per cent, sources said. Though a formal announcement is awaited, observers say the bids for the acquisition of  DHFL may not be over as Oaktree Capital has said it will take legal action if its proposal is not approved. The race for DHFL was largely between Piramal and the US-based asset management firm. Both firms have been claiming that their offer is better than the other. Voting for the resolution plans ended late Friday evening. The lenders will meet next week and issue a letter of intent to the Piramal group. They are also expected to submit Piramal’s  plan to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approval. If the Piramal group succeeds in acquiring DHFL, it may merge Piramal Capital & Housing Finance with the mortgage lender. The Piramal group had offered Rs 37,250 crore for DHFL, of which it proposes to make an upfront payment of Rs 17,250 crore, apart from Rs 150 crore for fixed deposit holders and over Rs 19,000 crore through debentures. Oaktree Capital had offered Rs 38,400 crore, including an upfront payment of Rs 17,100 crore and Rs 300 crore to fixed deposit holders. It also proposed to pay Rs 21,000 crore by debentures. Last Saturday, Piramal had claimed that its bid was better than Oaktree’s. “SThe payment structure offered by Oaktree is complex. The bidder has promised to pay this amount out of any proceeds they get from selling DHFL’s insurance subsidiary. Since Oaktree is a foreign institution, they face severe legal challenges in owning and selling the insurance unit, which is at the maximum permissible foreign ownership limit of 49 per cent,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||HCL Tech net profit rises 31%||HCL Technologies on Friday posted a 31.1 per cent rise in its December quarter net profit at Rs 3,982 crore on the back of a strong momentum in its digital products and platform segment, and exuded confidence in clocking further acceleration in bookings in the coming quarters. The IT services major, which had registered a net profit of Rs 3,037 crore in the year-ago period, has also crossed the $10-billion revenue milestone in calendar year 2020. HCL Tech’s revenue grew 6.4 per cent to Rs 19,302 crore in the quarter under review, from Rs 18,135 crore in the year-ago period (according to US GAAP). The company recorded revenue growth at 3.5 per cent quarter-on-quarter in constant currency, beating its own estimate of 1.5-2.5 per cent growth for the December quarter. HCL Tech has now revised its sequential revenue growth guidance to 2-3 per cent (including contribution by DWS which it acquired last year) in constant currency from its previous estimate of 1.5-2.5 per cent increase quarter-on-quarter for the March 2021 quarter. “Calendar year 2021 has started on a strong financial note. Our strategic bets continue to deliver outstanding results as reflected in our sequential revenue growth of 3.5 per cent in constant currency and 4.4 per cent in dollars,” HCL Technologies president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||India’s trade gap highest in two years ||India’s exports rose marginally to $27.15 billion in December 2020, while imports surged 7.56 per cent to $42.59 billion, official data showed on Friday. The merchandise exports were valued at $27.11 billion in December 2019, while imports had totalled $39.59 billion. “Trade deficit for December 2020 was estimated at $15.44 billion against the deficit of $12.49 billion in December 2019, which is an increase of 23.66 per cent,” according to the government data. “The sharp rise in merchandise trade deficit to a 25-month high of $15.4 billion in December 2020 was driven by the surge in non-oil imports that was exaggerated by pent-up demand. In an encouraging sign, the growth in non-oil exports improved to 5.6 per cent in the quarter-ending month, reversing the dips seen in the previous two months,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra. “Gold imports rose to the highest level since May 2019, amid the easing of restrictions that drove wedding season demand. We expect the pace of growth of gold imports to temper to an extent in the fourth quarter of FY2021, with a satiation of pent-up demand.” Major Indian export items that helped India’s outbound shipments turn the corner include gems and jewellery (up 6.75 per cent), drugs and pharmaceuticals (17.47 per cent), chemicals (10.8 per cent), engineering goods (0.3 per cent) and electronic goods (16.51%) while the sharp contraction in the exports of readymade garments (-15 per cent) and petroleum products (-35.35 per cent) kept overall exports growth minimal. Gold (81.82 per cent), vegetable oils (43.5 per cent), chemicals (23.3 per cent), artificial resins (32.27 per cent), iron and steel (12.67 per cent), non-ferrous metal (28.1 per cent) saw significant rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||Benchmark bond yields jump to their highest in four weeks||Benchmark bond yields jumped to their highest in four weeks on Friday as the RBI mopped up Rs 2 lakh crore through a variable rate reverse repo auction even as its silence on an open market operation during trading hours also hurt sentiment. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last week said it would conduct the reverse repo auction on January 15 after a review of the liquidity and financial conditions. Markets read the release as an indication that the RBI was looking to roll back the massive cash surplus in the banking system, despite its reiteration that it would ensure availability of ample liquidity. “The market is confused about what the RBI is trying to do. A lot of times it feels like the RBI doesn’t realise the fallout of its actions and then tries to balance it out,” Reuters  quoted a senior debt trader at a private bank. The benchmark 10-year bond yield ended at 5.95 per cent versus 5.93 per cent on Thursday, its first weekly rise in three and its biggest since the week ending September 11. This came as the 14-day variable rate reverse repo auction saw the central bank setting a higher cut-off rate of 3.55 per cent compared with the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent, thus signaling to the markets that it wanted higher rates at the shorter end of the spectrum. A Bloomberg News Survey had forecast the cut-off at 3.5 per cent. The yields also rose over uncertainty whether  the central bank would announce an open market operation (OMO). which supports government security prices. However, the central bank announced an OMO of Rs 10,000 crore after the market hours. Observers feel bond yields could soften as trading resumes on Monday following this announcement. A key intention behind Friday's variable reverse repo auction was to push up the shorter term rates above the reverse repo rate, which is usually this lower bound of the policy corridor. After the RBI’s announcement last week, yields on shorter term bonds had risen over 20 basis points. At the auction, as against the notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the RBI received bids of Rs 3.05 lakh crore. In a separate announcement after market hours, the RBI said in a statement that on a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, it has decided to conduct purchase of government securities under OMO for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore on January 21. Market circles say that the intention of the central bank here is to keep interest rates softer at the longer end of the spectrum to support the economy which is expected to contract 7.7 per cent this fiscal. The benchmark indices — the Sensex and the Nifty — ended in the red because of profit booking amid weak global cues despite a good beginning to the results season. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent to finish at 49034.67. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14433.70. Global equities came under pressure as the $1.9 trillion stimulus package unveiled by US President-elect Joe Biden fell short of expectations, even as jobless claimrose. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
