17-01-2021||Business||HDFC Bank beats estimates with a growth of 18% in net profits||HDFC Bank on Saturday beat Street estimates when it reported an 18  per cent growth in standalone net profits for the December quarter of 2020. The country’s largest private sector bank posted a net profit of Rs 8,758.29 crore compared with Rs 7,416.48 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the lender to report net profits in the range of Rs 7,700-8,500 crore. The better-than-expected performance on the bottomline front came as the bank saw only a marginal rise in provisions even as the core net interest income witnessed good growth. It was the first quarterly results for the lender under CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan and the first among major banks to declare numbers this earnings season. During the quarter, provisions inched up to Rs 3,414.13 crore from Rs 3,043.56 crore a year ago. It included specific loan loss provisions of Rs 691.2 crore (Rs 2,883.6 crore) and general and other provisions of Rs 2,722.9 crore (Rs 159.9 crore). HDFC Bank disclosed that total provisions for the quarter included contingent provisions of Rs 2,400 crore for ‘‘proforma’’ non-performing assets (NPA). During the period, the asset quality improved with gross NPAs in absolute terms declining to Rs 8,825.56 crore from Rs 11,304.60 crore in the preceding three months. The gross NPAs were 0.81 per cent of the gross advances compared with 1.08 per cent in April-September 2020. Through an interim order on September 3, 2020, the Supreme Court had directed that accounts which were not declared NPAs till August 31, 2020, shall not be declared as such until further orders. HDFC Bank said that if it had classified borrower accounts as NPA after August 31, 2020, using its analytical models (proforma approach), the proforma gross NPA ratio would have been 1.38 per cent as on December 31, 2020, against 1.37 per cent as on September 30, 2020 and 1.42 per cent as on December 31, 2019. During the quarter, its core net interest income (interest earned minus interest paid) rose 15.1 per cent to Rs 16,317.6 crore from Rs 14,172.9 crore in the same period of the previous year, driven by a 15.6 per cent growth in advances. HDFC Bank disclosed that one-time restructuring under RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 was close to 0.5 per cent of the advances. Other income (non-interest revenue) also rose to Rs 7,443.2 crore from Rs 6,669.3 crore in the corresponding quarter ended December 31, 2019. The bank said that total advances as on December 31, 2020, were Rs 1,082,324 crore, an increase of 15.6 per cent over December 31, 2019, while the mix between retail and wholesale stood at 48:52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp delays rollout of its updated privacy policy||WhatsApp has delayed the rollout of its updated privacy policy in a bid to clear the concerns among its users worldwide. Users of the instant messaging app will now have more time to accept the new terms instead of the earlier date of February 8, 2021. WhatsApp came under scrutiny after it revealed the updated policy earlier this month raising concern among its users about data privacy and whether the parent company — Facebook — and third party service providers will have access to user data. Competing applications such as Telegram and Signal gained as users started looking for alternatives, prompting WhatsApp to allay the concerns, including on suspension of accounts if a user does not agree to the new terms. “We are now moving back the date on which people will be asked to review and accept the terms. No one will have their account suspended or deleted on February 8. “We are also going to do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp. We will then go to people gradually to review the policy at their own pace before new business options are available on May 15,” said WhatsApp in a blog post. The post said WhatsApp protects personal conversations with end-to-end encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see private messages among users. “It’s why we don’t keep logs of who everyone’s messaging or calling. We also can’t see your shared location and we don’t share your contacts with Facebook,” the post said. The policy provides further transparency about how the platform collects and uses data for business on WhatsApp. “While not everyone shops with a business on WhatsApp today, we think that more people will choose to do so in the future and it’s important people are aware of these services.” This update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook," the blog post said. WhatsApp also said that it is committed to "defend" the end-to-end encryption technology now and in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das defends foreign-exchange build-up||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Saturday said emerging economies such as India have no other option but to build their foreign-exchange reserves as a cushion against global shocks even if it comes at the risk of the country being added to a list of currency manipulators by the US. This is the first official comment from the RBI governor after the US department of treasury last month put India in its monitoring list of currency manipulating countries. Its report said that India met two of the three criteria of having a material current account surplus and engaging in persistent, one-sided intervention over the reporting period. The US clubbed India with Vietnam, Switzerland and Singapore for ‘‘intervening in the foreign exchange market in a sustained, asymmetric manner’’. The central bank has been building forex reserves amid strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) and through foreign direct investment to maintain the country’s export competitiveness and protect it against any global shocks. India’s forex reserves stood at over $586 billion as on January 8. The RBI has consistently maintained that it does not target a particular level of the rupee and that its intervention in the markets is to only curb undue volatility in the exchange rate. Addressing the Nani Palkhivala Memorial Lecture, Das strongly defended the addition to forex reserves, saying that it has improved India’s import cover to 18.4 months even as the reserves cover 236 per cent of short-term debt in terms of residual maturity. Das pointed out that sound external sector indicators augur well to limit the impact of spillovers of possible global shocks and financial stability concerns as investors and markets are assured of the buffer against potential contagion. He added that while abundant capital inflows have been largely driven by accommodative global liquidity conditions and India’s optimistic medium-term growth outlook, domestic financial markets must remain prepared for sudden stops and reversals, if there is a global risk aversion. ‘‘Under uncertain global economic environment, emerging market economies (EMEs) typically remain at the receiving end. In order to mitigate global spillovers, they have no recourse but to build their own forex reserve buffers, even though at the cost of being included in the list of currency manipulators or the monitoring list of the US Treasury. I feel that this aspect needs greater understanding on both sides so that EMEs can actively use policy tools to overcome the capital flow related challenges,’’ he said. Here, Das disclosed that the RBI is closely monitoring both global headwinds and tailwinds while assessing the domestic macroeconomic situation and its resilience. The RBI governor further said that the central bank remains steadfast to take any further measures as may be required to support growth even as it would not compromise on financial stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||Narendra Modi announces Rs 1,000cr for start-ups||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the launch of a Rs 1,000-crore ‘‘Startup India Seed Fund’’ to support startups and help budding entrepreneurs pursue innovative ideas. Addressing the ‘‘Prarambh: Startup India International Summit’’, Modi exuded confidence that the growth of start-ups will help to generate jobs and improve the lives of people in the region. The summit marked the fifth anniversary of the Startup India initiative launched by Modi on this day in 2016. The government, Modi added, has been implementing the Fund of Fund Scheme to help start-ups raise equity capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||CAIT files plea in Supreme Court||Traders’ body CAIT on Saturday filed a petition in the Supreme Court, making a plea to direct WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy. The body issued a statement claiming that the new WhatsApp privacy policy encroaches upon various fundamental rights of the citizens. About the petition, the traders’ body said it “has also prayed that India must frame guidelines to govern big technology companies like WhatsApp and frame policies which would protect the privacy of citizens and businesses”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
