18-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 470 points to end almost one per cent lower||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 470 points on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. After a choppy session, the 30-share BSE index ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,564.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14,281.30. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's and Maruti. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, Titan, HDFC Bank and ITC were the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed pullback for the second consecutive day as weak global cues continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Barring FMCG, most of the key sectoral indices witnessed sharp correction and volatility index soared over 5 per cent today before recovering from top. A sharp rebound in RIL along with buying interest in HDFC Bank after strong 3Q numbers offered support to benchmark Nifty index," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the positive zone, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent lower at USD 54.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
18-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Monday tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS amid a mixed trend in global markets. In a highly volatile opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 203.52 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 48,831.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 70.60 points or 0.49 per cent to 14,363.10. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv and ONGC. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, SBI, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent to finish at 49,034.67. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,433.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 971.06 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be soft at the moment. "While underlying strength of markets remains intact considering the rebound in key economic data, sustained growth in corporate earnings in 3QFY21 with upbeat management commentaries and commencement of the vaccination process," he said. Additionally, "favourable monetary policies of global central bankers, weak dollar and large fiscal stimulus in the US are expected to ensure sustained FPI flow in domestic equities," he noted. US markets witnessed high volatility last week especially after the announcement of USD 1.9 trillion stimulus program by President-elect Joe Biden. "Sell on news tendency led US indices to register weekly loss of 0.9-1.5 per cent. Further, indications by Biden about reversal of lower tax rates sooner also weighed on investor sentiments," Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the positive zone, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.93 per cent lower at USD 54.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Problem of plenty||The markets have bounced back sharply from the sharp correction in March last year after the Covid-19 outbreak. Strong FPI flows and hopes of further reforms in the upcoming budget have been driving the market to fresh all-time highs. Amidst this market uptrend, the mutual fund industry has been witnessing steady outflows from equity funds. This reflects on the investors’ perception of booking profits regularly during times of high market valuations. However, the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic have also led to exceptional responses from the governments of several developed economies. Countries across the globe have loosened their purse strings with liberal stimulus policies. The economic revival based on government stimulus and increased levels of industrial activity can potentially fuel the next rally in the equity markets. Except for a couple of sectors, the remaining sectors have rebounded reasonably well. The pent-up demand during the lockdown period is also unwinding steadily in the consumption and hospitality sectors. Robust inflows Retail investors have continued to reflect mature investment behaviour as SIP inflows have remained robust and consistent. Even during the turbulent times of the Covid-19 outbreak, the monthly SIP inflows have sustained above Rs 7,300 crore. The SIP inflows stood at Rs 8,418 crore in December 2020, the highest monthly inflow in the current financial year. While the valuations seem to be expensive according to the historical valuation multiples, the same will have to be evaluated in the context of sustained economic revival and lower cost of funds for the corporates. This in turn can help market re-rating leading to multiple expansion. However, one cannot expect investment performance across different pockets to be the same. The recent outperformance has been polarised within a select few stocks and sectors, while the broader equity markets have not performed well. Thus, while the valuation in some narrow segments appears to be rich, a good part of the broader market still looks reasonable. The right market segment Amidst the wide spectrum of market emotions, it is a million-dollar question for the investors to choose the right market segment. This becomes more complex for the investors as the markets have been diverse regarding the segments that have outperformed during the last decade. In the last decade — from 2010 to 2019 — large-cap and mid-cap segments have been winners four times each, while the small-cap segment was the winner only twice. So, while large-cap funds were the winners in four years, they were also the underperformers for another five years. As such, predicting market winners remains a challenge for investors. Instead, investing across market caps may help generate potentially better returns over the long run as investors can seize attractive investment opportunities across segments. The broader markets also tend to outperform in the uptrend phases and the current phase seems similar to previous market rallies in 2003-2007, 2008-2010, 2013-2015 and 2016-2017. This is where multi-cap and flexi-cap funds emerge as the saviour for the investors as these funds enjoy the flexibility of  investing in different market capitalisation segments. The flexibility embedded within multi-cap funds has also helped such funds to remain popular among investors. Such funds are the second-most popular among open-ended equity funds with AUM (assets under management) of Rs 1.68 lakh crore as on 31 December 31, 2020, with a 19 per cent share (Source: Association of Mutual Funds in India). Collective wisdom The investors can further mitigate the risk of investing in the equity markets by investing through passively managed funds. There are also fund of funds which invest across large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap funds/ETFs, providing investors with the flavour of of multi-caps/flexi caps. Such funds are not reliant on the wisdom of one or two fund managers but instead aim to gain from the collective wisdom of the equity markets. As selecting winners has been tougher, the market consensus can often guide towards the right investment allocation across different market segments. The returns are further optimised for investors because of the lower expense ratios of such passively managed funds. Such diversified exposure also helps the funds compensate for the underperformance of select stocks, thereby providing a sense of stability in the portfolio returns. These funds can be considered suitable for investors with a moderate to aggressive risk profile. Further, the rebalacing of investment allocation among different segments does not trigger any tax-related compliances unless the investor himself redeems his/her investments. As such, the investors can also benefit from the tax-efficiency of mutual funds as the gains are taxable for the investors only at the time of realisation. Betting on the possibilities of an economic revival, equities continue to offer interesting opportunities. The investors can consider investing in multi-cap/ flexi-cap funds with investment exposure across market capitalisation segments to gain from the collective market wisdom. This also sets aside investor dilemma of choosing specific market segments to invest in. The writer is co-chief business officer, Nippon India Mutual Fund||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Taxpayers seek real simplification in income tax provisions||Taxpayers with income from business or profession are looking for real simplification in income tax provisions that will push the envelope up in terms of ease of doing business and achieve the broader objective of ensuring tax compliance. The tax burden also needs to moderated. Here is a small compendium of suggestions that would make life more bearable for taxpayers who have been battling a stressful period brought on by a raging pandemic. The present monetary limit under Section 44AA requires maintenance of books of account in case income exceeds Rs 2,50,000, or sales or turnover or gross receipts exceeds Rs 25 lakh in a year or three preceding years. These limits needs to be at least doubled from the existing levels. Business income Business income under the presumptive scheme under Section 44AD is computed at 8 per cent of the turnover. However, in the case of sale by cheque/credit card (that is, other than cash), the profit is considered at 6 per cent. The new phenomena of online supply at home, without extra cost, has increased the cost of suppliers and it has also led to tough competition for the traders’ community. Therefore, the presumptive profit in the case of cash sale should be reduced to 6 per cent. In the case of sale by cheque/credit or debit cards etc, it should be pegged at 5 per cent. Income of professionals The income of those engaged in profession is computed under presumptive scheme under Section 44ADA at 50 per cent of the gross receipts, which is prohibitive. The R.V. Easwar committee had suggested the rate should be 33 per cent. In view of the multiplicity of expenses and outgoings for professionals, the rate of presumptive income in the case of profession should be taken at 30 per cent for sale by cheque/credit card etc (other than cash). For realisation in cash, it ought to be kept at 33 per cent. Only those professionals can opt for the scheme whose gross receipts do not exceed Rs 50 lakh. This limit should be raised to Rs 1 crore. This has also been suggested to the finance minister in a representation made by the Direct Taxes Professionals Association. The moderate presumptive rate and increased monetary limit will inspire more professionals to opt for the presumptive tax scheme. The monetary limit for tax audit of accounts for businesses is sale or turnover of Rs 1 crore and, for professionals, it is gross receipts of Rs 50 lakh. This needs to be reviewed and be doubled. For the purpose of Section 44AA and 44ADA, all professions, including management consultancy, financial consultancy, economic advisory services should be covered. The broad definition will simplify the tax system and make compliance easy. Deemed income The scope of deemed income needs to be substantially curtailed. A pragmatic system should be introduced to tax real income which can be substantiated by evidence such as investments and other data reported in Form 26AS. For the transfer of immovable property, the sale consideration is the stamp duty value for business as well as others. The determination of stamp duty value is not scientific and hefty in most of the cases. Section 68 gives discretionary powers to the assessing officer to treat any cash credit, loan or any amount credited in the books of account of the assessee. Likewise, the assessing officer may deem under Section 69, unexplained investments as income; under Section 69A, unexplained money, jewellery and other valuable articles can be deemed as income, while Section 69B provides for deeming income for investments in acquiring jewellery or other assets not fully disclosed in books of account. Further, Section 69C empowers the officer to deem income of unexplained expenditure. In all these sections, the common barometer is satisfaction of the assessing officer about the explanation offered by the taxpayer. There is a big question mark on how “satisfaction” is measured or determined. There is no proper yardstick and the taxpayers often have to suffer because of arbitrary decisions of the officer, resulting in enormous litigation. The deemed income under Section 68 to 69D is taxed under Section 115BBE at the rate of 60 per cent plus 25 per cent surcharge and 4 per cent education cess. The effective aggregate rate comes to 78 per cent. If the assessing officer makes addition penalty under Section 271AAC levied at 10 per cent of the tax, the overall burden will be 84 per cent. This needs urgent review. It is desirable that tax under Section 115BBE is 30 per cent or the maximum marginal rate. The rate was basically increased drastically because of demonetisation. It should be brought back to the level of pre-assessment year 2017-18. Taxpayers will be hoping that the finance minister will ponder over these suggestions while framing her budget. The writer is a tax advocate||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India Limited witnesses gradual recovery of sales||After a terrible April-June quarter last year, because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) has witnessed a gradual recovery of sales and is upbeat on 2021, having drawn up 15 launches for the year. “We have witnessed a strong return of demand since quarter three and in the fourth quarter our sales were more than the corresponding quarter in 2019. We feel this is not just pent-up demand. The overall indicators of the economy showed substantial sales momentum in quarter four that can be carried forward in 2021,” said Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO of Mercedes Benz. In the pandemic year, 2020, the German company managed to sell 7,893 units. In the first quarter, the company sold 2,386 units; in the hardest hit second quarter it sold 563 units; in the third quarter, its numbers were up to 2,058 units and in the fourth quarter it sold 2,886 units. The company will focus on its product line-up with 15 launches in 2021 starting with the much awaited A-Class limousine and the GLA Class in the second quarter (April-June). Among the 15 launches, there will be facelifts as well as new vehicles in new categories. If 2020 was the year of SUVs for Mercedes, having launched the GLC, GLE, GLS facelifts, this year it will be a push for sedans, said Schwenk. Apart from product launches, it will also redesign its dealership facilities with a new architectural layout though it ruled out any additions to its existing 100 outlets. “We will also stress on keeping inventory levels down at dealerships,” said Schwenk, adding that Mercedes will be aiming for 40 per cent growth in the next two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Mines ministry proposal to terminate iron ore leases||The mines ministry has made a proposal to terminate the iron ore leases of those working mines that have not started production even after a lapse of 7-8 months of auction and have not maintained minimum dispatch for three consecutive quarters. The mines ministry proposed to do so through the amendment of certain mining rules and has invited comments from the stakeholders on the same. “The ministry of mines has prepared the Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Minerals) Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021, seeking to amend the Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Minerals) Concession Rules, 2016,” the mines ministry said. Several successful bidders of such working mines whose previous mining leases expired on March 31, 2020, have not started production even after a lapse of 7-8 months of auction and execution of mining leases in their favour. “Accordingly, it is proposed to strengthen the norms of minimum production/dispatch through amendment of Rule 12A of the MCR Rules, 1960, in order to ensure sustained supply of mineral in the market in future,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Plea in Delhi high challenges Lakshmi Vilas Bank with Development Bank of Singapore merger||A plea in the Delhi high court has challenged the scheme of amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS), contending that its shareholders have been “left in the lurch” and the Centre and the Reserve Bank have failed to protect their interests. The petition was listed before a bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh on January 13, but was adjourned to February 19 after the bench was told that the RBI has moved a plea in the Supreme Court to transfer all pleas against the amalgamation to the Bombay high court. The petition in the Delhi high court has been filed by lawyer Sudhir Kathpalia, who was also a shareholder in Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) and lost his 20,000 shares in the company because of the amalgamation scheme. Kathpalia has sought quashing of the clause in the scheme which states that from the date of merger, “the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the share/securities premium account of the transferor bank, shall stand written off”. Under the scheme, DBS was not required to give any shares to the LVB investors in return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Duty cut call to stave off RCEP threat||A top India-centric American business advocacy group has suggested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to lower tariff in the Union budget if the country wants to compete with China-backed mega free trade agreement — the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). China and 14 other countries in November last year established the world’s largest trading bloc that represents roughly 30 per cent of the world’s GDP and population. India walked out of the mega free trade agreement as negotiations failed to address New Delhi’s concerns. The members of RCEP are 10-nation bloc Asean (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia), China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. “If India can focus on a much more predictable environment from a policy framework, it will give more confidence to the investors. Bringing a sense of transparency in policy making also sends a very positive signal. And if India is going to be competing, especially with the RCEP, then it has to look at lowering its tariff,” Mukesh Aghi, president of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF). Pointing that in the last 12 months tariffs in India have been going up steadily, he said, “It is important to protect the local industry, but  it is also important to make them more competent intervals. Lowering of tariff is important.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Centre to raise expenditure on health, housing and infrastructure||The Centre is expected to raise the  expenditure on health, housing and infrastructure which reinvigorate demand in many more sectors and breathe life into the economy which is expected to contract 7.7 per cent this fiscal against 4.2 per cent growth a year ago. The contraction in the economy would be the sharpest since Independence. Economists have argued for increased government spending to revive the demand cycle. They expect the government to spend more in sectors such as healthcare, housing and construction-heavy infrastructure, which positively impact many industries. Indications are that it will be more an “expenditure budget” than a “revenue budget” as public spending has a huge trickle-down effect and benefits many industries from cement to steel besides creating durable jobs. The government had estimated spending in the current fiscal at Rs 30.42 lakh crore and 55 per cent of the sum has been exhausted by October against over 59 per cent spent in the corresponding period of the previous year. Step up spending In the pre-budget consultations, economists, industry chambers and others have suggested to the senior finance ministry officials that the government should lead the way by enhancing infrastructure spend by 1 per cent of GDP; increase allocation for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana; and increase public health expenditure to 3 per cent of GDP by 2025. North Block officials said the suggestions are being considered and measures and directions towards this end would be visible in the budget. Industry chamber CII said because of the challenges faced by the economy, there is no option but for the Centre to aggressively intervene immediately and invest heavily to lift growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||CESC to acquire 23.18 per cent additional stake in Noida Power Company Ltd||CESC is going to acquire a 23.18 per cent additional stake in Noida Power Company Ltd (NPCL) from promoter group entities for Rs 450 crore, turning the profit making electricity distribution venture a subsidiary of the company. The RP-SG Group held a 72.73 per cent stake in NPCL while Uttar Pradesh government entity Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority held the balance 27.27 per cent. CESC Ltd directly held 49.55 per cent in the company, which started operations in 1993, while the rest was owned by two promoter group entities — Shaft Investment Pvt Ltd and Stel Holdings Ltd. The decision adds one more dimension to the company’s stated decision to consolidate existing and future distribution businesses under Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd, a wholly owned step-down subsidiary. CESC, which supplies power in Calcutta and surrounding areas, is likely to fund the stake purchase from the healthy cash reserve it has on the balance sheet. Post acquisition, which requires statutory approvals, the company will hold 72.73 per cent in NPCL. The acquisition is being routed through Eminent. “The idea has been to consolidate various fragments of the distribution business under one roof. The acquisition of additional stake in NPCL by Eminent is a move in that direction,” a senior CESC official said. While the promoters cash out, analysts tracking the sector and the company said the deal is positive for CESC, pointing that the transaction is being done at a fair valuation. Moreover, the transaction is being seen as a positive from the corporate governance point of view as well. Valuation In a note to clients, ICICI Securities said the deal terms put the enterprise value of NPCL at Rs 1,950 crore. “The transaction is being done at 7.1 times of 2019-20 EBIDTA of Rs 270 crore, while market transactions are being done at eight times EV to EBIDTA. So it is not expensive,” Rahul Modi, senior analyst at ICICI Securities, argued. Moreover, there is expected to be a 14-15 per cent return on equity for the investment made to buy the stake. In comparison, mere cash sitting on the balance sheet of CESC would not have given more than 5-6 per cent return to the company. In short, CESC investors would earn more for the NPCL stake than idle cash on the books, analysts noted. Since inception, NPCL’s revenue and profit after tax have grown at a CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 26 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively. It posted a PAT of Rs 140 crore on a revenue of Rs 1,729 crore in 2019-20. Corporate governance The buyout also puts to rest the concerns of a few investors on how CESC is utilising surplus cash. Analysts said the dividend payout was not commensurate with the large free cash flow the company was making in the past. “The other concern was promoters continued to hold stake in NPCL when the company (CESC) had a majority stake. However, the higher dividend payout along with the promoters’ Noida business stake sale to CESC will allay investor concerns regarding the misuse of surplus cash,” Swarnim Maheshwari, analyst with Edelweiss Research, said. CESC declared an interim dividend of Rs 45 a share (450 per cent), the highest in the history of the company. Analysts say the trend could continue as CESC does not have major capex lined up in the immediate future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Budget expected to focus on bettering manufacturing chain and raising exports||The budget is expected to unveil more measures to build India as a hub in the global manufacturing chain and raise exports to increase the country's share in global trade to 5 per cent by 2025 from 1.67 per cent now. The pandemic has provided the Centre an opportunity to attract global manufacturers and make the country a manufacturing hub emerging as an alternative to China. Officials said the budget could have policies on how the country could participate in a big way in the global value chains. The government has announced production-linked incentive schemes for several sectors, but have not finalised the details for many sectors. Sources said the finance ministry is in discussions with the concerned ministries on the details, while more sectors would get the production incentives. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will also announce measures to strengthen the trade infrastructure, steps to boost the export of goods as well as reduce the cost of export credits. A taskforce under commerce ministry could be set up to identify the global value chain opportunities in consultation with the industry. The task force will announce policies targeted at attracting investments, both domestic and foreign investments, in the key areas. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf said the government should introduce a “Double Tax Deduction Scheme” which would allow exporters to deduct against their taxable income. “A ceiling of $5,00,000 may be put under the scheme so that the investment and tax deduction are limited.” He added the marketing support under the Market Access Initiative of the Ministry of Commerce is “very” small and there is a need to create an Export Development Fund with a corpus of 0.5 per cent of the country’s exports to help MSMEs. Saraf said Indian companies winning contracts in India under a global tender may be accorded deemed exports status, since they substitute direct import which would have taken place if the contract had been won by a foreign supplier. “Deemed export status would enhance the competitiveness of Indian industry vis-a-vis foreign suppliers as the former would enjoy certain tax-related benefits,” Saraf said. Industry association CII said the government should extend trade infrastructure for export schemes (TIES) for another 3 years and should consider creating 5-10 exclusive Manufacturing Zones/clusters for exports in sectors such as textiles, leather, gems & jewellery and toys. These Manufacturing Economic Zones for Exports would be able to attract export oriented FDI and domestic investments, where globally competitive policies and infrastructure would be provided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
