19-01-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 834 points to finish at almost 2 per cent higher||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 834 points on Tuesday, tracking strong gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid an upbeat trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 834.02 points or 1.72 per cent higher at 49,398.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 239.85 points or 1.68 per cent to 14,521.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC, L&T, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and NTPC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, ITC and M&M were the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, having seen massive pullbacks in last two trading days, domestic equities witnessed sharp rebound mainly led by strong cues from global markets. "Positive statement from Janet Yellen about possibility of acting big to support economy bolstered confidence among investors globally," he said. US President-elect Joe Biden's nominee for treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen is calling on Congress to do more to fight the recession to avoid an even worse downturn. In the testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid is needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed -- key to ending outbreaks -- to reopen schools and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stocks exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.22 per cent higher at USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies nearly 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied nearly 500 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking strong gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 485.97 points or 1 per cent higher at 49,050.24. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 134.05 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,415.35. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, ONGC, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, HDFC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, ITC and HDFC Bank were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,564.27, while Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14,281.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 650.60 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment. A sharp pullback for the last two trading days clearly indicates profit booking by the investors ahead of key events including the Union Budget. "However, we still believe that any meaningful correction will be bought out as underlying fundamentals of the market remain intact," he said. Huge fiscal stimulus in the US, persistently soft monetary policies of global bankers, weak dollar and better-than-expected earnings growth by corporate should continue to ensure favourable FPI flow into domestic markets, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 54.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Delhi high court judge tunes out on privacy rule||The Delhi high court on Monday said accepting the new privacy policy of social messaging app WhatsApp was a “voluntary” thing and one can choose not to use or join that platform if one did not agree with its terms and conditions. “It is a private app. Don’t join it. It is a voluntary thing, don’t accept it. Use some other app,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said to the petitioner, a lawyer, who has challenged WhatsApp’s new privacy policy which was slated to come into effect in February but has been deferred till May. The court also said that if the terms and conditions of most mobile apps are read, “you would be surprised as to what all you are consenting to”. “Even Google Map captures all your data and stores it,” the court said. The court further said it could not understand what data would be leaked according to the petitioner and as the issue requires consideration, it will be listed on January 25 because of paucity of time on Monday. The central government also agreed with the court that the issue needs to be analysed. WhatsApp and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that the plea was not maintainable and many of the issues raised in it were without any foundation. They further told the court that private chat messages between family and friends would remain encrypted and cannot be stored by WhatsApp and this position would not change under the new policy. The change in policy would only affect the business chats on WhatsApp, they said. The petition, by a lawyer, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users right to privacy under the Constitution. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user’s online activity without there being any supervision by the government. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The lawyer appearing for the petitioner claimed that the option not to agree with the new policy was given to users in European nations, but not in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Centre advised to be realistic on fiscal gap ||Analysts want the government to give a realistic fiscal deficit target for 2021-22 as the coronavirus has dealt a severe blow to its finances this year. The pandemic  has caused the fiscal deficit to surge to Rs 10.75 lakh crore at the end of November, which is equivalent to 135.1 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimates (BE). The budget had originally pegged fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore. Fiscal deficit is the difference between the total income of the government and its total expenditure. The government had invoked the “escape clause” provided in the amended Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act to allow the deficit to rise to 3.8 per cent of GDP in the revised estimates (RE) for 2019-20 from 3.3 per cent of GDP budgeted for the year. Subsequently, it had expected the fiscal deficit to decline to 3.5 per cent of GDP in the budget estimates (BE) for 2021-22 and 3.3 per cent of GDP in the rolling target for 2022-23. However, the calculations turned awry after the economy was hit by Covid-19. “According to the first advance estimates of GDP, real GDP will contract 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 and nominal GDP growth is expected at (-) 4.2 per cent. Accordingly, the nominal GDP for 2021-22 would grow 15 per cent to Rs 224.04 lakh crore. Current trends in the GDP for 2020-21 will translate into a net revenue shortfall of Rs 3.2 lakh crore for the Centre this fiscal, while expenditure will be higher by around Rs 3.3 lakh crore, taking the fiscal deficit to Rs 14.46 lakh crore. Industry chamber CII said the government should look at “deficit management from a three-year perspective and ensure greater transparency in deficit numbers by giving realistic revenue projections, avoiding off-budget borrowings and... announcing a realistic fiscal deficit target for FY22”. Former CEA Shankar Acharya said the  government should not go too much on the defensive but set a more realistic fiscal deficit target of 4.75-5.25 per cent for 2021-22. “Since we are talking about a much larger GDP base, this automatically means more fiscal deficit in rupee terms. A 5 per cent deficit should address the issues,” he said. FY22 (2021-22 will also need additional outlays for vaccine rollout, managing the logistics and prioritising health expenditure... 5 per cent  fiscal deficit target for 2021-22, should address the revenue buoyancy, lag effect spending and the COVID outlays,” he said. It said “for FY22, assuming the government keeps the expenditure growth at 6 per cent over FY21 estimates and overall receipts, excluding borrowing and other liabilities, expected at 25 percent, it would result in a fiscal deficit of around Rs 11.67 lakh crore or 5.2 per cent of GDP.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings said “the first advance estimate of GDP for FY21 and our expectations on the finances of the Central Government, we project Centre’s fiscal deficit at 7.8% of GDP during FY21. On adding the amount borrowed for GST compensation to the states, the fiscal deficit could widen to 8.4% of GDP.” The government did announce a series of measures to support the pandemic hit economy but the finances remained constrained on the revenue front owing to which they had to resort to borrowings. The Government announced an increase in its gross market borrowings programme by Rs 4.2 lakh crore, taking the total gross borrowings to Rs 12 lakh crore during the year. Additionally, as part of the GST compensation shortfall faced by the states, the Central Government planned to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crs under a special window and transfer the same to the states. Though the government announced stimulus measures worth Rs 29.87 lakh crore, the fiscal component of these measures was low since it largely consisted of liquidity provided by the Reserve Bank of India and credit guarantees. “The revised FY21 budgetary numbers will serve as the basis for fixing the targets for the coming fiscal year. The revised numbers for FY21 will hinge on how much the nation-wide lockdown has weighed on the revenues of the Government, whether the apparent recovery seen in the latter half of the fiscal could materially off-set the loss of revenue in the first half, reorientation of expenditure towards relief, health, capital expenditure in FY21 and cost savings in non-priority departments,” Sabnavis added. The country’s track record on fiscal consolidation has been rather poor. Though the original aim as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act was to reduce the fiscal deficit to 3.0% of GDP by March 2008, it has been postponed multiple times. As per the fiscal consolidation roadmap, the government was supposed to bring down the fiscal deficit to 3.1% of GDP by 2022-23. For the fiscal roadmap, one will have to wait for the Budget to know the answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Import duty on phones may go up||India is considering hiking import duties by 5-10 per cent on more than 50 items, including smartphones, electronic components and appliances, in the upcoming budget, three government sources privy to the discussions said on Monday. The move to increase import duties is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s self-reliant India campaign that aims to promote and support domestic manufacturing, said the sources. One of the sources said the government was seeking to target additional revenue of about $2.7 billion to $2.8 billion from the moves, as it looks to shore up revenue amidst the pandemic-driven slowdown that has stung the economy. Two of the sources also said the duty hikes could impact furniture and electric vehicles, potentially hurting the likes of Swedish furniture maker Ikea and Tesla, which is planning to launch its cars in India this year. Both Ikea and Tesla executives have previously expressed concerns about the steep duty structure their products already face in India. The officials, however, did not specify how much of a hike was planned on furniture and electric vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Delay in Vijay Mallya extradition||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it was making all efforts to extradite fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, from the UK but the process was being delayed because of some legal issues involved in the matter. A bench of Justices U. U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on March 15, after solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought some time to file report on the status of extradition of Mallya. The solicitor general stated that the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has raised the issue of extradition with the UK government and the Centre is making all serious efforts to extradite Mallya. He said that government was trying its best but the status remained the same and from the political executive level to administrative level the matter is being looked into repeatedly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter rolls out new Grazia||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) Pvt Ltd on Friday rolled out a new edition of its urban 125cc scooter Grazia called the Grazia Sports Edition, priced at Rs 82,564 (ex-showroom Gurgaon, Haryana). Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director-sales and marketing, HMSI Pvt Ltd, said, “Honda Grazia is an urban scooter for the young. As educational institutes start opening, Grazia Sports Edition will be the  choice for many looking for personal mobility.” Bosch Automotive Aftermarket inaugurated one of the largest Bosch Car Service (BCS) facilities at Panchkula, Haryana, as part of a workshop chain network expansion drive. The multi-brand car service concept from Bosch has about 250 service touchpoints across India. Partnered with Speed Links, this multi-brand service concept joins the world’s largest workshop network with a global footprint of more than 15000 workshops across 150 countries. BCS facilities address the need created by increasing customer demands for quality service and genuine parts for mass brands and premium segment cars, technologically advanced products, growing pre-owned car sales and the number of cars running on Indian roads out of the OE warranty. Bosch Automotive Aftermarket Division, after adding 100 workshops to its network, further plans to expand its network count by targeting significant growth in 2021 and beyond. The range of services include periodic maintenance, ECU diagnostics, brake service, clutch overhaul, suspension system, AC diagnostics and service, aggregate repairs, body repairs and painting, wheel balancing, tyre service, car wash and car detailing. There are also value-added services such as road-side assistance, pick, and drop services, cashless insurance repair in a body shop and renewal of insurance, annual service maintenance plan. The sources said the proposals may still be tweaked further before they are finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to increase prices of its models by up to Rs 34,000||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI), the country’s largest car maker, on Monday said it would increase the prices of its models by up to Rs 34,000 (ex-showroom-Delhi). The new prices are effective from January 18, 2021. “The company is raising the price for select models owing to an increase in various input costs. The price change varies across models and ranges up to Rs 34,000 (ex-showroom-Delhi),” the auto maker told bourses. Last month, the company had announced that it will be raising prices across its model range from January 2021. The auto maker had said that cost of vehicles have been severely impacted due to various input costs and it’s “necessary to pass on some of the impact to customers”. Before the hike, Maruti’s  range of vehicles were priced from Rs 2.95 lakh for the entry-level small car Alto to up to Rs 11.52 lakh for the multi-purpose vehicle XL6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Yes Bank ready to raise funds||Private sector lender Yes Bank on Monday said its board will meet on January 22 to discuss a fund raising proposal. The bank’s board will also discuss results for the December quarter at the meeting. “We wish to inform you that the board of directors of Yes Bank at its meeting scheduled on January 22, will discuss and consider: raising of funds by issue of equity shares or through depository receipts, convertible bonds, debentures, warrants or any other equity linked securities, through permissible modes,’’ the lender said in a regulatory filing to the bourses. This fund raising round comes after the bank raised Rs 15,000 crore through a follow-on public offering in 2020. For the September quarter, Yes Bank’s capital adequacy ratio stood at 19.9 per cent, up from 8.6 per cent in the preceding three months. During the period, it had reported a net profit of Rs 129 crore against a loss of Rs 600 crore in the year ago period. Yes Bank was rescued by a consortium led by State Bank of India (SBI) last year. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, SBI held 30 per cent in the bank while the holding of ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IDFC First Bank and Bandhan Bank stood at 3.99 per cent, 2.39 per cent, 1.15 per cent and 1.20 per cent, respectively. Since the past few months, banks have been shoring up their capital base for on-lending as the economy shows signs of recovery and also to provide for a possible rise in bad loans. The RBI too has been asking them to strengthen their capital. Building buffers and raising capital by banks – both in the public and private sector – will be crucial not only to ensure credit flow but also to build resilience in the financial system,’’ RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said at an event last Saturday. Shares of Yes Bank on Monday settled with marginal gains of 0.28 per cent at Rs 17.70 on the BSE. “Going ahead, financial institutions in India have to walk a tightrope in nurturing the economic recovery within the overarching objective of preserving long-term stability of the financial system. The current COVID-19 pandemic related shock will place greater pressure on the balance sheets of banks in terms of non-performing assets, leading to erosion of capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Citi India rejigs top brass||Citi India has elevated Arjun Chowdhry as the head of its consumer banking business where he will manage domestic retail banking, wealth management, credit cards, loans and mortgages. The appointment is effective January 8, the foreign bank said in a statement on Monday. Chowdhry will join the Asia consumer leadership team, ensuring alignment with global and regional priorities. He will report to Citi India chief executive officer Ashu Khullar and the banking major’s head (APAC and EMEA retail ranking) Fabio Fontainha, the bank added. Chowdhry joined Citi as a management associate and has held diverse roles, starting with consumer operations, moving to wealth management, NRI and deposit products, credit cards, loans and payments. Private sector lender RBL Bank on Monday said its board of directors has approved the re-appointment of Vishwavir Ahuja as the managing director and chief executive officer of the bank for a period of three years, with effect from June 30, 2021 to June 29, 2024. This is based on the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee, the bank said in a notification to exchanges. Citi India leads among foreign banks in wealth management in terms of assets under management. Amost 75 per cent of its consumer banking customers access their accounts online or through mobile app even as over 96 per cent transactions are done through self-service. Citi added that it follows a segment-led strategy with a clear focus on digitization of the entire banking life cycle, from acquisition through transactions and servicing, resulting in strong growth in new-to-bank clients, volume and wallet share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Group sells 20% stake in Adani Green Energy to Total of France for $2.5 billion||Adani Group on Monday said it has sold a 20 per cent equity stake in Adani Green Energy to global energy major Total of France for $2.5 billion. The purchase of 20 per cent minority interest by Total was done “via the acquisition of shares held by the Adani Promoter Group in Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL)”, a statement by Adani said. Global energy majors such as Total and BP have increased their focus on green energy and lowered their stakes in fossil fuel with growing consciousness about climate change and the adverse impact of greenhouse gas. International Energy Agency in its report said “the oil and gas industry is facing increasing demands to clarify the implications of energy transitions for their operations and business models, and to explain the contributions that they can make to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement”. “The increasing social and environmental pressures on many oil and gas companies raise complex questions about the role of these fuels in a changing energy economy, and the position of these companies in the societies in which they operate,” it said. Total CEO Patrick Pouyanne said “our entry into AGEL is a major milestone in our strategy in the renewable energy business in India put in place by both parties, which began with our first joint venture 2.3GW of renewable capacity. He said “given the size of the market, India is the right place to put into action/to deploy our energy transition strategy based on two pillars: renewables and natural gas”. The investment in Adani Green is another step in the strategic alliance between Adani Group and Total across various businesses and companies of the group covering investments in LNG terminals, gas utility business and renewable assets across India. In 2018, Total and Adani embarked on the energy partnership with investment by Total in Adani Gas Ltd which has a presence in the city gas distribution business, associated LNG terminal business and gas marketing business. The French giant had acquired a 37.4 per cent stake in Adani Gas Limited and a 50 per cent stake in Dhamra LNG project. “We have a shared vision of developing renewable power at affordable prices to enable a sustainable energy transformation in India. We look forward to working together towards delivering India’s vision for 450GW renewable energy by 2030,” Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani said. Adani Green started in 2015 with the world's largest single location solar power project at Kamuthi, Tamil Nadu with 648MW capacity. It has over 14.6GW of contracted renewable capacity, with an operating capacity of 3GW and another 3GW under construction and 8.6GW under development. The company aims to achieve 25GW of renewable power generation by 2025, and is committed to contribute meaningfully to India's COP21 goals and to the wider UNFCC (UN Framework Convention on Climate Change) goals of sustainability. India has set a policy target of setting up 450GW of renewable power capacity by 2030.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Large NBFCs face tough reserve rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to release a discussion paper on NBFCs (nonbanking finance companies) this week that will suggest large shadow banks should hold a share of their deposits or funds in cash, gold and government securities, mimicking asset sequestration regulations that apply to scheduled commercial banks.  Fears of such tighter regulations on the sector had its impact on the stock markets with the Sensex slumping over 470 points and the Nifty ending below the 14300 mark. While there have been concerns over expensive valuations, comments by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das pinned NBFC stocks down on Monday. Investors fear the RBI will subject larger shadow banks to tighter rules that will be on a par with banks, draining their cash and  impacting their bottomlines. Such proposed norms are, however, some months away as the RBI will engage in consultations with the sector before taking any major steps. The banking regulator does not want a repeat of the IL&FS and DHFL fiascos. A Reuters report said that the shadow banks would be asked to maintain statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and cash reserve ratio (CRR). SLR is that portion of deposits which must be maintained in liquid cash or government securities. In the case of banks, this stands at 18 per cent. CRR is that portion of deposits which must be maintained with the central bank. It is now at 3 per cent for banks. After the monetary policy in December 2020, the RBI governor had said a review of the way NBFCs were functioning was needed because of their growing significance and rising inter-linkages with other segments in the financial system. He had said the central bank was looking at a graded approach when it came to regulation, an indication that larger ones will be subject to tighter rules. “There is, therefore, a need to review the regulatory framework in line with the changing risk profile of NBFCs. It is felt that a scale-based regulatory approach linked to the systemic risk contribution of NBFCs could be the way forward,” the RBI had said. Last Saturday, while addressing the Nani Palkhivala Memorial Lecture, Das had said that a discussion paper on this subject was likely to be released this week. He pointed out that the focus of the new guidelines would be to ensure that both big and small NBFCs have sufficient flexibility to grow. Among the Sensex players on Monday, Bajaj Finance fell 3.44 per cent to Rs 4,713.60, Bajaj Finserv lost 3.21 per cent to close at Rs 8,354.40, while HDFC declined 2.49 per cent to Rs 2,566.40. In Monday’s trading, the 30-share BSE index ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48564.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14281.30. Other NBFC stocks too witnessed selling pressure. L&T Finance Holdings which announced good results last week, settled with losses of 5.33 per cent. Counters such as Muthoot Finance, M&M Financial Services, Manappuram Finance, Shriram Transport Finance, Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company also slumped up to 6 per cent. Market circles said that had it not been for Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank, the benchmark indices would have seen larger cuts. Shares of HDFC Bank on Monday hit a new 52-week high of Rs 1,503 and closed with gains of 1.15 per cent as its third quarter results came in better than Street estimates. The 30-share Sensex has now lost over 1000 points since last Friday and this comes even though the results season has got off to a good start with heavyweights such as  TCS and Infosys reporting better than expected numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
