20-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to record highs amid global rally||Benchmark BSE Sensex rose by 393 points on Wednesday following gains in IT, energy and auto stocks amid strong global cues on hopes of fresh stimulus measures by the incoming US administration. The 30-share Sensex advanced by 393.83 or 0.80 per cent to close at its fresh record of 49,792.12. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14,644.70. World stocks advanced on Wednesday after US Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen called for a hefty stimulus to protect the US economy. President-elect Joe Biden, who will be sworn into office on Wednesday. has laid out a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus package proposal to boost the economy. Among Sensex stocks, Maruti rose the most by 2.75 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra (2.67 per cent), Mahindra & Mahindra (1.98 per cent) and Asian Paints (1.98 per cent). Gains in Reliance, TCS, Infosys, HCL Tech, HDFC and ICICI Bank also helped the barometer extend its rally for a second day. Among losers, Power Grid dropped 1.75 per cent and NTPC by 1.35 per cent. Asian shares were mostly higher ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration as US president. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 rose 0.4 per cent and South Korea's Kospi by 0.6 per cent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng added 0.7 per cent. Japanese market, however, dropped 0.4 per cent due to fresh COVID-19 concerns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 170 points in early trade||Benchmark BSE Sensex rose by over 170 points in early trade on Wednesday as IT, energy and pharma stocks advanced amid gains in global equities on hopes of fresh US stimulus measures. The 30-share index opened higher at 49,508.79, against the previous close of 49,398.29 and rose further to hit a high of 49,595.64 points in early trade. Of the 30 Sensex stocks, 17 were trading in green led by IT and pharma stocks. In a similar tandem, the broader NSE Nifty advanced by 52.25 points or 0.36 per cent to 14,573.40 with 26 of its constituents trading in the green territory. Analysts said Indian stocks took cues from global equities which rose to record highs after US Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen called for a hefty fiscal relief package to help the economy hit by the COVID-19 crisis. Among Sensex stocks, ONGC was up by 1.33 per cent while Reliance rose by 0.42 per cent in early trade. Leading IT stocks also advanced in morning trade on hopes of fresh US stimulus measures. HCL Tech rose by 1.15 per cent, Tech Mahindra by 1.14 per cent, TCS by 0.85 per cent and Infosys by 0.74 per cent. FMCG stocks were down with HUL dropping by 0.48 per cent and ITC by 0.39 per cent. HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, and Bharti Airtel were also down in early trade. FIIs were net purchasers of Indian equities on Tuesday, putting in Rs 257.55 crore on a net basis while domestic investors sold shares worth Rs 199 crore on a net basis. Asian shares were trading mostly higher on Wednesday, ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration as US president. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 rose by 0.6 per cent while South Korea's Kospi gained 0.5 per cent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng by 0.9 per cent. The Shanghai Composite rose by 0.4 per cent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225, however, lost 0.4 per cent due to worries about the surge in coronavirus cases. On Wall Street, the S&P 500 rose 0.8 per cent, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4 per cent and the Nasdaq composite gained 1.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Sensex roars before Union budget 2021||Benchmark indices on Tuesday erased most of their losses over the past two trading sessions as positive global cues, stoked by expectations of a larger US economic stimulus, sent the Sensex soaring 834 points. The index had taken a knock of more than 1000 points weighed down by expensive valuations and the likelihood of tougher RBI rules for the larger shadow banks. However, stocks on Tuesday staged a rebound largely because of strong cues from global markets amid reports of nominee US treasury secretary Janet Yellen — a former Federal Reserve chairman — seeking more support from Congress to fight the ravages of the pandemic. In her testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid was needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed, to reopen schools and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed. In Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stocks exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Market circles added the sentiment remained positive as global liquidity was abundant with various central banks continuing to support their economies. While this is likely to see strong inflows from FPIs, strong corporate results could see buying momentum persist. Though the focus is now expected to shift to the Union budget, experts warned the markets could see a correction once the key event was over. “The results season has started well and sent out encouraging signs. The vaccination drive is progressing well. Also, the global cues have been positive with expectation of a large fiscal push in the US. The overall sentiment is quite bullish. We expect that the market will now take its next major cue from the Budget. The multiple expansion driven returns will ease out and returns will be linked more to growth from here on,’’ Mohit Ralhan, managing partner & CIO, TIW Private Equity said. The BSE Sensex opened strong at 48900.31 and hit an intra-day high of 49499.86 after which it settled at 49398.25 — a gain of 834.02 points or 1.72 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 239.85 points or 1.68 per cent to 14521.15. In the Sensex pack, 27 stocks ended in the green and the list was led by Bajaj Finserv which rallied around 7 per cent. It was followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC, L&T, ICICI Bank and Sun Pharma . The rally in the stock markets had a positive rub-off on the domestic currency which gained 11 paise to settle at 73.17 against the dollar. At the forex market, the unit opened at 73.16 and hit an intra-day high of 73.14 and a low of 73.31. It finished at 73.17, higher by 11 paise over its last close amid weakness in the greenback. The dollar index, which gauges its strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.22 per cent to 90.52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Infrastructure sector to get significant push||The infrastructure sector is expected to get a significant push as it is pivotal to put the economy back on a growth trajectory. In the last budget, the government had launched National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) that envisaged completing 7,300 projects valued at Rs 111 lakh crore by 2025. However, raising Rs 20 lakh crore every year for these projects will be an enormously challenging exercise. Analysts expect finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to announce a development finance institution (DFI) to fund infrastructure projects in segments such as housing and construction that will have high multiplier effects and a major employment generator. The institution is expected to be created by merging some existing financial institutions to meet the long-term  needs of new, stalled, and work-in-progress projects. Sources said a DFI could be partially owned by the government and would finance projects that banks and other lenders are wary of because of long gestation periods. It is a possibility that the India Infrastructure Finance Company could be merged with the new DFI, they said. Industry chamber CII has suggested the setting up of development finance institutions by infusing equity in existing entities — Nabard for financing agriculture and rural development, Sidbi for financing MSMEs and IIFCL for infrastructure. The development financial institutions should be run by domain experts and professionals. The Union cabinet has approved a Rs 6,000cr capital infusion in National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, a government-backed entity created to provide long-term capital. The government has also set up Rs 25,000cr Special Window for Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Fund to help stalled projects in the real estate sector. Apart from setting up a development financial institution, the government could reduce its stake in state owned units including banks and the proceeds from disinvestment should be used for creating health infrastructure and other physical infrastructure both in urban and rural areas. At present, about 57 PSUs that are not banks and financial entities have an average government holding of about 71 per cent with average market capitalisation of more than Rs 10 lakh crore. The Centre can raise as much as Rs 2 lakh crore over the next two years from 30 per cent of these holdings which could be channelised in infrastructure. The surplus land assets of railways and defence should also be monetised and reinvested in rail and defence infrastructure. Even assets such as ports and airports should continue to be put up for strategic sale either through the stock market or through transparent auctions. The amount received could be used to fund infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||India to revise its foreign investment rules for e-commerce||India is considering revising its foreign investment rules for e-commerce, three sources and a government spokesman told Reuters, a move that could compel players, including Amazon.com Inc, to restructure their ties with some major sellers. The government discussions coincide with a growing number of complaints from India’s bricks-and-mortar retailers, which have for years accused Amazon and Walmart Inc-controlled Flipkart of creating complex structures to bypass federal rules, allegations the US companies deny. India only allows foreign e-commerce players to operate as a marketplace to connect buyers and sellers. It prohibits them from holding inventories of goods and directly selling them on their platforms. Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart were last hit in December 2018 by investment rule changes that barred foreign e-commerce players from offering products from sellers in which they have an equity stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Google bets on hyperlocal delivery Dunzo||Google on Tuesday said it would take part in the latest funding round worth $40 million of hyperlocal delivery start-up Dunzo, which is based in Bangalore. Google had set up a $10 billion fund to invest in start-ups in the country. Dunzo had been previously backed by Google. Five-year-old Dunzo said Google, Lightbox, Evolvence, Hana Financial Investment, LGT Lightstone Aspada, and Alteria among others participated in its Series E financing round, which brings its to-date raise to $121 million. Dunzo on Tuesday said it has raised a fresh round of $40 million (about Rs 292.7 crore) in capital. “This capital stems from a year of robust growth amidst the pandemic. “In the coming year, the local commerce platform will focus on deploying its playbook for sustainable growth across its fastest-growing cities such as Mumbai, Chennai and Pune,” it added. With a gross merchandise value (GMV) growth of 2X over the past year, Dunzo is now about $100 million annualised GMV business, the statement said. DeHaat raises $30m Agritech firm DeHaat on Tuesday said it has raised $30 million (Rs 220 crore) from various investors to fund its expansion plan and strengthen technology platform. The company raised $30 million in Series C funding, led by Prosus Ventures (formerly Naspers Ventures). RTP Global co-invested in the round with participation from existing investors, Sequoia India, FMO, Omnivore & AgFunder. “The recent investment from marquee investors is a validation of our goal to become the world’s largest farmer aggregator and will help us scale up in size and scope,” Shashank Kumar, co-founder & CEO, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Home First Finance Company fixes price band for IPO||Mortgage financier Home First Finance Company (HFFC) has fixed a price band of Rs 517-518 per share for its initial public offering (IPO) which will open for subscription on January 21 and close on January 25. The offer aggregating up to Rs 1,153.71 crore comprises a fresh issue of up to Rs 265 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 888.71 crore by promoters and existing shareholders. The offer-for-sale consists of shares worth Rs 435.61 crore by True North Fund V LLP, Rs 291.28 worth crore shares by promoter Aether (Mauritius) Ltd, Rs 120.46 crore by investor Bessemer India Capital Holdings II Ltd and up to Rs 41.3 crore by two individual shareholders — P.S. Jayakumar and Manoj Viswanathan. The company has reduced the fresh issue size following the allotment of shares in an pre-IPO placement worth Rs 75 crore and Rs 4.84 crore to Orange Clove Investments BV, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, and to its certain employees, respectively, by way of preferential issue. Axis Capital, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Pvt Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd are the book running lead managers to the offer. This would be the third initial public offer (IPO) this year after Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC) and Indigo Paints. HFFC intends to utilise the net proceeds towards augmenting its capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Around 50 per cent of the issue is reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and 15 per cent for non-institutional buyers. The company is a technology driven affordable housing finance firm that targets first time home buyers in low and middle income groups. It offers customers, housing loans for the purchase or construction of homes, which comprised 92.1 per cent of the gross loan assets, as of September 30, 2020. Its gross loan assets have grown at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 63.4 per cent between 2017-18 and 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Steel firms, ore miners bicker||The squabble between the miners and steel producers have reached the doors of the Prime Minister’s Office with both the parties shooting off letters to the PMO blaming each other for the price rise in steel that threatens to scupper the country’s ambitions in infrastructure which will be a key theme in the budget on February 1. Steel producers have pointed out to the ore shortage for the spike in prices and have demanded a ban on iron ore export; miners have pitched for the withdrawal of import duty on steel saying ore is available in abundance. The Indian Steel Association has informed the PMO that the surge in prices was because of rising raw material costs and demanded a ban on iron ore export for six months “We would like to highlight some of the very serious and compelling reasons which have left the steel industry with no recourse, but to raise prices of steel from time to time,” the ISA said in its letter to the PMO. The steelmakers’ body demanded a temporary ban on iron ore exports till the supply side stabilises for the key raw material. Hot-rolled coil prices have increased 46 per cent to Rs 52,000 per tonne in November  compared with Rs 37,400 per tonne in July this year. Rebar TMT, which is used in the housing and construction sectors, had touched Rs 50,000 a tonne. Countering these charges, Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI) in its letter to the PMO has called for the withdrawal of import and other duties meant to shield the domestic steel industry which, they believe, has indulged in “profiteering” taking undue advantage of the current market situation. “This Federation would therefore request the Government of India to withdraw import duty 15 per cent and other undue protective support provided to Indian steel industry,” FIMI secretary general R K Sharma said in the letter. The steel industry is well protected from international competition because of the 15-per-cent import duty on steel. In addition steel benefits from minimum import price, anti-dumping and countervailing duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Ramesh Nair quits JLL, Radha Dhir new CEO||Global property consultant JLL on Tuesday said its India CEO and country head Ramesh Nair has quit the company and announced the appointment of Radha Dhir as the new CEO. “India CEO Ramesh Nair is leaving JLL to pursue opportunities outside the firm. He is succeeded by Radha Dhir, an experienced financial services executive, who has held senior leadership positions in Deutsche Bank India and Yes Bank,” JLL said. Dhir was previously group president at Yes Bank, where she was head of multinational corporate banking. Prior to that, she was managing director, head of global subsidiary coverage group, Deutsche Bank India, and a member of the Deutsche Bank India executive committee. Nair, who joined JLL as an analyst in 1999, became CEO of the India business in 2017. Anthony Couse, CEO, JLL Asia Pacific, said: “Ramesh Nair has been a great asset to JLL in his two decades with the firm.” Welcoming Dhir, Couse said: “I am confident that by bringing in a leader from outside of real estate, whose skills complement our existing team, we will be able to take the business to the next level.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Supreme Court upholds realty norms ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the constitutional validity of certain amendments carried out in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act 2020, which mandated 100 home buyers or 10 per cent of allottees of a housing project will be needed to initiate an insolvency resolution process against defaulting real estate firms. Prior to the amendment, made last year to the 2016 IBC code, even a single person could set the law into motion. The amendment, along with certain other amended provisions, were challenged before the apex court in a batch of petitions on the ground that it violated fundamental rights of the home buyers as there was no such requirement for others such as a financial creditor who can even individually trigger the insolvency proceedings also known as the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. However, rejecting the plea of the petitioners, Justice K.M. Joseph, who authored the judgment, said: “In the case of the allottees of a real estate project, it is the approach of the Legislature that in a real estate project there would be a large number of allottees. There can be hundreds or even thousands of allottees in a project. “If a single allottee, as a financial creditor, is allowed to move an application under Section 7, the interests of all the other allottees may be put in peril.” The bench also comprised Justices R.F. Nariman and Navin Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises signs concession agreement with Airports Authority of India ||Gautam Adani-led Adani Enterprises on Tuesday said it has signed a concession agreement with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to operate the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati, and Thiruvananthapuram. The concession period is 50 years . “We are pleased to inform you that Adani Jaipur International Airport Limited, Adani Guwahati International Airport Limited and Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited, wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company, have signed the Concession Agreement on 19th January, 2021 with Airports Authority of India for the Operations,” the company said in a regulatory filing. The Airports Authority of India in a tweet said: “The concession fee that AAI will receive after leasing out six airports will be used to maintain and develop other brownfield airports and to also develop the regional connectivity scheme and greenfield airports throughout the country.” Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangalore, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati — through the PPP model after a global competitive bidding process in February 2019. The privatisation of the three airports had been challenged in the courts in Assam and Kerala. Although the courts have not decided on the matter, they have not stayed the privatisation. The concession agreement, officials said, would be subject to the court order. In November 2020, the Kerala government approached the Supreme Court against the handing over of the airport to Adani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Modi govt asks WhatsApp to withdraw  privacy policy changes||The Modi government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw the unilateral changes to its privacy policy as they take away choice from Indian users and are invasive, unfair and unacceptable. “The proposed changes raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens… Therefore, you are called upon to withdraw the proposed changes,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) wrote to WhatsApp boss Will Cathcart on Monday. The MeitY letter was issued a day after the Delhi High Court responded to a petition by saying that WhatsApp’s new privacy policy was a “voluntary” thing that people can choose not to accept, though they would not be able to avail themselves of the services. “Even Google Maps captures all your data and stores it,” the court said. The ministry said India is home to the largest user base of WhatsApp globally and is one of its biggest markets. The proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, “raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens,” it wrote. The ministry asked WhatsApp to reconsider its approach to information privacy, freedom of choice and data security.  It is of “great concern” that Indian users have not been given the choice to opt out of this data sharing with Facebook companies and are being given less choice compared to the app’s European users, the letter said. “This differential and discriminatory treatment of Indian and European users is attracting serious criticism and betrays a lack of respect for the rights and interest of Indian citizens who form a substantial portion of WhatsApp’s user base,” it said. The ministry asked WhatsApp to respond to 14 questions including on the categories of user data it collected, whether it profiled customers based on usage and cross-border data flows. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy after user backlash over the sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc. Several WhatsApp users had also switched to rival messengers such as Signal and Telegram . Last year, the California-based Facebook had invested $5.7 billion in Reliance Jio as part of a plan to draw tens of millions of traditional shop owners to use digital payments via WhatsApp. With 400 million users in the country, WhatsApp has big plans for India’s growing digital payments space, including selling health insurance via partners. Stating that Indians should be properly respected, the ministry said “any unilateral changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy would not be fair and acceptable”. It asked WhatsApp to provide details of the services provided by it in India, categories of data collected and permissions and consents sought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
