21-01-2021||Business||Sensex closes just below 50,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 167 points to close at 49,624.76 on Thursday, after hitting the historic 50,000-mark for the first time in intra-day trade. Weighed by selling in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC twins and TCS, the 30-share BSE index ended 167.36 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 49,624.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to close at 14,590.35. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Reliance, Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the gainers. The rupee gained 6 paise to settle at a near 5-month high of 72.99 against US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the positive zone, while Hong Kong closed in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 55.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
21-01-2021||Business||L&T Infotech CFO Ashok Sonthalia resigns||Larsen & Toubro Infotech (LTI) on Wednesday said its chief financial officer Ashok Kumar Sonthalia has resigned from the company citing personal reasons. “The board of directors in its meeting held on January 19, 2021, inter-alia considered the resignation of Ashok Kumar Sonthalia, CFO of the company, on account of personal reasons and accepted the same to be effective from the close of business hours of January 25, 2021, it said in a filing to the stock exchanges. Shares of the company on Wednesday ended flat at Rs 4,092.05 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. On Tuesday, Larsen & Toubro Infotech had reported a 37.85 per cent jump in net profit at Rs 519.3 crore for the December quarter compared with the same period a year ago, driven by a surge in revenue and margin expansion. Its revenues rose 12 per cent to Rs 3,152.8 crore for the December quarter, as against Rs 2,811 crore a year ago. Revenues in US dollar terms showed a growth of 5.8 per cent sequentially to $ 427.8 million. “This has been driven by healthy growth momentum across our portfolio. We continue to see strong demand for cloud-based IT solutions. Our tier 1 level partnership with the hyperscalers enables us to work closely on client outcomes and go-to-market opportunities,” Sanjay Jalona, Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, LTI said while commenting on its performance during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
21-01-2021||Business||Jack Ma makes first public appearance since late October||Jack Ma has filmed action scenes with big-time martial artists, sung duets with pop stars and appeared at corporate rallies dressed as a glam rocker and as a masked Michael Jackson impersonator. A wallflower he is not. So speculation ran rampant after the prominent entrepreneur and co-founder of the Alibaba Group vanished from public view late last year. He had criticised Chinese regulators for what he called their overly cautious attitude toward the country’s financial system, and the authorities cracked down on his business empire shortly afterward. After that he began to skip previously scheduled appearances, prompting questions in China and in the global news media about his fate. Ma now appears to be attempting to put the speculation to rest. On Wednesday, he made his first public appearance since late October. He spoke at a livestreamed event honouring educators in China’s village schools. He did not address his troubles but said he would spend more time in philanthropic endeavours. “In this time, my colleagues and I have been learning and thinking,” he said, according to a transcript of his remarks published in the local news media. “We will throw ourselves more resolutely into educational philanthropy.” Ma, a former English teacher, said it was the responsibility of business executives of his generation to work toward common prosperity by revitalising rural areas and developing village education. His speech was consistent with his recent efforts to step away from Alibaba’s day-to-day operations and focus more on philanthropy, though he retains considerable sway over his business empire. His remarks were widely covered in the Chinese state-run news media, suggesting at the very least that Beijing's censorship machine approved of his remarks. His appearance relieved some investors, who drove Alibaba’s Hong Kong-traded shares up about 9 per cent in afternoon trading. Ma, who ran Alibaba from its founding in 1999 to its rising as one of the world’s biggest and most valuable technology companies, has long been cautious around the Chinese government. Like many entrepreneurs in the country, he has forged ties with Beijing officialdom to head off any regulatory troubles. But the rise of Alibaba's sister company, Ant Group, put him increasingly at odds with China's state-dominated financial system. Ant Group, which was once an Alibaba subsidiary and offers services like electronic payments and lending, now plays a huge role in the financial lives of many Chinese people. It had planned an initial public offering for late last year in Shanghai and Hong Kong, in what was widely expected to be the largest fund-raising of its kind. But in October, at a public event, Mr. Ma accused Chinese state-run banks of behaving like "pawnshops" and the country's financial regulators of limiting innovation by obsessing over risk. About a week later, the government halted Ant Group's I.P.O. and later ordered it to shake up its business practices. Then it began an antitrust investigation into Alibaba. Amid the official blowback, Mr. Ma began to bow out of previously scheduled appearances, including as a judge on an African entrepreneur-themed talent show that he had created. That ignited speculation, especially after other entrepreneurs who challenged Chinese officialdom were dealt heavy punishments. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp reiterates messages continue to be completely encrypted||WhatsApp on Wednesday said personal messages of users continue to be completely encrypted and the proposed privacy policy changes are only geared towards making business messaging effective. The reiteration by the social media app came a day after the Modi government asked it to withdraw changes to its privacy policy, which had spooked users. WhatsApp said the proposed change does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook and that it is open to answering questions on the issue. “Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow,” the company said. WhatsApp added that it will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them. "We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions," it added. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow," a WhatsApp spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that WhatsApp will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them. "We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions," the spokesperson further stated. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has posed 14 questions to WhatsApp about its "invasive" changes to its Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. In a strongly worded letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, the ministry has said the proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, "raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens". The letter noted that with over 400 million users in India, the changes will have a disproportionate impact on the country's citizens, it said. The new terms caused an outcry among technology experts, privacy advocates and users and triggered a wave of defections to rival services such as Signal and Telegram. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy to May 15 after user backlash over sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc. "No one will have their account suspended or deleted on February 8. We're also going to do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp. We will then go to people gradually to review the policy at their own pace before new business options are available on May 15," WhatsApp had said in the blog post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Government to sell residual stake in Tata Communications Ltd||The Union government is selling its residual stake in Tata Communications Ltd (TCL) through a combination of an offer-for-sale and a strategic selloff in the current financial year. The Centre holds a 26.12 per cent stake in Tata Communications, earlier known as Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd (VSNL). News of the proposed sale sent the shares of TCL crashing on the stock exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the scrip ended nearly 7 per cent, or Rs 78.70, lower at Rs 1,051.25. In a notice, the department of investment and public Asset management (Dipam) said a part of the shareholding will be offered through OFS and the balance, including any leftover portion in OFS, will be offered to strategic partner Panatone Finvest Ltd, which is part of the Tata group. It has now sought bids from merchant bankers to manage the proposed sale. The transaction is to be completed by March 20, 2021, Dipam added. Based on Wednesday’s closing price, the government could mop up over Rs 7,826 crore from the sale. VSNL was privatised in 2002 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government when it divested a 25 per cent shareholding along with the transfer of management control to Panatone Finvest Ltd, the strategic partner. Subsequent to the strategic disinvestment, the name of the company was changed to Tata Communications Ltd. “The GoI (Government of India) intends to disinvest its entire shareholding of 26.12 per cent paid-up equity capital of TCL through the OFS method of shares by promoters through the stock exchanges and thereafter to the strategic partner,” Dipam said. It added that Panatone Finvest would be “obliged to buy the offered shares” at the OFS discovered price. Besides the government’s 26.01 per cent stake, Panatone Finvest holds 34.80 per cent and Tata Sons 14.07 per cent  in TCL. The remaining 25.01 per cent is with the public. The government has mopped up Rs 15,220 crore from disinvestment proceeds so far in the current fiscal while the budgeted disinvestment target is Rs 2.10 lakh crore. Meanwhile, Tata Communications reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 309.41 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 as against Rs 58.85 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Its topline however, was flat at Rs 4222.83 crore as compared to Rs 4228.72 crore in the year ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Bajaj Finance reports 29 per cent drop in consolidated net profits||Bajaj Finance has reported a 29 per cent drop in consolidated net profits for the December quarter of 2020 on higher loan losses and provisions. Net profits at the non-banking finance company came in at Rs 1,146 crore compared with Rs 1,614 crore a year ago. Provisions and loan losses came in at Rs 1,352 crore against Rs 831 crore a year ago. Bajaj Finance disclosed that during the period, it did a one time write-off of principal outstanding of Rs 1,970 crore and interest outstanding of Rs 365 crore on account of Covid-19 related stress. However, from the next fiscal, the company expects loan losses and provisions to revert to pre-Covid-19 levels of 160-170 basis points of average assets. During the third quarter, its assets under management (AUM) stood at Rs 1,43,550 crore against Rs 1,45,092 crore last year. AUM growth is back across all businesses barring auto finance. Bajaj Finserv, the holding company for various financial services business of the Bajaj group, has reported a 15 per cent rise in its consolidated third-quarter profit at Rs 1,290 crore. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,126 crore in the same period of 2019-20. Total income rose to Rs 15,960.72 crore against Rs 14,561 crore in the year-ago period. Phillips Carbon Black Speciality chemical maker Phillips Carbon Black has declared an interim dividend of 350 per cent, making it the second company of the RP-SG group to announce a hefty pay out. The dividend will work out to Rs 7 per share of face value of Rs 2. While third-quarter revenue remained flat at Rs 769.4 crore compared with Rs 768.85 crore in the same period last year, profit jumped to Rs 125.03 crore, up 81 per cent, from Rs 69.62 crore last fiscal. Tata Steel BSL Tata Steel BSL, formerly Bhushan Steel, reported a more than two-and-half fold jump in the net profit in the third quarter on a sequential basis. It posted a net profit of Rs 913.48 crore compared with Rs 342.02 crore in the second quarter. It had recorded Rs 501.5 crore loss in the same period last fiscal. Moreover, total income went up Rs 5,906.12 crore from Rs 5,053.43 crore in the same period last year and Rs 5,545.35 crore in the trailing quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Sensex ready to hit the 50000 mark||Investors are preparing to uncork the champagne to celebrate the Sensex hitting the 50000 mark. The BSE index on Wednesday ended just 208 points short of the magical mark at 49792.12 The market bellwether has catapulted more than 1200 points in the past  two trading sessions propelled by abundant liquidity and a stream of strong third quarter numbers along with expectations of growth boosters in the budget which is less than a fortnight away. However, analysts have predicted a possible “correction” that has created great anxiety beneath the joyful veneer. A correction occurs when prices fall 10 per cent from their recent highs. But for now the market is all agog about the Sensex jetting past the 50000-mark egged on by a  growth oriented budget and strong portfolio inflows. Provisional data showed FPIs purchasing nearly Rs 2,300 crore of stocks on Wednesday. “The benchmark index may hit 50000 during the next couple of trading sessions. Whether it will sustain at that level, is anybody’s guess,” an analyst with a brokerage said. On Wednesday, Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of the Aditya Birla group, wrote in LinkedIn that there was an open question over how much “froth” is there in the markets and that it would need another quarter or so to confirm whether this booming trajectory was here to stay or not. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das had also warned that the disconnect between stocks and the Indian economy could cause a  correction, though this has yet to take place. “The rally in stock markets, which is global, has been triggered by the massive liquidity injection by the central banks leading to historically low-interest rates, a response to the severe recession caused by the pandemic,” V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. “But now valuations are moving to risky levels which are hard to justify. It’s difficult to predict a crash or its timing. But at high valuations, markets are vulnerable to corrections,’’ he said. The benchmark indices on Wednesday soared to lifetime highs mirroring the global markets which rose ahead of US President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration ceremony amid expectations of fresh stimulus by the new administration. Such a stimulus is expected to increase the flow of foreign funds into the emerging markets such as India. Rallying for the third straight day, the 30-share BSE Sensex advanced 393.83 points or 0.80 per cent to close at a new high of 49792.12. During intra-day trades, the Sensex touched a high of 49874.42, falling short of 50000 by only 125.58 points. Similarly, the Nifty jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14644.70. Birla view Terming volatility as a “froth”, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said that it along with uncertainty have been an underlying phenomenon for almost two decades now and financial variables have become even more volatile in these unusual times. Stating that after the outbreak though there were prophets of doom predicting irreversible shifts in consumer demand and the evisceration of sectors, but there has been recovery across sectors. He also presented a contrarian view to the notion that work from home will be the “mega trend” saying office is not just a place where people come to work but is a melting pot — of people, ideas, and conversations. In India too, he said that the initial prognosis and narrative of experts proved to be excessively pessimistic but the country has witnessed strong recovery across manufacturing sectors, cement to paints, and automotive to aluminium. Several indicators for India, including GST collections, electricity demand, railway freight movement, and passenger vehicle sales have reverted to positive growth numbers in recent months. Reflecting on the year gone by, he said the coronavirus pandemic has brought devastation and asked people and companies not to "ignore the comorbidities -- whether in life or business", while asking them to build reserves of knowledge, ideas, collaboration and goodwill to emerge stronger from crisis. He also presented a contrarian view to the notion that work from home will be the ''mega trend'' of the decade saying office is not just a place where people come to work but is a melting pot—of people, ideas, and conversations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
