22-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 746 points to close at 48,878.54 ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 746 points to close at 48,878.54 on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 746.22 points or 1.50 per cent lower at 48,878.54. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 218.45 points or 1.5 per cent to 14,371.90. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, SBI, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC and Reliance. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Hindustan Unilever, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and Infosys were the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the negative territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,614.66 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.80 per cent lower at USD 55.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open lower in line with other Asian bourses||The BSE benchmark Sensex fell 152.69 points or 0.31 per cent to 49,472.07 in early trade on Friday, tracking subdued Asian markets. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,590.35 in opening trade. On the Sensex chart, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance and Sun Pharma were major laggards. Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, Mahindra and Mahindra, Maruti Suzuki and Reliance Industries were top gainers. On Thursday, the Sensex had dropped 167.36 points or 0.34 per cent to end at 49,624.76, and the Nifty had shed 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to close at 14,590.35. Intra-day, the 30-share BSE Sensex had touched the 50,000-level for the first time ever on Thursday on growth optimism and global cues but succumbed to profit-booking in fag-end trade. Asian shares were trading broadly lower in late afternoon deals on Friday, a day after hitting record highs. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,614.66 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. The global oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 1.37 per cent to USD 55.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Revival in economy will exceed most forecasts: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India has said the revival in the economy will exceed most forecasts which will drive the economy towards a “glorious summer” while throwing open the space for a greater policy support. In its January bulletin on the economy, an article by deputy governor Michael Debabrata Patra and others were full of optimism about a quick recovery. The RBI has, however, said the views in the article were those of the authors and do not necessarily represent that of the central bank. The article, however, had a message for finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who is set to present the budget on February 1. It said the need to kickstart investment was acquiring urgency to secure a durable turnaround. India must also look for ways in which idle cash in the balance sheets of corporations and banks, and reverse repo balances with the RBI find their way as credit to the productive sectors and into real spending on investment activities. According to the article, India’s GDP is within a striking distance of recording positive growth and the shape of the recovery will be “V” with this letter standing for the vaccine. The article was alluding to a successful vaccination programme leading to a V-shaped recovery. “India has launched the biggest vaccination drive in the world, backed by its comparative advantage of having the largest vaccine manufacturing capacity in the world and a rich experience of mass inoculation drives against polio and measles... If successful, it will tilt the balance of risks upwards.” Large states such as Bengal have recorded strong footfalls in public places, while trading activity as reflected in e-way bills expanded at a brisk pace in December. Further, aggregate demand conditions have either consolidated recent gains or vaulted upwards. Further, domestic spending is normalising rapidly as GST collections have surged to an all time high of Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December. Labour market conditions are also improving with a gradual pick up in employment across space and time, as indicated by the household survey of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank net profit down 13.5 per cent from a year ago||Covid related provisions have eroded the bottomline of Bandhan Bank for the December quarter of 2020. The private bank posted a net profit of Rs 632.6 crore, down 13.5 per cent from a year ago. The bank has made an additional provision of Rs 1,000 crore on standard advances during the quarter for Covid-19. With additional standard asset provisions that the bank is carrying out in its micro banking portfolio, total additional provision in its books stands at Rs 3,119 crore. Net interest income of the lender grew 34.5 per cent year-on-year to Rs 2,071.7 crore from Rs 1,540 crore a year ago. Non-interest income grew 55 per cent to Rs 553 crore, taking the total income of the lender to Rs 2,625 crore, up 38.3 per cent over the previous year. Net interest margin of the lender was up 4 basis points year-on-year to 8.3 per cent. “With the fourth quarter historically being the best for us every financial year, we now look forward to similar a performance in last quarter,” said Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, managing director and CEO of Bandhan Bank. Reported gross non-performing assets (NPAs) was 1.1 per cent and net NPAs at 0.3 per cent Federal Bank Federal Bank’s third-quarter net profit declined 8.2 per cent to Rs 404.10 crore, mainly due to higher provisioning for bad loans. The private sector lender had registered a profit of Rs 440.64 crore in the year-ago period. Total income, however, improved to Rs 3,941.36 crore during the third quarter from Rs 3,738.22 crore a year ago, Federal Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Saregama India Ltd buys music rights to four Bollywood production house films||Saregama India Ltd is making a comeback in the Hindi movie circuit after decades. The company has bought the music rights to the films of four big Bollywood production houses, which are expected to hit the theatres in the next 6-14 months. Saregama did not disclose the names citing confidentiality agreements. Music rights of Bollywood blockbusters were the staple of the company during the last century before it took a pause and underwent a transformation, just as delivery of music and content changed from LP records to cassettes to CDs and finally went digital. Riding on the digital wave, Saregama reported a 201 per cent growth in profit after tax in the third quarter at Rs 31.6 crore compared with Rs 10.5 crore a year ago. Turnover went up 3 per cent to Rs 133.9 crore from Rs 129.5 crore in the same period last year. The company said it has been able to increase monetisation of intellectual property (music, film, tv serials) for 12 consecutive quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||PwC analysts in favour of additional tax benefits for WFH expenses||Analysts at PwC India are in favour of additional tax benefits for salaried individuals to meet expenses incurred on account of work from home. The move can potentially increase income at the hands of the individuals and will play a role in increasing demand. The benefit could be in the form of additional standard deduction or could be included as tax benefits under chapter VI of the Income Tax Act. “Demand creation aspects should be particularly focussed with more money being left in the hands of the individuals. So one clear thinking is that at the level of the small to medium taxpayers, in view of Covid, a deduction could be given particularly for salaried employees when they work from home,” said Rahul Garg, senior tax partner, PwC India. “Whatever expenditure they are incurring working from home, which in a typical case could have been incurred in the office by their employers, if that is allowed to be treated for deduction and that saves tax for them, it will leave more money in their hands. Also it is reasonable equitable, because if businesses were to incur that expense, you would have had deductible expenditure," he said. Corporate tax Another change on the wish list is broadening the base of the low 15 per cent corporate tax benefit currently available to manufacturing units that are registered on or after October 1, 2019 under section 115BAB of Income Tax Act. “There is a distinction in law which says that only manufacturing companies set up after a particular date are entitled to a 15 per cent tax. This needs reconsideration to cover a broader sense of MSMEs and also to cover non manufacturing contributors in the supply chain so that the alternative regime is available to all,” Garg said. Ranen Banerjee, leader - economic advisory services, PwC India, said demand generation could be the central focus of the next Union budget. An additional 2 per cent deficit over 3.5 per cent budgeted earlier could give almost Rs 4 trillion that could be utilised for demand generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Asian Paints reports 62.28 per cent jump in consolidated profit||Asian Paints on Thursday reported a 62.28 per cent jump in its consolidated profit to Rs 1,265.35 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 779.71 crore during the same period of previous fiscal.  
Revenue from operations for the October-December quarter stood at Rs 6,886.39 crore, up 25.43 per cent, from Rs 5,490.11 crore reported in the same period of 2019-20, Asian Paints Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Amit Syngle, managing director & CEO, Asian Paints said demand conditions continued to exhibit a strong recovery across business segments, spread over most regions in the third quarter of this financial year.
The domestic decorative business delivered a powerful performance with more than 30 per cent volume growth led by a strong performance in premium and luxury portfolios. The Home Décor foray of Asian Paints got a big fillip from a strong performance of the home improvement business”. JSPL profit Steel maker Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) on Thursday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,432.20 crore for the December quarter of 2020, mainly on account of increased income. The company had recorded a net loss of Rs 257.36 crore during the same quarter a year ago. Total income jumped to Rs 10,898.70 crore against Rs 7,526.28 crore in the October-December quarter of 2019-20, up about 45 per cent. JSPL's total expenses were at Rs 7,878.86 crore, compared to Rs 7,767.37 crore earlier. Part of the OP Jindal Group, JSPL has a presence in steel, power, mining and infrastructure sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||India open to resuming crude oil purchase from Tehran||India plans to keep the option open of resuming crude purchase from Tehran and will closely monitor the steps taken by the Biden administration on the Iran nuclear issue. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had earlier said that the country hopes to resume crude oil imports from Iran after Biden takes charge as US President. Analysts, however, said the country should adopt a cautious approach on the issue as the Biden administration has a lot of hurdles to overcome before returning to the table on this matter. The slump in global crude prices and the alternative crude sources the country has found because of the US sanctions on Iran should help India in taking this cautious approach, they added. The Trump administration had walked out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) in May 2018, three years after it was signed by the Barack Obama administration alongside the UK, France, China, Russia and Germany. Iran said last year it would stop abiding by the deal, which seeks to restrict the country’s nuclear activities. India stopped imports from Iran, previously its third-largest oil supplier, in mid-2019. It purchased 7.65 million tonnes of Venezuelan crude from January to October last year compared with 15.9 million tonnes in 2019. S&P Global Platts in a report said the year 2020 was the first year when Iranian crude inflows into India dropped to zero and that gave Iraq an opportunity to grab a market share of as high as 25 per cent, with shipments of about 50.17 million tonnes in 2020, up from 45.88 million tonnes in 2019, shipping data showed. "Competitive pricing was an important factor to make Iraq the top supplier of crude to India. But Iraq's share in 2021 could go lower as there is a likelihood of some crude coming back from Iran due to the potential easing of US sanctions from the new Biden administration," said Lim Jit Yang, adviser for oil markets at S&P Global Platts Analytics. The report said Iranian crude supply could grow by 500,000 barrels per day between June and December, assuming a new agreement is forged by late 2021 and that the Biden administration is not as stringent about policing sanctions enforcement than the Trump administration. In a best-case scenario, growth of up to one million b/d is possible by December, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Odisha toll road project: Canadian fund signs agreement with Bharat Road Network Limited||Canadian institutional fund manager Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) through its infrastructure investment trust — India Highway Concession Trust — has signed an agreement with Bharat Road Network Limited to acquire a 67-kilometre toll road project from Bhubaneswar to Chandikhole, in Odisha. The enterprise value of the SPV — Shree Jagannath Expressway Private Limited — is estimated in the range of Rs 1800-2000 crore, people familiar with the development said. The SPV is in charge of the development, operations and maintenance of the project which began in December 2011 with an initial concession period of 26 years. BRNL is the largest shareholder with a 40 per cent stake. The company is looking to reduce debt and to use the proceeds for organic and inorganic growth. BRNL’s borrowings were at Rs 260 crore as in September 2020. “It will be the first asset integrated into the new CDPQ-owned roads platform in India, which we set up and staffed in 2020. This reflects our interest for the sector and more broadly the Indian infrastructure market,” said Emmanuel Jaclot, executive vice-president and head of infrastructure, CDPQ. "The transaction is expected to help BRNL in reducing its debts and will also provide the company with funds for reinvesting in its existing assets under construction," said Bajrang Kumar Choudhary, managing director, BRNL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Future Group shares jump after stock exchanges approve RIL deal||Shares in Future Group companies jumped 5 per cent on Thursday after Indian stock exchanges approved the group’s Rs 24,713-crore deal to sell their retail assets to Mukesh Ambani-led conglomerate Reliance Industries. The Indian exchanges said they reached the decision after communicating with India’s markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which had earlier cleared the deal. However, the BSE and NSE, have stated that their approval is “subject to the outcome of any of the ongoing litigations/arbitration/legal proceedings involving the draft scheme and/or the decision by any competent authority/competent court in this regard”. The deal had soured ties with Future’s business  partner Amazon.com Inc, which claimed the transaction breached agreements with Future made in 2019. Amazon raised legal and regulatory challenges to the deal at a Singapore arbitration court and in the Delhi court. The stock exchanges have advised Future Group to ensure that the details of the complaints made by Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC (Amazon), the submissions of Future Retail Ltd and the counter submissions of Amazon are brought to the notice of the shareholders of the listed entities involved in the scheme while seeking their approval. “Further, the same shall also be brought to the notice of the NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) while filing the draft scheme for its approval.” The observations of Sebi/stock exchanges are to be incorporated in the petition to be filed before the NCLT, the reports said. The stock exchanges have also asked Future to ensure shareholders are informed that 74.2 per cent of the business value of the Future Enterprises Ltd, post amalgamation of all the transferor companies, is getting transferred to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd and that these two companies would not be seeking listing post the scheme of arrangement. Sebi has also directed Future Group to ensure that suitable disclosure about the latest financials of the companies involved in the scheme being not more than six months old are made before filing the same with the NCLT. PTI quoted an Amazon spokesperson who said “the letters issued by BSE & NSE clearly state that comments of Sebi on the “draft scheme of arrangement” (proposed transaction) are subject to the outcome of the ongoing arbitration and any other legal proceedings. We will continue to pursue our legal remedies to enforce our rights.” Future Group founder and CEO  Kishore Biyani said earlier this month it expects regulatory approval of the deal, after a New Delhi court in December said the authorities can take a decision on the transaction in accordance with the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Small and mid-cap stocks will beat larger peers in India: Morgan Stanley||Global brokerage firm Morgan Stanley has said that growth in India is set to surprise on the upside. The brokerage also pointed out that small and mid-cap stocks will beat their larger peers as returns to investors will come from bottom-up stock picking rather than following a top-down approach. In stock market parlance, a top-down approach is that when an investor looks at the macro-economic picture first and then takes a decision. Bottom-up investing is done after analysing individual companies. In a note, equity strategists Ridham Desai and Nayant Parekh and equity analyst Sheela Rathi identified 12 stocks as they came out with their most favoured investment themes for 2021. The investment bank said that a key factor influencing its equity portfolio strategy is that growth is set to surprise on the upside because of a combination of improving policy traction, global growth, accommodative monetary stance, strong farm output, robust corporate activity and the likely peak of Covid-19 cases. “While we expect monetary accommodation to remain at the current high levels, we think the RBI is now on a long pause. With inflation likely to remain sticky and interest rates likely to be at current low levels to address growth concerns, real rates may remain in negative territory for most of 2021’’, they added.
Its 12 picks for the current year are Bajaj Auto, Bharat Electronics, Bharti Airtel, Britannia, DLF, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, IndusInd Bank, Just Dial, Larsen & Toubro, MMFSL, PNB Housing and Tata Steel. On what this would mean for investor portfolios, the note said that small and mid-caps could beat large caps and portfolio returns will more likely be driven by bottom-up stock-picking than top-down macro. "We think domestic cyclicals outperform exporters, rate sensitives and consumers outperform, whereas energy underperforms - backed by growth and rates calls. We are overweight consumer discretionary, industrials, financials, utilities and underweight technology and energy’’, the Morgan Stanley note said. Stocks that included Bharat Electronics, Britannia, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, IndusInd Bank, Just Dial, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services (MMFSL), PNB Housing and Tata Steel entered into its focus list for 2021. However, it has excluded Motherson Sumi, ITC, HDFC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance, Havells, SBI and Interglobe Aviation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Sensex scales 50000-level for first time||The Sensex on Thursday scaled the 50000-level for the first time on hopes of an economic recovery and positive global cues but fell victim to profit booking to finish below the milestone. However, the mood was one of caution as stretched valuations in some stocks raised the bar for corporate earnings which could turn out to be a double-edged sword. Equity investors have benefited from strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) as central banks globally inject huge liquidity to kickstart their economy. So far in January, they have made investments worth Rs 22,730 crore in domestic equities. Their enthusiasm is expected to continue on optimism of fresh stimulus by the new Biden administration. Back home, while good corporate results have kept the momentum going, expectations of a growth-oriented budget from Nirmala Sitharaman have added to the positive sentiment. Shares of market heavyweight Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) rose 2 per cent after market regulator Sebi on Thursday gave a conditional approval to Future Group’s sale of assets to RIL. The 30-share Sensex opened above the 50000-mark at 50096.57. It thereafter hit a record intra-day peak of 50184.01. However, profit booking in the last one hour of the trading session saw the index surrendering its gains to end lower at 49624.76, a drop of 167.36 points, or 0.34 per cent. It has taken just one month and 32 trading sessions for the index to cover the last 5000 points. Nilesh Shah, group president and MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company, said, “The Sensex touching 50000 is like the Indian cricket team winning test series in Australia against all odds of Covid-19. While economic data is about the past which is improving month-on-month, the Sensex is reflecting the positivity about the future.” Some experts  have warned of a correction if corporate India’s performance does not meet expectations. “Valuations are a function of earnings and earnings not coming through remains the key risk. The continuous upmove not backed by fundamentals may make the rally fragile going ahead,” said Joseph Thomas, head of research at Emkay Wealth Management. He added that a broad based rally in the markets should be underpinned by a healthy economic growth which would be the key variable providing indications how the future trajectory of risk assets (like equities) shapes-up. In today’s trade, ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Reliance Industries (RIL), Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the gainers, climbing up to 2.72 per cent. However, Ashwin Patni, Head Products & Alternatives, at Axis AMC is of the view that 50,000 is just another level, though he is quick to add that the domestic markets are at the cusp of a long term cyclical growth trajectory. "Markets have touched 50,000. Like other peaks over the last 40 years, there is jubilation and wonderment amongst the finance community. While it might seem momentous, these levels and dates, in reality mean nothing at all. An index such as Sensex ultimately is a broad representation of the performance of the market. So when someone says the index has risen 50 times in 40 years, it is a representation of how the Indian equity markets have fared over this time. This growth has come through periods of booms and recessions and across bull and bear markets", Patni added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
