24-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: real estate hopes for a boost||Budget 2021 is expected to lay key emphasis on the real estate sector. Home buyers and developers are looking for a higher tax relief to spur demand. The cap of Rs 2 lakh on housing loan interest under income tax deductions should be extended up to Rs 5 lakh. Experts feel the government should relax the fundraising norms and ensure the implementation of alternate investment funds to ensure enough liquidity for the sector. More importantly, the government should incentivise the private sector to invest in affordable housing. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, NAREDCO, said: “To promote rental housing the deduction of 30 per cent from the annual rental income (for purpose of maintenance) should be increased to 50 per cent.” Industry body CII has called for a special focus on low-cost housing and an extension of the interest subvention scheme so that it can cover total housing cost of up to Rs 35 lakh. There has also been demand to raise allocation under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) from the Rs 27,500 crore allocated in the Union Budget 2020-21 to ensure every Indian has a home in the near future. “To provide relief to stressed homebuyers, funds could also be set aside for the National Building Construction Corporation to complete stalled projects which have been stuck due to fund shortage. This would boost consumer sentiment and rev up the demand cycle. There could be a provision to recover the costs involved once the project is completed,” said CII in its proposal. The industry body has also called for increase in the rebate on housing loan to help boost demand for housing and push construction activity. While the rebate of interest paid on housing loan (for self-use) has not been revised since 2014 when it was raised to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 1.5 lakh, CII has called for an upward revision given the rise in the capital value of houses. Sharad Mittal, Director and CEO of Motilal Oswal Real Estate, said in a note that residential real estate witnessed a strong recovery in the current financial year owing to low interest rates, pent-up demand, developer discounts and temporary stamp duty waivers. "Over the last six months, residential real estate has witnessed a strong recovery wherein almost all top cities are clocking record sales as compared to previous years. Customers and investors who had stayed away from residential real estate over the last 4 to 5 years are returning to the sector. Return of this lost demand is imperative to the revival of residential real estate, which has been going through several challenges over the last 4 to 5 years due to a spate of regulatory reforms and funding crises," Mittal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||UltraTech net profit goes up two-fold in the December quarter of 2020||Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement on Saturday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,584.58 crore in the December quarter of 2020. The leading cement producer had posted a net profit of Rs 711.17 crore in the October-December quarter a year ago. Its revenue from operations stood at Rs 12,254.12 crore, up 17.38 per cent, during the quarter under review from Rs 10,439.34 crore a year ago. UltraTech Cement’s total expenses were at Rs 10,190.03 crore against Rs 9,611.08 crore, down 6.29 per cent. During the quarter, its volumes rose 14 per cent to 22.82 million tonnes, it said. “Recovery from Covid-19 led to the disruption of the economy. This has been fuelled by quicker demand stabilisation, supply-side restoration and greater cost efficiencies,” UltraTech Cement said in a post-earning statement. While rural and semi-urban housing continues to drive growth, pick-up in government-led infrastructure aided incremental cement demand. “Pent-up urban demand is expected to improve with the gradual return of the migrant workforce,” it added. Though fuel prices have increased in recent months, operational efficiencies and tight control over costs are reflected in the company’s 26 per cent operating margin. “Focus on reducing debt continues. Net debt reduction during Q3 of FY21 was Rs 2,696 crore and year-to-date, it was Rs 7,424 crore,” it said. During the quarter, UltraTech’s board approved a capex of Rs 5,477 crore towards increasing capacity by 12.8 mtpa (million tonnes per annum) with a mix of - brownfield and greenfield expansion - in the fast-growing markets of the east, central and north regions of the country. “This expansion is in addition to the company’s 6.7 mtpa capacity addition that is currently underway in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar and Bengal, which has picked up the pace and is expected to get commissioned by financial year 2022, in a phased manner,” it said. After completion, UltraTech’s capacity will grow to 136.25 mtpa, reinforcing its position as the third-largest cement company in the world, outside of China. Over the outlook, the company said: “With strong rural growth, revival in manufacturing sentiment, buoyancy in GST and tax collections, UltraTech expects demand to grow on the back of the government's push on infrastructure projects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Coal India seeks offtake plan||Coal India on Saturday said power plants need to inform the subsidiaries of the miner their programme for fuel sourcing to avoid any shortage during peak demand. The peak power demand, which is the highest supply in a day, reached a record 187.3GW on January 22, 2021, surpassing the previous high of 185.82GW on January 20. “If this continues, we could expect our supplies to the power sector going up. Power plants need to submit a programme to avoid any shortage as demand has started peaking,” said a senior CIL official. Of the 3.906 billion units (BU) generated, coal fired generation accounted for 3.072 billion units. The average coal-based power generation per day was 2.795 BU till January 22, which breached the 3BU mark on Friday morning. This increased power demand has prompted the public sector miner to ask power plants to programme their offtake. Around 63 million tonnes of coal is stocked up at the pitheads, which Coal India officials said would help in meeting any surge in demand of the dry fuel. The public sector miner is focussing to ramp up its supplies to pithead-based power plants. Coal transportation cost to pithead-based power plants is comparably lower than plants at longer distances, making the landed cost of coal lower. Coal India’s offtake to the power sector was 117.8mt during the third quarter ended December 2020, against 116.07mt in the corresponding period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Birla Corporation Ltd posts 82% jump in net profit||Birla Corporation Ltd posted an 82.1 per cent jump in  net profit for the third quarter compared with the same period last year even as it could not maintain the profit and the margin recorded in the preceding three months. Net profit of the Harsh Vardhan Lodha managed company stood at Rs 148.42 crore compared with Rs 81.49 crore in the third quarter of the previous fiscal and Rs 166.62 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal. Birla Corp attributed the sequential deceleration to the cost push. “In the December quarter, the company witnessed an increase in raw material, power and fuel costs. Also, cement prices remained relatively weaker in the quarter compared with the preceding three months and together they led to the softening of EBIDTA per tonne on a sequential basis,” it said in a note. Revenue grew 5 per cent year-on-year to Rs 1,822.82 crore from Rs 1,735.39 crore. The revenue was Rs 1,675.41 crore in the preceding quarter. Cement sales by volume stood at 3.55 million tonnes, representing capacity utilisation of 92 per cent compared with 88 per cent in the corresponding period last year. Birla Corp said it tackled the cost push by reducing operational and borrowing costs and increasing the sale of premium cement. The overall borrowing cost came down to 7.82 per cent for the December quarter from 9.26 per cent last year. Despite drawing Rs 732 crore on account of the Mukutban project, the company’s gross debt stood at Rs 4,099 crore compared with Rs 4,172 crore a year earlier. Birla Corp said the 3.9-million-tonne capacity of the Mukutban plant in Maharashtra would be commissioned in the third quarter of the next fiscal. By focusing on independent home builders, sales of premium cement in the in the December quarter were up 29 per cent by volume and accounted for 53 per cent of the sales through the more profitable trade or retail channel. It also maintained its sales of high-yielding blended cement at 91 per cent in the December quarter. The jute division also made cash profit in the third quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Sitharaman launches the 'Union Budget Mobile App'||The countdown for the Union Budget 2021, to be presented on February 1, began with the traditional ‘Halwa ceremony’ in the North Block on Saturday. A customary Halwa ceremony is performed every year before the “lock-in” process of the budget preparation begins. However, this year the budget documents will not be printed but will be uploaded on a website. This would be the first time since Independence that the budget documents and the Economic Survey, to be tabled on January 29, would not be printed. However, to upload the documents, 30 to 40 finance ministry officials would be required to stay at the North Block compared with other years when over 100 officials would stay inside the basement of the North Block where the press is located. On the occasion, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman launched the “Union Budget Mobile App” for access to budget documents by members of Parliament (MPs) and the general public. The general feeling among experts this year is that the budget should focus on demand side issues as the government has been busy fixing supply side concerns since March 2020 when the pandemic began to pummel the economy. “It is high time to change gears and focus on the demand side as well, lest the ongoing recovery begins to lose steam. There is nothing wrong in addressing the supply-side issues, as it was necessary to augment the broken supply chains. But, lack of adequate demand may jeopardise the recovery and may even lead to a second-round impact,” Sunil Kumar Sinha of India Ratings warned in a note. Sinha warned that even if the supply-side bottlenecks get restored on account of various government/RBI measures it may soon run into difficulties due to the lack of adequate demand for goods and services. “The economy has shown some green shoots with several high frequency indicators reaching the pre-pandemic level of production, bolstered by a combination of festive/pent-up demand. But, after two consecutive months of positive growth, the factory output contracted in November, showing the fragility of the recovery. Therefore an appropriate demand-side measure therefore is as important as supply-side measures,” he said. Expecting the Budget, to be tabled on February 1, to focus on boosting aggregate demand, expenditure reprioritisation and mobilising higher non-tax revenue, Sinha lists the following priorities. During this period of isolation, the officials are not allowed to contact their families through phone or any other form of communication, such as e-mail, texts. Only very senior officials in the finance ministry are permitted to go home. Mobile phone jammers are installed to block phone calls. Internet connections of staff and senior officials are cut. Phone calls made through landlines installed are closely monitored. They will only emerge once the Finance Minister presents the Budget in Parliament. During the "lock in" period, visitors are normally not allowed in the North Block, and if permitted, they are escorted by security personnel to the officer they wish to visit. Departments, which deal with taxation policies and which form the heart of the budget-making exercise, are kept under strict armed guard. A team of senior intelligence bureau officials keep watch on the denizens of the North Block and their visitors as well as on the regular security personnel. Corporate lobbyists usually target the officers of the Central Board of Direct Taxes and the Central Board of Excise and Customs who work on the complicated number crunching and tax structure. Cyber security and spyware ensures there is no eavesdropping. Indications are that Bahi khata, the red bag reminiscence of the traditional account books, would give way to the laptop, symbolism of new digital India. She had in 2019 July discarded the colonial legacy of carrying the budget documents in a briefcase. The word ‘budget’ has its origin in the French word Bougette, which means leather briefcase. Sitharaman also launched the “Union Budget Mobile App” for hassle-free access of Budget documents by Members of Parliament (MPs) and the general public. “The mobile App facilitates complete access to 14 Union Budget documents, including the Annual Financial Statement (commonly known as Budget), Demand for Grants (DG), Finance Bill etc. as prescribed by the Constitution,” a finance ministry release said. The Budget documents will be available on the Mobile App after the completion of the Budget Speech by the Finance Minister in the Parliament. “The App has a user-friendly interface with embedded features of downloading, printing, search, zoom in and out, bidirectional scrolling, table of contents and external links, etc. It is bilingual (English & Hindi) and will be available on both Android and iOS platforms,” the official release said. The App can also be downloaded from the Union Budget Web Portal (www.indiabudget.gov.in) and has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the guidance of the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). The Budget for FY22 will come against the backdrop of an economic contraction of 7.7 per cent, the first time in the history of independent India. So, all stakeholders have great expectations from the upcoming Budget, which could provide a healing touch to the pandemic-battered economy and push growth. Even the Finance Minister last month promised a ''never before'' like Union Budget to the people of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
