25-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 531 points to close at 48,348||The BSE benchmark Sensex dived nearly 531 points to close at 48,348 on Monday, prolonging its losing streak to the third straight session, weighed down by massive selling particularly in energy and IT stocks. After swinging nearly 1,000 points during the session, the BSE benchmark settled with a loss of 530.95 points or 1.09 per cent at 48,347.59. The 30-share index opened over 375 points higher and hit the day's high of 49,263.15 before succumbing to selling pressure that took the index to the session's lowest point at 48,274.92. Likewise, the NSE gauge Nifty plunged 133 points or 0.93 per cent to end the session at 14,238.90. On the Sensex chart, Reliance Industries fell 5.36 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid dropping as much as 4.72 per cent. Of the Sensex constituents, 21 closed in the red and only 9 in the green. Among the gainers were Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj FinServ, HDFC Bank and Dr Reddy's. Analysts are of the view that markets may remain volatile in this holiday-shortened week amid monthly derivatives expiry, quarterly earnings and the upcoming Union Budget. Indian equity markets will remain closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Asian shares closed higher on Monday. On the forex front, the rupee ended 3 paise higher at 72.94 against the US dollar. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.56 per cent higher at USD 55.69 per barrel on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 340 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged 346.55 points in the opening session on Monday, propelled by a rally in financial stocks. The 30-share index was trading 346.55 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 49,225.09 in opening trade. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty rose 88.40 points or 0.62 per cent to 14,460.30 in early deals. On the Sensex chart, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, Axis Bank, Bajaj FinServ, HDFC Bank and Mahindra and Mahindra were the prominent gainers. On the other hand, RIL, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, ONGC and ITC were among the major laggards. On Friday, the BSE Sensex had tumbled 746.22 points or 1.50 per cent to finish at 48,878.54, posting its largest single-session drop in a month; while, the NSE Nifty had slumped 218.45 points or 1.5 per cent to 14,371.90. However, a day before the Sensex had breached the historic 50,000-level for the first time ever. Foreign institutional investors offloaded Indian equities worth Rs 635.69 crore on a net basis on Friday. Analysts are of the view that markets may remain volatile in this holiday-shortened week amid monthly derivatives expiry, quarterly earnings and the upcoming Union Budget. Indian equity markets would remain closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day holiday. Asian shares were trading higher in afternoon trade on Monday. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 55.30 per barrel on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Budget should offer more tax breaks||The upcoming Union budget is one of the more important ones our country has seen, coming as it is after a pandemic that brought the economy to a standstill and put a pause on people’s aspirations. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will undoubtedly receive many recommendations on what she must announce. I have a few as well focusing on three key areas: increasing disposable income through enhanced tax-breaks, stimulating real estate for the multiplier effect it has on the economy and incentivising the purchase of term insurance. Increase 80C limit to Rs 3 lakh The 80C limit, which is Rs 1.5 lakh at present, was last revised in July 2014. This should be doubled to account for inflation and to give better value for many of the unavoidable expenses taxpayers incur. Section 80C is a smörgåsbord of many deductions and in many cases, the limit is too little to meaningfully account for all of them. The section allows deductions for home loan principal payments, life insurance and annuity payments, qualified investments such as PPF, NSC, ELSS etc and much more. If you consider the example of a salaried taxpayer who has a home loan, school-going children, long-term investments and life insurance premium, the current limit of Rs 1.5 lakh may be inadequate, though these payments are essential to the taxpayer. Therefore, at the very least, he should be able to get higher deductions for some of these payments which are getting bigger with each passing year, especially in urban areas where schooling and housing aren’t cheap. Second, it would to good to remove some of the items eligible for 80C deductions to new sections. This would free up more of the 80C limit for investments and retirement planning. This, in turn, would direct more investments into government schemes such as EPF and PPF — which the government surely won’t mind. Home loan deduction of Rs 5 lakh Home loan deductions should be moved to a new section with an exemption limit of Rs 5 lakh, without sub-limits on principal on interest. There are at present four deductions for home loan payments: for principal paid up to Rs 1.5 lakh under 80C and for interest paid under 24B (Rs 2 lakh), 80EE (Rs 50,000) and 80EEA (Rs. 1.5 lakh). Streamlining these deductions under a single new section and enhancing their combined limit would bring them closer to the challenging reality of home buying. The costs are high and, therefore, the borrowing must be large. So, the tax breaks, too, should keep pace with the market realities. According to BankBazaar data, the average home loan taken by women in 2020 was around Rs 31 lakh. Over 20 years, assuming an interest rate of 8 per cent, the first-year interest on this loan is Rs 2.45 lakh while the principal paid is Rs 65,524. Despite paying a total of Rs 3.11 lakh, the available first-year tax deduction here is just Rs 2.65 lakh. While 80EEA addresses this deficit for first-time home buyers, it discriminates against ineligible buyers and more so against second-time buyers who must upgrade out of necessity. The prohibitive costs make it difficult for buyers to make their dream home purchase the first time, and compromises are made in terms of costs, size or locality. When they are ready to upgrade to accommodate their growing needs, the tax breaks are not available to them. Therefore, streamlined deductions up to Rs 5 lakh without sub-limits to all buyers would be welcome. The enhanced limit is also equal to the sum of deductions under 80C, 24B and 80EEA for eligible borrowers and, therefore, not an unrealistic ask. Higher deductions for home loans would revive interest in real estate which has slowed down for long. A boost to real estate has a multiplier effect on the economy. Therefore, the deductions should not only increase disposable income but also boost a priority sector. Term insurance deduction of Rs 25,000 Let us next examine the problem with life insurance penetration and low persistency. According to  IRDAI figures, only around 2.76 per cent Indians own life insurance of which only 61 per cent actually continue with their coverage beyond the fifth year. The reasons for dumping the coverage may range from liquidity needs, disappointment with the returns or not being able to continue paying premium. Term insurance offers large coverage at low costs and its adoption should be encouraged, especially over investment-linked insurance which demand large premium but lack liquidity and provide low returns. A 30-year-old person can buy a coverage of Rs 1 crore for 30 years at an annual cost of around Rs  7,000 to Rs 15,000, whereas a similar cover through other forms of insurance would be prohibitively costly. The term plan option is not just affordable but also a need for a person with financial dependants and liabilities such as loans. A new deduction just for term insurance premium up to Rs 25,000 would be in line with 80D limits and encourage many to adopt term coverage. A differentiation must be made between term plans under this new section and  deductions for other life insurance varieties under 80C. Moreover, opting to buy term insurance would free up the policyholder’s savings for investment in the securities market and government schemes where they will be able to earn better returns on investments. This would also divert more money in government schemes. After a year like 2020, it is imperative that the government puts more cash in the hands of the common man. These enhanced deductions on essential expenses would help in that regard. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Labour codes to impact gratuity, ensure strict compliance||A lot is now being heard about the new labour codes. What  they are, why do we need them, whom will they impact and in what way: there are far too many queries in our minds. Let us try to decode the new labour codes in this article. The four new labour codes— Code on Social Security, 2020, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, Industrial Relations Code, 2020, and Code on Wages, 2019 — subsume  the existing 29 central labour and industrial laws and aim to avoid multiplicity of laws. The government wants to facilitate ease of compliance and achieve equity for all. The new codes will ensure better use of technology for various compliances and effective enforcement. Do the new labour codes apply only to blue collar employees or would they also apply to white collar employees? The answer is that the labour codes would apply to all employees irrespective of the role/level/nature of duties/salary (with minimal exceptions) of the organisation. Common definition One attempt of the government to bring in simplicity is the new common definition of wages across all four codes. Under existing laws, there are different definition of wages for provident fund, gratuity etc. However, now under the new codes, there is a common definition of wages. This new definition of wages covers all salary components expressed in terms of money or capable of being so expressed. There are specific exclusions from the definition of wages such as statutory bonus, house rent allowance, conveyance allowance, commission etc. However, these exclusions are limited to 50 per cent of the total remuneration (except gratuity and retrenchment compensation). With this change in the definition of wages and its common applicability, there will be an impact on the employees’ benefits and employers’ costs. The new definition of wages will specifically impact gratuity cost. For all the current and future employees, gratuity will now be payable under the new definition of wages. Another change is regarding the period considered for eligibility to gratuity. For fixed term employees, the earlier criteria of minimum five years of service has been now reduced to one year. This means that now fixed term employees will be eligible for gratuity just after one year of serving an organisation. This, however, is not applicable to permanent employees who are not employed for a fixed period. Permanent employees will continue to be eligible for gratuity after five years of service. Any ‘‘worker’’ under the labour codes can now demand leave encashment at the end of each calendar year. Such leave encashment is to be calculated on ‘‘wages’’ as defined under the Labour Codes. Hiring norms Changes have also been prescribed in the labour codes with respect to hiring of employees through third parties/contractors. Any worker who is hired in or in connection with the work of the establishment by or through a contractor is a ‘‘contract labour’’. But a worker would not be termed as a ‘‘contract labour’’ if his/her employment with the contractor is governed by mutually accepted standards of the conditions of employment; and he/she gets periodical increment in the pay, social security coverage and other welfare benefits. For such workers who do not fall within the definition of ‘‘contract labour’’, the contractor will be responsible for all compliances under the Labour Codes as their employer. An establishment will now have to pay an amount payable to the contractor before the date of payment of wages so that the contractor can pay the wages by the due date and must pay a minimum bonus to the employees if the contractor fails to pay. This is to ensure timely payments to the employees. Compliances will also be widely impacted under the labour codes. Wages will have to be paid  within two working days even in the case of voluntary resignation by the employee. There are prescriptive formats for the wage register, employee register and wage slip specified in the rules. Aadhaar will be mandatory for social security contributions and benefits. A safety committee must be formed by the employer and it will have to contain representatives of employer and workers; women can work night shifts  night (before 6 am and after 7 pm) only after express consent and subject to safety conditions. These are just a few of the changes in the codes. Strict consequences are outlined in the codes for non-compliance of any of the compliances required. All the four labour codes have been passed by both Houses of the Parliament and have also received Presidential assent and all that needs to be notified is the date from which the codes will come into force. The need of this hour is a thorough analysis by each organisation of their employees’ compensation structures, HR and payroll policies and third-party contracts so that they can identify align these with various requirements under the new labour codes. Dinesh Agarwal is partner and  Puneet Gupta is director at EY. Additional inputs by Reema Jalan, a senior tax professional with EY India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||BMW India targeting double-digit growth in sales||BMW India is targeting a double-digit growth in sales this year after having touched an 11-year low during pandemic-hit 2020. It plans to launch 25 products this year. The German company has sold 6,092 units of BMW cars, 512 Minis and 2,563 Motorrad motorcycles last year. The company posted a 31.5 per cent decline in sales in 2020 compared with 9,641 units in 2019. However, the company remains bullish about sales recovery having witnessed a slow and steady improvement through the third quarter and reporting  sales growth in November and December 2020. “Year 2020 has been unusually tough both for the company and the industry. While the industry witnessed a 40 per cent decline, the company has seen a dip of 31.2 per cent. But we have gained five per cent market share in 2020 in the luxury segment,” said Vikram Pawah, CEO of BMW Group. The company has gained market share  across all segments, Pawah added. BMW will launch 25 products across the three brands of BMW cars, Mini and BMW Motorrad in 2021. There will be 20 launches, including facelifts of BMW cars and Mini and five new models of Motorrad motorcycles. It kickstarted the launches with the 3 Series Gran Limousine that will retail at Rs 51.5 lakh onwards. On whether the company plans to relaunch the 1-series, Pawah said: “There is no appetite for luxury hatchbacks here. We have seen robust demand in sedans and SAVs (sports activity veehicle) and the demand mix between these two bodytypes is more or less equal with a slight preference for SAVs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd spins off oil-to-chem unit||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd has completed the spin-off of the firm’s oil-to-chemical business into a new unit that will help it pursue growth opportunities with strategic partnerships, the company has said. The oil-to-chemical (O2C) business unit holds Reliance’s oil refinery and petrochemical assets and retail fuel business but not upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business. Reliance for the first time reported integrated earnings of the O2C business in its third-quarter financial results. Earlier, the refining and petrochemical businesses were reported separately while fuel retailing revenue was part of the firm’s overall retail business. In the October-December 2020 earnings statement, earnings of the refining and petrochemical as well as fuel retailing businesses were reported as one. As a result, it did not give refining margins — the most sought after number to assess the firm’s oil refining business. “Reorganising refining and petrochemicals as oil-to-chemicals (O2C) reflects new strategy as well as management matrix,” the company said in a post earning investor presentation. This, it said, will “facilitate holistic and agile decision making” as well as “pursue attractive opportunities for growth with strategic partnerships”. Reliance started work on hiving off the O2C business into a separate unit last year for a possible stake sale to companies such as Saudi Aramco. It values the O2C business at $75 billion and has been in talks with Saudi Arabian Oil Co (Aramco) for sale of a 20 per cent interest. The company, however, did not mention discussions with Aramco, which are said to have hit a valuation roadblock. The reorganisation would “drive the move towards further downstream and closer to customers” and “provide sustainable and affordable energy and materials solutions to meet India’s growing needs,” the firm said in the presentation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||Cairn Energy Plc shareholders ask Indian govt to return $1.2 billion||Some of Cairn Energy Plc’s marquee shareholders that include BlackRock, MFS, Franklin Templeton and Fidelity have asked the Indian government to honour an arbitration award and return $1.2 billion to the British oil firm, sources said. Cairn, which on this day seven years back was first slapped with a retrospective tax assessment, is three-fourth owned by the world’s top investors with $529 billion MFS Investment Management of the US being its largest investor with a 13.95 per cent stake. New York-based BlackRock is the second-biggest shareholder with a 12.21 per cent stake. Other investors include Fidelity International, Franklin Templeton, Vanguard Group and Aberdeen Standard Investments, according to stock exchange data. Two sources with knowledge of the development said the investors have written to the Indian government as well as the governments of their country — the US and the UK — seeking adherence to the award of a tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The three-member tribunal, which comprised a judge appointed by India, last month unanimously overturned a Rs 10,247-crore retrospective tax demand on the British oil and gas company and asked the government to return the value of the shares it sold, dividend it seized and tax refunds it stopped to enforce the tax. Sources said Cairn was not a single-promoter driven firm but is owned by the world’s top investors who are now seeking to protect their interest. These investors, they said, have patiently waited for seven years for the resolution of the issue and now that an international arbitration award has come, they want it to be honoured and the issue resolved in a time-bound manner. Cairn’s international shareholders who hold nearly 30 per cent of the stock, in the US and the UK have engaged with their governments as well as the Indian authorities seeking the resolution of the issue in a timely fashion. It wasn’t immediately known how many of the Cairn’s top 20 shareholders, who between them hold a 74.94 per cent stake, have written to the US, the UK and the Indian government. Cairn refused to comment on the story. The company had last week stated that it was engaged with the Indian government on the adherence of the arbitration award. “In December, the tribunal established to rule on Cairn’s claim against the Government of India under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty found in Cairn’s favour. “The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the Treaty and awarded Cairn damages of $1.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which are now payable,” the company had said. The tribunal, in a 582-page judgment on December 21, had ordered the return of the value of shares that the Income Tax Department sold as also the dividend it seized and tax refunds it withheld to recover tax demand that was levied following a 2012 amendment to the Income Tax Act that gave authorities powers to seek taxes on past deals. It ruled that the 2006 reorganisation of Cairn Energy’s India business prior to listing on local bourses was not “unlawful tax avoidance” and ordered tax authorities to drop the tax demand. The Income Tax Department had in January 2014 slapped a Rs 10,247cr tax assessment on Cairn for alleged capital gains it made in the 2006 business reorganisation. Cairn denied the scheme avoided any tax that was prevalent on that date and challenged the demand through an arbitration. During the pendency of the arbitration, the government sold Cairn’s near 5 per cent holding in Vedanta Ltd, seized dividends totalling Rs 1,140 crore due to it from those shareholdings and set off a Rs 1,590-crore tax refund against the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||JSW Steel reports strong set of numbers with best-ever EBITDA||JSW Steel reported a strong set of numbers with the best-ever earnings before interest, tax and depreciation on the back of an unprecedented rise in steel prices and healthy margin. The company’s joint managing director and group CFO Seshagiri Rao, however, tells the author that further rise in prices is unlikely even as the fourth quarter will be even better. He also does not expect the budget to lower the import duty on steel. An excerpt: Steel industry and JSW in particular posted great numbers in the third quarter. Is it sustainable? Well, there are four aspects to it: demand sustainability, supply improvement, prices and margin.
Demand: I’m confident about demand sustainability. Seeing the month-on-month improvement from April, I don’t accept it is just pent-up demand. From 1 million tonnes (mt) in April, it went up to 10.28mt in December, which is 19 per cent higher year-on-year (y-o-y), and the highest in a single month. Large infrastructures that were held up started; auto remained robust — our sales went up 57 per cent year-on-year; retail, packaging, pipe also showed growth. We believe it will pick up further. India consumed 68mt steel in the first nine months, including 28mt in the third quarter alone. Assuming the fourth quarter to be the same, India will consume 93mt, a fall of 7 per cent over the last fiscal, much lower than 17-18 per cent initially apprehended. We believe in the next year 10-12 per cent growth is possible.
Supply: India’s installed capacity is 142mt. In Q3, we had 76 per cent capacity utilisation. Next year, about 5mt will come from JSW, then there is NMDC plant and SAIL’s expansion. All put together, the incremental capacity will come next year. Supply side will not drive steel prices in the next year. Iron ore prices went up 146 per cent from June to January in the international market. In India, the rise is higher, mainly because of  a drop of 46mt in production in the first nine months. Coking coal prices, which went down to $104 a tonne, has gone up to $135 in the last four days, because countries other than China have now recovered. So, cost pressure is high, demand is strong and supply is increasing. So, I’m not seeing further upside in steel prices, nor apprehending any crash. What happens to the margin then? With cost pressure and price upsides capped, margin may be impacted unless a company takes specific measures to cut costs. Would you say the third quarter was the best steel companies had? No, Q4 will be even better. Majority of the raw material (coking coal) is bought for the quarter. Long-term steel contract for the quarter is closed. So, the impact of raw material prices or steel prices may not come in this quarter. The impact of the entire price increase of the last quarter will come in this quarter. JSW had capacity utilisation of 91 per cent in Q3. Can that be scaled up? After we got control of the railway siding in Odisha mid quarter, iron ore supply from our mine has improved. It is now meeting 49 per cent of the requirement. We already operated at 94 per cent in December. There is much noise around steel prices already high. Do you apprehend budget taking steps? The noise has no substance. It depends on business practices. Some companies take fixed price contracts while some work on spot prices. So, when prices crashed, they (who took spot) enjoyed it. Now if it is high, they should not complain. In fact, our net sales realisation is lower than spot prices because of these long-term contracts. I also don’t see demand weakening, leading to price correction. Do you apprehend any tinkering with import duty? Well, 60 per cent imports are happening at zero per cent duties from Japan, Korea, anyway. The government is aware that prices have gone up everywhere. In China, it has gone up 80 per cent since April, 119 per cent in the US and 84 per cent in Europe compared with  51 per cent in India. So, it is expensive to import. The steel industry lost Rs 6,000 crore in net profit in the first quarter. The government has all the data. Let me turn to the company. JSW said travel and visa restrictions are affecting Dolvi expansion. Can you explain? Equipment is imported from Europe, Asia or China. Suppliers give guarantee that they will be present at the stage of commission and guide us. Foreigners who were with us had left due to Covid. Now they are unable to come for not getting a visa. We are at a critical stage now in commissioning. There are issues with the melt shop and coke oven. We will begin individual units but integrated operation will start in Q1 of next fiscal, a delay of a few weeks. About 80 per cent of all our planned capex will be completed by March 31. JSW took board approval for $1 billion from the overseas markets. What is your guidance on debt? Our net debt will not go up from the present level, it may come down by the end of fiscal, provided Bhushan Power acquisition does not happen. Coming to bonds, two important changes took place in India. There is a large borrower prudential limit prescribed by the RBI and also the bank's own ability to lend, they are focusing on retail. These prompted Indian corporate to diversify the source of funding, rely on the international market. JSW raised $2.6 billion through bonds in the last 5-6 years with different tenure. This time we want to go to the US market which will be cost effective and also give longer tenure. JSW is bidding for Uttam Galva and Gontermann-peipers. Can you give us an update? UGSL is a downstream unit, JSW used to supply a lot of materials to it. We are showing interest in downstream units, because we have additional upstream capacity coming up. We have submitted expressions of interest but not taken a call. GPI is strategic not only to JSW but to India, because they make steel rolls. China killed the companies by dumping in India. Reviving the company is important. JSW appears to be taking many ESG initiatives. Your take: We have been doing it for a long time but didn’t talk. Brought environment friendly Corex technology to India, planted a million tree in Vijaynagar, taken initiative on carbon emission, solid waste management. All these resulted in CDP, which evaluates environmental impact, upgrading us to A- (leadership level). Now we have set targets in line with the Paris Climate Change accord and so far doing better. JSW will give a quarterly update on how it is moving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||Hike in wages in Bengal to impact profitability of tea industry||The hike in wages rates in Bengal along with production returning to normality would impact the profitability of the tea industry. The impact on bulk tea prices once production returns to normal in the new season would be a critical factor for profitability in the next financial year, rating agency Icra said in a report. Bengal has recently announced a 15 per cent increase in wage rates, on an interim basis, which would increase the cost of production for bulk tea companies, it added. Domestic prices have increased sharply in the current financial year. The North India  auction average rose 46 per cent annually  during April-December 2020 and South India  41 per cent, the report said.
Prices rose because production fell 10 per cent, while consumption remained firm, increasing profitability for the fiscal. The trend for next fiscal will depend on whether the higher prices are sustained and the input costs, the rating agency stated. Icra vice-president and sector head (corporate sector ratings) Kaushik Das said, “While it would be premature to comment on the exact level of tea prices, nonetheless, overall prices are likely to witness a negative bias, once the production returns to normal in the new season.” Input costs is expected to go up because of the higher wages. “ Bengal has already announced an interim wage increase, Assam is also likely to follow along similar lines.” Das also said the sustenance of healthy profitability would be critical to ensure the long-term financial health of the bulk tea industry. Global trends The report said the decline in production from India and Sri Lanka — a contraction of 11 per cent for both in 11 months of 2020 —  is estimated to result in an overall decline in global production in 2020. The fall in production in the two Asian countries will not be offset by a sharp rise in the Kenyan crop by 32 per cent during the nine months of 2020. The report said the global supply of crush tear curl (CTC) teas largely remains the same, with the increase in Kenyan CTC crop compensating for the decline in Indian CTC production. Global orthodox (ODX) production was hit following the decline in both India and Sri Lanka, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
