26-01-2021||Business||Development FI needed to spur infrastructure spending||Past studies have established that investments in infrastructure have a multiplier effect on GDP in terms of immediate creation of jobs, attracting fresh investments in manufacturing and services and improving the overall competitiveness of the economy. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), launched in early 2020 and involving an estimated outlay of Rs 111 lakh crore, therefore, comes at an opportune time. If it is implemented in a timely manner, it is expected to play a key role in the post Covid-19 turnaround of the economy. The key issue, however, remains mobilisation of adequate financing within the required timelines. If we look at the financing mix envisaged in the NIP, around 18-20 per cent of the outlay is proposed to be funded through the Government of India’s (GoI) budgetary support. Another 24-26 per cent is expected to come from state government budgets, with the balance coming from extra-budgetary resources, including private financing. In 2020-21, GoI budgetary spending on infrastructure is expected to be around Rs 4.5 lakh crore. Even if these levels of investment were to be maintained or increased slightly over the next four years, the level of financing envisaged from GoI budgetary outlays would be met. However, there remain questions on the other proposed sources of financing. Annual infrastructure spending has varied in the range of Rs 9-10 lakh crore in 2018 and 2019 and a steep change is called for if the NIP targets are to be achieved. If we look at the key sources of finance beyond the central budget, with average fiscal deficit at the state level likely to be around 4.6 per cent (source: RBI) against the original cap of 3 per cent, state government budgetary constraints are likely to persist. The banking sector, another mainstay of infrastructure financing, has been impacted by asset liability mismatches and delays on borrower loan repayments due to the economic fall-out of Covid-19. Coming to infrastructure focused development finance institutions (DFIs), these have largely been limited to sectors such as power and railways. However, around 30 per cent of the NIP outlay is earmarked for sectors such as urban infrastructure, irrigation, health and education where projects are likely to be promoted at the state level. Given all this, it is important that the GoI budgetary support for infrastructure financing focuses on specific areas which can act as a force multiplier for state government investments as well as long-term extra-budgetary sources of finance. The first such area can be the setting up or repurposing of one or more development finance institutions (DFIs) to finance greenfield infrastructure projects in specific sectors at the regional or state level. DFIs offer an unique advantage of providing long-term financing at reasonable rates during the early stages of the project. While the initial risk capital for the DFI(s) can come from the budget, this can be supplemented through additional resources from bilateral/multilateral organisations, international capital markets etc. A regional or state specific DFI construct may be explored, based on equity participation from state governments and state-specific investment caps based on contribution from individual states. The second potential area for intervention is creating an enabling mechanism for surplus land monetisation. There exists significant holding of unused government land, both at the central and state level. Budget 2021-22 can possibly look at funding the initial capital for a Central Land Management Corporation mandated with managing surplus land assets of the government. It would be responsible for acquiring or leasing surplus government land for utilisation in commercial as well as infrastructure projects. A third area of focus involves streamlining tax-related measures to attract long-term sources of finance like sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and foreign pension funds (FPFs). While certain measures like exempting dividend and capital gains income of SWFs and FPFs from infrastructure investments are already in place, Budget 2021-22 can look at additional enabling measures like extending the tax exemption under Section 10(23FE) to SWF/FPF investments in holding companies against only infrastructure operating companies. While these may not feature in the forthcoming budget, the underlying policy reforms for individual sectors, some of which have been highlighted in the NIP, are important. Key areas for intervention include putting in place objective regulatory and tariff setting mechanisms for specific sectors, streamlining land approvals and dispute resolution practices for infrastructure projects; deepening the market for corporate bonds and streamlining settlement mechanisms. The writer is partner, government and public services leader, Deloitte India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
26-01-2021||Business||Investors' thumbs-up to Grasim paints foray ||Investors on Monday gave a thumbs-up to Grasim Industries’ plan to foray into the paints segment. On the BSE, the Grasim share zoomed 6.44 per cent, or Rs 64.65, to end at Rs 1,069.05. During intra-day trade, the counter hit a high of Rs 1,122.65, a gain of almost 12 per cent over its previous close. Last week, the Kumar Managalam Birla-led firm has said that it will invest Rs 5,000 crore in this business over the next three years. Grasim justified its entry into this segment, saying the move will add size, scale and diversity to its existing business portfolio. Grasim also feels that the new business is likely to be value accretive to its stakeholders. “The foray into paints is a strategic portfolio choice for Grasim as it looks to identify new growth engines. The company endeavours to invest in businesses that have the potential to be a leader in their addressable markets; have the ability to achieve scale, and generate consistent and attractive returns in the long term. The paints industry presents a high-growth option for Grasim,” Birla said. According to the company, the high growth sector has registered a revenue CAGR of around 11 per cent during 2013-14 to 2018-19, and given the value migration from the unorganised to the organised market, the outlook remains robust, providing space for a quality new player.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
26-01-2021||Business||RIL stock battered,  cedes ground to TCS in market capitalisation||Reliance Industries’ decision to stop showing its refining margins in its quarterly numbers pulled down the stock on Monday, while TCS pipped the company to the top spot in market capitalisation. Shares of Reliance Industries (RIL) on Monday lost almost Rs 70,000 crore of its market value. A section of analysts questioned the structure of the oil-to-chemical segment even as other key metrics such as debt reduction and operating profit disappointed in the third quarter. The sell-off cost RIL the market crown as Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) once again became the most valuable firm in terms of market capitalisation. The Reliance scrip ended sharply lower by 5.36 per cent, or Rs 109.95, to close at Rs 1,939.70 on the BSE. During intra-day trades, the share hit a low of Rs 1,932.20 — a fall of 5.73 per cent over its last close. Reliance closed the day with a market cap of Rs 12.29 lakh crore. This also had a bearing on the 30-share Sensex which extended its losses to the third straight trading session. The  index dived 530.95 points to close at 48347.50. The TCS counter closed with a market cap of Rs 12.34 lakh crore after it ended lower by 0.40 per cent. Last Friday, post market hours, RIL had announced a 12.55 per cent rise in net profits at Rs 13,101 crore compared with Rs 11,640 crore in the year-ago period on good performance from its digital services business. The company approved the formal reorganisation of its refining & petrochemical business segments into Oil-to-Chemicals (O2C) business. RIL added that it will henceforth disclose O2C as a separate business segment. The conglomerate did not disclose how its refining division performed (done till the second quarter), leaving some analysts disappointed. Revenues from the O2C segment had fallen to Rs 83,838 crore from Rs 119,121 crore in the year-ago period. Analysts at Edelweiss said in a note that the profit numbers from RIL were entirely driven by investment income and a near-zero tax liability. “O2C and retail missed expectations, but Reliance Jio (RJio) beat forecasts. While recovery is underway, it is mixed. But, transparency levels are falling across businesses. RIL has stopped reporting a key matrix—gross refining margins (GRM) altogether,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Kotak Bank net profit up 11% in third quarter||Private sector lender Kotak Mahindra Bank’s consolidated profit after tax (PAT) grew 11 per cent to Rs 2,602 crore in the third quarter ended December. It had posted a PAT of Rs 2,349 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. On a standalone basis, the bank reported a 16 per cent rise in its net profit to Rs 1,854 crore in the quarter ended December, against Rs 1,596 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s group president and group chief financial officer Jaimin Bhatt said, “We have seen growth in the quarter coming back. During this period, the expenses have been under control, and other income has grown. So, from a year-on-year basis, there is more efficiency which has got in there.” The bank’s gross non-performing assets (NPA) stood at 2.26 per cent compared with 2.46 per cent. “Had the bank classified the borrowers more than 90 days overdue on December 31, 2020, as NPA, GNPA would be 3.27 per cent (2.70 per cent as of September 30, 2020),” the lender said in a release. Uco Bank on Monday reported a net profit of Rs 35.44 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. Lower provisioning aided the bottomline of the city-based bank. The public sector lender had reported a net loss of Rs 960.17 crore during the corresponding quarter a year ago. The net interest income of the bank for the quarter ended December 2020 increased to Rs 1,407.15 crore from Rs 1,236.59 crore a year ago, a growth of 13.79 per cent. Gross NPA of the bank came down to Rs 11,440.47 crore (9.80 per cent) as on December 31, 2020, from Rs 22,139.65 crore (19.45 per cent) as on December 31, 2019. Provisions for bad loans fell sharply to Rs 393.06 crore for the quarter under review from Rs 1,645.51 crore a year ago Engineering and construction giant Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Monday posted a 3 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 2,648.33 crore for the quarter ended in December 2020, compared with Rs 2,560.32 crore a year ago. The profit rise is largely attributed to higher profit from IT & ITeS segment and sale of commercial property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Amazon moves Delhi high court to block Future deal||Amazon.com Inc has moved the Delhi high court to block Future Group from selling its retail assets to Reliance Industries (RIL). The move comes days after stock exchanges and market regulator Sebi gave their conditional approval to the proposed deal. The e-commerce giant is looking to enforce the interim order given by a Singapore arbitrator to stall the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Reliance and the Future group. Last month, the Delhi high court had said that the statutory authorities or regulators can take a decision on the transaction in accordance with law. In its latest petition which is expected to come up for hearing on January 28, Amazon maintained that the interim injunctions granted by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) are enforceable under the Indian laws under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act as the order is deemed to be an order of the court and enforceable under the Code of Civil Procedure. The interim ruling by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), which was valid till January 23, has been extended till further modification. Amazon has prayed that the court issue “an injunction against the respondents (Future group), in light of the directions passed by the EA, from relying upon any approval granted by any regulatory body or agency in India arising out of any application initiated or pursued by the respondents, contrary to the directions in the order, including without limitation, the no objection granted by the Sebi and as also approvals granted by BSE, NSE and Competition Commission of India.” “… in view of the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal, the order stands automatically extended for the duration of the arbitration proceedings unless it is reconsidered/ modified/vacated by the arbitral tribunal,” a PTI report quoting the petition said. Amazon added that since no application for reconsideration, modification or vacation of the order has been preferred till date by any party, the order stands automatically extended. It further pointed out that the interim order passed by the EA is “binding” and that if Future went ahead with the transaction, it would cause not only “irreparable loss and injury” but also vitiate the entire investment into Future Coupons. It, therefore, urged the Delhi high court to issue an injunction order restraining the Future group from “filing or pursuing any application before any person, including regulatory bodies or agencies in India, or requesting for approval at any company meeting” of the group companies. Amazon also alleged that the majority of the respondents, which includes Future group firms Future Coupons, Future Retail and promoters, including its group CEO Kishore Biyani have “deliberately and maliciously” disobeyed the order passed by the EA “without even challenging it in accordance with law”. “This is despite the fact that the majority respondents have participated through counsel in an elaborate hearing before the EA and filed multiple written pleadings, including on the merits of the dispute,” Amazon said in the petition. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent in a Future group arm — Future Coupons Ltd — with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in Future Retail. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) last year, after Future group entered into a deal with Reliance for the sale of its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Bombay high court denies bail to Rana Kapoor||The Bombay high court on Monday  refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, who is accused in a case of money laundering. Kapoor was arrested in March last year by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The central agency is conducting an investigation against Kapoor, his wife, and their three daughters over a sum of Rs 600 crore received by a firm allegedly controlled by them from an entity linked to scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). In July last year, a special court in Mumbai rejected Kapoor’s bail plea following which he approached the HC. Kapoor’s counsel Harish Salve on Monday told a single bench presided over by Justice P.D. Naik that Rs 600 crore was a loan received by their company and not a kickback. However, the ED’s counsel, Hiten Venegaonkar, opposed the bail plea and told the court that the said company was co-owned by Kapoor’s daughters. Kapoor was arrested by the ED under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). According to the ED, Kapoor, his family members and aides allegedly received benefits of Rs 4,300 crore through companies controlled by them as kickbacks for sanctioning huge loans. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing a related case. The ED on Monday conducted raids on at least 10 premises of a Mumbai-based realty group in connection with its money laundering probe in the Yes Bank alleged bank fraud case, official sources said. They said premises of Omkar Realtors and Developers, that includes seven residential and three official in Mumbai, were searched by the central probe agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Relief from the high fuel prices unlikely||Motorists may not get any immediate relief from the high petrol and diesel prices as the finance ministry does not favour a cut in excise duty on fuel. However, sources indicated that any cut in duty and its timing would be a political decision and could happen before the Bengal assembly polls. Sources expect any cut to be closer to the poll date announcement so that it does not violate the model code of conduct. The tenure of the current assembly ends on May 30 and the Election Commission would have to consider several factors, including school examinations while scheduling the number of phases and dates. The oil ministry had pitched for cuts in duties. However, they had added that the finance ministry would have to take a call given its fiscal and inflationary impact. As excise duty is one of the two major components of the price of fuel, moderation in the duty will provide some relief to people who are facing the heat of economic slowdown and income disruption due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform. After the festive season, retail fuel prices saw an upward trend at the end of November 2020 and starting December 6, 2020, there was a month-long pause on fuel prices. Even though retail prices are connected to international prices and are calculated on a 15 days lag, starting January 6 the retail prices began to increase across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
