27-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 938 points to slip below 47,500 mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex crashed 938 points to slip below the 47,500 mark and the NSE Nifty plunged below the psychological 14,000 level due to rampant selling across counters. Marking its fourth straight session of loss, the Sensex tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47,409.93 taking the aggregate four-session loss to 2,382.19 points or 4.78 per cent. Intraday, the BSE gauge swung 1,117.65 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty plunged 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13,967.50. Over the last four sessions, the 50-share index has lost 677.20 points or 4.62 per cent. On the Sensex chart, Axis Bank, Titan, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's, HDFC and Asian Paint were major losers. Of the Sensex constituents, 24 shares closed in the red and 6 in the green. Analysts said investors of late have preferred taking profits off the table ahead of the Union Budget and futures and options (F&O) expiry. Foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 765.30 crore on a net basis in the Indian capital market on Monday, exchange data showed. Indian equity markets were closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks ended mixed as investors turned cautious after Wall Street slipped from record levels. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading higher by 0.41 per cent at 55.87 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 2 paise higher at 72.92 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Tiktok to shut down India business||Chinese social media firm Bytedance, which owns TikTok and Helo apps, has announced the closure of its India business following continued restrictions on its services in the country. TikTok's global interim head Vanessa Pappas and vice president for global business solutions Blake Chandlee in a joint email to employees have communicated the decision of the company that it is reducing team size and the decision will impact all employees in India. The executives expressed uncertainty on the company's comeback to India but expressed hope to do so in times to come. "While we don't know when we will make a comeback in India, we are confident in our resilience, and desire to do so in times to come," the email said. According to a source at Bytedance, the company held a town hall on Wednesday where it communicated about the closure of India business. When contacted Tiktok spokesperson said the company has worked steadfastly to comply with the government of India order issued on June 29, 2020 and continually strives to make its apps comply with local laws and regulations. "It is therefore disappointing that in the ensuing seven months, despite our efforts we have not been given a clear direction on how and when our apps could be reinstated. It is deeply regretful that after supporting our over 2,000 employees in India for more than half a year, we have no choice but to scale back the size of our workforce. "We look forward to receiving the opportunity to relaunch TikTok and support the hundreds of millions of users, artists, story-tellers, educators and performers in India," the spokesperson said. The government had blocked Tiktok and Helo along with 59 apps in June and has further communicated to the companies that the order to block them will be continued. "We've cut expenses, while still paying benefits. However, we simply cannot responsibly stay fully staffed while our apps remain un-operational. We are fully aware of the impact that this decision has for all of our employees in India, and we empathize with our team," the e-mail said. Bytedance executives said that the decision to ban its app came despite the company complying with local laws and regulations. "We have done our best since then to address their (Indian government's) concerns. We regret that this was the result of a lack of clear direction from the government of India on how and when our apps could be reinstated. "Despite our efforts to communicate with them, especially since it impacts the careers and livelihoods of so many Indians, today we are forced to reduce the size of our team," the email said. The executives said that they will share severance and benefits details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 210 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex slipped over 210 points in the opening session on Wednesday, dragged lower particularly by oil & gas, pharma and banking stocks. After opening on a slightly higher note, the BSE barometer succumbed to selling pressure and entered the negative territory to quote 210.75 points or 0.44 per cent lower at 48,136.84. Likewise, the NSE gauge Nifty was trading 62.50 points or 0.44 per cent down at 14,176.40 in early deals. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints, NTPC and Bajaj FinServ were major losers. Of the Sensex constituents, 20 stocks were trading in the red and 10 in the green. In the previous three sessions, the BSE Sensex has lost 1,444.53 points or 2.90 per cent and the NSE Nifty has shed 405.80 points or 2.77 per cent. On Monday, the Sensex tanked 530.95 points or 1.09 per cent to close the session at 48,347.59; and the Nifty shed 133 points or 0.93 per cent to close at 14,238.90. Analysts said investors of late have preferred taking profits off the table ahead of the Union Budget and F&O expiry. Foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 765.30 crore on a net basis in the Indian capital market on Monday, exchange data showed. Indian equity markets were closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks were mixed as investors turned cautious after Wall Street slipped from record levels. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading higher by 0.41 per cent at 55.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Cairn begins identifying overseas Indian assets in case govt fails to honour arbitration award||Just like US oil firm ConocoPhillips grabbed Venezuelan assets overseas to enforce an arbitration award, Indian bank accounts, airplanes and other foreign properties can be seized to collect $1.4 billion awarded to UK’s Cairn Energy against Indian retro tax, according to a letter seen by PTI. The British firm has begun identifying overseas Indian assets in case the Indian government fails to honour the arbitration award. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson in the January 22 letter to the Indian High Commissioner in London, with copies marked to the Prime Minister’s Office, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, the arbitration award is “final and binding” and “the government of India has an obligation to comply with its terms.” “As India is a signatory to the New York Convention, the award can be enforced against Indian assets in numerous jurisdictions around the world for which the necessary preparations have been put in place,” he wrote. In 2019, ConocoPhillips had moved US courts to seize Venezuelan state oil company PDVSA’s assets to collect $2 billion compensation it had won in an arbitration against Venezuela’s 2007 takeover of its assets. PDVSA thereafter paid ConocoPhillips. The three-member tribunal, which comprised a judge appointed by India, last month unanimously overturned a Rs 10,247 crore retrospective tax demand on Cairn and asked the Indian government to return the value of the shares it sold, dividend it seized and tax refunds it stopped to enforce the tax. If India does not comply with the order of the tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, it would be a violation of international rules on arbitral awards, commonly called the New York Convention. Sources with knowledge of the matter said the options before the Indian government were limited. An appeal against the award in a court in The Hague may not yield positive results as the tribunal had given a very detailed 582-page order to make it “as bullet-proof” as possible. In contrast, the September 2020 arbitration award in UK’s Vodafone Group challenge to retro tax demand of Rs 22,100 crore was only 100 pages. That order has been challenged by India in a court in Singapore — the seat of that arbitration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||RBI tightening of real estate funding by NBFCs to restrict land financing||The proposals made by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in its recent discussion paper on tightening real estate funding by non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) would significantly restrict land financing by the shadow banks, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a report. The RBI plans to introduce a scale-based approach linked to their size and systemic importance. The paper suggested a four-tier structure — NBFC-Base Layer, NBFC-Middle Layer, NBFC-Upper Layer and NBFC-Top Layer. Sensitive sectors such as  the capital markets and commercial real estate (CRE) are inherently risky but they need adequate institutional finance. Though strict sector-specific exposure limits may alter the basic business model and risk appetite of certain NBFCs, the paper noted that concentration risk resulting from undiversified portfolios, particularly in sensitive sectors, could prove detrimental to NBFCs’ health. It, therefore, suggested that it should be left to the NBFC’s board to decide internal limits on sensitive sector exposures. Further, a sub-limit within the commercial real estate exposure ceiling should be fixed internally for financing land acquisition. Also while appraising loan proposals involving real estate, NBFCs will have to ensure that the borrowers have obtained prior permission from the government or other statutory authorities for the project, wherever required. “The regulation proposed by the discussion paper would impact the business flexibility for real estate-financing NBFCs, which take exposures at several stages of the project. “Exposure taken at the nascent stage of the project carries better margins and enables the NBFC to compensate for the lower margins that it makes on the exposures on advanced stage projects, which is where it faces competition from banks. Having said that, the revised norms put a check on the asset side risks for these NBFCs,’’ India Ratings added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Standard & Poor’s upgrades Vedanta Resources rating to stable from negative||Rating agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has upgraded the rating of Vedanta Resources (VRL) to stable from negative, citing reduced refinancing risk. The upgrade comes after Vedanta Resources announced an open offer to acquire 10 per cent of its domestic arm Vedanta Ltd. If the open offer is successful, the holding of the promoter group will rise to 65.11 per cent. According to S&P, this transaction, which should conclude by March, will strengthen the corporate structure of the  holding company and improve its access to subsidiary-level cash and cash flow. Further, the open offer reiterates Vedanta Resources’ commitment to improve its capital structure, which the rating agency said is a positive for the company’s refinancing initiatives. “Strong operating momentum and sizable free cash flow generation at Vedanta Ltd also improve liquidity at the holding company level. We estimate free cash flow at Vedanta Ltd (including Hindustan Zinc) will be $ 1.6 billion-$ 1.8 billion over the 12 months to March 31, 2022. “This, together with $4.8 billion of cash available at Hindustan Zinc and Vedanta Ltd as of September 2020, gives Vedanta Resources greater flexibility to utilise dividend payments for debt servicing if needed, thanks to reduced dividend leakage after the open offer,” the rating agency observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Economic growth expected to contract 8 per cent in current fiscal: FICCI||The country’s economic growth is expected to contract 8 per cent in the current fiscal and fiscal deficit is likely to be at 7.4 per cent of GDP (gross domestic product) for 2020-21, according to the latest round of Ficci’s Economic Outlook Survey. However, the survey projected that the economy, due to low base and on the successful roll out of vaccines, could expand 9.6 per cent in the financial year 2021-22. The forecast seems to indicate that the contraction this fiscal would be more than the contraction of 7.7 per cent projected by the first advanced estimates of the national income. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The annual median growth forecast is based on responses from leading economists representing industry, banking and financial services sector. The survey was conducted in January. The median growth forecast for agriculture and allied activities has been pegged at 3.5 per cent for 2020-21. “Agriculture sector has exhibited significant resilience in the face of the pandemic. Higher rabi acreage, good monsoons, higher reservoir levels and strong growth in tractor sales indicate continued buoyancy in the sector,” Ficci stated on the survey findings. However, industry and services sector, which were most severely hit due to the pandemic , are expected to contract 10 per cent and 9.2 per cent respectively . The industrial recovery is gaining traction, but the growth is still not broad based. The consumption activity did spur during the festive season as a result of pent-up demand built during the lockdown but sustaining it is important going ahead, the survey said. Besides, it observed that some of the contact intensive service sectors like tourism, hospitality, entertainment, education, and health sector are yet to see normalcy. “The quarterly median forecasts indicate GDP growth to contract by 1.3 per cent in the third quarter of 2020-21. The growth is expected to be in the positive terrain by the fourth quarter with a projection of 0.5 per cent growth,” estimates the survey. The Ficci report said on the fiscal front, a slippage is imminent this year and the median estimate for fiscal deficit to GDP ratio was put at 7.4 per cent for 2020-21 by the participants with a minimum and maximum range of 7 per cent and 8.5 per cent, respectively. Fiscal deficit for 2020-21 was budgeted at 3.5 per cent. However, participants of the survey expect the economy to perform much better and have projected a median GDP growth rate of 9.6 per cent for  2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Govt to provide incentives to mineral block allocatees||The government plans to provide incentives to mineral block allocatees for early commencement of production from the auctioned mines, a move aimed at increasing mineral output of the country and reducing imports. The mines ministry plans to do the same through an amendment of the mining rules and has sought comments and suggestions from stakeholders on the same. “The ministry of mines has prepared the Mineral (Auction) Amendment Rules, 2021 seeking to amend Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015. “As part of the pre-legislative consultation policy, the draft amendment rules is made available... Comments / suggestions are invited from the general public, governments of states and union territories, mining industry, stakeholders, industry associations, and other persons and entities concerned, on the draft amendment rules,” the mines ministry said in a notice. A high level committee headed by vice-chairman, Niti Aayog, on mines, minerals and coal sectors was constituted by the government to give recommendations for enhancing exploration and domestic production, reducing imports and achieving rapid growth in exports. The panel in its report on the coal sector has recommended that the ministry of mines may also adopt the methodology for commercial auction according to the recommendation of the coal sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Aadhar Housing Finance Ltd to raise Rs 7,300 crore||Blackstone-backed Aadhar Housing Finance Ltd (AHFL) has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to raise Rs 7,300 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The proposed IPO comprises fresh issuance aggregating up to Rs 1,500 crore by the company and an offer for sale  aggregating up to Rs 5,800 crore by BCP Topco VII PTE. Ltd which forms part of the promoter group. Net proceeds from the fresh issue are proposed to be utilised towards augmenting the capital base of the company to meet future requirements. BCP Topco currently holds 98.72 per cent in the company with the rest being held by ICICI Bank. Its share float comes just days after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) released a discussion paper on revised regulatory framework for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs). The central bank said in the paper that HFCs are one category of NBFC whose business model involves some systemic impact. While the RBI has proposed that HFCs come in the NBFC-Middle Layer category, it has also said that if an HFC falls in the Upper Layer, the applicable regulatory tools will be determined. AHFL is the largest affordable housing finance company (HFC) in India in terms of asset under management (AUM), as of March 31, 2020. A press statement said that AUM of the company is around 1.5 times larger than the second largest peer set company. Of its gross AUM, loans to salaried customers comprised 64.83 per cent while it stood at 35.17 per cent to self-employed customers as of September 30, 2020. Its gross AUM has increased from Rs 7,966 crore in 2017-2018, to Rs 11,432 crore in 2019-2020. Net profits of the company stood at Rs 156 crore for the quarter ended September 30. Its capital adequacy ratio was at 47.84 per cent. The company has a network of 292 branches, as of September 30, 2020 and its branches are spread across 20 states and union territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Data privacy can take form of non-price competition: CCI study||Data privacy can take the form of non-price competition and abuse of dominance can lower privacy protection, a study conducted by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has said. The study also made observations about other non-price factors such as quality of service (QoS), data speeds and bundled offerings, which are likely to be the new drivers of competitive rivalry between service providers in telecom sector in addition to just price. While reporting the findings and making its own observations, CCI noted that an aspect of data in the context of competition in digital communications market is the conflict between allowing access and protecting consumer privacy. “Privacy can take the form of non-price competition,” it said. Abuse of dominance can take the form of lowering the privacy protection and, therefore, fall within the ambit of antitrust as low privacy standard implies lack of consumer welfare. Privacy degradation can lead to an objective detriment to consumers. Lower data protection can also lead to the standard legal category of exclusionary behaviour which undermines the competitive process, CCI noted in the report. “Tying with other digital products will further strengthen the data advantage enjoyed by the dominant incumbent by cross-linking the data collected across services, creating a vicious circle,” it said. On other non-price factors of competition, CCI found that consumers ranked network coverage at the top followed by customer service, tariff packaging and lower tariffs as the most important factors for the preference of a particular network. These responses suggest that competition has moved away from a unidimensional focus on price, as per the report. “Much of the focus of the sector regulator, operators and consumers was on price and price-based competition. With the market moving towards data-based applications and services, there is a noticeable change in the demand for QoS,” the report said. Tariffs have been the centre-piece of competition in the price-sensitive Indian market. Episodes of intense price wars have been witnessed and there might be a recognition now that the intense recent tariff war that began in 2016 has eroded the sector of its financial stability. Almost all stakeholders agreed that remaining the cheapest telecom market in the world would be an untenable option for the sector going forward, it further said. The report supports findings that demonstrate an important role for non-price factors in driving competition in the Indian telecom market, partly reflecting the maturing nature of competition and in part the recognition that price competition has its intrinsic limits. Even though the average consumer remains price sensitive, other factors such as QoS, data speeds and bundled offerings are shown to influence consumer choice. The report envisages that a pan-India mobile network and data packages are no longer the product or service differentiators, rather bundled offerings (which include, inter alia, voice, data, SMS, and content) will be the focus of differentiation among service providers with service bouquets to be the likely choice for improving customer retention. The dynamic nature of the telecom market ensures that what is a differentiator at one point in time becomes common at another. The regulator had launched a market study on the telecom sector in India in January 2020 whose objective was to assess the level of concentration and competition in the telecom sector, highlight changes in competition strategies, analyse the dynamics of competition and co-operation between telecom services and related industries such as OTT services, tower companies and infrastructure providers, examine regulations and policy developments from a competition standpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business|| International Monetary Fund projects 11.5% growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, making the country the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth this year amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The International Monetary Fund's growth projections for India in its latest World Economic Outlook Update released on Tuesday reflected a strong rebound in the economy, which is estimated to have contracted by eight per cent in 2020 due to the pandemic. In its latest update, the IMF projected a 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021. This makes India the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth in 2021, it said. China is next with 8.1 per cent growth in 2021 followed by Spain (5.9 per cent) and France (5.5 per cent). Revising its figures, the IMF said that in 2020, the Indian economy is estimated to have contracted by eight per cent. China is the only major country which registered a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020. India’s economy, the IMF said, is projected to grow  6.8 per cent in 2022 and that of China by 5.6 per cent. With the latest projections, India regains the tag of the fastest developing economies of the world. Early this month, IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva had said that India “actually has taken very decisive action, very decisive steps to deal with the pandemic and to deal with the economic consequences of it”. India, she said, went for a very dramatic lockdown for a country of this size of population with people clustered so closely together. And then India moved to more targeted restrictions and lockdowns. “What we see is that transition, combined with policy support, seems to have worked well. Why? Because if you look at mobility indicators, we are almost where we were before Covid in India, meaning that economic activities have been revitalised quite significantly,” the IMF chief said. Commending the steps being taken by the Indian government on the monetary policy and the fiscal policy side, she said it is actually slightly above the average for emerging markets. “Emerging markets on average have provided six per cent of GDP. In India this is slightly above that. Good for India is that there is still space to do more,” she said, adding that she is impressed by the appetite for structural reforms that India is retaining. Global trends The global economy, ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic, is projected to grow at 5.5 per cent in 2021 and 4.2 per cent in 2022, the IMF said on Tuesday, reflecting the expectations of a vaccine-powered strengthening of business activities later in the year and additional policy support in a few large economies. “In our latest World Economic Outlook forecast, we project global growth for 2021 at 5.5 per cent, 0.3 percentage point higher than our October forecast, moderating to 4.2 per cent in 2022,” said Gita Gopinath, chief economist of the IMF. The global economy contracted an estimated 3.5 per cent in 2020 amidst the unprecedented health crisis. The 2021 forecast is revised up by 0.3 percentage point relative to the previous forecast (5.2 per cent) in October last year, reflecting expectations of a vaccine-powered strengthening of business activities later in the year and additional policy support in a few large economies, the IMF said. According to Gopinath, the upgrade for 2021 reflects the positive effects of the onset of vaccinations in some countries, additional policy support at the end of 2020 in economies such as the United States and Japan and an expected increase in contact intensive activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
