28-01-2021||Business||Market tumbles for fifth straight session||Extending its losing streak to the fifth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex plunged 536 points on Thursday, tracking losses in HDFC Bank, Infosys and HUL amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 535.57 points or 1.13 per cent lower at 46,874.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 149.95 points or 1.07 per cent to 13,817.55. HUL was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Maruti, HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Axis Bank, SBI, ONGC and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. "A continued pullback in domestic markets is mainly led by profit-booking ahead of union budget," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to traders, recent foreign fund outflows from the domestic capital markets also had an impact on investor sentiment. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,688.22 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with significant losses in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.27 per cent to USD 55.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 500 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 520 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index-heavyweight stocks like HDFC twins, TCS, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 523.14 points or 1.10 per cent lower at 46,886.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 167.80 points or 1.2 per cent to 13,799.70. HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2.50 per cent, followed by HDFC, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, SBI, and Nestle India. On the other hand, ONGC, NTPC, Reliance Industries and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47,409.93, while the NSE Nifty plunged 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13,967.50. According to traders, recent foreign fund outflows from the domestic capital markets also had an impact on investor sentiment. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,688.22 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. US equities finished lower mainly due to lower earnings by tech giants and concerns overstretched valuation. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, were trading 0.45 per cent lower at USD 55.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||AV Birla to acquire a 51% stake in designer brand Sabyasachi ||Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL) is acquiring a 51 per cent stake in India’s leading designer brand Sabyasachi for Rs 398 crore in cash In a regulatory filing after market hours, ABFRL announced a framework agreement with ‘Sabyasachi Couture’, which will give it a 51 per cent stake in the Calcutta-based Sabyasachi brand. The Birla group firm now has brands such as Louis Philippe, Van Heusen, Allen Solly and Peter England under its fold. ABFRL has set its sights on emerging as a formidable player in the ethnic wear segment and in 2019 it had acquired Jaypore for Rs 110 crore. It had also bought a majority stake in Finesse International Design Pvt Ltd, a company engaged in the business of bespoke contemporary apparel for men and women under brand Shantanu & Nikhil. The company said in a statement that while Sabyasachi is India’s largest and most influential luxury designer brand with strong Indian roots and global appeal, the ABFRL platform will complement the brand on its journey to becoming a global luxury house out of India. “This partnership will add significant weight to ABFRL’s growing ethnic wear portfolio. This will accelerate the company’s strategy to capture a large share of ethnic wear market through a comprehensive and attractive portfolio of brands, across key consumer segments, occasions and geographies. The company expects to build a large ethnic wear business over the next few years to complement its strong and diverse portfolio in the western wear segment of the Indian apparel market,’’ ABFRL added. The Sabyasachi brand straddles categories such as apparel, accessories and jewellery and has a strong franchise in India, the US, the UK and West Asia. “Over the next few years, ethnic wear is going to be an important category as young Indians rediscover their culture and heritage. The Sabyasachi brand, through its emphasis on excellence in design and craftsmanship, has set new benchmarks and captivated the imagination of the global Indian consumer. We are proud to partner Sabyasachi in its journey to become the only global luxury brand from India,” Ashish Dikshit, managing director, ABFRL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||Pine Labs eyeing one million users in a year||Pine Labs — a payments technology unicorn backed by Sequoia India and Temasek — is eyeing one million users in a year through its phone-based payments solution with the Reserve Bank of India enhancing the limits of contactless card payments from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 effective from January. Pine Labs on Wednesday launched the AllTap app to help small merchants with contactless card payment acceptance. The new app will help merchants start accepting digital payments on their NFC-enabled smartphone without the need of any additional hardware  like POS (point of sale) machines. The “tap and pay” feature within the app is secure and is  certified by PCI Security Standards Council, RuPay, Visa, Mastercard and Amex. “AllTap needs no additional hardware for merchants to start accepting digital payments, their NFC-enabled smartphone can become a  payments acceptance device. This can help small merchants, taxi drivers, self-employed individuals, tuition-givers, who want a simple digital payments acceptance solution,” Pine Labs CEO B. Amrish Rau said. Pine Labs will also take this solution to other markets in South East Asia and West Asia, Rau said. Incorporated in Singapore, Pine Labs’ key investors include Actis Capital, Mastercard, PayPal, Sequoia India and Temasek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Emami Ltd comes out with strong numbers for third quarter||City-based FMCG major Emami Ltd came out with a strong set of numbers for the third quarter with sales, earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) and profit after tax coming ahead of the market’s expectation. The company also declared a second interim dividend of Rs 4 per share (400 per cent on Re 1 face value share), totalling Rs 8 per share announced so far. Revenue from operations grew 14.9 per cent in the third quarter to Rs 933.6 crore from Rs 812.6 crore a year ago while profit after tax went up 43.7 per cent to Rs 209.8 crore from Rs 146 crore in the same period last year. The Emami management attributed the result to the favourable season (winter), a strong demand across the brand, including the healthcare range, especially from the rural market and benign raw material costs. “Some of our brands in the healthcare and hygiene range, winter portfolio and 7 oils have done exceedingly well during the quarter, signifying positive consumer sentiment.  Rural offtakes continue to march ahead of urban,” Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Ltd, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||TikTok parent firm ByteDance starts large-scale layoffs||TikTok parent firm ByteDance has started large-scale layoffs in the country after the government permanently banned the China-based short-video service along with 58 other apps following responses from the companies on issues such as compliance and privacy. Speculation is rife about TikTok exiting the country, but sources insist the company will stay. However, the permanent ban by India and decision to downsize isn't helping the company. China said the government’s decision to keep the ban on the 59 Chinese apps was a violation of the World Trade Organization’s fair rules of business and would hurt Chinese firms. “We urge the Indian side to immediately correct its discriminatory measures and avoid causing further damage to bilateral cooperation,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement. These “apps collect and share data in a surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to the security of the state,” India’s ministry of electronics and information and technology had said. “We have worked steadfastly to comply with the Government of India order issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to make our apps comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns they have,” TikTok said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Axis Bank records 36 per cent fall in third-quarter net profits||Axis Bank has recorded a 36 per cent fall in third-quarter net profits in 2020 as provisions jumped. The private sector bank posted a net profit of Rs 1,116.60 crore against Rs 1,757 crore in the same period of the previous year. Provisions rose to Rs 4,604.28 crore from Rs 3,470.92 crore in the year ago period. Axis Bank said in its notes to accounts that it holds provisions as on December 31, 2020 against the potential impact of Covid-19 and that the provisions are in excess of RBI prescribed norms. The Supreme Court has directed that the accounts which were not declared non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31, 2020 will not be declared as a bad loan till further orders. Axis Bank said it has not declared any account as NPA but the bank has made provisions on defaults of more than 90 days (not classified as NPA) under current provisioning rules. This amounted to Rs 3,899 crore. Bank of Baroda Bank of Baroda on Wednesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,159.17 crore for the December quarter of 2020. The state-owned bank had posted a net loss of Rs 1,218.87 crore a year ago. Total income of the bank fell to Rs 22,070.52 crore from Rs 23,134.67 crore in the year-ago quarter, Bank of Baroda said in a regulatory filing. The lender improved on its asset quality with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 8.48 per cent of the gross advances by December-end 2020 from 10.43 per cent by the same period a year ago. Canara Bank State-owned Canara Bank on Wednesday reported consolidated net profit of Rs 739.20 crore in the third quarter ended December of the current fiscal. It had earned a net profit of Rs 406.43 crore during the same period a year ago. However, the profit of Q3FY21 is not comparable year-on-year as the latest figures are of the amalgamated entity after the merger of Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank. The bank’s total income (consolidated) rose to Rs 24,490.63 crore from Rs 15,531.80 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone to raise $500 million||Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone, the largest port operator in the country, is tapping the international debt market  to raise at least $500 million. This is the third large bond sale by a domestic entity after Exim Bank’s $1 billion issue. It was followed by the State Bank of India with a $6 billion sale. Adani Ports is the largest port developer and operator in the country in terms of volume with annual capacity of 478.6 million tonnes. “We are in the dollar debt market and are planning to raise $500 million through a Reg S issue,” a PTI report quoting a merchant banking source said. It had paid a coupon of 4.2 per cent for a $750 million issue last July. In December, the company had raised another $300 million to retire some of its debt. A Reg S issue in the market means resident American investors cannot subscribe to the issue. The company will use the proceeds from the issue to primarily refinance the early redemption of its dollar bonds due in 2022. The issue has been rated BBB- by Fitch and Baa3 by Moody’s. The company said in a filing to the bourses on Tuesday that the interest on the fixed rate unsecured notes is 3.10 per cent annually. Fitch Ratings in a note gave the proposed senior unsecured notes sale by the port operator a BBB- rating with a negative outlook. The rating reflects the company’s market leading position, the stability of long-term cargo revenue and its operational efficiency. Fitc said the pandemic may result in weaker domestic demand and exports, but cargo mobility is largely uninterrupted despite the global lockdown. Shares of Adani Ports today settled 0.92 per cent lower at Rs 518.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever Ltd reports 19 per cent growth in net profit||Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Wednesday reported a 19 per cent growth in net profit for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 that met Street estimates as the economy recovered and more number of people stepped out of their homes. The FMCG giant posted a standalone net profit of Rs 1,921 crore against Rs 1,616-crore profit in the same period of the previous year. Domestic consumer growth — setting aside the impact of the merger of GSK Consumer Healthcare and the acquisition of VWash — grew at 7 per cent with underlying volume growth at four per cent. In the preceding quarter, domestic volume growth was one per cent. HUL said higher mobility among the population, consumer relevant innovations and investments in market development are driving the business. Its fundamentals remain strong with 86 per cent of the business gaining penetration. Health, hygiene and nutrition forming close to 80 per cent of its portfolio continues to grow in double digits, while discretionary categories reported significant improvement. During the quarter, sales grew to Rs 11,682 crore from Rs 9,696 crore in the year ago period a growth of 20.48 per cent. “With Covid cases coming down sharply and increasing mobility, economic activity in the country continues to improve. The rapid rollout of vaccines will give further impetus to economic growth. Our consumer relevant innovations, market development and execution excellence have enabled us to drive broad based growth across our categories in the December quarter,” Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of HUL, said while commenting on the results. “I am particularly pleased with the performance of our Nutrition business and with the recovery in the discretionary segments of our portfolio, these are structurally attractive and offer immense growth potential.” Mehta said the near-term demand outlook was improving and the company expects to see revival in the urban markets while rural markets fare well. CFO change HUL on Wednesday said it has appointed Ritesh Tiwari as chief financial officer, while incumbent Srinivas Phatak will move to parent firm Unilever’s headquarters in London. Srinavas Phatak, chief financial officer, said  in the urban markets HUL has staged a turnaround. Growth has come back to positive territory from flat to negative in the preceding three months. During the quarter, sales growth in the foods & refreshment and beauty & personal care segments stood at 19 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively. Shares of HUL on Wednesday settled at Rs 2,390.75 on BSE, down 0.87 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||RIL loses 938 points on the Sensex, Nifty plunges below 14000-level||A sell-off in the banking counters and Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) ripped 938 points off the Sensex on Wednesday, while the Nifty plunged below the psychological 14000-level. The indices fell for the fourth straight session dragged down by outflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), despite positive commentary on the economy from the IMF, which forecast a 11.5 per cent growth for the economy in 2021, the highest among the major economies. Investors are displaying nervousness after the violent farmer protests in the capital on  Republic Day amid heightened uncertainty on account of the budget on February 1. Analysts said the equities could see more volatility as the Budget day nears, though they admit the current selling is healthy for the markets. Both domestic and global factors were not conducive for a rally on Wednesday. Overseas stocks remained under pressure ahead of the US Fed meeting and uncertainty over the US stimulus. Back home, market heavyweight RIL faced rough weather over concerns of its deal with Future Group after Amazon.com Inc moved the Delhi high court to block the acquisition. The markets were also somewhat disappointed with the company’s third quarter results. The stock fell 2.66 per cent in intra-day trades to a low of Rs 1,888 after which it recouped some losses to close at Rs 1,895.25 — a drop of 2.29 per cent over its last close. This is the second consecutive trading session that RIL is among the worst-performing stocks in the Sensex. According to investment bank Macquarie, this may just be the beginning of the downfall for the oil-to-telecom conglomerate. In a recent report, Aditya Suresh and Abhinil Dahiwale of Macquarie cut their EPS (earning per share) estimate for RIL  by 3 per cent with a 12-month target price of Rs 1,350  even as it maintained the underperform rating. “With RIL’s shares today trading near our fundamental blue-sky valuation, we continue to flag a significant negative risk-reward skew in the face of potential execution challenges’,’ they added. The Sensex on Monday opened marginally higher at 48385.28, but could not sustain the gains for long as investors booked profits ahead of the F&O expiry on Thursday and the budget. Banking stocks witnessed the brunt of selling with Axis Bank leading the losers list as its shares fell by more than four per cent. At close, the index tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47409.93 – taking the aggregate four-session loss to 2382.19 points or 4.78 per cent. Intraday, the gauge swung 1117.65 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty tanked 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13967.50. Over the last four sessions, the 50-share index has lost 677.20 points or 4.62 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
