29-01-2021||Business||Benchmarks fall for 6th session||The domestic equity market continued its downward journey for the sixth session in row on Friday, with the BSE Sensex plummeting over 588 points and the NSE Nifty tumbling nearly 183 points due to across-the-board selling. Both benchmark indices fluctuated between gains and losses in a highly volatile session. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the Economic Survey 2020-21 in the Lok Sabha, ahead of the Union Budget to be presented on Monday next. The 30-share Sensex closed 588.59 points or 1.26 per cent lower at 46,285.77 -- taking the six-session aggregate loss to 3,506.35 points or 7.04 per cent. Intra-day, the index swung 1,263.20 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty furthered its loss by 182.95 points or 1.32 per cent to settle at 13,634.60. Over the last six days, the NSE barometer has shed 1,010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. On the Sensex chart, 26 shares closed in the red. Dr Reddy's, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, Infosys, TCS and Bajaj FinServ were the major losers. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank ended with gains. Analysts are of the view that the continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit-booking ahead of the Union Budget and important global events. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 3,712.51 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Friday, stocks markets closed lower and also saw their worst weekly losses in months. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 9 paise higher at 72.96 against the US dollar on Friday. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.66 per cent to USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Audi A4 vrooms into Calcutta||The new Audi A4, the latest addition to the German marque’s line of luxury vehicles, is now available in Calcutta. The facelifted version of the entry-level luxury sedan is the first of the multiple launches Audi has planned in
India this year. Available in two variants — Premium Plus and Technology — the A4 is priced upwards of Rs 42,34,000 (ex-showroom) in Calcutta. It comes in five colours, including a new shade of grey, and with a four-year service package. The fifth generation of the A4, available globally since 2019, gets an upgraded 2.0-litre four-cylinder TFSI petrol engine that generates 190 hp of power and a torque of 320 Nm. The “sporty” sedan can go from 0 to 100 kmph in 7.3 seconds and reach a top speed of 241 kmph. The engine is paired with a seven-speed, dual-clutch automatic gearbox that delivers
power to the front wheels. There is no diesel option. The other changes since the A4’s last facelift in India in late 2019 include a design refresh, featuring a broader and flatter single-frame grille, new LED headlights with daytime running lights, and changes to the front and rear bumpers and the tail lights. The customisable interiors sport a high-resolution 10.1-inch touch display. The infotainment system comes with natural-language voice control and Audi’s Virtual Cockpit digital instrumentation. Cruise control, keyless entry, gesture-based boot lid opening, power front seats, a glass sunroof, wireless charging and three-zone climate control are some of the other prominent features. Safety is covered by eight airbags, ABS with EBD, parking sensors, a backup camera and electronic stability control. The A4, which is being locally manufactured in India, is competing with the Mercedes-Benz C-class, BMW 3-Series, Jaguar XE and the upcoming Volvo S60. Balbir Singh Dhillon, the head of Audi India, said: “The new Audi A4 is a perfect blend of class, elegance and sporty appeal. It is equipped with the latest technology and sets a benchmark with the features on offer. The mid-size luxury sedan segment is competitive and we are confident that the new Audi A4 will be a game-changer in the arena.” “We are delighted to launch one of our bestselling models, the Audi A4, in Calcutta. We believe the new sedan will be the preferred choice for customers who desire their car to have a sporty appeal with the convenience of new-age technology,” said Aditya Agarwalla, director, Audi Calcutta. The A3, Q3, Q5 and Q7 are some of the other Audi models that could be launched in new avatars this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 400 points tracking Asian peers||Indian equities made a smart recovery on Friday morning after five sessions of hefty losses, with the BSE benchmark Sensex rebounding over 400 points led by gains mainly in banking, energy and auto stocks. The 30-share Sensex was trading higher by 403.16 points or 0.86 per cent at 47,277.52 in opening deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was up 118.65 points or 0.86 per cent at 13,936.20. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Mahindra and Mahindra, L&T, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and Bajaj Auto were prominent gainers. On the other hand, Axis Bank, HUL, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, Maruti and TCS were the top losers. Over the previous five sessions, the Sensex had lost 2,917.76 points, while the Nifty had shed 827.15 points. Analysts are of the view that a continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit booking ahead of the Union Budget and important global events. The government will table the Economic Survey 2020-21 in Parliament on Friday and present the Union Budget 2021-22 on Monday, February 1. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 3,712.51 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Friday, stocks markets were trading higher but heading towards settling with worst weekly losses in months. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, rose 0.18 per cent to USD 55.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Narendra Modi pitches for greater foreign investment in the country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday has pitched for greater foreign investment in the country’s  infrastructure, while promising more vaccines to fight the coronavirus. “India has in these times of crisis fulfilled its global responsibilities from the beginning by setting up infrastructure related to vaccination. So far only two made-in-India vaccines have been introduced, but in the future many more vaccines will be made available… We are not only fulfilling our needs for PPE kits and masks, but also exporting and helping other countries,” Modi said at a virtual meeting hosted by the World Economic Forum (WEF). He said the country faced many challenges when the coronavirus outbreak happened but it kept on moving ahead. “In just 12 days, we have inoculated more than 2.3 million of our health workers. In a few months, we will inoculate around 300 million senior citizens,” he said. The Prime Minister said India needed $4.5 trillion in infrastructure by 2040 and invited global businesses to participate in the exercise. This target will be achieved by both the government and the industry. The government is working tirelessly to provide an enabling environment. Modi said at the WEF meeting, attended by global business leaders, that infrastructure is one of the foremost priorities of the government. About $1.5 trillion worth of projects will be implemented in the next five years. Modi said the reforms to increase competitiveness were an ongoing process and announced the government has completed work on the logistics policy. Inviting global CEOs to participate in the productivity linked incentive scheme, the Prime Minister said his government has made rapid strides in improving the conditions for doing business. The government has improved the infrastructure and adopted latest technologies  in various fields. Even as he cited the various measures taken up by the government, the Prime Minister gave a miss to the recent farm laws, termed as major reform. The recent laws and amendments in the farm sector bills have been highly controversial and led to massive protests by farmers in the national capital. “Our Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is committed towards global good and global supply chain. India has the capacity, capability and reliability to strengthen the global supply chain,” he said. "Industrial Revolution 4.0 is not meant for robots, but humans. It should become a tool for ease of living, not a trap. Structural reforms are being supplemented by production-linked schemes. In India, from tax regime to tax norms, all are in a predictable and friendly manner," he said. The government has continuously taken several majors steps to boost manufacturing in India. Corporate Tax brought down to 15% for new manufacturing units. GST rates have been reduced. Through GST and Faceless Assessment tax structure has been simplified. Labour laws have been reformed. Several points have been decriminalised in Company Law. To raise competitiveness, connectivity infrastructure is being strengthened, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Benchmark indices continue to slide ahead of Union Budget||Benchmark indices continued to slide ahead of the Union Budget on rising concerns that the government will not dole out reliefs to the corporate sector in the form of tax breaks. The sell-off in global markets was a dampner too. The Sensex fell close to 534 points to close at 46874.36 and it has now lost 2917.76 points over the past five trading sessions, while the broader Nifty has skidded 827.15 points. However, investors bought some banking stocks at the fag end of the trade on hopes that the markets may be nearing its bottom for now. However, experts do agree that the key event to watch out for will be the Budget even as good corporate results has already been discounted by the markets. The 30-share index began below the 47000 mark at 46834.57 and fell to a day’s low of 46518.48 as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) continued to press sales on apprehensions over how the Union Budget would turn out. However, it recovered from these levels to finish at 46874.36. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tumbled 149.95 points or 1.07 per cent to 13,817.55. Gold on Thursday fell Rs 109 to Rs 48,183 per 10 gram in the national capital following muted global trends. Silver also dipped Rs 146 to Rs 65,031 per kg. The rupee depreciated by 13 paise to settle at 73.05 against the US dollar following the sell-off in the stock markets and a strengthening greenback. The domestic unit opened at 73.13 against the US dollar and hit an intra-day high of 73.04 and a low of 73.15. It finally finished at 73.05, lower by 13 paise over its last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India consolidated net profit of rises 26 per cent||The consolidated net profit of Maruti Suzuki India, the country’s largest car maker, rose 26 per cent to Rs 1,996.7 crore for the third quarter, driven by higher sales on a lower base and cost reduction. The auto major had posted a net profit of Rs 1,587.4 crore in the October-December quarter of the previous fiscal. Total revenue from operations rose 13 per cent to Rs 23,471.3 crore for the third quarter against Rs 20,721.8 crore in the same period last fiscal, MSI said in a statement. During the December quarter, the company sold 4,95,897 vehicles, up 13.4 per cent over the same period previous fiscal. Sales in the domestic market stood at 4,67,369 units, growing by 13 per cent. Exports were at 28,528 units, higher by 20.6 per cent. The company attributed the improvement in margin to higher capacity utilisation, lower sales promotion expenses, cost reduction efforts and higher fair value gains on invested surplus. However, cost reduction efforts were partially offset by the increase in commodity prices and adverse foreign exchange movement. IndiGo loss narrows Budget carrier IndiGo on Thursday reported a net loss of Rs 620 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. It had posted a net profit of Rs 496 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal. In the June and September quarter this fiscal, the airline had incurred a net loss of Rs 2,884 crore and Rs 1,194 crore, respectively. The airline’s total income declined 50 per cent year-on-year to Rs 5,142 crore in the third quarter. Its total expenses in the December quarter slipped 41 per cent to Rs 5,765 crore. “The high level of consumer confidence in our product has indeed been heartening and we are glad to be making graduated and measured steps to a full recovery,” IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said. The airline is looking forward to a gradual resumption of scheduled international flights as increased aircraft utilisation is critical to its return to profitability, he added. The airline said its occupancy rate or load factor during the quarter was 72 per cent, compared to 87.6 per cent a year ago MSI said “these results have to be viewed in the context that in the previous financial year, sales volume had declined 16 per cent for the company and about 18 per cent for the industry”. On a standalone basis, the company posted a net profit of Rs 1,941.4 crore, up 24 per cent against Rs 1,564.8 crore in the year-ago period. Standalone revenue from operations rose 13 per cent year-on-year to Rs 23,457.8 crore. For the April-December period, Maruti Suzuki reported a 29.7 per cent year-on-year decline in net profit at Rs 3,063.60 crore. For the nine-month period, April to December, Maruti sold a total of 965,626 vehicles during the period, lower by 18.0% compared to the same period previous year. Sales in the domestic market stood at 905,015 units, lower by 17.8%. Exports were at 60,611 units, a decline of 21.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Citroën starts commercial production in India, rolls out C5 Aircross SUV||Citroën has started commercial production in the country and rolled out the C5 Aircross SUV from its manufacturing facility at Thiruvallur, Tamil Nadu. The flagship SUV is the first product from the Citroën brand and will be launched in this quarter. Citroen is part of the Stellantis group that was formed by the merger of two global auto majors — FCA and Groupe PSA. Groupe PSA has two joint ventures with the companies of India’s CK Birla Group for assembly, distribution and powertrain manufacturing of its cars in India.
The company said the production of the C5 Aircross  has started after rigorous testing of the vehicle for over 2.5 lakh kilometres in different terrains and varied weather conditions in the country. Emmanuel Delay, executive vice-president, Stellantis, and chairman, PCA Automobile India Pvt Ltd & PSA AVTEC Powertrain Pvt Ltd, said, “We are excited to officially roll out the first Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, which will be the first of many differentiating products for India from the brand.” “There is lot of market anticipation for the new Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, which will set a benchmark in style, comfort and innovation in its segment in India,” Delay said.
The brand will be targeting key Indian cities in the first leg with its globally renowned “La Maison Citroen” showroom concept. The C5 Aircross crossover is expected to carry a price tag of Rs 30 lakh and above. I would like to congratulate all our employees at the plants who have worked tirelessly to achieve this key milestone despite the challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic. We are looking forward to welcoming the customers to the La Maison Citroën dealership network, which means ‘the home of Citroën’  in a few weeks from now, across key cities of India” The Citroën C5 Aircross SUV will be powered by a 2 litre diesel engine and eight-speed automatic transmission. Earlier this month, Citroen India top management shared details of its India retail plans. The brand will be targeting key Indian cities in the first leg with its globally renowned ‘La Maison Citroen’ showroom concept. It plans a roadmap to establish 10 La Maison outlets in the country, in order to establish the brand in India as it sets off with the premium C5 Aircross crossover, which is expected to retail at price points upwards of Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||TPAPs allowed UPI payment do not store customers data outside India: RBI tells Supreme Court ||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday told the Supreme Court that third party applications (TPAP) such as Amazon, Google and WhatsApp, which had been allowed to facilitate UPI payments (unified payments interface) through mobile and internet banking, do not store customers data outside India. However, it added that the decision to permit them to operate in the country was taken by the National Payment Corporation of India (NCPI). According to the RBI, the TPAPs have access to a large customer base running into several million accounts and connect to the UPI system operated by the NPCI only through  multiple PSP (payment service provider) banks. The TPAPs provide the customer interface, while the transactions are processed  through the sponsor PSP banks. However, it said: “The decision to allow an entity to operate on UPI is solely taken by the NPCI under the system rules governing the UPI payment system, which have been framed by NPCI as an operator of UPI.” “The NPCI has allowed Amazon under the single sponsor bank model of UPI, Google and WhatsApp under the multi bank model to operate as TPAPs,” the apex bank said in an affidavit. The affidavit has been filed in response to a PIL filed by Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam seeking privacy safeguards and data protection for UPI platforms such as Google Pay, Amazon Pay, Paytm, PhonePe and BHIM. Viswam had alleged that the RBI and the Centre had compromised the interests of millions of Indians by providing access to these TPAPs to carry out UPI transactions without any proper regulations. “It is important to note that the RBI does not give any approval to TPAPs (as they do not operate a payment system) and thus they are not system providers as defined in Section 2(q) of the PSS (Payments Settlement System) Act, i.e. authorised payment system operators, and, therefore, they do not fall under the regulatory domain of the RBI directly.” “NPCI is the system provider of UPI and, therefore, comes under the regulatory radar of the RBI. Since it was NPCI that allowed Amazon, Google and WhatsApp to operate under the UPI, the responsibility to ensure that these entities comply with all the rules governing UPI lies with  it,” the RBI said. However, RBI said that it had, issued a circular dated April  6, 2018, by giving directions under section 10(2) read with  section 18 of the PSS Act, 2007, mandating all system providers to, ensure that the entire data relating  to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system  only in India. “This data should include the full end-to-end  transaction details / information collected / carried /  processed as part of the message / payment instruction. “…The circular places the onus on  the system providers, which in the case of UPI is NPCI, to  ensure that the entire data (i.e. end-to-end transaction details  / information collected / carried / processed as part of the  message / payment instruction) related to the payment  systems operated by them is stored only in India.” Adding : “It is submitted that RBI’s directions issued vide circular dated April 6, 2018 on Storage of Payment System Data pertain only to payment data storage and not data sharing or privacy. “RBI has not issued any instructions on data sharing by TPAPs or the participants of UPI. Matters related to data privacy and data sharing come under the domain of the Government of India,”the affidavit added. The case would come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel successfully tests live 5G service||Bharti Airtel on Thursday successfully tested live 5G service over its commercial network in Hyderabad, throwing down the gauntlet before Reliance Jio which plans a launch in the second half of the year. The government on Thursday eased the path for 5G rollout in the country by reducing to six months the notice period for offering any new technology using the spectrum being put up for auction in March, according to PTI. Earlier, the Department of Telecom (DoT) has asked telecom operators to give one year notice before starting any technology using spectrum across the seven frequency bands that will be offered in auction on March 1. Airtel demonstrated its 5G readiness on the 1800MHz band but sought exclusive spectrum bands to deliver the full capabilities of the technology that promises to download full-length movies in a matter of seconds. The government plans to auction 2,251MHz spectrum in seven bands ranging from 700MHz to 2500 MHz but has no plans to sell 5G spectrum  in the 3300MHz to 3600MHz bands. The bidding will commence on March 1, with airwaves worth at least Rs 3.92 lakh crore  up for sale. Airtel said it demonstrated the capability in Hyderabad using its existing liberalised spectrum in the 1800MHz band through the NSA (Non-Stand Alone) network technology. It seamlessly operated 5G and 4G concurrently within the same spectrum block using a first of its kind, dynamic spectrum sharing method. Gopal Vittal, chief executive officer of Airtel, said the telco can commercially launch 5G services without the mid-band (5G exclusive) as its network fully supports the high-speed technology. “When we launch 5G and make it available commercially, it must have a full power of 5G. Delivering experience is a must and you need more spectrum, especially in the mid-band. That doesn’t mean 1800, 2300 and 2100 MHz can’t be used...true 5G will be enabled through mid-band.” He said the telco would  be able to roll out the services across several parts of the country as soon as the DoT permits the commercial launch of 5G and auctions spectrum in the mid-size bands that is 3,300-3,600MHz. “The moment we receive  approval and the right spectrum bands in adequate quantities, we will be able to roll out immediately. Even on the existing bands 5G can be turned on. But full power of 5G can only be felt when adequate spectrum is available from the government,” Vittal said. "Our network is already 5G ready. We don’t believe that there is going to be any significant change in the capex cycle going forward as a company," he added. He, however, added that it is premature to launch 5G using existing 4G bands since the 4G ecosystem for devices and applications is fairly matured. “We have been working on this since last one year to make our networks 5G ready. It is a flick of a button. It is important to have the right amount of spectrum for true 5G,” he added. Airtel, however, reiterated the need for the adoption of global 5G standard in India for the rollout and for a flouring ecosystem of applications and devices. “The more widely embraced ecosystem, more innovation can happen. That doesn’t contradict make in India. We also embrace it fully and encourage partners to make it in India. The ecosystem should be a common global ecosystem to be able to get lower prices and interoperability. That’s an advantage of the standard-based ecosystem,” Vittal said.
The Airtel 5G will be capable of delivering ten times the speed and latency in addition to 100 times concurrency compared to the existing technology available in the country. This, in turn, will enable users to download a full-length movie in a matter of seconds on a 5G phone. However, the company added that the full impact of the 5G experience, will be available to customers only when the adequate spectrum is available and government approvals are received. Meanwhile, research firm Counterpoint said the 5G smartphone shipment is expected to rise more than nine times to reach 38 million units in 2021, driven by a strong portfolio of products from brands like OnePlus and Apple. The research firm said the key to higher adoption of 5G smartphones is bringing their prices below the Rs 20,000 mark given that 89 per cent of all the smartphones shipped to India in January-November 2020 had a price lower than Rs 20,000. The lowest-priced 5G device currently costs Rs 20,999, it said, adding that availability of cheaper 5G chipsets will make it feasible for OEMs (handset brands) to bring down the price. Qualcomm and MediaTek, the biggest chipset vendors, have unveiled affordable 5G chipsets. "The market in India is price-sensitive and OEMs aggressively try to undercut the competition. It is a matter of time before this intense competition pushes the cost of an entry-level 5G phone below the Rs 20,000 mark. We estimate these devices to hit the Rs 15,000 mark by the third quarter of 2021, which also marks the arrival of India's festive season and the related e-commerce sales," Counterpoint said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||ED initiates probe against Amazon for possible FEMA violations||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has initiated a probe against Amazon.com Inc to examine if it has violated any provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) in a 2019 deal with the Future group. The development came on a day the online retail giant urged the Delhi high court to order the enforcement of the award given by Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) that restrains the Future group from selling its retail assets to Reliance Retail. On Thursday, a PTI report quoting official sources said that the ED had initiated a probe under various sections of Fema against Amazon after it received a communication from the commerce ministry seeking “necessary action” against e-commerce players pertaining to certain multi-brand retail businesses. The ED step also came after an observation made by the Delhi high court last month when it was hearing the dispute between the Future group and Amazon. However, an Amazon spokesperson said  the company was “not aware of any new case by the ED against Amazon India”. The high court had then said that the attempt made by the e-commerce giant to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements with the unlisted unit of the Indian company would be considered as violative of Fema and foreign direct investment (FDI) rules. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future group’s unlisted firms Future Coupons Ltd, which owns 7.3 per cent equity in Future Retail through convertible warrants, with the right to buy into the latter after a period of three to 10 years. While the ED could now seek details from Amazon and other stakeholders”, it started the probe on the basis of a recent communication sent to it by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) that functions under the commerce ministry. The DPIIT had forwarded a representation made by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) alleging that major e-commerce players like Flipkart and Amazon violated Fema and FDI rules. In the high court on Thursday, Justice J. R. Midha said he would  continue with the hearing on Friday. During the hearing, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, representing Amazon, said the EA passed a detailed interim order in October 25 2020 after hearing all the parties and had found that he has jurisdiction to adjudicate the issue. He said the question of jurisdiction was raised before the EA and it was rejected on account of the group of companies approach. He claimed that no action has been taken by any of the respondents to reverse or modify the emergency award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
