30-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors posts 67% growth in net profit||Tata Motors on Friday beat Street estimates to post a 67 per cent growth in consolidated net profit for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, as the demand situation improved amid a strong festive season and more preference for personal mobility. The auto maker posted a net profit of Rs 2,906.45 crore against Rs 1,738.30 crore in the same period of the previous year and a loss of Rs 314.45 crore in the preceding three months. Analysts were expecting Tata Motors to post net profits of around Rs 2,000 crore. The better-than-expected performance came as the global economy began to recover from the adverse effects of Covid-19, leading to a sequential sales improvement in its luxury car arm Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). Back home, a good festival season and people opting for personal mobility saw its passenger vehicle (PV) business posting its highest sales in the last 33 quarters. For the quarter, Tata Motors’ net revenues came in at Rs 75,654 crore, a rise of 5.5 per cent over the previous year’s Rs 71,676 crore. JLR saw a strong sequential recovery in retail sales across all the markets, except the UK, where the third quarter is seasonally weak. The revenues of JLR rose to £5.98 billion from £4.35 billion in the second quarter,  though it was lower than last year’s £6.40 billion. However, profit before tax came in at £439 million compared with £65 million in the previous quarter. Tata Motors said the business achieved strong positive free cash flows of £0.6 billion, reflecting the recovery in sales. During the period, retail sales were 128,469 vehicles, up 13.1 per cent over the preceding three months but still 9 per cent lower than pre-Covid levels a year ago. Sales in China were higher by 20.2 per cent against the prior quarter and 19.1 per cent over the year ago period. according to the company, most of the other regions also witnessed a sequential recovery though still below prior year. On a standalone basis, Tata Motors posted a strong performance with revenues rising 36 per cent over the same period of the previous year to Rs 14,507.50 crore. The company added that domestic passenger vehicle volumes were up 87.5 per cent. Losses here narrowed to Rs 600.54 crore against Rs 1212 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 1024 crore in the year ago period due to better volumes, improved product mix and cost savings. This was however offset partially by lower proportion of commercial vehicle in total sales, commodity inflation and financing costs. “The auto industry witnessed a strong sales momentum in the third quarter, driven by the pent-up demand and a steady recovery of the economy. We could leverage the improved demand by a consistent ramp-up of production, addressing supply chain bottlenecks... We improved our operational and financial performance by reducing costs, generating free cash flows, providing best in class customer experience. Despite the current global challenge of semiconductor supplies, we are confident of keeping our performance improvement on track in this quarter to close the year on a high for an even stronger play in 2021-22’’, Guenter Butschek, CEO and MD, Tata Motors, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
30-01-2021||Business||Swedish firm ends talks to buy Tata Steel's Dutch unit||Swedish steel maker SSAB has called off the potential acquisition of Tata Steel’s Dutch unit, citing technical and commercial reasons, dealing a fresh blow to the Indian company’s plans to restructure the European business and deleverage its balance sheet. The Swedish company said that it found that the proposed transaction, whereby Tata Steel was to sell the Ijmuiden plant in the Netherlands, would not be financially viable. Tata Steel had entered into a discussion for the sale of the the 7-million-tonne Dutch unit with SSAB in the middle of November 2020, which analysts had guided could fetch as much as $3 billion to the Indian company. Announcing the fourth quarter results on Friday, Martin Lindqvist, president and CEO of SSAB, said: “After deeper analysis and discussions, it became clear that there were limited possibilities to integrate IJmuiden into the framework of SSAB’s strategies.” He said the acquisition would be difficult for technical reasons as it ‘cannot be sufficiently certain’ that SSAB could implement its industrial plan with the preferred technical solutions as quickly as it would like to, given that Ijmuiden could not be aligned to SSAB’s ‘sustainability strategy’. Tata Steel, however, said the IJmuiden plant is among the most environmentally efficient and cost competitive steel producers in Europe. It said the company would stay on course to find a strategic solution to the European business. “Around two thirds of the business of Tata Steel is based in India with the best in class, highly cost competitive assets and strong cash flows and Tata Steel remains committed to undertake significant de-leveraging in FY21 and beyond,” the company said. The Tata Steel stock took a hit after it confirmed SSAB’s withdrawal from the talks. It came off by 3.26 per cent to close at Rs 601.15 while the benchmark BSE Sensex lost 1.26 per cent. In 2018, the company had to abort a potential merger of the entire European business, which also includes a 3 million tonne plant in the UK, with Germany’s Thyssenkrupp after failing to get a nod from European competition commission. SSAB suggested that the synergy benefit would outweigh the cost of transforming Ijmuiden into the company’s sustainable strategy. “Furthermore, the synergies that we saw in the transaction would not fully justify the costs required for transformation. This means that overall, the transaction would not meet our financial expectations,” the CEO said. The end of the talk would mean that Tata Steel would have to look for a new partner for the European business which has been a drag on the company’s balance sheet for the most part since 2007 when it acquired the business for 6.2 billion GBP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
30-01-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank net profit falls 34% on provisions||IndusInd Bank on Friday reported a 34 per cent fall in net profit at Rs 852.76 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020 because of a rise in provisions. The net profit stood at Rs 1,300.20 crore in the year-ago period. Provisions for credit and other losses increased to Rs 1,853.52 crore from Rs 1,043.45 crore in the same period of the previous year. Asset quality during the quarter was stable with gross NPA standing at 1.74 per cent of gross advances against 2.18 per cent as on December 31, 2019. Battery maker Exide Industries on Friday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 239.87 crore in the third quarter ended December 2020 on robust sales. The company had posted a consolidated PAT of Rs 118.15 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations during the quarter under review stood at Rs 4,196.53 crore against Rs 3,553.64 crore in the corresponding year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Essar CNG for Calcutta vehicles||Motorists in Calcutta will soon get access to clean fuel CNG (compressed natural gas) with two gas dispensing stations on the outskirts of the city getting ready for commission. A gas cascade mounted on a truck has been dispatched from Ranigunj on Friday which will supply fuel at the CNG stations coming up at Garia and Newtown, Rajarhat, kicking off the process of throwing open these facilities for public use. Essar Oil & Gas Exploration and Production Ltd (EOGEPL), the company which is operating a coal bed methane block at Ranigunj, east Burdwan, will initially supply CNG (natural gas compressed under 250 times of atmospheric pressure due to ease of transportation) to the stations which will be run by Bengal Gas Company Ltd. BGCL is a joint venture between GAIL (India) Ltd and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd (GCGSCL). While the central PSU GAIL holds a 74 per cent stake, GCGSCL, run by the Bengal government, holds 26 per cent. BGCL plans to set up 186 stations in six south Bengal districts — Calcutta, Howrah, North & South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia. It targets to set up at least 30 such CNG pumps by the end of this year. Santosh Chandra, CEO of EOGEPL, said the Ranigunj field is producing 6.5 lakh standard cubic metres per day (scmd) and the plan is to scale this up to 1 million scmd by the middle of the year. GAIL is building a pipeline linking the field’s produce to Calcutta. Once completed, the city will get cost-effective and a steady supply of the gas, which is less polluting than fossil fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business|| Sensex and Nifty buckle under selling pressure ||The Sensex and the Nifty buckled under selling pressure for the sixth session on the trot on Friday as the pre-budget economic survey failed to cheer investors amid continued selling by foreign funds and a bearish trend overseas. Both the benchmark indices fluctuated between gains and losses in a volatile session. The 30-share BSE Sensex crashed 588.59 points, or 1.26 per cent, to finish at 46285.77 — taking the six-session aggregate loss to 3506.35 points, or 7.04 per cent. Intra-day, the index swung 1263.20 points. The NSE Nifty fell 182.95 points, or 1.32 per cent, to settle at 13634.60. Over the last six days, the NSE barometer has shed 1010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. On the Sensex chart, 26 shares closed in the red. Analysts feel the continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit-booking ahead of the Union budget. “The pace of recovery in the US and Europe has slowed down, having implications on Indian exports and FII inflows. The Budget will be the key to provide strength and perform better compared to the rest of the world,” said Vinod Nair of Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Bad loan crisis in Indian banks blamed on UPA and its cohorts||Under-capitalisation of banks and the pernicious phenomenon of zombie lending (lending without due diligence) or ever-greening  (not recognising sticky assets) that led to the bad loan crisis in Indian banks has been blamed on the UPA and its cohorts who provided regulatory forbearance, thereby allowing lenders to conceal the magnitude of the problem. The Economic Survey 2020-21 cited this history as it made the case for implementing such reliefs as only a short-term or emergency measure and not to extend them after the economy recovers. The Survey also called for another round of asset quality review to clean up bank balance sheets after the withdrawal of the forbearance given by the RBI to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic. Regulatory forbearance is offered in the form of relaxing the norms for restructured assets. The relaxation may see these assets no longer being classified as stressed loans. The annual document, which devoted a chapter to regulatory forbearance, said the global financial crisis of 2008 had sparked the need for such a relaxation. However, the forbearance continued for seven years though it should have been discontinued in 2011, when GDP, exports, industrial output and credit growth had all recovered significantly. It added that amid the relaxed provisioning requirements, banks exploited the forbearance window to restructure loans even for unviable entities. The inflated profits were then used by the lenders to pay increased dividends to shareholders, including the government in the case of PSU banks. Consequently, banks became severely undercapitalised. This fostered risky lending practices. The views expressed in the Survey comes at a time when the Supreme Court has directed banks that accounts which were not declared non-performing asset (NPA) till  August 31, 2020 will not be declared as a bad loan till further orders. Moreover, the RBI had also announced a one-time restructuring scheme (which ended on December 31, 2020) under which banks can restructure assets without classifying them as bad loans. Here, the Economic Survey went on to say that forbearance represents emergency medicine that should be discontinued at the first opportunity when the economy exhibits recovery and that it should be used as ``a staple diet that gets continued for years’’. It also issued a veiled warning by using a quote from George Santayana as an epigraph to the chapter: “Those who do not learn from history are condemned to repeat it.” According to the Survey, by the time forbearance ended in 2015, restructuring had increased seven times while NPAs almost doubled when compared to the pre-forbearance levels. This led to the RBI, under former governor Raghuram Rajan initiating an AQR.  However, this review could not detect ever-greening of loans or bringing out all the hidden bad assets in the bank books, ultimately leading to episodes like that of Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank. ``A clean-up of bank balance sheets is necessary when the forbearance is discontinued... While the 2016 AQR exacerbated the problems in the banking sector, the lesson from the same is not that an AQR should not be conducted. Given the problem of asymmetric information between the regulator and the banks, which gets accentuated during the forbearance regime, an AQR exercise must be conducted immediately after the forbearance is withdraw’’, the Economic Survey suggested. It added that if done in the near future, the AQR must account for all the creative ways in which banks can ever-green their loans. Further, the regulator may consider penalties on bank auditors if ever-greening is discovered. In banking parlance, ever-greening happens when a bank gives fresh loan to a defaulter or a stressed borrower who then repays the old loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Union govt’s fiscal deficit soared to 145.5% of the budget estimate||The Union government’s fiscal deficit soared to Rs 11.58 lakh crore, or 145.5 per cent of the budget estimate, at the end of December 2020, mainly on account of lower revenue realisation. Revenue realisation was hit by disruptions in normal business activities following the coronavirus pandemic and a nationwide lockdown. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), the fiscal deficit at the end of December in the previous financial year was 132.4 per cent of the Budget Estimate (BE) of 2019-20. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit stood at Rs 11,58,469 crore at December-end. For the current fiscal, the government had pegged the fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore, or 3.5 per cent of the GDP, in the budget which was presented in February 2020. The fiscal deficit or gap between the expenditure and revenue had breached the annual target in July this year. According to the data, the government received Rs 11.21 lakh crore (50 per cent of corresponding BE 2020-21 of total receipts) up to December 2020. Of this, Rs 9,62,399 crore was tax revenue, Rs 1,26,181 crore was non-tax revenue and Rs 33,098 crore was non-debt capital receipts. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans (Rs 14,202 crore) and divestment proceeds (Rs 18,896 crore). The total receipts till December 2020 works out to be 49.9 per cent of the BE. The receipts were 56.6 per cent of the BE 2019-20 at the end of December 2019. The CGA also said that Rs 3,71,640 crore has been transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the central government up to December 2020. The Centre’s total expenditure stood at Rs 22.80 lakh crore or 75 per cent of corresponding BE 2020-21. Of this, Rs 19,71,173 crore was on revenue account and Rs 3,08,974 crore was on capital account. Of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 4,72,171 crore was towards interest payments and Rs 2,27,352 crore is on account of major subsidies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||India slams rating agencies of bias||India on Friday  slammed the rating agencies of bias and buttressed its arguments with issues relating to defaults and debt that indicate the fiscal deficit for the fiscal is likely to be way off prudent levels, while an overseas bond issue may be back on agenda. “Never in the history of sovereign credit ratings has the fifth largest economy (India) in the world been rated as the lowest rung of the investment grade (BBB-/Baa3), the Economic Survey said. Reflecting the economic size and thereby the ability to repay debt, the fifth largest economy has been predominantly rated AAA. China and India are the only exceptions to this rule – China was rated A-/A2 in 2005 and now India is rated BBB-/Baa3. Do the fundamentals that supposedly drive sovereign credit ratings rationalise this historical anomaly? The attack on ratings signifies the fiscal deficit will be higher in 2020-21 — possibly at over 7 per cent against the budgeted 3.5 per cent or Rs 7.96 lakh crore — and will stay elevated next year. This implies a break from the trajectory of FRBM targets. Besides, the government is likely to reconsider a sovereign bond flotation, which finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had spoken of in her first budget. “India’s sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of the Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction. Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India’s willingness to repay is gold standard. India has never defaulted even in 1991,” the Survey said. Our ability to repay is also very very high,” Subramanian said. Pointing towards India's bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. "To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event," he said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves. Which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes." As the fiscal deficit is likely to sour in the next fiscal year too and the country would need global funds for its infrastructure and economic growth, the economic survey in an aggressive stance on the rating agencies slammed them for not reflecting the strong economic fundamentals of India and accused them of bias. The chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian has hit out against sovereign ratings agencies in the Survey 2020-21 means that the fiscal deficit will be higher in 2020-21 (possibly at over 7 per cent against the budgeted 3.5 per cent or Rs 7.96 lakh crore) and will stay elevated next year. \This implies that it would be a break from the trajectory of FRBM targets, which may be justifiable because of the Covid impact. “India’s sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction,”Subramanian said. “Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India’s willingness to repay is gold standard. India has never defaulted even in 1991. Our ability to repay is also very very high,” the adviser added. Pointing towards India’s bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. “To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event,” Subramanian said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves. Which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Union  Budget 2021: economy projected to grow 11%||The Indian economy is set to expand 11 per cent in the next fiscal 2021-22 after a contraction of 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal on the back of a vaccination drive and robust consumer demand, according to the Economic Survey for 2020-21 tabled in Parliament on Friday. However, it will take at least two years before the economy returns to the pre-pandemic growth path. The Survey says the contraction in the Indian economy this year will be the fourth since 1960-61. “The contraction in 1965-66 and 1971-72 coincided with wars and droughts while the year 1979-80 was associated with a severe drought and political instability,” the report said. The common thread in those years was a steep fall in agriculture output. However, that hasn’t happened this fiscal because of abundant monsoons, which means that the agriculture sector has emerged as a “silver lining for the economy”. The NSO has forecast farm sector growth of 3.4 per cent this year against 4 per cent in 2019-20. The Survey said at the end of 2021-22, India’s real gross domestic product (GDP) in absolute terms would be 2.4 per cent -- better than what it was in 2019-20. The Survey forecast a V-shaped economic recovery which was predicated on a robust recovery in the services sector, consumption and investment. The projection of 11 per cent growth next fiscal over the smaller base this fiscal is in line with the IMF’s forecast of 11.5 per cent growth. India is expected to emerge as the fastest growing economy in the next two years according to the IMF, the Survey noted. It also projected that in nominal terms, India’s GDP would expand 15.4 per cent in 2021-22, implying a retail inflation of 4.4 per cent. The nominal GDP assumption would be the highest since Independence. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra, said: “The Survey’s forecasts of real and nominal GDP growth for 2021-22 of 11 per cent and 15.4 per cent, respectively, will require a substantial push from central and state spending.” Private sector capacity expansion announcements are anticipated to be intermittent, and sector-specific in the next couple of quarters, she said. “Moreover, private consumption is likely to chart a differentiated recovery across income and age groups.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
