12-05-2020||News||A ‘new normal’ is in the offing. Ensure a balance| Analysis||The World Health Organization (WHO) Southeast Asia region is entering a new phase in its pandemic response. In recent weeks, the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the region has slowed, due to the unprecedented physical distancing measures that countries implemented early and aggressively. Several member-states are now preparing to transition to a “new normal” in which social and economic life can coexist with low disease transmission. To do that effectively, countries must continue to mobilise the full power of their whole-of-government, whole-of-society approaches. The spread of Covid-19 continues to cause disease, death and disruption. It has pushed even the most advanced health systems to the brink. The crude mortality ratio for Covid-19 is estimated to be upwards of 3%, but can change from country to country, and even within countries. Key variables include access to care and the availability of testing. The region’s member-states must continue to take evidence-informed action and conduct careful risk assessments before deciding to wind back on public health and social measures. Due consideration must be given to the local epidemiology of Covid-19, including hotspots and clusters, and the capacity of systems and responders to find, isolate and care for cases, and quarantine contacts. Whatever a country’s current transmission scenario, there is no doubt that we are in for a long haul. In what will be an ongoing struggle against Covid-19, the strategies of member-states must be comprehensive and cover immediate and long-term needs. Three priorities must chart the path ahead: Control and suppression of spread, strengthening and maintaining health services, and supporting each other to stay safe and healthy.To control and suppress spread, we must take the fight to the virus. Active case detection, isolation, testing and contact tracing are the main ways to control the virus. Should community transmission occur, they are vital to suppressing it. Strengthening surveillance and contact tracing, in particular, will help national and local authorities to rapidly adapt to evolving outbreaks, whether moving from one case to a cluster of cases, or from a cluster of cases to no cases. Agility and innovation will be crucial, especially at the subnational level, across borders and with mobile populations. For areas with limited transmission, responders must focus on finding and isolating all cases, providing them with appropriate care, and tracing, quarantining and supporting all contacts. Where sustained transmission occurs, they must reduce it to manageable clusters, for which they may consider reintroducing physical distancing measures in a way that minimises negative impacts.To strengthen health services, all countries must first protect health workers. WHO continues to work with governments, industry and the pandemic supply chain network to overcome global shortages of personal protective equipment. Health workers must be provided gowns, gloves, medical masks and eye protection required to save lives and avoid infection.Countries must continue to expand isolation and intensive care unit capacity, while also rationalising it. By networking Covid-19 treatment facilities, health leaders and administrators can better share the burden among facilities. By implementing clear triage protocols, they will ensure that all patients with severe manifestations are provided safe, rapid admission to intensive care units. Rigorous infection prevention and control is needed to prevent health facilities from facilitating transmission. Ensuring essential health services are maintained is vital. We must not only reduce mortality from Covid-19 itself, but also from vaccine-preventable diseases and other treatable conditions which may increase when health systems are overwhelmed. WHO will continue to support countries in the region to implement key guidelines on maintaining essential health services as they directly respond to Covid-19. To achieve these outcomes, member-states must mobilise a whole-of-government, whole-of-society approach. Regular hand-washing, coughing or sneezing into one’s elbow, and avoiding contact with people with flu-like symptoms are crucial. So too is following local and national guidance on physical distancing. Avoid using tobacco, alcohol and other substances that impair the immune system. Support health workers and say no to stigma.Look after your mental health and be supportive of others. It is natural to feel sad, stressed, confused, scared or angry. Helpful coping strategies include getting enough rest, exercise, eating well, avoiding harmful substances and staying in close contact with family and friends. WHO will continue to provide accessible and actionable information on coping with Covid-19-related stress and anxiety, and will support all member-states to strengthen mental health services.We must stand together to tackle what is the greatest public health challenge of a generation. The region’s strategy to control and suppress spread, strengthen and maintain health services, and support each other to stay safe, healthy and well, will help all countries to save lives and minimise impact. Our mission is clear. Our challenge is great. Together, forward in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-new-normal-is-in-the-offing-ensure-a-balance-analysis/story-eaCoVqxeaAtiIUYRMlm9NL.html
12-05-2020||News||Why Covid-19 poses a sharp challenge for Bihar| Analysis||As globalisation has grown, local epidemics tend to spread faster across the world. We are seeing this in the case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While the poor are generally the hardest hit, this time it is the developed countries which have been most affected. In India, the poorer states have not been affected as much as initially believed. The spread of the virus, while not insignificant, has been relatively less in Bihar. Bihar also faces periodic challenges from other infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, kala-azar and encephalitis. Given this, it must deal with the current pandemic at five levels: Historical, financial, infrastructural, issues related to migrant labour, and the revival of the economy. Historically, Bihar was part of the Bengal presidency. The quality of governance in this region was poor because of the inefficient zamindari system. A memorandum submitted by the then state government to the Simon Commission in 1930 rued the fact that per capita expenditure on health was much lower in the Bengal presidency when compared with the Bombay and Madras presidencies. Even within the Bengal presidency, expenditure on health was the lowest in Bihar, compared to other regions. Unfortunately, even after Independence, this trend continued. The total public expenditure on health in Bihar is budgeted at Rs 8,788 crore (2020-21), which is 4.1% of the total budget. In per capita terms, public expenditure on health in Bihar is only Rs 690. In contrast, the corresponding figure in Kerala is three times that, at Rs 2,092. Health care infrastructure in Bihar is only one-fifth of the national average, measured in terms of hospital beds per 1,000 people. Bihar has not had any major infusion of funds to create the necessary health infrastructure for almost two decades. Since the corporate sector is all but absent in Bihar, the responsibility for infrastructure development is mainly with the state government. But the state government can do little if its finances are chronically weak. During the lockdown, there has been virtually no economic activity in Bihar, and the state government has not been able to generate enough revenue from taxes. Also, the state government has limited borrowing space, thanks to the 3% restriction of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), as prescribed under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003. The state’s share in the central pool of taxes has been routinely reduced. This reduction amounted to Rs 14,796 crore in 2019-20. Under such severe financial constraints, the only source of funds is the Consolidated Sinking Fund (CSF) which was created in 2008. Due to the financial stress caused by the lockdown, the state government has had to withdraw Rs 1,000 crore from the fund. The current financial capacity of the state government is too limited to allocate adequate funds to strengthen infrastructure.Another important aspect of Covid-19 is the problems faced by its migrant workers. It is estimated that around three million workers have gone to other states for work. The pandemic has left them stranded, without jobs or the wherewithal to return home. After considerable delay, the central government has now arranged for special trains, helping them to return to their homes. But once the lockdown is over, employing these migrant workers, either at home or their earlier places of migration, will be a serious challenge for the state government. Finally, to face the challenges thrown up by the virus, the state government has to revive its economy. Although the economy has registered steady growth in the recent past, it is still weak because of the absence of a corporate or industrial sector on the one hand, and the dependence of a large majority of its workers on the low-productivity agricultural sector on the other. The state government has to take the lead role in getting the economy back on track. The first component will be to provide purchasing power to the people, particularly the poor. Employment-oriented welfare programmes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme are an obvious choice here, but there could be other programmes as well. Second, the state government has to provide substantial relief to kick start the micro, small and medium enterprises sector in Bihar, which has been badly affected by the lockdown. Apart from tax concessions, such relief could also include input subsidies. This will put pressure on the finances of the state government. But the state government should not hesitate to borrow, even if it implies crossing the limit of 3% of the GSDP, as prescribed by the FRBM Act. Reaching out to nations such as Japan, South Korea and Thailand, which share a cultural bond with Bihar because of Gaya and the Buddhist legacy, should be encouraged. The economy is facing an unprecedented situation and, as such, demands an unprecedented response. Bihar can meet this challenge but it will need all the support it can get from the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-covid-19-poses-a-sharp-challenge-for-bihar-analysis/story-C7Lr22Ez5skaPtWfEhSIwN.html
12-05-2020||News||A multisector road map for recovery| Analysis||The government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have initiated many activities for economic recovery. What is most needed is a proactive action plan for growth to bounce back to 6-7% in 2021-22. International economists have predicted a major decline in all economies, except India and China, where growth will dip, but may not contract. As Germany and Japan displayed willpower and determination after World War II, we can overcome the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) if we pull together nationally, as a team. There are 10 major reforms which will pay off for the economy. One, usher in the next green revolution. While the green revolution in the 1960s resulted in massive productivity enhancement, India still ranks 103 of 119 countries on the Global Hunger Index. Hence, we must enhance farm productivity and introduce more automation in agriculture. Boosting the agricultural processing industry with integrated cold chain, streamlining logistics and building mega food parks will lead to the stated goal of doubling farm incomes. Two, we must set up smart villages with essential services. This will involve modernising over 600,000 villages, and it can transform the lives of at least 500 million citizens. It will also decongest cities. Ten essential services are required in villages — pucca housing, all-weather roads, 100% electrification, potable water, affordable gas, broadband infrastructure, medical clinics, primary and secondary schools, kisan shops and cattle farms. Three, we must set up more special economic zones (SEZs). Following the government’s announcement of lower taxes for new units, and an attractive Make in India policy for the electronics sector, all other sectors need aggressive manufacturing policies to build a supply chain base which is not dependent on China. India is a far superior choice over the smaller Asian countries due to its huge domestic market that needs to be served first. This can be achieved by upgrading the present SEZs and establishing new SEZs similar to Shenzhen and Pudong to make them large employment enclaves. Power and logistics will have to be regionally competitive, and backed by a streamlined approval and clearance process.Four, schools and undergraduate education must be upgraded. Many children still do not have access to higher secondary education and universities, especially girls. We need much more investment in middle, higher secondary schools and undergraduate universities, with future-oriented and digital curriculums.Five, we must invest in modern health care infrastructure. India ranks 145th globally as per the health care access and quality index, 2018, with a single State-run hospital for every 55,591 people, a deficit of 500,000 doctors and only 0.55 beds per 1,000 people. After the gaps in India’s health care system have been laid bare by Covid-19, we cannot delay vital infrastructure investment any longer. Also, telemedicine services must be boosted. Six, we must focus on superior technology development. India is lagging and must focus on research and development. The government has allocated Rs 8,000 crore under the National Mission on Quantum Technologies, launched a digital platform to facilitate the application of intellectual property rights, set up knowledge translation clusters for diverse technology sectors, and provided Rs 6,000 crore for BharatNet to link 100,000 gram panchayats. Together, with the private sector, the government must push ahead with the 2030 national technology agenda.Seven, ensure a big thrust in infrastructure development. The next decade will see investments in infrastructure such as roads, bridges, ports, airports and metros. The government has already made a budgetary allocation of Rs 102,000 crores for the next five years. Considering that a similar amount may be allocated in the following five years, the total amount will be a huge stimulus for infrastructure development as well as employment.Eight, more sectors should be open to 51%-100% foreign direct investment (FDI). India has a huge requirement for international capital, and there is considerable liquidity with many global sovereign funds. There are many sectors where foreign investment is allowed only up to 49%. This needs to be enhanced to 74% or even 100%. Also, we have to provide a red carpet for foreign investors by setting up single-window clearance facilities in the states and Centre. The focus should be on renewable energy, storage, biotech, electric vehicles, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. Nine, we must globalise national champions. We should assist large Indian companies to grow into large global multinational corporations (MNCs). Companies and industrial houses in the private sector (Tatas, Birlas, Reliance, HDFC and Mahindras) and in the public sector (NTPC, ONGC, BHEL, SAIL and SBI) should be supported to upscale globally. Last, we must showcase industry leadership role models. We should nominate top leaders from the government, MNCs, large domestic companies, the public sector and startups, to promote key qualities of entrepreneurship, deep planning, rapid execution, innovation and transparency aimed at international success. This way, young engineers and managers who are the leaders of the future will be inspired. The best is yet to come for the Indian economy. We just need to prioritise new investments in key sectors for the creation of millions of jobs to achieve the target of becoming a $5-trillion economy. Charlie Chaplin once said, “Nothing is permanent in this wicked world — not even our troubles.” Keep this in mind going forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-multisector-road-map-for-recovery-analysis/story-UhMKVUhdC3psz1bCWu1ofP.html
