18-05-2020||News||An injection for reform and growth, writes Jyotiraditya Scindia||If one were to describe the magnitude of the crisis facing the world today, one could draw a parallel from Margaret Atwood’s The Year of the Flood. “The pandemic travelled through the air as if on wings, it burned through cities like fire.” The scene seems to have been planted into reality. The coronavirus has spelt disaster for global economies, supply chains, markets, trade and livelihoods.But for India, owing to bold decisions such as the nationwide lockdown, the impact in terms of lives lost has been relatively less. Credit goes to the able and decisive leadership of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Without doubt, his unique, unequivocal and bold decision-making has safeguarded the interests of 1.3 billion people, and has saved thousands of lives. India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case fatality rate is 3.23%, compared to the global death rate of 6.92%; the recovery rate is 34.06%.In every adversity lies an opportunity. Where India stands is an inflection point, much like the 1991 economic crisis, which was a harbinger of a paradigm shift via liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation. The post-Covid-19 era will usher in unprecedented opportunities. Fortunately, India has been able to tap into these opportunities.The recently unveiled Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India) and the emphasis on ”Vocal for Local to Global” hit the right note with the post-Covid-19 era requiring a new orientation; a redrawing of India’s growth story that is reform-driven, and hinges on the ability to sell its indigenous capabilities to the world. First brought about by Mahatma Gandhi, it has again been made the pivot by the PM, on which reforms will pervade the five pillars — economy, infrastructure, technology-driven system, vibrant demography and demand.The government realises that this macroeconomic vision will turn into reality by strengthening the grassroots. The Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus, alongside big-bang systemic reforms announced by the government, is an apt opening to this vision. The envisaged impact is two-fold; first, interim measures such as liquidity infusion and direct cash transfers for the poor will work as shock absorbers for those in acute stress. The Rs 1.7 lakh crore package under the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and One Nation One Ration Card will allow 800 million marginalised Indians to maintain their nutritional intake levels — through guaranteed ration. Similarly, the decision to allocate an additional sum of Rs 40,000 crore for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, provide a free three-month supply of gas cylinders to 83 million BPL families under the PM Ujjwala Yojna, Rs 500 ex-gratia transfer to 200 million women Jan Dhan accounts, Rs 1,000 each to senior citizens and widows, and a deposit of Rs 2,000 each to the accounts of over 80 million farmers through direct benefit transfers are commendable resuscitative steps.The second entails long-term reforms in growth-critical sectors to make them globally competitive and attractive. Together, these should not just help put India back on track as a competitive player in global markets, but also be seen as filling the void created by the pandemic and create new opportunities for growth in sectors like agriculture, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), power, coal and mining, defence and aviation.India ranks second globally in farm outputs. It still stands to be among the largest producers of milk, fruits, and pulses. Despite the heavyweight numbers, little is processed here and India ranks fairly low in the global food processing value chains. This is an untapped growth opportunity, which is why we must build on our comparative advantage, and ramp up our competitiveness by enabling farmers to steepen the value curve of their produce. Post Covid-19, we should take the lead in the race of becoming the food factory of the world. The measures announced for the agricultural and allied sectors are particularly transformative. The new proposed law that allows inter-state trading of agricultural yield will allow farmers to leverage attractive prices and markets beyond their home state, stepping towards the One Nation One Market objective. Similarly, the proposed amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will allow private players to purchase agricultural commodities on a large scale. Moreover, measures worth $13 billion to enhance farm-gate infrastructure will go a long way in boosting farmer incomes and thus, achieving the goal of self-sustainable villages. However, these measures must be coupled with a robust digital trading platform. The government may come up with a national grid of local platforms currently operating in isolation, along with bringing credible agri-tech startups onboard. This shall also help in standardisation of quality parameters of the agricultural produce and in providing digital tools to assess quality.Like agriculture, MSMEs are collectively one of the biggest employers — with about 120 million workers on their rolls, including migrant labourers. Around 75 million MSMEs contribute to about a third of the GDP and 45% of the manufacturing output of the country. But, at the same time, they are considered by banks to be the riskiest borrowers. According to a BizFund report, only 16% of MSMEs in India get formal credit, leaving more than 80% of these companies under-financed or financed through informal sources. Therefore, a large part of the stimulus is really about activating channels of credit. The Rs 300,000 crore collateral-free loan facility for MSMEs or the Rs 30,000 crore liquidity facility for NBFCs, mortgage lenders and microfinance institutions announced in the first tranche of the package are examples.Another sector that will assume importance will be health care. Almost every country has been compelled to relook how much it spends on public health. For perspective, it is important to note that the total per capita government spending on health care has nearly doubled from Rs 1,008 per person in FY15 to Rs 1,944 in FY20. The government has decided to increase public health spending, besides other prudent measures such as establishing government diagnostic labs till the block level. While currently, this will strengthen the country’s testing capacity, for the future, it will help foster a more resilient grassroots-level health infrastructure.The recent announcements are also a testament to our government’s balanced approach in addressing concerns across sectors. For example, the newly launched PM e-Vidya programme for multi-mode access to digital online education provides a uniform learning platform for the whole nation, which shall enable schools and universities to stream courses online without further loss of teaching hours. Additionally, limiting imports of weapons and increasing the limit of foreign direct investment in defence from 49% to 74% will give a much-needed boost to the Ordnance Factory Board, while reducing India’s huge defence import bill.To establish clout overseas, we must first become a formidable unrelenting force at home. The magnitude of the problem has been huge. It’s of a size that no government in the world could have been prepared to face. However, as the curve flattens, the Centre’s revival plan is optimal and logically sound. It provides a safety net for the most vulnerable, and a “vitamin injection” to re-unleash the animal spirits of growth-critical sectors. We seem to be well on course in this pursuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-injection-for-reform-and-growth-writes-jyotiraditya-scindia/story-wVcr056SLVdeDzlDdemL8K.html
18-05-2020||News||Ensuring access and equity in education, writes Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’||In his recent article, Life in the era of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated that the poor are often beneficiaries of the transformational impact of technology. He said that technology demolishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminates middlemen, and accelerates welfare measures. He spoke of technology as being transformative for education. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures for the education sector as a part of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, which is intended to get the economy back on track. The key principles behind the education sector reforms are equity and access for students. She dwelt on adopting innovative curricula and pedagogies, concentrating energies in gap areas, being more inclusive and integrating technology at every stage to push human capital. Let us look at access. When I assumed charge, I focused on the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education. Of the total population in the age group of 18-23, which is around 150 million, only 26.3% (37 million) are enrolled in the education system. China, which had the same GER of India in the 1990s, has brought it up to 48%. The United States is at 88% and the United Kingdom is at 60%. This calls for deep introspection. Though we have made rapid strides to increase access in the past six years, I feel that the tipping point has arrived. To create a new India, and face the immediate challenge to education posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), we need a paradigm shift in the manner of in which youth can access the education system. The other bedrock on which the announcements were based on is equity. In a diverse country like India, we need to look at how to provide equal opportunities for learning so that a student in a rural setting gets the same education material as that of a student in an urban one. How can we ensure that the learning outcomes of students in a certain age group or even a certain grade across society are the same? We have tried to find solutions to improve equity and access during and after the Covid-19 crisis. The PM has been firmly behind India’s trajectory of progress and development from an information society to a creative one. The Digital India campaign launched by the government has led to a digital revolution. Today, India has 504 million active Internet users, more than the population of the United States. Riding on the success of Digital India, the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has launched a comprehensive initiative called PM e-Vidya which unifies all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education for further expansion of e-learning in higher education. In other words, we are liberalising the open, distance and online education regulatory framework. Digital learning through the PM e- Vidya and Open Distance Learning (ODL) in higher education will create equal access to teachers in integrating technology into their curriculum for students of varied geographies and backgrounds. This will ensure that no child is left untouched by the power of technology and education. We envision technology as a catalyst in bringing equity to society. The new education paradigm will take the best of the traditional classroom and digital learning to empower students and teachers as outlined in the new education policy. Equity is the cornerstone of all educational decisions, ensuring all students can thrive in the education system. The approach to equity and inclusion will be kept common across schools and higher education. The ministry of human resource development will continue to ensure equitable access to quality education, with special emphasis on socioeconomic disadvantaged groups across schools and higher education, providing each student with access to the best in learning resources, and teachers across the world. The policy’s vision includes the following key changes to the current system. One, moving towards a higher educational system consisting of large, multidisciplinary universities and colleges, with at least one in or near every district. Two, the building of free boarding facilities in the form of hostels. Three, revamping curriculum, pedagogy, assessment, and student support for enhanced student experiences across schools and higher education. Four, strengthening of open schooling. Five, a substantial increase in scholarships at private/philanthropic universities for disadvantaged and underprivileged students. Six, the creation of a gender-inclusion fund. Seven, and most important, creating a cohort of highly motivated and rigorously trained teachers for all learners.The pandemic has presented new challenges and also opportunities for our education system. India is ready and equipped to reimagine the future of digital education through PM e-Vidya while addressing the needs and rights to education for every child. This will mark an era of progress where school and higher education institutes will be enabled to foster constant innovation and become more resilient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/ensuring-access-and-equity-in-education-writes-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank/story-KSqyOXK2zkUVpl9krJO4dP.html
18-05-2020||News||Judiciary should urgently address the delays in cases||At the best of times, the job of a constitutional court judge is largely a thankless one. There has been an exponential explosion in the litigation cases and we simply don’t have enough judges. For quite a while, there have been demands from the judiciary itself to appoint specialist court managers. With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, cases have backed up in courts like never before. The case for court managers should be revisited now.Judgments which had been reserved but not delivered have piled up. No doubt the fact that courts cannot function as normal during the pandemic but by remote control is not helping the situation.Going through the portals of the Madras High Court, I came across a circular from 2014 vintage, issued by then chief justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now with the Supreme Court). In that circular, court officers before the principal bench in Chennai and Madurai were directed to mention the dates on which orders were reserved and the dates of their pronouncement. We are still awaiting the verdicts in those cases.In a move to deal with these delays, then Supreme Court judges KT Thomas and RP Sethi had said in Anil Rai vs State of Bihar (2001), that chief justices of all high courts could direct their registry to print the two crucial dates on the judgements. The other remedial measures suggested by the court included a directive by the chief justices to make it mandatory for the court officers to furnish them a monthly list of cases in which judgements were not pronounced within a month from the date on which they were reserved.The order said, “The Chief Justice may also see the desirability of circulating among the judges of the High Court for their information the state of such cases in which judgements have not been pronounced, within six weeks from the date of conclusion of arguments. Such communication should be conveyed as confidential and in a sealed cover. If the judges do not pronounce judgement even after three months, the parties in the case could be permitted to file an application with a prayer for an early order, and such an application should be listed before the judges within two days. If the judgement, for any reason, is not pronounced within six months, any of the parties shall be entitled to move an application before the Chief Justice with a prayer to withdraw the case and make it over to any other Bench for fresh arguments. It is open to the Chief Justice to grant the prayer or pass any other order as he deems fit.”The delays are not merely an issue of logistics. The present Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, AP Sahi, has issued a circular making available “personal staff” to the judges at all times. And papers which may be logically within the heritage building are available for transit, if required. This means there will be ready access to the relevant papers and personal assistance in the case of video conferencing. The virus may have delayed things, but the problem will not go away with the end of the pandemic.In July, 2019, then Chief Justice Vijaya Tahilramani, had said that the E-Courts website and National Judicial Data Grid are the most accessed websites and that the proceedings of all cases are being uploaded on this. She indicated that parties concerned were sending petitions/letters over the delay in pronouncement of orders, after reserving the cases. Hence she felt that it was expedient to proceed with the cases without any delay. When causes are reserved for judgments/orders, she felt that the same has to be pronounced at the earliest by keeping in mind the directions of the Supreme Court.We have seen how the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has by an ordinance suspended 35 labour legislations for three calendar years to boost the economy. It has been a matter of debate among advisors to policymakers that in the face of inordinate judicial delays and the institution’s inability to clear the backlog of reserved judgments, it may be required for the Centre or state to take the ordinance route to bring closure to some litigations in which national interest may be at stake. This does not augur well for the judiciary. It is better for the judiciary to set its own house in order when it comes to delays and use the technology that is available to it today to speed things along.Narasimhan Vijayaraghavan is an advocate in the Madras High CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/judiciary-should-urgently-address-the-delays-in-cases/story-7tPd7qeZneoZS1W4fremNK.html
18-05-2020||News||The economic package unpacked | Opinion||The announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of an economic policy package amounting to Rs 20 lakh crore, described by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as a stimulus, to counteract the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has turned out to be a case of flattering to deceive. It had been received with shock and awe as it had appeared substantial and bold. Even though it had been stated that the package included the financial counterpart of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s measures and the government’s outlay under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in March, the assessment was that the resulting stimulus would yet be substantial. The details, however, were revealed days later, and there is widespread disappointment at the contents. There is now shock that given the severity of the crisis, the central government has done so little after having remained silent for over seven weeks. Before the details were announced, the guessing game had been to figure out the allocation of the enhanced fiscal outlay assumed to be coming. This is because the economic impact of government spending will vary, depending upon whether it is used to rebuild Lutyens Delhi, build roads and bridges in the four corners of the country and in its middle, recapitalise public sector banks or retire public debt. Now that the contents of the economic package are public knowledge, this has turned out to have been a futile exercise. There will be negligible additional spending by the government. Over and above the commitments already made by the government and RBI, the largest item in the package is a provision of Rs 3 lakh crore to guarantee loans to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector to be made by commercial banks. While this is creative from a financial viewpoint, it is similar to RBI’s existing liquidity-enhancing initiatives. Thus, a little over half the package comprises liquidity provision, by RBI and the Government of India, and the government’s relief package of March 26. The rest is a ragbag of funds aimed at various sectors of the economy. These, such as the proposal aimed at expanding infrastructure for agriculture, cannot be faulted, but their impact may reasonably be expected only in the medium-term. The provision of loans amounting to Rs 90,000 crore from power public sector units to distribution companies in the electricity sector is imaginative too, but it remains a supply side intervention. The guarantee for bank lending to the MSME sector, its largest and most applauded part, best demonstrates the unbalanced nature of the package. Though important in terms of employment, the sector is dependent on the rest of the economy for its market. Unless the rest of the domestic economy is revived, the MSME sector may face a shortage of demand, and its production may soon sputter to a close. It is for this reason that an economic package for the economy emerging out of the lockdown requires a stimulus enhancing demand across the economy. The best way to have done this would have been to spend on infrastructure. Infrastructure spending uniquely creates structures that raise productivity and extends spending power to the section of the population most affected by the lockdown, namely daily wage labourers. The crucial difference is that while liquidity infusion in the form of credit is an input made available, a stimulus is an injection into the income stream. The substantial increase in the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is a stimulus all right, but cannot, by itself, make much difference.The lockdown has lowered aggregate demand, and a fiscal stimulus is needed. However, much of what we have seen by way of a policy response is something akin to a “backstop” in finance. This is unequal to the task of reviving an economy that has experienced a shock valued at around Rs 28 lakh crore, the estimated direct loss of output during seven weeks of lockdown. Only a fiscal stimulus of approximately Rs 20 lakh crore could have achieved this in relatively quick time. Many observers, including this writer, had imagined the package announced on May 11 to be just that stimulus. We have been proven wrong. The conclusion is that the government is keen on signalling fiscal prudence by sticking as far as possible to the deficit in the budget announced. We can now see that behind the finance ministry’s announcement last week that it is raising the public borrowing limit for the financial year is the reality that the government’s revenues are set to fall behind its expenditure, and not any preparation for the stimulus to come. This is mere rearguard action rather than acting on the imperatives of the present. Now that the government’s package is unpacked, we may surmise that the adverse economic impact of the lockdown will last longer than the lockdown itself. This because of the likely presence of hysteresis effects in market economies, whereby low output today depresses production for some time into the future. The missing plan for economic revival is a governance failure. By declaring the lockdown, the State took away access to livelihood. Even if this was done to save lives, the social contract behoves the State to restore the livelihoods lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-economic-package-unpacked/story-LSDlrCCCU2NWcNE18e9AZP.html
